2 2015 5 Com mmu unica ation n on Prog gresss (CO OP) Ca ava agn na G Gro oup p S..p.A A. Cavagna Grou up S.p.A. Com OP 2015 vers. 0 o Progress CO mmunication on pag. 1 di 16 1 Table of contents STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT ........................................................................................... 3 WHO ARE THE CAVAGNA GROUP? ................................................................................................... 4 MISSION ............................................................................................................................................... 5 SUSTAINABLE PRINCIPLES ................................................................................................................. 6 THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT’S 10 PRINCIPLES ................................................................................ 7 HUMAN RIGHTS 7 COMMITMENT (Assessment, Policy and Goals) ......................................................................... 7 IMPLEMENTATION...................................................................................................................... 7 MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES ................................................................................................. 8 LABOUR 9 COMMITMENT (Assessment, Policy and Goals) ......................................................................... 9 IMPLEMENTATION...................................................................................................................... 9 MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES ............................................................................................... 11 ENVIRONMENT 14 COMMITMENT (Assessment, Policy and Goals) ....................................................................... 14 IMPLEMENTATION.................................................................................................................... 14 MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES ............................................................................................... 15 ANTI-CORRUPTION 16 COMMITMENT (Assessment, Policy and Goals) ....................................................................... 16 IMPLEMENTATION.................................................................................................................... 16 MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES ............................................................................................... 16 Cavagna Group S.p.A. Communication on Progress COP 2015 vers. 0 pag. 2 di 16 STA ATEME ENT OF F CONTINUE ED SUP PPORT T February y 25th, 2015 5 Confirmingg the com mmitment made by letter da ated Febru uary 14, 22014, I'm pleased p to o confirm th hat Cavagna Group reaffirms its suppo ort of the Ten Princciples of the t United d Nations Global Com mpact in thet areas of Human n Rights, Labor, L Envvironment and AntiCorruption n. We believve that imp plementatiion of Glo bal Compa act and of its principples is imp portant forr double asp pect: enco ourages de evelopmen nt of an etthical cultture and eenvironmen ntal within n the company, while e externallly favors the creattion of sta akeholderss network using ourr primary cchannels of o communication. This Com mmunication On Proogress describes ourr actions to o continuallly improv ve the inte egration off the Glob bal Compacct and its principless into our bu usiness strrategy, culture and d daily opera ations. This repo ort, issued d within one o year of joinin ng the Global Com mpact, and d annuallyy thereafterr according g to the Gllobal Comp pact COP policy, p includes: • A sttatement of the chief executtive expre essing conttinued suppport for the t Global Compact a and renewing our ongoing com mmitment to t the initiative and its princip ples. • A d description n of prac ctical actiions (i.e.,, disclosurre of anyy relevantt policies, procedure es, activitie es) that thhe compan ny has take en (or plan ns to undeertake) to implementt the Globa al Compact principle es in each h of the four f issue areas (huuman rightts, labour, environme ent, anti-corruption). • A m measureme ent of ou utcomes (ii.e., the degree to o which ttargets/pe erformance e indicators were mett, or other qualitativve or quanttitative me easuremennts of resullts). Sincerely yyours, Ezio C Cavagnaa President of BoD CAVAGNA GROUP S.p..A. ---------------------Period covered c by b this C Communication on Progre ess (COP)) F From Feb bruary 2 2014 to Februa ary 2015 5 Cavagna Grou up S.p.A. Com OP 2015 vers. 0 o Progress CO mmunication on pag. 3 di 16 1 WHO W ARE A TH HE CAV VAGNA A GROU UP? The Cava agna Grou p is a world leading manufaccturer of equipmentt and com mponents ffor contro olling compressed ggases (ene ergy gases, alternativ ve fuel gasses, medic cal gases, industrial i ggases, and d specialityy and cryogenic gase es). It wass founded in 1949 w with headq quarters inn Northern Italy, clo ose to Bresscia, which is historrically ren nowned forr its metall processin ng industry y. The Gro oup consissts of nine e verticallyy integrate ed producttion comp panies in Italy and nine othe ers spread d across th he five co ontinents. The Cavagna Groupp now sells in more e than 135 5 countri es worldw wide thro ough a ddistribution n network k consisting g of fiftee n fully own ned additional distri bution com mpanies. It boastss good bu usiness rellations with major oil/gas companies c , industrial gas co ompanies, automotive OEMss, compre essed and d liquefied gas contaainer manufacturerss and gas appliance OEMs. All this make es the Cavvagna Grou r up a truly reliable teechnology partner p forr the optimal use of gas, in i terms of perforrmance, safety s andd reliabilityy, in diffeerent applications. TheT Groupp has direc ct working g relations in manyy industria al sectors and stroong collab boration iss becoming g more and d more imp portant in the autom motive secttor. Cavagna Group S.p p.A. adhere ed to Globbal Compacct in 2014 and is the e main com mpany of tthe group Cavagna and a is diviided into 2 differentt divisions,, both ISO 9001 certiified: Omec ca: proudlyy supplies valves an nd tank eqquipment to t the Gass Divisioons of mo ost Major Multination M nal Oil Coompanies and a to thee leadinng LPG and d CNG cyliinder manufacturerss; it also sells s valvess and ac ccessories for high pressure p appplicationss; Reca: is speciaalized in the produ uction of LPG regu ulators forr domestic and in ndustrial use, u for caamping annd caravan n, for do itt yourse elf. Its p product ra ange comprehends the acce essories to o complete the installation, such h as fitttings, cha angeovers, conne ectors and twin isolators Cavagna Grou up S.p.A. Com OP 2015 vers. 0 o Progress CO mmunication on pag. 4 di 16 1 MISSIO ON The Ca avagna Gro oup chose technological manuffacturing excellence e in its fiield as its mission riight from the t outsett, since it was aware e that qu uality and safety are e fundamental wheneever gas iss involved. To pursue this aim, th he Cavagn na Groupp has implemented d continu uous imprrovement procedurres, takeoovers and d ongoing g investm ments in research and deve elopment. Conseque ently it iss always at the forrefront, th hus ensurin ng maximuum reliabillity, safetyy and qua ality for alll its produ ucts. Above all, the Caavagna Grroup has always a purs rsued the concept c off VERTICALLY INTE EGRATED PRODUCTION UNITSS AND IMP PLEMENTED D TOTAL CONTROL OVER ALL L ITS PRODUCTION PR ROCESSES. Thanks to o this co ommitmentt, the Cavvagna Group has beecome a true t worldd benchm mark for th he major gasg playerss. Its collaaboration with w majorr world gas produ ucers, the largest producers p of comprressed and d liquefieed gas tan nks, autom motive OEM Ms and gas appliance e OEMs are e clear proof of thiis. Everyon ne who wa ants to be ssure to use e valves orr pressurre regulato ors of the highest technical annd perform mance level choosess and prefe ers Cavagn na productts. In order to disstinguish itself the e Cavagnaa Group chose an n equilateral trian gle as itss logo, wh here each angle rep presents a cornersto one of the Group’s values:  A Co ompany’s commitm ment Towwards its cu ustomers reflects r itss quest forr success. Our Group p aspiires to antticipate, satisfy s and d even excceed our customer’s c s requ uirements not only by offering quality pproducts but b also byy prop posing cu stomer ta ailored qu uality servvices. The e Cavagna a Group has b been very successfu ul in estaablishing long term m busiiness relattionships withw its customers by manuffacturing a wide range of produ ucts with an exceellent qu uality-price e relaationship.  Hum man Resou urces Cavvagna Gro up knowss that peo ople are a Compa any’s mostt impportant assset. That is why we e support our emplo oyees, nott onlyy by ackn owledging g the work k they ca rry out but also byy inveesting in thheir consta ant growth h and educcation.  Qua ality In the t gas inddustry, qu uality and safety arre strongly y linked too one another. Our Grou up believess that quaality is an importantt steppping ston e towardss successfu ul businesss and an essential e in n everyday worrk. Our ove erall quality policiess combined with ourr knowhow and d cutting edge tec chnology aare the ingredients i s which go into o the deve elopment anda manuffacturing of o superiorr prod ducts. Thiis is why our produ ucts are ffirst choic ce when itt commes down tto quality and a safety y. Cavagna Grou up S.p.A. Com OP 2015 vers. 0 o Progress CO mmunication on pag. 5 di 16 1 SUS STAINA ABLE PRINCIP IPLES The Cav vagna Gro oup has always considered its enviironmental commitm ment one of its corre principles. It se eks produ uct qualityy excellenc ce and saafety, while keeping g environm mental im mpact to a minimum m. The Caavagna Gro oup has long l madee use of renewable e energy so ources to m minimize thet emissio on of CO2 and other gases thatt affect th he climate e and the atmosphere. Forr this purrpose, the e Group’s production n units in Italy andd abroad hhave been n equipped d with photovoltaic p panels to exploit ennergy from m renewablle sources. Togetherr with energy companies, goverrnments, transportt companie es, compo onent manufacturerss and the media, th he Cavagna a Group is committe ed to promoting th he entire alternative e fuel gass industry (CNG, LPG G, LNG, H2G H and biogas) by describing g it as thee best cho oice of aalternative e energy for publiic transpo ort, heavyy vehicles, passengerr cars and marine ap pplicationss. These prrojects are e strictly related to an advanc ced “smarrt city” cooncept. Th he Cavagna a Group is on the froont line am mong the major m indusstrial group ps to boostt the use ofo a clean e energy pollicy and offfer some ppractical solutions to o support thet widesp pread use of LPG and CNG inn everyday y life. It iss particularly interessting to no ote that a special s Cav avagna Gro oup projectt has been selected in the nattional com mpetition foor “Smart Cities and d Communiities and Social In nnovation”” organizeed in Italy by the e Ministry of Educattion, University and d Researchh (MIUR). The main n project goal g is to improve the t quality y of life oof citizens and boostt employm ment by ge enerating new serv vices throuugh a sm mart meterr solution called i-R Regulator. The proje ect aims tto spread the smartt grid concept, typiically focu used on energy e disstribution networks, thanks to the creation of a co omputer able to integrate e neighborh hoods, stre eets, dwelllings and individuals i s. Cavagna Grou up S.p.A. Com OP 2015 vers. 0 o Progress CO mmunication on pag. 6 di 16 1 THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT’S 10 PRINCIPLES HUMAN RIGHTS I PRINCIPLE: businesses should support and the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights in their respective spheres of influence (Italian version: “Alle imprese è richiesto di promuovere e rispettare i diritti umani universalmente riconosciuti nell'ambito delle rispettive sfere di influenza”) II PRINCIPLE: businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses, not even indirectly (Italian version: “Alle imprese è richiesto di assicurarsi di non essere, seppure indirettamente, complici negli abusi dei diritti umani”) COMMITMENT (Assessment, Policy and Goals) Cavagna Group is committed to providing employees all basic Human Rights guaranteed by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and UN Global Compact Principles. Our Company firmly believes that the implementation of these principles is vital for its performances, because we believe that People can give the best only when these principles are respected. Group anyhow, regardless by its performance, puts the Person and his dignity at the first place. Based on our commitment we have set up a code of conduct Codice comportamentale dei dipendenti della Cavagna Group SpA , published on our Intranet, to make our position clear for all employees and partners which ensures equal dignity, safe and healthy working environment. To develop a human right protection policy, we take into account at least the following factors:  Tutelage of human resources who constitute the core capital for development and business success.  Supply of proper working tools.  Safety and health.  Conduct standards.  Activities aimed to increase competence and skills of the employees. We also introduced into our Quality Policy (referred to our ISO 9001 certified QMS) the central importance we give to the importance of the Human resources ; this policy is worldwide available on Cavagna website. IMPLEMENTATION We already take under control our suppliers for being sure that their activity, if their products contain tin, tantalum, tungsten or gold, in any way supports the African “covered countries”. As already mentioned the Group has always been committed to condemn and combat behaviors that violate fundamental rights and the internal behavioral code. In order to tutelage potential victims of such behavior each worker can contact RSU (Union representative) or alternatively the human resource responsible to denounce the Cavagna Group S.p.A. Communication on Progress COP 2015 vers. 0 pag. 7 di 16 potential cases fact without fear of reprisal. Company is committed to provide and issue, with impartiality and uniformity, proportional fines in according to the law, under articles 2104 and 2105 of Civil Code. Each worker is trained on privacy, both for their rights and duties, and signs a proper informed consent. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES The Company monitors each reported violation to the Code to ensure that who report non-compliant behaviors are not subject to interference. Any report is considered only if submitted in writing and in a non-anonymous manner, while guaranteeing the confidentiality of the reporting person. Cavagna Group has never received any complaint that could damage its repute -> IHR1 = 0 (IHR1 is the total number of episodes linked to discrimination and actions undertaken) Till now NO supplier informed us of any problematic situation (or their product do not contain the so-called Conflict Mineral or otherwise they are reasonably confident that these minerals are NOT originated from those countries). Expected outcomes for 2015 are the following: ‐ a further refining of our ethical code; ‐ a strong campaign of sensitization of our supply chain, in order to further promote Global Compact principles and in particulars those concerning the Human Rights; ‐ a better definition of indicators for this area; they will include also the position of our supplier which will be rated also based on such their performance. Cavagna Group S.p.A. Communication on Progress COP 2015 vers. 0 pag. 8 di 16 LABOUR III PRINCIPLE: Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining (Italian version: “Alle imprese è richiesto di sostenere la libertà di associazione dei lavoratori e riconoscere il diritto alla contrattazione collettiva”) IV PRINCIPLE: Business should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour (Italian version: “Alle imprese è richiesto di sostenere l'eliminazione di tutte le forme di lavoro forzato e obbligatorio”) V PRINCIPLE: Business should uphold the effective abolition of child labour (Italian version: “Alle imprese è richiesto di sostenere l'effettiva eliminazione del lavoro minorile”) VI PRINCIPLE: Business should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation (Italian version: “Alle imprese è richiesto di sostenere l'eliminazione di ogni forma di discriminazione in materia di impiego e professione”) COMMITMENT (Assessment, Policy and Goals) Cavagna Group’s policies and procedures, including our Health and Safety policy, employment contracts, and non-discrimination policies, comply with both Italian and EU employment legislation to ensure that our staff are treated fairly and without discrimination. We are committed to maintaining positive labor relations, and encourage open debate between the team and the Board of Directors about issues that affect them or that they feel need to be discussed. As a team, we have a zero tolerance policy for all forms of forced and compulsory labor both within Cavagna Group and within our clients and suppliers. We also are vehemently opposed to any form of child labor and discriminatory practices. Cavagna Group S.p.A. ensures the right to collective bargaining and it is always committed to combat each forced or juvenile work form in full agreement with ILO (International Labor Organization) and with its principles. In particular in phase of recruitment, career development and training, it is very careful to ensure equal treatment to all the workers, without discriminations founded on age, sex, religion, origins (social and ethnic), sexual orientation, political affiliation or trade-union membership, favoring protected categories. In developing own policy on labor, Cavagna Group paid particular attention to the following points:  Dealing with unions;  Proper working conditions;  Equal opportunity;  Respect different cultures;  Integration of disabled people. IMPLEMENTATION Cavagna Group S.p.A. regularly apply the National Collective Labor Contracts, in addition to the internal union agreement. All employees have the right to join any trade unions and this does not entail any advantage or disadvantage. On the other hand the trade Cavagna Group S.p.A. Communication on Progress COP 2015 vers. 0 pag. 9 di 16 unions are free to conduct these activities away from the pressure or interference from the Company management. The Company ensures respect of work contract and its obligations, including the right to freely elect their representatives (RSU), without conditioning, which represent both the office and production workers. Periodically, based on Unions requests, there are workers meetings where they speak of work’s issue, also with a Unions’ delegate, in order to potentially make proposal to the company (e.g. holidays, work improvements, …) Group ensures an equal time work, coming meeting the physical and social needs of its employees. Women are favored with part-time contracts or with particular times, that allow them to follow the school age sons. Overtime is regularly paid and each worker enjoys the right to disease and to holiday they deserve. Company distributes production prizes at own employees in order to recognize the good made work and to stimulate to continue in this direction. Cavagna Group has a precise human resources management system, which is developed in three main points and which ensure equal treatment to all the workers:  Individuation candidate:  Evaluation of his competences;  Possible training. The candidate research can be internal or external; in the second case Cavagna Group often cooperates Università degli Studi di Brescia (UNIBS). The agreement provides for access to a system called VULCANO (Featured University Graduates for Companies with Curricula Waterway on-line). This is a database where there are curricula for new graduates just emerging from university. We also have an agreement of this type with Università Cattolica del Sacro Cuore di Brescia and Università Ca' Foscari di Venezia . Within common projects UNIBS provide as with interns which subsequently can be inserted in company. Once identified the candidate, at the end of probationary period, the worker’s competence is evaluated and if necessary is drawn up a training plan. This system allows to better develop the skills of employees. We also usually spread the practice of stage periods, both for students of secondary school and for university attendants. Company provides all necessary tools to perform their tasks to the best and safely. The central attention given to safety is constantly monitored through the DVR Documento di Valutazione dei Rischi (risk assessment document). DVR is a structured document which contains:  organization chart of safety actors (competent doctor, RSPP health & safety advisor, RLS representative of workers for safety, emergency team), all properly trained;  safety policy;  the assessment of the risks for safety and health;  Instructions about correct functioning and utilization of materials for a safe work;  Improvement & adaptation actions;  Instructions on emergency procedures in different dangerous situation (fire, earthquake, accident). DVR is kept updated for work changes and each worker must examine work area before to begin, indicating to their supervisor any further necessary action. Cavagna Group S.p.A. Communication on Progress COP 2015 vers. 0 pag. 10 di 16 MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES In accordance to our commitment we do not use any form of labor child, as per conventions 138 and 182 of ILO -> ILA1 = 0 (ILA1 is the number of cases of labor child). Where necessary we take external advice, and as a result of our care to ensure that we enforce Labor principles compliant with the Global Compact position, we have never had a breach or complaint about unfair treatment since the Company formation -> ILA2 = 0 (ILA2 is the number of breaches or complaint about unfair treatment). The rights of all employees are continuously reviewed to ensure that the Cavagna Group team are happy and that they are fulfilled and motivated by their work; in our periodical review of the occupational hazards, also the work-related stress is taken under control. ILA3: Composition and breakdown of employees per category according to employment type, employment contract, qualification, gender, age, nationality, membership in a protected class Total number of workers for these statistics = 241 AGE 19% 16% Under the age of thirty: 38 <30 31‐40 Between the age of thirty and forty: 71 41‐50 Between the age of forty and fifty: 87 29% >51 Over the age of fifty: 45 36% QUALIFICATION white collar Number of white collar: 104 43% 57% blue collar Number of blue collar: 137 Cavagna Group S.p.A. Communication on Progress COP 2015 vers. 0 pag. 11 di 16 QUALIFICATION/GENDER white collar men Number of white collar men: 59 27% 24% Number of white collar women: 45 white collar women blue collar men Number of blue collar men: 71 19% 29% blue collar Number of blue collar women: 66 women GENDER men Number of man: 130 46% Number of woman: 111 54% women NATIONALITY 15% Italians Number of Italians: 205 Foreigner Number of foreigners: 37 s 85% CONTRACT 14% permanent Number of permanent contracts: 184 10% fixed‐term Number of fixed-term contracts: 23 Number of interim workers: 34 76% interim Cavagna Group S.p.A. Communication on Progress COP 2015 vers. 0 pag. 12 di 16 PERMANENT CONTRACTS 100% 90% 80% 70% Number of blue collar with permanent 60% contract: 85 (out of 104) 50% 40% 82% Number of blue collar with permanent 72% contract: 99 (out of 137) 30% 20% 10% 0% permanent white collar permanent blue collar PROTECTED CATEGORIES 6% 5% 4% Out of a total of 241 employees, 12 3% belongs to protected categories, the 2% 5% 5% of the total workforce. 1% 0% protected categories employees As evidenced by our numbers Cavagna Group doesn’t discriminate regarding employment and occupation. Contrarily, we encourage integration of employees who has these differences. In particular we have always paid attention to tutelage protected categories, ensuring to those who are part it, a fundamental right such as to labor. ILA4: Accident rate and index of gravity In 2014 we had the following data:  Accident rate (calculated as: n° accident*1000000/working hours) = 15,1  Index of Gravity (calculated as: n° working days lost*1000000/working hours) = 54,4 In 2014 we planned an entire cycle of training for safety-related issues; it includes: ‐ training for specific work activities (usage of forklifts); ‐ general training for safety at work (rights, duties, risks, hazards, …); ‐ specific training for the operators (in particular on risks during work and the proper behaviors); ‐ training to members of emergency team (both for firefighting and first aid). This project will engage thousands of man hours and will develop throughout the year 2015. Cavagna Group S.p.A. Communication on Progress COP 2015 vers. 0 pag. 13 di 16 ENVIRONMENT VII PRINCIPLE: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges (Italian version: “Alle imprese è richiesto di sostenere un approccio preventivo nei confronti delle sfide ambientali”) VIII PRINCIPLE: Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility (Italian version: “Alle imprese è richiesto di intraprendere iniziative che promuovano una maggiore responsabilità ambientale”) IX PRINCIPLE: Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. (Italian version: “Alle imprese è richiesto di di incoraggiare lo sviluppo e la diffusione di tecnologie che rispettino l'ambiente”) COMMITMENT (Assessment, Policy and Goals) Cavagna Group has long been engaged in environmental challenges, both as regard environmental impact limitation generated by our activities, both in research of innovative ideas and new environmentally friendly technologies to carry on market. This one have a dual importance, as we go to contribute either directly (with an emissions limitation and of energy waste) or indirectly (placing on the market new environmentally friendly solutions) to the resources preservation. Following this principles Cavagna Group have developed its Cavagna Group environmental policy in which it's contained the corporate philosophy, which is also available on our official website. We are committed to the continuous improvement of our environmental performance, as part of our overall goal of implementing the principles of sustainable development in all areas of our work. Our aim is to ensure that environmental objectives are integrated into relevant business objectives in a cost-effective manner. IMPLEMENTATION Wanting to take the road of sustainable development, Company is developing an environmental control and management system focused on following points:  Ensure customer satisfaction also in environmental requirements terms.  Promote use of eco-friendly technologies.  Environmental impacts analysis.  Definition of annual improvement targets. Cavagna Group is also very active in participation in projects and in development of ecofriendly technologies (“Smart Cities and Communities and Social Innovation” and “Greengear”). Even if the ISO 14001 certification is not already in place, Cavagna Group is already managing the internal activities in accordance with the ISO 14001 philosophy (including the performance of one yearly internal audit and the yearly management review for environmental issues); in the last period we also further improved the temporary storage of the wastes we generate, besides having sensitized the resources involved in giving the proper attention and priority to environmental issues and the correct management mode. The Cavagna Group has long made use of renewable energy sources to minimize the emission of CO2 and other gases that affect the climate in order to prevent climate Cavagna Group S.p.A. Communication on Progress COP 2015 vers. 0 pag. 14 di 16 changes, which are unanimously deemed as the most crucial global environmental challenges, and to cut down the release of pollutants into the atmosphere. In particular (some more details are also available in our website): ‐ we installed a photovoltaic plant (generating electric energy); ‐ we installed a cogeneration plant for power generation from raw vegetal oil (generating both electric and thermal energy); ‐ The Eco sustainable transport solution implemented by Cavagna Group includes different company vehicles rented to employees; regularly replaced and serviced. The corporate car policy envisages the possibility of only choosing from models manufactured by Italian firms (with one exception), and envisages measures to cut down CO2 emissions (e.g. engine capacity limit of the cars, cars hybrid or powered by LPG, CNG, …). MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES In 2014 Cavagna Group has started to assess in systematic manner own environmental impact, in order to identify some potential improvement areas. To achieve what it has been developed a report: GHG emissions inventory . Report is limited to productive unit OMECA, and the analysis is performed for the year 2012 and it has been developed according to the GHG directives. This document contains:  Guidelines used to perform analysis and the system of data processing.  The analysis actual results that will serve as a comparison and as a starting point for subsequent analysis.  Actions already implemented to support of environmental challenge. In 2013 Cavagna Group S.p.A. – Omeca Division started a dedicated project having the aim to get the ISO 14001 certification; the goal is about to be reached since both the stages of the certification audit was successfully performed and in the next weeks we will receive the official certificate. In accordance to our commitment we defined some indicators for our environmental performance and they allow us to take under control our environmental impact; since they are recently introduced they still have to be calculated in detail but since next year they will be structured in our yearly communication and in our Environmental Management System. These indicators are related to: o consumption of water; o consumption of electric energy; o consumption of natural gas; o production of electric energy from renewable sources; o production of wastes and % of them destined for recovery. Cavagna Group S.p.A. Communication on Progress COP 2015 vers. 0 pag. 15 di 16 ANTI-CORRUPTION X PRINCIPLE: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. (Italian version: “Le imprese si impegnano a contrastare la corruzione in ogni sua forma, incluse l'estorsione e le tangenti”) COMMITMENT (Assessment, Policy and Goals) Cavagna Group S.p.A is committed to operating responsibly wherever we work in the world and to engage with our stakeholders to manage the social, environmental and ethical impact of our activities in the different markets in which we operate. Cavagna Group S.p.A does not engage in bribery or any form of unethical inducement or payment including facilitation payments and ‘kickbacks.’ All employees are required to avoid any activities that might lead to, or suggest, a conflict of interest with the business of the Company. We do not make direct or indirect contributions to political parties. We also introduced into our Quality Policy (referred to our ISO 9001 certified QMS) the central importance we give to the importance of the Human resources; this policy is worldwide available on Cavagna website. IMPLEMENTATION Cavagna Group regularly reviews the implementation of this policy in respect of its suitability, adequacy and effectiveness and makes improvements as appropriate. It periodically reports the results of this process to the Board, who makes an independent assessment of the adequacy of the policy and discloses any material non-compliance. It's not allowed to promise objects, money or services to favor managers or functionaries both public and private, in order to obtain an advantage for Cavagna Group or for themselves. Company hasn't ever financed or put pressure on institutional bodies or political parties. Each financing to bodies or associations has always been exclusively charitable purpose. Prizes and professional growth of employees are decided exclusively according to merits working of person and in accordance with the provisions of the contracts. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES On 18th July 2014 we officially supported the “Call to Action: Anti-Corruption and the Global Development Agenda”, also approving that our company name is included in a public list of Call to Action signatories on the Global Compact website. In accordance to our commitment we take under control the cases of bribery and corruption -> IAC1 = 0 (IAC1 is the number of cases of bribery and corruption). Cavagna Group S.p.A. Communication on Progress COP 2015 vers. 0 pag. 16 di 16
