2015 Contents Management Rationale / Top Management Message 002 Corporate Motto / Management Rationale 003 Top Management Message Management Philosophy 005 Kyocera Group Management Roots 007 Management Based on the Kyocera Philosophy 009 Advancing Kyocera Philosophy Education Feature Articles 014 Special Feature 1: Promotion of Activities to Combat Climate Change and Promote Energy Savings 018 Special Feature 2: Response to Conflict Minerals Management 022 Kyocera Group Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) 036 Corporate Governance Respect for Human Rights / Optimal Work Environment 038 Respect for Human Rights and Diversity 047 Cultivation of Human Resources 051 Building a Safe & Secure Work Environment Environmental Activities 056 Kyocera Group Environmental Management 062 Green Management: Basis of Environmental Management Promotion 068 Green Products: Environmentally Friendly Products 080 Green Factories: Environmental Consciousness at Plants and Offices 090 Green Communication: Transparency with Local Communities Regarding Environmental Matters Fair Business Activities 094 Risk Management and Compliance 102 Supply Chain Management Customer Concerns 104 Approaches to Raising Quality and Customer Satisfaction Levels Social Contribution Activities 109 Supporting Academic Advancement and Research 112 Support for Culture and the Arts 114 International Exchange and Collaboration 117 Local Community Activities 121 ISO 9001 Certification Status 122 ISO 14001 Certification Status 124 OHSAS 18001 Certification Status 125 Editorial Policy 126 GRI and ISO 26000 Comparison Tables 1 Management Rationale / Top Management Message Corporate Motto / Management Rationale Corporate Motto “Respect the Divine and Love People” Management Rationale To provide opportunities for the material and intellectual growth of all our employees, and through our joint efforts, contribute to the advancement of society and humankind. Management Philosophy To coexist harmoniously with our society, our global community and nature. Harmonious coexistence is the underlying foundation of all our business activities as we work to create a world of prosperity and harmony. Methods of Management 1. To earn fair profit through harmonious business practices that result in products that satisfy our customers — providing quality products at lower prices, realized through ongoing R&D and sincere service. 2. To manage our company as if we were a family, hearts bound together devoid of antagonism, helping each other with a mutual sense of gratitude and appreciation. Coexistence In order for the human race to survive and prosper in the future, we must remember the concept of coexistence. This is the concept that all living things on Earth must coexist together. All living things on Earth, including human beings, depend on each other for survival. In the future, management must be based on collaboration for mutual success. Fostering relationships where we all share a common vision and are willing to help one another and share in the burden so we can all grow together — this is the kind of management philosophy that future prosperity will require. Based on the idea of coexistence, Kyocera will continue to strive towards corporate activities aimed at the prosperity and harmony of humankind. 2 Management Rationale / Top Management Message Top Management Message Correct Application of the Concept, “Do What is Right as a Human Being” At the heart of Kyocera Group management is the corporate philosophy known as the Kyocera Philosophy, which emphasizes the importance of fair business based on ethical, moral and social standards that people should uphold throughout life. Ultimately, it comes down to one criterion for making decisions: “What is the right thing to do as a human being?” To realize our corporate philosophy, Kyocera developed a unique management control method known as the Amoeba Management System. With this system in place, Kyocera promotes a management method in which all employees can participate. Furthermore, Kyocera believes in highly transparent corporate activity with timely disclosure of information to customers, employees, shareholders, investors, business associates, and all other stakeholders. For the Kyocera Group, CSR is tantamount to the practice of the Kyocera Philosophy — the heart of Kyocera Group management. We believe practice of the Kyocera Philosophy builds mutual trust with stakeholders, and contributes to sustainable growth for the Kyocera Group, as well as the overall development of society. We will continue to engage in corporate management through practice of the Kyocera Philosophy. Kyocera will contribute to the advancement and development of humankind and society through practice of the Kyocera Philosophy. Contributions to Society through Business Activities We currently face a variety of issues including economic globalization, the diversification of people’s values, increased energy demand, climate change, and a growing world population. The Kyocera Group aims to further develop its business with a focus on the four principle markets of information & communications, environment & energy, automotive, and medical & healthcare. In the information & communications market, we aim to provide comfortable operability and ease of use with compact, high-performance components for smartphones and tablets and with communication equipment and information equipment based on our proprietary technology — endeavoring to create products that satisfy a wide range of users. In the environment & energy market, we conduct a variety of business operations including the creation, storage and efficient management of energy by providing solar power generating systems, battery storage systems, and energy management systems. In addition, we are proactively engaged in the development of new products and applications, including expanded use of LED lighting and development of fuel cell systems, thereby contributing to the establishment of an environmentally friendly society. In the automotive market, we are striving to meet demand from the market for the advancement of in-vehicle electronics, greater reduction in environmental impact, and realization of automated driving. In response, we combine the operational 3 resources of the Kyocera Group in various fields including development, manufacturing and sales, under a strategic project system to create new products that meet market demands and thereby help to establish an environmentally conscious, safe and convenient society. sustainable growth for the Kyocera Group, as well as the overall development of society. We will continue to engage in corporate management through practice of the Kyocera Philosophy. Kyocera will contribute to the advancement and development of humankind and society through practice of the Kyocera Philosophy. Contributions to Society through Business Activities We currently face a variety of issues including economic globalization, the diversification of people’s values, increased energy demand, climate change, and a growing world population. The Kyocera Group aims to further develop its business with a focus on the four principle markets of information & communications, environment & energy, automotive, and medical & healthcare. In the information & communications market, we aim to provide comfortable operability and ease of use with compact, high-performance components for smartphones and tablets and with communication equipment and information equipment based on our proprietary technology — endeavoring to create products that satisfy a wide range of users. In the environment & energy market, we conduct a variety of business operations including the creation, storage and efficient management of energy by providing solar power generating systems, battery storage systems, and energy management systems. In addition, we are proactively engaged in the development of new products and applications, including expanded use of LED lighting and development of fuel cell systems, thereby contributing to the establishment of an environmentally friendly society. In the automotive market, we are striving to meet demand from the market for the advancement of in-vehicle electronics, greater reduction in environmental impact, and realization of automated driving. In response, we combine the operational resources of the Kyocera Group in various fields including development, manufacturing and sales, under a strategic project system to create new products that meet market demands and thereby help to establish an environmentally conscious, safe and convenient society. In the medical & healthcare market, we are expanding our business of medical materials including orthopedic joint implants, and developing innovative products by realizing synergies between material, component and device technologies — allowing us to enter new fields and thus contribute to the improvement of people’s quality of life and the development of the medical field. Handling of Global CSR Issues In order for the Kyocera Group to succeed in global competition and maintain its high pace of growth, we consider it important to further reinforce the management foundations and develop business activities rooted in each region while always respecting the inherent diversity of local customs and cultures. The Kyocera Group is an active member of the UN Global Compact, the basic rules on human rights, labor, the environment and prevention of corruption, and conducts positive activities towards the resolution of CSR issues. Specifically, the major focus of our CSR activities include tackling environmental issues, respecting diversity, and supply chain management. We undertake these activities while taking into account society’s concerns and matters which are necessary for us to conduct businesses. Our worldwide activities in promotion of energy-saving and combating climate change include introduction of highly efficient energy-saving equipment, installation of solar power generating systems and growth of “Green Curtains” at our company facilities. In 2014, our energy-saving activities and contribution to local communities in areas such as conservation of biodiversity were recognized by the Japan Ministry of the Environment and we received the Environment Minister’s Award for Global Warming Prevention Activity for the fifth consecutive year. We will continue to meet the expectations of all stakeholders of the Kyocera Group, thus building relationships of mutual trust and contributing to the robust development of society. 4 Management Philosophy Kyocera Group Management Roots Company members around the time of foundation The origin of Kyocera Group management is the Kyocera Philosophy, a philosophy for work and life based on the real-life experiences and empirical rules of Kazuo Inamori, founder and chairman emeritus of Kyocera Corporation. With “What is the right thing to do as a human being?” as its most essential criterion, the Kyocera Philosophy expounds the significance of commitment to fair management and operation in compliance with the most fundamental human ethics, moral values and social norms. What is the Kyocera Philosophy? The Management Rationale of the Kyocera Group is: “To provide opportunities for the material and intellectual growth of all our employees, and through our joint efforts, contribute to the advancement of society and humankind.” The “material and intellectual growth” that we aim for includes the pursuit of economic stability, and entails the pursuit of mental riches as a human being, in the shape of life with purpose and job satisfaction through self-fulfillment in the workplace. Additionally, the steady refinement of our technology allows us to provide the world with wonderful products one after another, and thereby contribute to the advancement of science and technology. At the same time, by steadily raising profits as a company we aim to contribute to the improvement of common welfare, through increased tax payments and other means. The guidelines for action in pursuing the Management Rationale are set out in the Kyocera Philosophy. As a state of mind for leading wonderful lives, we are striving day by day to practice the Kyocera Philosophy. Origin of the Kyocera Philosophy In 1959, with the generous support of the people around them, company founder Kazuo Inamori and seven other colleagues established Kyoto Ceramic Co., Ltd. (now Kyocera Corporation). Starting with a meager amount of capital, the company had no imposing office building or elaborate machinery in the beginning. All it had were fellow colleagues who shared the joys and sorrows and formed a close bond as members of one big family. Inamori then decided to base the management of the company on this bond of human minds. This is because he believed that while human minds are extremely changeable, they are also most dependable once the minds are bonded by strong trust. Later, Inamori encountered many difficulties in managing Kyocera, but he overcame them each time believing in the strong bond of human minds. The Kyocera Philosophy was thus born as he debated his life and work. Basic Ideas of the Kyocera Philosophy 5 The Kyocera Group believes that decisions should always be made through reason and based on the idea of “What is the right thing to do as a human being?” as the basic criteria to achieve compliance with public morals. management of the company on this bond of human minds. This is because he believed that while human minds are extremely changeable, they are also most dependable once the minds are bonded by strong trust. Later, Inamori encountered many difficulties in managing Kyocera, but he overcame them each time believing in the strong bond of human minds. The Kyocera Philosophy was thus born as he debated his life and work. Basic Ideas of the Kyocera Philosophy The Kyocera Group believes that decisions should always be made through reason and based on the idea of “What is the right thing to do as a human being?” as the basic criteria to achieve compliance with public morals. The criterion of “What is the right thing to do as a human being?” is based on the fundamental ethical and moral values of the natural goodness of human beings: “Don’t be greedy,” “Don’t cheat people,” “Don’t lie,” and “Be honest” are teachings we all received from our parents as children and represent the most basic principles of humankind. We believe that when making decisions and taking action in daily life, we should resort to the criterion of “What is universally right as a human being” and not the criterion of “What best suits our own convenience.” Kyocera Philosophy Pocketbook A copy of the Kyocera Philosophy Pocketbook is distributed to each employee at Kyocera. Employees use various opportunities to apply the principles in the Pocketbook, and to independently learn and practice the Kyocera Philosophy. In April 2011, we published the Kyocera Philosophy Pocketbook II, which summarizes additional important points of the Philosophy. The updated Pocketbook is being progressively translated into multiple languages to aid penetration of the Kyocera Philosophy in bases around the world. 6 Management Philosophy Management Based on the Kyocera Philosophy For the Kyocera Group to realize the Management Rationale, correct understanding and application of the Kyocera Philosophy are essential. This applies also to Amoeba Management, Kyocera Management and Accounting Principles, and The Twelve Management Principles. All are based on the Kyocera Philosophy. Correct understanding and application are essential for future growth and development, to sustain the dreams of employees, and for the Kyocera Group to continue as a corporate group that contributes to the development of society. In addition, we also strive to promote understanding and diffusion of the Kyocera Philosophy among employees by distributing booklets and pocketbooks. Amoeba Management The Kyocera Group uses its own business administration method called the Amoeba Management System, which is specifically developed to realize the corporate philosophy of the Kyocera Group. Under this system, the company organization is divided into small groups called amoebas, which operate on a self-supporting basis. We believe that employees’ enhanced sense of participation in management and motivation engendered by Amoeba Management constitutes the source of the Kyocera Group’s strength. The small group system also serves to clarify the responsibilities of each member of the group, secure transparency in every detail, and enable a thorough check of efficiency. The Objectives of Amoeba Management 1. Establish a market-oriented divisional accounting system 2. Foster personnel with a sense of management 3. Realize management by all Kyocera Management and Accounting Principles Accounting is integral to the management of a company as it plays the key role as the compass that leads a company to its destination. When handling accounting matters, it is important to trace them back to their essence and take appropriate measures according to our primary criterion of “What is the right thing to do as a human being?” Kyocera considers the ideal state of accounting to be one in which the facts are shown as they are, and recognizes the importance of fair and transparent management. Kyocera Management and Accounting Principles are a set of practical accounting principles designed to give a correct understanding of the realities of the company and the directions to be taken. In the Kyocera Group, each employee is encouraged to understand and become familiar with the Kyocera Management and Accounting Principles, and to act in accordance with these principles. We believe this becomes a sound foundation not only for fair accounting, but also for the long-term development of the company. Kyocera Management and Accounting Principles Pocketbook Introduction: Adhere to Fundamental Rules 1. The Principle of One-to-One Correspondence 7 2. The Principle of Double-Checking 3. The Principle of Perfectionism 1. Establish a market-oriented divisional accounting system 2. Foster personnel with a sense of management 3. Realize management by all Kyocera Management and Accounting Principles Accounting is integral to the management of a company as it plays the key role as the compass that leads a company to its destination. When handling accounting matters, it is important to trace them back to their essence and take appropriate measures according to our primary criterion of “What is the right thing to do as a human being?” Kyocera considers the ideal state of accounting to be one in which the facts are shown as they are, and recognizes the importance of fair and transparent management. Kyocera Management and Accounting Principles are a set of practical accounting principles designed to give a correct understanding of the realities of the company and the directions to be taken. In the Kyocera Group, each employee is encouraged to understand and become familiar with the Kyocera Management and Accounting Principles, and to act in accordance with these principles. We believe this becomes a sound foundation not only for fair accounting, but also for the long-term development of the company. Kyocera Management and Accounting Principles Pocketbook Introduction: Adhere to Fundamental Rules 1. The Principle of One-to-One Correspondence 2. The Principle of Double-Checking 3. The Principle of Perfectionism 4. The Principle of Muscular Management 5. The Principle of Profitability Improvement 6. The Principle of Cash-Basis Management 7. The Principle of Transparent Management 8 Management Philosophy Advancing Kyocera Philosophy Education Kyocera Philosophy Education: Basic Concept and Structure In the Kyocera Group, a variety of education programs are provided to each employee to familiarize them with the Kyocera Philosophy, realize the global growth of the Group through diligent efforts, and with originality and ingenuity, help all employees feel happy working for the Group in order to foster human resources capable of supporting the growth and development of society and humankind. In order to further reinforce the Kyocera Group’s activities for permeation of the Philosophy, the Group-Wide Philosophy Committee headed by the company’s Group-Wide Philosophy Committee chairman has been regularly held since FY2014. In FY2015, the Committee determined policies on Philosophy Education and discussed and determined measures to promote understanding of the Philosophy and reinforce its practice. Expanding Kyocera Philosophy Education The Kyocera Group is expanding Kyocera Philosophy Education on a global basis in accordance with the policy of the Group-Wide Philosophy Committee. In Japan, education is divided into programs provided individually by each department, site or Group company, based on the conditions of their specific business activities and the common programs that support the individual programs. In individual educational activities, actions to diffuse the front-line-conscious Philosophy are taken proactively by each department, site or Group company. The common programs include Leader Education, which teaches the Twelve Kyocera Management Principles, the basis of management, and the type of leadership required of managers; and the Philosophy Workshop, which teaches the basics of the Kyocera Philosophy. In addition to those Philosophy education programs, various education and diffusion activities are carried out including voluntary workshops, company journals, company Web sites, and a collection of Kyocera Group Philosophy Essays. Outside of Japan, education activities are provided in a way that appropriately matches the local conditions and business culture of each country or region. Diagram of the Kyocera Philosophy education system Philosophy Education by Each Department, Site or Group 9 Company Activities of the General Affairs Group Diagram of the Kyocera Philosophy education system Philosophy Education by Each Department, Site or Group Company Activities of the General Affairs Group The Corporate General Affairs Group Philosophy Committee is an organization dedicated to promoting activities of the Group-Wide Philosophy Committee. This Committee further has several working groups composed mainly of young members selected from various divisions. The General Affairs Group holds the Heart-to-Heart Discussion Seminar, in which people discuss how the General Affairs Group, which supports business activities, should be, and also publishes an in-house newsletter, the Philosophy Times. As one of the Philosophy permeation measures meant for individual employees, every employee publicly declares his or her target Philosophy in the form of the Challenge Heart-to-Heart Discussion Seminar Philosophy Card and announces it at a morning gathering. Thus, various activities for permeation of the Kyocera Philosophy are conducted. Activities of Kyocera Document Solutions Inc. Kyocera Document Solutions Inc. conducts active permeation of Kyocera Philosophy in and outside of Japan based on the basic principle, which is organic linking of OJT and Off-JT to create a corporate culture which allows for sharing of the management philosophy. Ongoing OJT activities are designed to provide periodic education to employees for further permeation of the Philosophy. In addition, Kyocera sites in Japan conduct activities unique to Japan, including holding of workshops in which the Rule Book, published as a compilation of the principle and basic action policy determined by each division, is used as a teaching tool. Kyocera sites outside of Japan also conduct their own activities for local employees, Training for managers at overseas sites of Kyocera including holding of training sessions to teach the Kyocera Philosophy and accounting principles. Philosophy training for local employees in China Holding of Leader Education The Kyocera Group (Japan) has periodically held Leader Education since October 2013 to emphasize the significance of the Twelve Management Principles to leaders holding the position of section manager and higher and enhance their willingness to practice the Philosophy. Leader Education programs include group discussion to enhance the trainees’ understanding of the Twelve Management Principles as well as informal post-training gatherings to ensure casual, honest and straightforward discussion beyond sectional barriers. When leaders have a good understanding of the Twelve Management Principles and practice them, it helps promote permeation of the Philosophy in every workplace. In FY2015, five items out of the Twelve Management Principles were selected as the themes of the Leader Education. The Twelve Kyocera Management Principles 10 The Twelve Kyocera Management Principles are fundamental management rules. In other words, they do not change, the Twelve Management Principles to leaders holding the position of section manager and higher and enhance their willingness to practice the Philosophy. Leader Education programs include group discussion to enhance the trainees’ understanding of the Twelve Management Principles as well as informal post-training gatherings to ensure casual, honest and straightforward discussion beyond sectional barriers. When leaders have a good understanding of the Twelve Management Principles and practice them, it helps promote permeation of the Philosophy in every workplace. In FY2015, five items out of the Twelve Management Principles were selected as the themes of the Leader Education. The Twelve Kyocera Management Principles The Twelve Kyocera Management Principles are fundamental management rules. In other words, they do not change, regardless of any changes occurring in the business environment or conditions. They are the starting point of universal management, and represent the tenets of our management. 1. Clearly state the purpose and mission of your business. 2. Set specific goals. 3. Keep a passionate desire in your hearts. 4. Strive harder than anyone else. 5. Maximize revenues and minimize expenses. 6. Pricing is management. 7. Success is determined by willpower. 8. Possess a fighting spirit. 9. Face every challenge with courage. 10. Always be creative in your work. 11. Be kind and sincere. 12. Always be cheerful and positive. Philosophy Workshops The Kyocera Group (Japan) holds Philosophy Workshops to help each employee, regardless of position, age, division or trade, learn the basics of Kyocera Philosophy necessary to do a better job and lead a happy life, and to enhance their willingness to implement the Philosophy. The workshop program introduces familiar case examples about the Philosophy including words and phrases related to the Philosophy spoken by famous people, or the first-hand stories of employees about their experience with the Philosophy. Other major programs within Philosophy Workshops include group discussions and DVD viewings which aim to allow trainees to learn the Kyocera Philosophy from Philosophy Workshop various viewpoints and develop a sense of unity among participants. The themes selected for FY2015 were “Break through barriers,” “Do our best for our colleagues,” and “Fire yourself up.” FY2015 Results of Kyocera Philosophy Education Leader Education Philosophy Workshop Part-Timer Workshop Total number of 12,352 56,646 9,025 participants Top management 7.5 hours x 1 Training hours and 3.5 hours x 1 2.5 hours x 3 1 hour x 3 times per employee Mid-level employees 3.5 hours x 2 · These programs cover the education provided by the department in charge of Philosophy education at Kyocera. Other education programs include those unique to each department or Group company. · Philosophy education programs provided in FY2015 include Leader Education (twice), Philosophy Workshops (three times), and Part-Timer Workshops (three times). Provision of Kyocera Philosophy Education to Overseas 11 Group Companies Global Philosophy Seminars were held for top management of overseas Kyocera Other major programs within Philosophy Workshops include group discussions and DVD viewings which aim to allow trainees to learn the Kyocera Philosophy from Philosophy Workshop various viewpoints and develop a sense of unity among participants. The themes selected for FY2015 were “Break through barriers,” “Do our best for our colleagues,” and “Fire yourself up.” FY2015 Results of Kyocera Philosophy Education Leader Education Philosophy Workshop Part-Timer Workshop Total number of 12,352 56,646 9,025 participants Top management 7.5 hours x 1 Training hours and 3.5 hours x 1 2.5 hours x 3 1 hour x 3 times per employee Mid-level employees 3.5 hours x 2 · These programs cover the education provided by the department in charge of Philosophy education at Kyocera. Other education programs include those unique to each department or Group company. · Philosophy education programs provided in FY2015 include Leader Education (twice), Philosophy Workshops (three times), and Part-Timer Workshops (three times). Provision of Kyocera Philosophy Education to Overseas Group Companies Global Philosophy Seminars were held for top management of overseas Kyocera Group companies from each region, with core companies that promote Kyocera Philosophy education (global working groups) as the central players, in four regions of the world: U.S.A., China, Asia Pacific, and Europe. Like their counterparts in Japan, Kyocera employees around the world strive to learn from each other to master the leadership skills required to fulfill the targets as they ardently learn the Kyocera Philosophy and clearly visualize what a true leader should be. Global Philosophy Seminar (China) Education of Philosophy Education Coordinators We believe that employees in charge of philosophy education, or Philosophy Education Coordinators, should be properly trained in order to plan and operate philosophy permeation activities that match local conditions. In this respect, workshops for such Coordinators have been held at the head office of Kyocera in Kyoto, Japan since April 2014. The workshop held in April 2014 had 22 participants from Group companies located in English-speaking regions. They deepened their understanding of philosophy permeation activities and shared information about each other’s situations to reinforce the ties among the Coordinators. In May 2014, 10 Coordinators from Group companies located in Chinese-speaking areas came to Japan to participate in the same workshop. They prepared curricula that matched Philosophy Education Coordinators' Workshop the actual situation in China as part of their training in the workshop. Our future plans include development of practical programs whose main purpose is to have trainees design their own education programs based on the conditions and needs of each region of the U.S.A., China, Asia Pacific, and Europe by themselves and operate their own workshops for Philosophy Education Coordinators. Diffusion Activities Based on Kyocera Group Philosophy Essays Kyocera has called for submissions of Kyocera Group Philosophy Essays every year since 1990 aimed at having employees deepen their understanding of the need for implementation of the Kyocera Philosophy and mastery of it by linking it to personal experience. In FY2015, a total of about 12 32,000 essays were submitted from Japan, China and the U.S.A.. Workshop the actual situation in China as part of their training in the workshop. Our future plans include development of practical programs whose main purpose is to have trainees design their own education programs based on the conditions and needs of each region of the U.S.A., China, Asia Pacific, and Europe by themselves and operate their own workshops for Philosophy Education Coordinators. Diffusion Activities Based on Kyocera Group Philosophy Essays Kyocera has called for submissions of Kyocera Group Philosophy Essays every year since 1990 aimed at having employees deepen their understanding of the need for implementation of the Kyocera Philosophy and mastery of it by linking it to personal experience. In FY2015, a total of about 32,000 essays were submitted from Japan, China and the U.S.A.. Essays submitted by employees are reviewed and the authors of selected essays are awarded the Chairman Emeritus’ Prize, the Chairman’s Prize or the President’s Prize. A collection of award-winning essays and other excellent essays is issued among the entire Kyocera Group to encourage the practice of the Kyocera Philosophy. Presentation of Philosophy Essays in China Collection of Philosophy Essays (Japanese version on the left and Chinese version on the right) 13 Special Feature 1: Promotion of Measures to Improve Energy Savings, Combat Climate Change, and Prevent Environmental Pollution Promotion of Activities to Combat Climate Change and Promote Energy Savings The Kyocera Group has focused all corporate activities on three pillars of coexistence (Living Together): coexist harmoniously with society, coexist with global society, and coexist with nature. The entire Kyocera Group is committed to environmental management and aims for sustainable corporate development while striving to combine the goals of ecology and economy. The Kyocera Group has established the Environment Vision 2020, which clarifies the goals to be achieved by 2020, and actively moves towards ecological and economic compatibility with a focus on three areas: contributing to the realization of a low-carbon society, a recycling-based society, and a society coexisting with nature. These activities have been highly evaluated and won a number of awards including the Environment Minister’s Award for Global Warming Prevention Activity which we received from the Japan Ministry of the Environment for the fifth consecutive year. Awards Received Related to the Environment (FY2015) Date Award Recipient KYOCERA Communications, Inc. April 2014 2014 Recycler of the Year (U.S.A.) September Encouragement Award, Osaka Environmental Award Osaka Daito Office (Japan) 2014 September Excellent Company Award (Environmental Division), Kagoshima Sendai Plant (Japan) 2014 Satsumasendai City Environment Minister’s Award for Global Warming November Prevention Activity (Countermeasure Technology Kagoshima Kokubu Plant (Japan) 2014 Introduction and Dissemination) December Excellent Enterprise, Enterprise Emission Reduction KYOCERA Communication Systems 2014 Planning System, Kyoto City Co., Ltd. (Japan) December Blue Angel Prize, Germany KYOCERA Document Solutions Group 2014 February Excellent Prize, Osaka Stop Global Warming14 Award (Global Osaka Daito Office (Japan) 2015 Warming Prevention) ecology and economy. The Kyocera Group has established the Environment Vision 2020, which clarifies the goals to be achieved by 2020, and actively moves towards ecological and economic compatibility with a focus on three areas: contributing to the realization of a low-carbon society, a recycling-based society, and a society coexisting with nature. These activities have been highly evaluated and won a number of awards including the Environment Minister’s Award for Global Warming Prevention Activity which we received from the Japan Ministry of the Environment for the fifth consecutive year. Awards Received Related to the Environment (FY2015) Date Award Recipient KYOCERA Communications, Inc. April 2014 2014 Recycler of the Year (U.S.A.) September Encouragement Award, Osaka Environmental Award Osaka Daito Office (Japan) 2014 September Excellent Company Award (Environmental Division), Kagoshima Sendai Plant (Japan) 2014 Satsumasendai City Environment Minister’s Award for Global Warming November Prevention Activity (Countermeasure Technology Kagoshima Kokubu Plant (Japan) 2014 Introduction and Dissemination) December Excellent Enterprise, Enterprise Emission Reduction KYOCERA Communication Systems 2014 Planning System, Kyoto City Co., Ltd. (Japan) December Blue Angel Prize, Germany KYOCERA Document Solutions Group 2014 February Excellent Prize, Osaka Stop Global Warming Award (Global Osaka Daito Office (Japan) 2015 Warming Prevention) February Grand Prize, Fukushima Protocol Project Award (Production Fukushima Tanagura Plant (Japan) 2015 Industry) Kagoshima Sendai Plant, Kagoshima February Excellent Prize, Kagoshima GHG Emission Reduction Kokubu Plant, and Kagoshima Hayato 2015 Enterprise Plant (Japan) March Encouragement Prize, Kansai Eco Office Prize Shiga Yasu Plant (Japan) 2015 Contributions to Realizing a Low-Carbon Society The Kyocera Group implements thorough energy-saving measures including use of waste heat from production facilities, introduction of unit control systems for compressors, and introduction of LED lighting, in addition to the installation of solar power generating systems at various Kyocera sites. In Japan where power conservation in summer and winter, seasons of high power demand, has become a prominent social issue since the Great East Japan Earthquake, Kyocera meets such demand by cutting peak consumption with a combination of high-efficiency gas engine power generators and cogeneration systems. 15 2015 Enterprise Plant (Japan) March Encouragement Prize, Kansai Eco Office Prize Shiga Yasu Plant (Japan) 2015 Contributions to Realizing a Low-Carbon Society The Kyocera Group implements thorough energy-saving measures including use of waste heat from production facilities, introduction of unit control systems for compressors, and introduction of LED lighting, in addition to the installation of solar power generating systems at various Kyocera sites. In Japan where power conservation in summer and winter, seasons of high power demand, has become a prominent social issue since the Great East Japan Earthquake, Kyocera meets such demand by cutting peak consumption with a combination of high-efficiency gas engine power generators and cogeneration systems. Solar power generating system installed on the plant roof LED lights installed in the clean room (Shiga Yasu Plant) (Kagoshima Hayato Plant) Contributions to Recycling-Based Society The Kyocera Group has established its own voluntary management criteria which are stricter than relevant legal or public standards and conducts strict control of emissions, effluent, soil and groundwater. In addition to thorough sorting and separation of waste, the Kyocera Group has also introduced equipment that treats wastewater or waste raw materials generated from manufacturing processes and equipment that compresses plastic waste, allowing us to further promote recycling. In addition, we reduce the mass and volume of waste inside our plants to further reduce CO 2 emissions during transportation. Grinding wastewater treatment equipment Thermal treatment equipment for sintering ceramic raw material waste (Kagoshima Sendai Plant) (Kagoshima Kokubu Plant) Contributions towards a Society Coexisting with Nature The Kyocera Group takes part in lectures on the environment at local schools, forestation activities, local cleaning, environmental events and various other activities for the promotion of coexistence with nature, while working with local governments and society. Kyocera also grows “ Green Curtains” of goya (bitter gourd) or morning glory along the external 16 walls and windows of company buildings to reduce internal temperature and thus air conditioner load. At the Kokubu Plant, Kagoshima, a biotope using treated waste water from the factory has been established, where fireflies and fish are Grinding wastewater treatment equipment Thermal treatment equipment for sintering ceramic raw material waste (Kagoshima Sendai Plant) (Kagoshima Kokubu Plant) Contributions towards a Society Coexisting with Nature The Kyocera Group takes part in lectures on the environment at local schools, forestation activities, local cleaning, environmental events and various other activities for the promotion of coexistence with nature, while working with local governments and society. Kyocera also grows “ Green Curtains” of goya (bitter gourd) or morning glory along the external walls and windows of company buildings to reduce internal temperature and thus air conditioner load. At the Kokubu Plant, Kagoshima, a biotope using treated waste water from the factory has been established, where fireflies and fish are now flourishing. In various ways the Kyocera Group is actively promoting the protection of the ecosystem. Growth of a “Green Curtains” Biotope using water treated from factory effluent (Fukushima Tanagura Plant) (Kagoshima Kokubu Plant) 17 Special Feature 2: Promotion of Social Responsibility through Supply Chain Response to Conflict Minerals About Conflict Minerals In recent years, there is concern that mineral resources mined in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and neighboring countries may serve as a source of funds to the armed groups that have caused human rights violations, and this has become an international issue. Knowing that some revenue of minerals produced from the Democratic Republic of the Congo and its neighboring countries in Africa — including columbitetantalite (tantalum), cassiterite (tin), gold, wolframite (tungsten), and their derivatives — are used to fund armed groups that commit human rights violations, the Dodd-Frank legislation of July 2010 designates these minerals as “conflict minerals” regardless of where they are produced and requires all companies listed on the New York Stock Exchange to disclose information on the use of these minerals in their products. Kyocera Group’s Policy on Conflict Minerals The Kyocera Group always sticks to its principle of fair trading according to the Kyocera Philosophy. For the specific procurement policy, the Kyocera Supply-Chain CSR Deployment Guideline is provided to our business partners and asks for their cooperation. The Kyocera Group’s policy is that we will not purchase materials or products that use conflict minerals and their derived metals, which are mined in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and neighboring countries and serve as a source of funds to the armed groups that have caused human-rights violations. We have established the Kyocera Supply-Chain CSR Deployment Guideline, which states our policy on conflict minerals, to help our business partners understand our stance and policy. 18 minerals as “conflict minerals” regardless of where they are produced and requires all companies listed on the New York Stock Exchange to disclose information on the use of these minerals in their products. Kyocera Group’s Policy on Conflict Minerals The Kyocera Group always sticks to its principle of fair trading according to the Kyocera Philosophy. For the specific procurement policy, the Kyocera Supply-Chain CSR Deployment Guideline is provided to our business partners and asks for their cooperation. The Kyocera Group’s policy is that we will not purchase materials or products that use conflict minerals and their derived metals, which are mined in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and neighboring countries and serve as a source of funds to the armed groups that have caused human-rights violations. We have established the Kyocera Supply-Chain CSR Deployment Guideline, which states our policy on conflict minerals, to help our business partners understand our stance and policy. Kyocera Supply-Chain CSR Deployment Guideline Organizational System to Handle Conflict Mineral Issue In the Kyocera Group, the Kyocera Conflict Mineral Committee, consisting of directors or general managers of departments in charge of procurement (materials), IR, general affairs, internal auditing and legal affairs, has been established as the central player to deal with the conflict mineral issue. This Committee determines the methods that serve as the basis of conflict mineral investigation and the information to disclose about conflict minerals, and provides reports on its activities to the top management in a timely and appropriate manner. Furthermore, the Committee provides education to Kyocera Group companies about the rules and policies on conflict minerals and makes sure the entire Group appropriately deals with the problem of conflict minerals. Since this issue can only be handled with the combined efforts of the entire supply chain, Kyocera actively seeks coordination and cooperation with relevant industrial associations. Kyocera participated in JEITA’s* Responsible Minerals Trade Working Group as one of the core members as early as the establishment stage and has been in charge of lecturing at the conflict mineral survey briefing sessions held by JEITA since 2013. * JEITA: Japan Electronics and Information Technology Industries Association Actions for Business Partners and Survey Results 19 In August 2012, following the announcement of detailed regulations relating to the Kyocera participated in JEITA’s* Responsible Minerals Trade Working Group as one of the core members as early as the establishment stage and has been in charge of lecturing at the conflict mineral survey briefing sessions held by JEITA since 2013. * JEITA: Japan Electronics and Information Technology Industries Association Actions for Business Partners and Survey Results In August 2012, following the announcement of detailed regulations relating to the conflict minerals provision in a U.S. financial regulatory reform bill, Kyocera internally decided on the most salient points of an industry-supported survey. As conflict minerals present industry-wide issues, we started investigations in 2013 based on the framework of the Conflict Free Smelter (CFS) Program created by the Electronics Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) and the Global e-Sustainability Initiative (GeSI). In 2014, Kyocera held 9 explanatory meetings in Japan (Tokyo, Osaka) and China (Shanghai, Dongguan), where Kyocera’s suppliers are mainly concentrated, to explain policies for dealing with conflict minerals and to request cooperation with the survey. A total of 389 companies attended these meetings. Explanatory meetings for suppliers The recovery ratio of the raw material country of origin slip increased from 93.8% in 2013 to 94.7% in 2014. A close examination of responses revealed that 7.5% of suppliers were purchasing conflict minerals from the DRC and surrounding countries. Kyocera designated these suppliers as “critical suppliers to survey” and conducted due diligence in accordance with the law. Aside from these 7.5% critical suppliers, 5.1% of suppliers responded that they had not yet completed their own survey of origin for their products in the 2014 survey, and as such, we have created a system that enables us to improve the survey and identify the condition of these suppliers from 2015 onward. More specifically, a survey manager was appointed for each supplier throughout the survey period to build a working relationship with the supplier. The survey manager also held direct talks with the supplier on several occasions during the survey period and continuously updated survey findings. In addition, we created the opportunity to share and learn more about the latest information by holding regular meetings for the purpose of increasing the researchers’ understanding and knowledge toward the conflict minerals survey. At the current point in time, Kyocera has discovered no information regarding a high risk of connection with armed groups in the DRC and surrounding countries. Kyocera Group’s Future Measures The Kyocera Group recognizes the importance of continuing its survey using the CFS program and in identifying and investigating smelters and refiners. Therefore, we intend to continually establish a strong supply chain relationship through various measures, including the signing of a letter of engagement with suppliers that includes a pledge to contact Kyocera immediately if a connection to a conflict mineral has been uncovered. It is important to increase the number of smelters that submit to an independent third-party audit in order to be assessed as “conflict-free.” However, since it is difficult for a single company to prompt smelters to participate in such audits, Kyocera continues to work through industry organizations such as JEITA for this purpose. One Approach Approach by Overseas Group Company 20 As the leading supplier of tantalum capacitors, AVX Corporation (AVX), a consolidated subsidiary of Kyocera in the signing of a letter of engagement with suppliers that includes a pledge to contact Kyocera immediately if a connection to a conflict mineral has been uncovered. It is important to increase the number of smelters that submit to an independent third-party audit in order to be assessed as “conflict-free.” However, since it is difficult for a single company to prompt smelters to participate in such audits, Kyocera continues to work through industry organizations such as JEITA for this purpose. One Approach Approach by Overseas Group Company As the leading supplier of tantalum capacitors, AVX Corporation (AVX), a consolidated subsidiary of Kyocera in the United States, has continued its efforts to remove from its supply chain any conflict minerals which may serve as funding sources for armed groups committing human rights violations. AVX announced that as of December 1, 2011 all its current tantalum powder and wire suppliers were fully compliant with the independently audited CFS Program. AVX will continue to exclusively use tantalum powder and wire from conflict-free compliant smelters in accordance with the principles of the Dodd-Frank legislation and current Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) guidelines. 21 Management Kyocera Group Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) CSR Activities Based on the Kyocera Philosophy Shortly after its founding, Kyocera adopted its management rationale: “To provide opportunities for the material and intellectual growth of all our employees, and through our joint efforts, contribute to the advancement of society and humankind.” Management is based on the Kyocera Philosophy, which uses the concept “What is the right thing to do as a human being?” as its decision-making criterion. This also forms the basis for the Kyocera Group’s CSR activities. Through implementation of the Kyocera Philosophy, we work to find solutions to corporate citizenship issues, build relationships of mutual trust with our stakeholders, and aim for the sustained development of the Kyocera Group. At the same time, we endeavor to contribute to the healthy development of society. Kyocera Group CSR Guidelines We have established the Kyocera Group CSR Guidelines, our standards of corporate conduct, and will act towards the creation of a sustainable society. Kyocera Group CSR Guidelines Introduction Since its foundation, Kyocera has declared that it will “provide opportunities for the material and intellectual growth of all our employees, and through our joint efforts, contribute to the advancement of society and humankind” as its management rationale and has managed its business based on the Kyocera Philosophy ’ the core of management in the Kyocera Group. By practicing the Kyocera Philosophy on a daily basis, we will contribute to the sound development of society as well as build mutual trust with stakeholders, and continuously develop the Kyocera Group. We therefore establish the Kyocera Group CSR Guidelines, our standards of corporate conduct, and will act towards the creation of a sustainable society. These guidelines apply to Kyocera Corporation and Kyocera Group companies, as well as all executive officers and employees. 22 1. Basic duties Kyocera Group CSR Guidelines We have established the Kyocera Group CSR Guidelines, our standards of corporate conduct, and will act towards the creation of a sustainable society. Kyocera Group CSR Guidelines Introduction Since its foundation, Kyocera has declared that it will “provide opportunities for the material and intellectual growth of all our employees, and through our joint efforts, contribute to the advancement of society and humankind” as its management rationale and has managed its business based on the Kyocera Philosophy ’ the core of management in the Kyocera Group. By practicing the Kyocera Philosophy on a daily basis, we will contribute to the sound development of society as well as build mutual trust with stakeholders, and continuously develop the Kyocera Group. We therefore establish the Kyocera Group CSR Guidelines, our standards of corporate conduct, and will act towards the creation of a sustainable society. These guidelines apply to Kyocera Corporation and Kyocera Group companies, as well as all executive officers and employees. 1. Basic duties We shall observe laws, regulations and corporate rules, have unshakable moral values based on the Kyocera Philosophy and perform corporate activities globally, making decisions based on the criterion of “What is the right thing to do as a human being?” 2. Human rights and labor We shall respect fundamental human rights. 2-1. We shall always be aware of changes in work environments and the characteristics and culture of each country to build up a personnel system that can respond appropriately. 2-2. We shall respect the human rights of employees and not treat them severely or inhumanely, including abuse or any type of harassment. 2-3. We shall promote the creation of attractive, rewarding work environments by attempting to share opinions and information with employees. 2-4. We shall respect the right of freedom of association based on the laws, regulations and labor practices of each country. 2-5. We shall not allow forced labor or child labor. 2-6. We shall not engage in unfair and discriminatory treatment. 3. Health and safety We shall observe laws and regulations related to health and safety, fire control, and undertake health and safety measures more actively and continuously including through the implementation of risk assessment and emergency preparedness to provide work environments that are accident and disaster-free, where employees can work in safety and free from anxiety. 4. Environmental conservation We shall regard the Kyocera Environmental Charter as our guideline for the environmental protection activities to be achieved. We shall perform improvement activities more actively and23 continuously to contribute to global environmental protection by working in a comprehensive fashion on environmental measures such as environmental preservation, energy conservation, climate change prevention, resource conservation, global environmental product development 3. Health and safety We shall observe laws and regulations related to health and safety, fire control, and undertake health and safety measures more actively and continuously including through the implementation of risk assessment and emergency preparedness to provide work environments that are accident and disaster-free, where employees can work in safety and free from anxiety. 4. Environmental conservation We shall regard the Kyocera Environmental Charter as our guideline for the environmental protection activities to be achieved. We shall perform improvement activities more actively and continuously to contribute to global environmental protection by working in a comprehensive fashion on environmental measures such as environmental preservation, energy conservation, climate change prevention, resource conservation, global environmental product development and biodiversity conservation. At the same time, we shall communicate those efforts widely to society 5. Fair trade and ethics We shall always carry out fair trade in the spirit of equity and fair play. 5-1. We shall compete fairly, transparently and freely, and carry out fair trade. 5-2. We shall arrange and manage a clear import and export management system in accordance with related laws and regulations in Japan and overseas. 5-3. When procuring materials, we shall conform to laws and regulations, do business faithfully, justly and fairly without abusing any dominant bargaining position, and work to build up partnerships based on mutual trust. 5-4. We shall request business partners to understand and cooperate with our CSR activities. 5-5. We shall create, protect and utilize intellectual property rights, respect the intellectual property rights of others, and prevent any violation of their rights. 5-6. We shall neither offer nor receive inappropriate profits in relationships with stakeholders. 5-7. We shall maintain sound and normal relationships with political organizations and the authorities, and shall never offer bribes or illegal political contributions. 5-8. We shall steadfastly maintain an attitude of confrontation with antisocial forces and reject any unjust claim. 5-9. We shall carry out activities to prevent wrongdoing and also arrange systems to detect and respond to it immediately. 5-10. We shall not purchase any materials or products including conflict minerals or metals derived from them that create a source of funds for armed groups causing human rights violations. 6. Quality and product safety We shall regard the Kyocera Quality Policy and Kyocera Product Safety Policy as our guidelines to be achieved. 7. Information disclosure We shall always foster communication with society through appropriate information disclosure and active PR and IR activities; and aim at being a fair, highly transparent and open business enterprise. 7-1. We shall strive to disclose information to stakeholders including stockholders and investors quickly, appropriately and fairly; and promote understanding of our management and business activities. 7-2. We shall foster fair stock transactions and strive to prevent insider trading such as the buying and selling of stocks based on undisclosed internal information. 8. Information security We shall be aware that personal information and confidential information are important and strive to prevent information leakages while maintaining and promoting information security. 8-1. We shall be aware that personal information is important information that constitutes privacy, and strive to protect it thoroughly. 8-2. We shall properly manage and protect confidential information received from customers or third parties, and confidential information of companies obtained in the conduct of business, and prevent any leakage or misuse. 9. Business continuity plan (BCP) 24 We shall formulate a BCP and aim for quick recovery and operation even if concerns over supply arise due to disaster, We shall always foster communication with society through appropriate information disclosure and active PR and IR activities; and aim at being a fair, highly transparent and open business enterprise. 7-1. We shall strive to disclose information to stakeholders including stockholders and investors quickly, appropriately and fairly; and promote understanding of our management and business activities. 7-2. We shall foster fair stock transactions and strive to prevent insider trading such as the buying and selling of stocks based on undisclosed internal information. 8. Information security We shall be aware that personal information and confidential information are important and strive to prevent information leakages while maintaining and promoting information security. 8-1. We shall be aware that personal information is important information that constitutes privacy, and strive to protect it thoroughly. 8-2. We shall properly manage and protect confidential information received from customers or third parties, and confidential information of companies obtained in the conduct of business, and prevent any leakage or misuse. 9. Business continuity plan (BCP) We shall formulate a BCP and aim for quick recovery and operation even if concerns over supply arise due to disaster, etc. 10. Social contribution Based on the awareness that a business enterprise is a member of society, we shall do our duty at all times as a corporate citizen that supports the development of local communities and society, and carry out various social contribution activities, not just business. 10-1. We shall actively interact with local people and support sports to contribute to the development of local communities. 10-2. We shall strive to do our duty as a member of society through various activities that contribute to society such as education, research, culture, the arts, international exchange and cooperation, and environmental protection activities. Response to International Standards and Initiatives Utilization of ISO26000 The Kyocera Group effectively uses ISO26000, the international guidance standard related to social responsibility issued in November 2010. ISO26000 puts together items to be reviewed in implementing CSR activities and summarizes them as seven core subjects. The Kyocera Group evaluates our own CSR activities based on these core subjects and conducts continuous improvement for reinforcement of our CSR management. Seven Core Subjects of ISO26000 and Corresponding References Core subjects References Organizational Governance Management (P22) Human Rights Respect of Human Rights / Labour Practices Optimal Work Environment (P38) The Environment Environmental Activities (P56) Fair Operating Practices Fair Business Activities (P94) Consumer Issues Customer Concerns (P104) Community Involvement and Social Contribution Activities (P109) Development Participation in the UN Global Compact 25 The Kyocera Group is a participant of the United Nations Global Compact — an initiative proposed Fair Operating Practices Fair Business Activities (P94) Consumer Issues Customer Concerns (P104) Community Involvement and Social Contribution Activities (P109) Development Participation in the UN Global Compact The Kyocera Group is a participant of the United Nations Global Compact — an initiative proposed in 1999 by the then UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan which was officially established in 2007. The Compact consists of 10 principles in four areas: human rights, labour, the environment, and anti-corruption. The Kyocera Group continues to contribute to society’s sustainable growth by practicing these ten principles without fail. Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact Human Rights 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. 2: Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labor. 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Important Themes of CSR Activities The Kyocera Group uses an evaluation sheet based on the “core subjects and issues” and “related actions and expectations” described in ISO26000 and makes evaluations from two viewpoints: “importance for stakeholders” and “importance for the Kyocera Group.” 26 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Important Themes of CSR Activities The Kyocera Group uses an evaluation sheet based on the “core subjects and issues” and “related actions and expectations” described in ISO26000 and makes evaluations from two viewpoints: “importance for stakeholders” and “importance for the Kyocera Group.” The Kyocera Group actively conducts the following CSR activities as important themes based on the evaluation results. Important Themes of CSR Activities Promotion of Climate Change Prevention and Energy Saving Activities (P14) Response to Conflict Minerals (P18) Promoting the Careers of Women in the Workplace (Japan) (P39) Enhance Communication with all Stakeholders CSR Report Meetings CSR Economic, Social and Environmental Report Meetings have been held by the Kyocera Group (Japan) each year since FY2005. Their purpose is to raise the level of mutual communication with local communities — important stakeholders for the Kyocera Group. Factories invite local residents, government representatives, business associates, nearby companies and other people from the community to attend meetings where we provide participants with reports on the economic, social and environmental activities of the Kyocera Group as a whole and of the local facilities; along with exchanging views with the participants on CSR measures. In FY2015, 296 people took part at 12 bases in Japan. Introductions of CSR activities Plant visit (Fukushima Tanagura Plant) (Kyoto Ayabe Plant, Kyocera Circuit Solutions, Inc.) 27 since FY2005. Their purpose is to raise the level of mutual communication with local communities — important stakeholders for the Kyocera Group. Factories invite local residents, government representatives, business associates, nearby companies and other people from the community to attend meetings where we provide participants with reports on the economic, social and environmental activities of the Kyocera Group as a whole and of the local facilities; along with exchanging views with the participants on CSR measures. In FY2015, 296 people took part at 12 bases in Japan. Introductions of CSR activities Plant visit (Fukushima Tanagura Plant) (Kyoto Ayabe Plant, Kyocera Circuit Solutions, Inc.) [Example Questions from Participants] Fukushima Tanagura Plant Q. What is the ratio of women coming back to work after childbirth? We need it as reference information for measures to be provided as part of the childrearing support system. A. The ratio of reinstatement at the Fukushima Tanagura Plant is almost 100%. We believe it is important to have a work plan based on the assumption of childbirth leave and to have a human resources development system that allows women to live up to their full potential. Nagano Okaya Plant Q. We are actively engaged in forestation activities. What comments do employees make about their participation in this activity? A. Some employees who participated in the forestation activity said they were able to realize the importance of forest management or that they deepened their exchange with the local community. Apart from that, we have received opinions and questions from a lot of people. 28 Kyocera Group Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) FY2015 Goals FY2015 Results FY2016 Goals Education and Periodic holding of The Group-Wide Philosophy The Group-Wide Permeation of the the Group-Wide Committee, whose role is to Philosophy Committee Kyocera Philosophy formulate policies on is planned to be held Philosophy Committee Kyocera Philosophy regularly to continue Education and examine and education and determine measures on the permeation of the implementation of the Kyocera Philosophy. Philosophy, was held twice in FY2015. Reinforcement of Upgrading of teaching Upgrading of teaching training programs materials for Philosophy materials for for Kyocera Education (English and Philosophy Education Philosophy Chinese) Education through Management enrichment of Philosophy training materials Reinforcement of Workshops for education Continuation of Global Philosophy training coordinators, namely 22 Philosophy Seminar systems that from English-speaking areas and application of match the actual in Europe, U.S.A., and Asia, Philosophy Education conditions in each and 10 from Chineseto areas other than country or region speaking areas, were held at Englishor Chinesethe Kyocera Head Office. speaking areas Global Philosophy Seminar was held for top management figures and managers of each Group company in Asia, U.S.A., China and Europe. Reinforcement of Holding of CSR CSR Report Meetings were Kyocera will promote communication Report Meetings held to further promote communication with with stakeholders interactive communication local communities towards the with local communities (296 through CSR Report creation of mutual participants at 12 sites). Meetings, etc. trust Realization of Improvement of Outside directors have been Improvement of highly transparent corporate appointed to enhance advice corporate governance corporate governance for management and systems and internal Management governance and systems and supervisory functions. control systems internal control internal control systems systems Implementation of Internal control audits and Kyocera will implement internal control accounting audits were internal control audits audits and implemented based on the and accounting audits accounting audits risk approach. more effective for the based on the risk entire Group. approach 29 Promotion of Implementation of Kyocera implemented Kyocera will continue to measures relating awareness educational activities on implement awareness trust Realization of Improvement of Outside directors have been Improvement of highly transparent corporate appointed to enhance advice corporate governance corporate governance for management and systems and internal Management governance and systems and supervisory functions. control systems internal control internal control systems systems Implementation of Internal control audits and Kyocera will implement internal control accounting audits were internal control audits audits and implemented based on the and accounting audits accounting audits risk approach. more effective for the based on the risk entire Group. approach Promotion of Implementation of Kyocera implemented Kyocera will continue to measures relating awareness educational activities on implement awareness to human rights enhancement for human rights and labor enhancement for employees and through morning meeting employees and legal legal audits that presentations and readings audits that check legal check legal on related issues from the compliance. compliance. Kyocera Employee’s Action Guideline, which is distributed to all employees. Kyocera examines compliance with human rights thoroughly. Human resource departments have implemented voluntary checks and audit departments have also conducted legal audits to see whether there was any legal violation or appropriate management based on labor-related laws, in-house regulations and labor agreements with labor unions. Promotion of Improvement of Support of work-life balance Further improvement of respect for measures in was promoted by publishing measures for support diversity / work-life support of work-life the Guidebook for Balance of a work-life balance. balance balance. of both Career and Nursing Reinforcement of the Care, and holding seminars action to employ on preparation for nursing people with disabilities care. as part of the policy to Workshops on nursing care improve employment insurance systems was held ratio of people with for human resource disabilities. department managers as part of Kyocera’s effort to reinforce the support system. Kyocera actively employed people with disabilities as Respect for Human part of the policy to improve Rights / employment ratio of people Optimal Work with disabilities. Environment Reinforcement of 30 Women’s Activity Promotion Expansion of actions awareness Committees set up at each for promotion of enhancement site took the initiative in positive action of Workshops on nursing care improve employment insurance systems was held ratio of people with for human resource disabilities. department managers as part of Kyocera’s effort to reinforce the support system. Kyocera actively employed people with disabilities as Respect for Human part of the policy to improve Rights / employment ratio of people Optimal Work with disabilities. Environment Reinforcement of Women’s Activity Promotion Expansion of actions awareness Committees set up at each for promotion of enhancement site took the initiative in positive action of activities towards holding meetings for female employees the promotion of exchanges of views between female employees site managers and promotion committee, lectures for female employees, and meetings for exchange of working mother employees. Announcement of messages of the top management towards positive actions Reinforcement of Kyocera spread Support of employees’ Continuation of measures on measures for English learning at Group implementation of human resource English learning companies was reinforced measures for support development support to Group (Kyocera Crystal Device of employees’ English companies. Corporation; Kyocera Circuit learning and Solutions, Inc.; Kyocera enhancement of Display Corporation). spreading of those measures to Group companies Reinforcement of Implementation of Activities to prevent industrial Continuation of management on safety measures accidents were held at each measures to ensure health and safety for mechanical site, including holding of joint the safety of and fire and equipment and environmental safety mechanical equipment disaster prevention employee meetings in China, Safety and safety education education toward and Hands-on Experience for employees towards prevention of events, and simulated the prevention of labor industrial accidents experience training. accidents Promotion of Health improvement activities Continuation of measures for have been continued at measures for health health Kyocera sites including development development mental health education, determination of the health management reinforcement month, and holding of health fairs. Achievement of Implementation of Low-Carbon Society Continuation of Environment activities towards Contribution Factor 2.14 was activities towards the Vision 2020 the achievement of achieved. achievement of a Lowa Low-Carbon Carbon Society Society Contribution Factor of Contribution Factor31 3 in 2020 of 3 in 2020 measures for have been continued at measures for health health Kyocera sites including development development mental health education, determination of the health management reinforcement month, and holding of health fairs. Achievement of Implementation of Low-Carbon Society Continuation of Environment activities towards Contribution Factor 2.14 was activities towards the Vision 2020 the achievement of achieved. achievement of a Lowa Low-Carbon Carbon Society Society Contribution Factor of Contribution Factor 3 in 2020 of 3 in 2020 Promotion of Development of Kyocera is developing Continuation of environmentally environmentally environmentally friendly development of friendly products friendly products products. environmentally (Ratio of environmental friendly products product compliance: 99%) Kyocera made a Survey based on the Reinforcement of survey based on Kyocera Guideline on Green Procurement the Kyocera Environmental Protection promotion system Guidelines on Activities was conducted Environmental (472 companies). Protection Activities and reinforced the Green Procurement promotion system. Promotion of Achievement of Greenhouse gas emissions Achievement of basic environmental basic unit basic unit: 2.8% unit improvement rates Environmental awareness at improvement rates improvement relative to of at least 1% Activities plants and offices of at least 1% FY2014 compared to FY2015 compared to Energy consumption basic levels in greenhouse FY2014 levels in unit: 6.6% improvement gas emissions, energy greenhouse gas relative to FY2014 consumption, water emissions, energy Water consumption basic consumption, and consumption, unit: 2.7% improvement industrial waste water relative to FY2014 discharge at all consumption, and Industrial waste discharge production sites industrial waste basic unit: 2.4% discharge at all improvement relative to production sites FY2014 Environmental Implementation of Kyocera provided on-site Continuation of communication environmental environmental lessons for environmental with local communication children (participants: communication communities through the 15,274 children in Japan through the support of support of and 746 in China) children’s children’s Kyocera implemented environmental environmental forestation activities in education, biodiversity education, various parts of Japan preservation and biodiversity including Fukushima, participation in preservation and Nagano, Kanagawa, Shiga, environmental events. participation in Kyoto and Kagoshima. environmental Kyocera participated in events. 32 mangrove plating events (Thailand) and environmental education emissions, energy Water consumption basic consumption, and consumption, unit: 2.7% improvement industrial waste water relative to FY2014 discharge at all consumption, and Industrial waste discharge production sites industrial waste basic unit: 2.4% discharge at all improvement relative to production sites FY2014 Environmental Implementation of Kyocera provided on-site Continuation of communication environmental environmental lessons for environmental with local communication children (participants: communication communities through the 15,274 children in Japan through the support of support of and 746 in China) children’s children’s Kyocera implemented environmental environmental forestation activities in education, biodiversity education, various parts of Japan preservation and biodiversity including Fukushima, participation in preservation and Nagano, Kanagawa, Shiga, environmental events. participation in Kyoto and Kagoshima. environmental Kyocera participated in events. mangrove plating events (Thailand) and environmental education events (Mexico). Promotion of risk Reinforcement of Kyocera regularly held Risk Regular holding of Risk management risk management Management Committee Management promotion meetings to thoroughly Committee ensure risk management. Promotion of Kyocera reinforced Kyocera implemented information information security internal information security security audits and IT asset internal audits at management system at Group companies in Group companies in China. Southeast Asia. Kyocera reinforced security Rationalization of by introducing new security measures authentication infrastructure. against cyber attacks. Kyocera is implementing eVerification of the learning on electronic status of information security (for new implementation of employees, general security measures employees, managers and against external open supervisors, and system site system. administrators). Implementation of IT asset management audits Promotion of Kyocera conducted disaster Continuation of disaster disaster prevention prevention drills in practical prevention drills in measures situations, including holding coordination with fire of drills without advance departments notice, in preparation for the occurrence of a large-scale earthquake. Establishment of BCP activity Continuation of maintenance system was maintenance of BCP completed. activities Establishment of BCP activity Establishment of BCP maintenance system for activity maintenance 33 Japan-based Group system for Japancompanies started. based Group Fair Business BCP expansion to overseas companies was Promotion of Kyocera conducted disaster Continuation of disaster disaster prevention prevention drills in practical prevention drills in measures situations, including holding coordination with fire of drills without advance departments notice, in preparation for the occurrence of a large-scale earthquake. Establishment of BCP activity Continuation of maintenance system was maintenance of BCP completed. activities Establishment of BCP activity Establishment of BCP maintenance system for activity maintenance Japan-based Group system for Japancompanies started. based Group Fair Business BCP expansion to overseas companies was Activities Group companies started. completed. BCP expansion to customers Continuation of BCP started. expansion to overseas Group companies Continuation of BCP expansion to customers Thorough legal Establishment of a Establishment of a security Thorough compliance security trade trade control system for implementation by control system for overseas Group companies systematization of overseas Group (Asian region) shipping control of the companies cargo in question Establishment of a Kyocera implemented a new Expansion of a new new legal audit legal audit that focuses on legal audit system to system based on business process. Japan-based Group the introduction of companies business process audits. Reinforcement of Holding of supplier Kyocera held supplier Continued holding of supply chain seminars and seminars and supplier social supplier seminars and management supplier social gathering events social gathering events gathering events (participants: 149 people from 135 companies) Disclosure of Disclosure of information on Disclosure of information on conflict minerals and information on conflict conflict minerals investigations minerals and and continuing investigations. investigations Improvement of the accuracy on investigations. Implementation of CSR surveys were Implementation of CSR CSR surveys to implemented to customers, surveys to customers customers and improvement was outside Japan and requested. customers of Group companies Efforts towards the Periodic holding of Periodic holding of Kyocera Periodic holding of raising of quality Kyocera CS CS Improvement Committee Kyocera CS and customer Improvement meetings to promote Improvement Customer satisfaction levels Committee measures for CS index Committee meetings to Concerns meetings to improvement promote measures for promote measures34 CS index improvement for CS index* improvement accuracy on investigations. Implementation of CSR surveys were Implementation of CSR CSR surveys to implemented to customers, surveys to customers customers and improvement was outside Japan and requested. customers of Group companies Efforts towards the Periodic holding of Periodic holding of Kyocera Periodic holding of raising of quality Kyocera CS CS Improvement Committee Kyocera CS and customer Improvement meetings to promote Improvement Customer satisfaction levels Committee measures for CS index Committee meetings to Concerns meetings to improvement promote measures for promote measures CS index improvement for CS index* improvement Promotion of social Kyocera has Kyocera supports the Inamori Kyocera will continue contribution implemented Foundation’s Kyoto Prize, an activities including the activities activities including award to honor excellence in support of academic the support of three fields: Advanced and research activities, academic and Technology, Basic Sciences, support of cultural and research activities, and Arts and Philosophy. artistic activities, and support for cultural Kyocera held the 2014 international exchange and artistic Autumn Special Exhibition, and cooperation. Social activities, and displaying works of Yumeji Contribution international Takehisa, on the 130 th Activities exchange and anniversary of his birth, at cooperation. the Kyocera Museum of Art. Kyocera invited Chinese elementary and junior high school students to Japan for the Cultural Exchange Tour for Chinese Children (30 students from Dongguan City, Guangdong Province). * Ratio of quality-related losses in and out of the company 35 Management Corporate Governance Corporate Governance and Internal Control Systems The purpose of corporate governance and internal control in the Kyocera Group is to maintain management soundness and transparency, and to achieve fair and efficient management, through which we aim to realize the Management Rationale of the Kyocera Group. To establish a sound corporate culture, the Kyocera Group implements the following measures through the practice of the Kyocera Philosophy. Corporate Governance System 1. Directors shall accommodate requests for reports by corporate auditors. 2. Internal audit departments shall provide regular reports to corporate auditors on the state of internal audits. 3. Establishment of the Kyocera Board of Corporate Auditors Reporting System to enable employees, suppliers, customers and other individuals or organizations associated with the Kyocera Group to report directly to the Board. 4. Corporate auditors have the authority to attend important meetings and to inspect important conference minutes, documents, contracts, etc. Corporate auditors may call for meetings with representative directors to exchange opinions concerning management of the Kyocera Group in general. Internal Control System 1. Establishment of the Kyocera Disclosure Committee as a means for making timely and appropriate disclosure of management information outside the company. 2. Establishment of a Risk Management Division, as part of the Kyocera Group’s risk management system. 3. Establishment of an Employee Consultation Hot-Line Center as part of the Kyocera Group’s internal complaint system, where employees can report violations of laws, company regulations or other matters. 4. Introduction of an Executive Officer System to clearly delegate authority and related responsibilities; and construction of an effective and efficient business execution system. Internal Control Audits of the Kyocera Group As Kyocera is listed on the New York Stock Exchange, the company is subject to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Section 404 requires business operators to construct and maintain 36 internal control systems relating to fiscal reporting. Section 404 assesses the effectiveness of internal control systems through internal audits based on internal control evaluation criteria. 3. Establishment of an Employee Consultation Hot-Line Center as part of the Kyocera Group’s internal complaint system, where employees can report violations of laws, company regulations or other matters. 4. Introduction of an Executive Officer System to clearly delegate authority and related responsibilities; and construction of an effective and efficient business execution system. Internal Control Audits of the Kyocera Group As Kyocera is listed on the New York Stock Exchange, the company is subject to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Section 404 requires business operators to construct and maintain internal control systems relating to fiscal reporting. Section 404 assesses the effectiveness of internal control systems through internal audits based on internal control evaluation criteria. 37 Respect for Human Rights / Optimal Work Environment Respect for Human Rights and Diversity Respect for Human Rights Aside from compliance with the laws of individual countries, the Kyocera Group implements measures in accordance with the United Nation’s Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the Fundamental Human Rights Convention by the International Labor Organization (ILO) and other international conventions. In 2011, the Kyocera Group formally joined the United Nations Global Compact, a global platform setting out 10 fundamental principles relating to human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. As stated in these international conventions, the Kyocera Group explicitly prohibits the use of forced labor and child labor, as well as discriminatory treatment on the basis of gender, age, beliefs, nationality, physical features, etc. The Kyocera Group is also working to prevent power harassment and sexual harassment in the workplace. In addition, the Kyocera Group endeavors to exchange views and share information with employees through organizations such as labor unions and workplace associations. The Kyocera Group promotes development of a comfortable work environment that fosters motivation. Measures Relating to Human Rights and Labor To raise employee awareness concerning human rights and labor, time at morning meetings in Kyocera is set aside for announcements on matters requiring compliance in the workplace. Reading in turn about related issues from the Kyocera Employee’s Action Guideline, which is distributed to all employees, is also an ongoing activity. In addition, human resource departments undertake independent checks for legal violations such as discrimination, appropriate payment and working hour management according to labor-related laws and regulations, in-house rules, and labor agreements with unions. Auditing departments also carry out audits regularly to ensure thorough legal compliance. Respect for Diversity / Work-Life Balance Adapting to Globalization Since Kyocera’s first overseas office was established in 1968 (U.S.A.), localization has been the basic principle of recruitment. The Kyocera Group has always tried to appoint local employees to management positions. We directly employ students who graduate from Chinese universities and graduate schools from the viewpoint of the employment and development of personnel who will lead our global development in the future. We will also continue to employ foreign students studying in Japan. 38 Since Kyocera’s first overseas office was established in 1968 (U.S.A.), localization has been the basic principle of recruitment. The Kyocera Group has always tried to appoint local employees to management positions. We directly employ students who graduate from Chinese universities and graduate schools from the viewpoint of the employment and development of personnel who will lead our global development in the future. We will also continue to employ foreign students studying in Japan. Promoting the Careers of Women in the Workplace (Japan) Kyocera views the promotion of women’s advancement as an important management task and started efforts in 2006 with the President as the general supervisor. Kyocera actively promotes the creation of a workplace environment that helps a variety of human resources maximize their performance through the promotion of women’s advancement activities and ultimately aims to improve corporate competitiveness. Major actions include improvement of the ratio of female workers, increases in the fields of work available to women, improvement of systems to support female satisfaction of both career and childrearing, and improved awareness of workplace reform. In particular, awareness improvement activities for workplace reform include the setting up of the Group-Wide Women’s Activity Promotion Committee and a Women’s Activity Promotion Committee at each site so that various site-specific problems are identified and solved by female representatives selected from each work site serving as committee members. 39 System Organization In particular, awareness improvement activities for workplace reform include the setting up of the Group-Wide Women’s Activity Promotion Committee and a Women’s Activity Promotion Committee at each site so that various site-specific problems are identified and solved by female representatives selected from each work site serving as committee members. Organization System Woman's Activity Promotion Commitee at Group facilities How We Promote Activities Major Actions for FY2015 40 · Exchange of views between responsible staff and Women’s Action Promotion Committee members How We Promote Activities Major Actions for FY2015 · Exchange of views between responsible staff and Women’s Action Promotion Committee members · Workshop mainly composed of discussion among female employees · Career design training for female employees · Provision of opportunities to learn from female role models · Exchange meeting for female employees who are raising children Message from the president regarding promotion of women’s activities (Goro Yamaguchi) Promotion of women’s advancement has become a major theme as it is cited as one of the important factors of the Japanese government’s growth strategy. Kyocera set up the Women's Activity Promotion Committee in 2006 to promote education for female employees, with the Committee members as major players, and has since taken various actions to help women balance both their career and childrearing responsibilities. Thanks to these efforts, the average employment length of women has increased, and the ratio of women in their 30s and 40s playing core roles in their respective workplaces has also increased. As a result, there is a growing number of women serving in managerial positions of various departments. The Kyocera Group believes it is indispensable for both men and women to individually have their own global viewpoint and expand their sphere of activity in order for the Group to realize further growth. Considering the ratio of women in managerial positions, there is still great potential for further advancement of female employees. We intend to further promote women’s participation and actively find and assign competent woman to managerial positions. At Kyocera, employees are promoted based on meritocracy. Although this basic principle stays the same, it is imperative for us to check ourselves in every aspect including in-house institutional systems so as to establish a workplace environment that helps women achieve their full performance. 41 this basic principle stays the same, it is imperative for us to check ourselves in every aspect including in-house institutional systems so as to establish a workplace environment that helps women achieve their full performance. Employing People with Disabilities (Japan) Kyocera focuses on hiring people with disabilities and continuing their employment. Employees with disabilities hired by Kyocera are assigned appropriately so that their jobs and workplaces match their aptitudes. Work environment improvements for employees with disabilities also continue, including elevators and bathroom facilities that are accessible to employees in wheelchairs and braille plates installed at various places to support visually impaired employees. In addition, we provide health care support with the help of occupational health physicians. These fine-tuned responses also help create an attractive work environment for people with disabilities. The rate of employees with disabilities at Kyocera as of March 2015 is 2.07%. Kyocera intends to actively employ people with disabilities according to specific action plans to enhance the rate of employees with disabilities. Measures for Child-Rearing and Nursing Care The Kyocera Group (Japan) introduced the Child-Rearing Leave System, which helps female employees to both work and fulfill their family lives, and in FY2015, a total of 397 female employees used the system. Kyocera also has in place a Shortened Workday System that applies to pregnant employees and employees raising children up to elementary school third graders. A total of 173 employees used this system in FY2015. Kyocera’s support for employees with family member nursing care responsibilities includes the Family Nursing Care Leave System, which grants a maximum of one year of leave, which is longer than what is legally stipulated. In order to 42 reduce employees’ concern about fulfillment of both career and nursing care responsibilities, Kyocera provides necessary information to them through publication of the Guidebook for Balancing Career and Nursing Care and holds seminars on Measures for Child-Rearing and Nursing Care The Kyocera Group (Japan) introduced the Child-Rearing Leave System, which helps female employees to both work and fulfill their family lives, and in FY2015, a total of 397 female employees used the system. Kyocera also has in place a Shortened Workday System that applies to pregnant employees and employees raising children up to elementary school third graders. A total of 173 employees used this system in FY2015. Kyocera’s support for employees with family member nursing care responsibilities includes the Family Nursing Care Leave System, which grants a maximum of one year of leave, which is longer than what is legally stipulated. In order to reduce employees’ concern about fulfillment of both career and nursing care responsibilities, Kyocera provides necessary information to them through publication of the Guidebook for Balancing Career and Nursing Care and holds seminars on relevant themes. In addition, workshops are held for human resource department managers at Kyocera sites to help them learn the mechanisms of nursing care insurance systems and the important points regarding balancing both career and nursing care. Thus, Kyocera currently tackles improvement of institutional system for support. As a result of the environmental improvement for balancing both responsibilities, Kyocera was granted certification of standard-compliant general enterprise as per the Act on Advancement of Measures to Support Raising Next-Generation Children by the Health, Labour and Welfare Ministry in 2014. Examples of the systems for supporting a balance of career, childrearing and nursing care System Description Child-Rearing Leave Applicable until one day prior to the first year birthday of a child. Extendable until System the child reaches 18 months of age depending on the situation. Shortened Workday Applicable during pregnancy or the child finishes schooling of the third grade of System elementary school. Working hours can be shorted by up to two hours a day. Childrearing Subsidizes use of a Applicable until the child finishes schooling of the third grade of elementary baby-sitter school. Maximum annual subsidy per child is 200,000. Up to five days per year per child providing the child is younger than elementary Child Care Vacation school age. 10 days for two or more children. Half-day leave may also be obtained. Family Nursing Care Total of one year per family member who needs nursing care. Leave Working hours can be 43 Nursing changed to match When nursing care leave is not obtained, the work start time may be advanced or care needs for nursing delayed within one year period. Examples of the systems for supporting a balance of career, childrearing and nursing care System Description Child-Rearing Leave Applicable until one day prior to the first year birthday of a child. Extendable until System the child reaches 18 months of age depending on the situation. Shortened Workday Applicable during pregnancy or the child finishes schooling of the third grade of System elementary school. Working hours can be shorted by up to two hours a day. Childrearing Subsidizes use of a Applicable until the child finishes schooling of the third grade of elementary baby-sitter school. Maximum annual subsidy per child is 200,000. Up to five days per year per child providing the child is younger than elementary Child Care Vacation school age. 10 days for two or more children. Half-day leave may also be obtained. Family Nursing Care Total of one year per family member who needs nursing care. Leave Working hours can be Nursing changed to match When nursing care leave is not obtained, the work start time may be advanced or care needs for nursing delayed within one year period. care. Family Nursing Care Up to five days per year per family member who needs nursing care 10 days for Vacation two or more children. Half-day leave may also be obtained. This system allows employees, who once left Kyocera for reasons such as childrearing, nursing care, or other personal reasons, to reenter Kyocera. Former Comeback Entry Kyocera employees are eligible for this system within 7 years after their Others System departure. When a former employee applies for re-entry, Kyocera’s job openings and the applicant’s desire will be reviewed for appropriateness, and his/her reemployment will be approved if they are matched. Approaches to Stimulating Communication Holding Company Events & After-Work Social Gatherings (“Compa”) The Kyocera Group believes it is necessary to maintain family-like relationships of trust among employees, and thus considers company events and “compa” to be very important. Kyocera Group “compa” are not simply social gatherings, they are opportunities for interaction aimed at strengthening mutual understanding on reaching specific objectives. This understanding can be attained, for example, by deepening discussion on work-related issues, and by participants declaring their goals. At company events or “compa,” employees can deepen communication with executives and managers, get to know coworkers in other departments better, and deepen mutual relationships and ties. Approach to Labor-Management Relations At Kyocera, great emphasis is put on building relationships based on trust and heart-to-heart bonds among employees. Labor-management relations at Kyocera go beyond the generally accepted idea of harmony between management and labor. At Kyocera, the basis of the relationship is “coaxial labor and management,” where perspectives are shared on the same level. We carry out sports 44 meets, summer festivals and many other kinds of events that stimulate and sustain such relations through unity. Kyocera Group “compa” are not simply social gatherings, they are opportunities for interaction aimed at strengthening mutual understanding on reaching specific objectives. This understanding can be attained, for example, by deepening discussion on work-related issues, and by participants declaring their goals. At company events or “compa,” employees can deepen communication with executives and managers, get to know coworkers in other departments better, and deepen mutual relationships and ties. Approach to Labor-Management Relations At Kyocera, great emphasis is put on building relationships based on trust and heart-to-heart bonds among employees. Labor-management relations at Kyocera go beyond the generally accepted idea of harmony between management and labor. At Kyocera, the basis of the relationship is “coaxial labor and management,” where perspectives are shared on the same level. We carry out sports meets, summer festivals and many other kinds of events that stimulate and sustain such relations through unity. In Europe, the U.S.A., China and other countries, Kyocera continues to maintain appropriate labor relations via thorough labor-management consultation in Athletic meet (Vietnam) accordance with labor laws of individual countries. Labor and management on the same axis is the key for successful labor relations. Maintaining this stance will help to resolve problems in the workplace and keep the company on the path of sustainable development. One Approach Regulations Review Project The Regulations Review Project, undertaken jointly by labor and management, was launched in 2005. Employees’ needs and lifestyles become diversified along with changes in the social climate. Labor and management are therefore working together on checking systems and standards, to ensure they are always appropriate, fair and impartial. Labor and Management Exchange Conference Meetings of labor and management representatives are held each month at Kyocera plants and offices. The purpose of the meetings is to verify working conditions for employees and the workplace environment, and to actively exchange views on matters needing improvement, among other issues. Kyocera Group Sports Festival The Kyocera Group Sports Festival is co-sponsored by labor and management in the Kyocera Group to enhance cohesion and relationships of mutual trust throughout the Group via games and victory celebrations. The annual Kyocera Group Sports Festival held in 2014 was the 35 th since its inception, and focused on the theme of “hopes and restoration in Fukushima.” 34 teams from Kyocera factories and offices and Japan-based Group companies who progressed through preliminary rounds competed against each other ardently. Measures for Raising Workplace Vitality The Kyocera Group (Japan) regularly conducts an awareness survey of all employees. The survey focuses on topics such as the level of satisfaction with work and the workplace environment, the management situation, the sense of trust in the company, and suggestions for improvements. Responses from each organizational unit are analyzed, enabling diagnosis of “vitality level” in each workplace. In 2012, the survey was expanded to include Group companies in Japan. Results of analyses are compiled into a reference index. The index is then used in improvement activities centered on workplace leaders to achieve higher vitality levels in each workplace. 45 The Kyocera Group Sports Festival is co-sponsored by labor and management in the Kyocera Group to enhance cohesion and relationships of mutual trust throughout the Group via games and victory celebrations. The annual Kyocera Group Sports Festival held in 2014 was the 35 th since its inception, and focused on the theme of “hopes and restoration in Fukushima.” 34 teams from Kyocera factories and offices and Japan-based Group companies who progressed through preliminary rounds competed against each other ardently. Measures for Raising Workplace Vitality The Kyocera Group (Japan) regularly conducts an awareness survey of all employees. The survey focuses on topics such as the level of satisfaction with work and the workplace environment, the management situation, the sense of trust in the company, and suggestions for improvements. Responses from each organizational unit are analyzed, enabling diagnosis of “vitality level” in each workplace. In 2012, the survey was expanded to include Group companies in Japan. Results of analyses are compiled into a reference index. The index is then used in improvement activities centered on workplace leaders to achieve higher vitality levels in each workplace. 2014 workplace vitality diagnosis results (Kyocera Group in Japan) 46 Respect for Human Rights / Optimal Work Environment Cultivation of Human Resources Systems for the Cultivation of Human Resources Kyocera regards human resources as human “assets” and supports activities enabling employees to raise awareness of personal development and their contribution in the workplace. In particular, as personal development can be achieved to a great extent through work, Kyocera is striving to create a workplace environment that enables each employee to work cheerfully and energetically, and draws out natural talents to the maximum extent. Kyocera helps employees grow based on the following system: Structure of the Human Resource Development System One-to-One Guidance System Kyocera has established a One-to-One Guidance System to support the growth of new employees. Under this system, a guidance manager is assigned to each new employee. Guidance managers undertake close communication with new employees, including periodic interviews, and provide fine-tuned guidance. Follow-up interviews are also provided by human resource departments. New employees therefore enjoy a system that gives them advice from various viewpoints. STEP Based on the idea that employees grow steadily step by step as if they go up the stairs and move to the next level, Kyocera established the STEP system for new employees up to the fifth year of employment to support the growth of younger employees. When there are regular opportunities for communication between subordinates and supervising employees, young employees are encouraged to talk about their thoughts and ideas with their supervisors, and the supervisors listen to them and share their thoughts. This creates a feeling of oneness among all employees, which then helps support the growth of young employees. Skill Development Support System for Engineers Kyocera has an Engineer Ability Development & Support System to help engineers enhance their credentials independently. This system clarifies the level of roles expected of each engineer and allows engineers to quantitatively understand the skills necessary for their roles. This system leads to improved engineering capabilities for the organization as a whole. Challenge System 47 Kyocera also has another system for human resource development, the Challenge System. It allows the sharing of Based on the idea that employees grow steadily step by step as if they go up the stairs and move to the next level, Kyocera established the STEP system for new employees up to the fifth year of employment to support the growth of younger employees. When there are regular opportunities for communication between subordinates and supervising employees, young employees are encouraged to talk about their thoughts and ideas with their supervisors, and the supervisors listen to them and share their thoughts. This creates a feeling of oneness among all employees, which then helps support the growth of young employees. Skill Development Support System for Engineers Kyocera has an Engineer Ability Development & Support System to help engineers enhance their credentials independently. This system clarifies the level of roles expected of each engineer and allows engineers to quantitatively understand the skills necessary for their roles. This system leads to improved engineering capabilities for the organization as a whole. Challenge System Kyocera also has another system for human resource development, the Challenge System. It allows the sharing of employee work targets with supervisors and improves employee capabilities through interviews with supervisors. This helps employees understand their roles and encourages them to work proactively on their job and skill development. It also aims to create a working environment where every employee can work actively and brightly. Supervisors, by heeding subordinate feedback, endeavor to improve the ability of the organization to reach goals and succeed in business. Internal Placement Application System Kyocera’s Internal Placement Application System was established to provide employees with information on departments that need personnel immediately, from the corporate viewpoint, for example, due to the start of a new project or expansion of an existing business. Since this system provides employees with various opportunities that allow them to experience different positions at their own will, it serves as an effective means of support for employee career improvement. The optimal assignment of personnel is also another important goal for the company. Human Resource Education The Kyocera Group provides human resource education aimed at improving both theoretical and practical aspects of education, understanding and practice of the Kyocera Philosophy and mastering of the specialized knowledge and skills necessary to execute work. Kyocera thus endeavors to optimize human resources who can help us achieve the Management Rationale by providing a variety of education programs based on the education system composed as follows for each objective: 48 Human Resource Education The Kyocera Group provides human resource education aimed at improving both theoretical and practical aspects of education, understanding and practice of the Kyocera Philosophy and mastering of the specialized knowledge and skills necessary to execute work. Kyocera thus endeavors to optimize human resources who can help us achieve the Management Rationale by providing a variety of education programs based on the education system composed as follows for each objective: *Human Assessment Human Resource Education System Education Results in FY2015 Management Education Technical Training Global Education No. of Course Participants 2,162 people 3,471 people 848 people Average Annual Training 2.5 days 1.5 days 1.5 days Hours Per Employee Management Education Kyocera provides training to supervisors — the leaders of the organization — to develop executives with advanced management capabilities. In addition, Kyocera aims to improve employees’ management capabilities by providing the training to employees necessary in each stage of their career development, from the time of entry into the company to mid-level and executive positions, so that they can learn the skills and knowledge required to fulfill their tasks on a stepby-step basis. Technical Training 49 It is our goal to develop human resources with a wide range of basic knowledge and Education Results in FY2015 Management Education Technical Training Global Education No. of Course Participants 2,162 people 3,471 people 848 people Average Annual Training 2.5 days 1.5 days 1.5 days Hours Per Employee Management Education Kyocera provides training to supervisors — the leaders of the organization — to develop executives with advanced management capabilities. In addition, Kyocera aims to improve employees’ management capabilities by providing the training to employees necessary in each stage of their career development, from the time of entry into the company to mid-level and executive positions, so that they can learn the skills and knowledge required to fulfill their tasks on a stepby-step basis. Technical Training It is our goal to develop human resources with a wide range of basic knowledge and advanced expert knowledge in all departments, including engineering, R&D, manufacturing, quality assurance, sales and management. Specific training programs include Basic Technical Training for first year employees, Specialized Technical Training mainly for young engineers, and Mid-Level Engineer Training for mastery of technical management. The training curriculum covers a wide range, such as materials technology, manufacturing technology, production technology, and quality control. Kyocera employees can take the training necessary for their assignments under this training system. Technical training Global Education Kyocera has an Overseas Training System and Overseas Graduate School Study System. The objective of these systems is to cultivate human resources who can function on the global stage. First established in 1984, these systems have sent many employees to various regions around the world, including Europe, China, Southeast Asia, and India as well as the U.S.A. Kyocera is thus promoting the cultivation of employees with improved language skills, the ability to obtain up-todate knowledge and technology that can only be acquired abroad, as well as enhanced international awareness. As part of training to improve employees’ basic English capabilities, Kyocera has Overseas training provided English learning support since FY2012 to raise the lowest levels of ability and aid the achievement of a minimum score of 600 points on the TOEIC English test. English education 50 Respect for Human Rights / Optimal Work Environment Building a Safe & Secure Work Environment Occupational Health & Safety Policy The Kyocera Group aims to create an accident-free and disaster-free workplace environment where everyone can work safely and with peace of mind. Based on the policy below, the Kyocera Group is promoting occupational health and safety activities with the participation of all employees: 1. To maintain and improve the level of employee safety and health, the Kyocera Group abides by relevant laws and regulations and establishes and operates internal standards that are stricter than the relevant laws and regulations. 2. The Kyocera Group establishes organizations to effectively promote occupational health and safety activities, and clarifies the functions and responsibilities of those organizations. At the same time, all employees continue to receive necessary and sufficient education and training needed for operation of an Occupational Health & Safety Management System. 3. The Kyocera Group is building and implementing an Occupational Health & Safety Management System, and continually aims to raise the level of occupational health and safety. 4. The Kyocera Group is building a risk assessment system to assess risks and determine administrativemeasures for dealing with problem areas that may emerge in an accident or disaster. We set occupationalhealth and safety targets. All related matters including this policy are regularly reviewed and continually improved to help prevent accidents and disasters. 5. The Kyocera Group is strengthening mental health care through activities for advancing the mental health of employees. 6. The Kyocera Group actively participates and cooperates in governmental and local activities relating to occupational health and safety. Approaches to Occupational Safety and Health / Fire and Disaster Prevention The Kyocera Group promotes various measures to ensure occupational safety and health and the prevention of fire and disaster. Specifically, Kyocera has established a safety and disaster prevention management system for Group companies worldwide based on the Occupational Safety and Health Management System. In Japan, Kyocera conducts continuous improvement activities by conducting risk assessment, realizing improvements, and conducting audits at various sites. Outside Japan, Kyocera aims to further enhance management levels and prevent occupational accidents by holding safety and disaster prevention meetings and carrying out site visits. One Approach Holding of Safety and Hands-on Experience Trainings The Safety and Hands-on Experience Trainings have been conducted at the Shiga Gamo Plant and Shiga Yohkaichi Plant in Japan since 2012 in order to enhance employees’ safety action awareness and sensitivity to danger. Participants learn the effectiveness of the Point and Call practice and how to conduct risk perception activities at their work sites. Participants also recognize the risks hidden in their daily operations while using an actual simulator to enhance their awareness of workplace safety. In FY2015, these training programs were further expanded to part-time employees, which marked completion of education to all plant employees. Point and Call training to part-time employees (Shiga Gamo Plant and Shiga Furthermore, hands-on experience education started at Kyocera 51 Connector Yohkaichi Plant, Japan) Products (Dongguan) Co., Ltd. in China in FY2015. For example, a simulator that reproduces the driving element of a press machine was set up for disaster. Specifically, Kyocera has established a safety and disaster prevention management system for Group companies worldwide based on the Occupational Safety and Health Management System. In Japan, Kyocera conducts continuous improvement activities by conducting risk assessment, realizing improvements, and conducting audits at various sites. Outside Japan, Kyocera aims to further enhance management levels and prevent occupational accidents by holding safety and disaster prevention meetings and carrying out site visits. One Approach Holding of Safety and Hands-on Experience Trainings The Safety and Hands-on Experience Trainings have been conducted at the Shiga Gamo Plant and Shiga Yohkaichi Plant in Japan since 2012 in order to enhance employees’ safety action awareness and sensitivity to danger. Participants learn the effectiveness of the Point and Call practice and how to conduct risk perception activities at their work sites. Participants also recognize the risks hidden in their daily operations while using an actual simulator to enhance their awareness of workplace safety. In FY2015, these training programs were further expanded to part-time employees, which marked completion of education to all plant employees. Point and Call training to part-time employees (Shiga Gamo Plant and Shiga Furthermore, hands-on experience education started at Kyocera Connector Yohkaichi Plant, Japan) Products (Dongguan) Co., Ltd. in China in FY2015. For example, a simulator that reproduces the driving element of a press machine was set up for participants to learn the simulated impact of an artificial arm caught between the press as part of the training to prevent accidents of hands and fingers caught by the equipment. Hands-on experience training using artificial arm (Kyocera Connector Products (Dongguan) Co., Ltd.) Holding of Joint Environment and Safety Meeting in China Departments in charge of the environment and safety / disaster prevention of major Group companies in China meet regularly at Joint Environment and Safety Meeting in China. In FY2015, some 20 people from Kyocera Group companies participated in a joint meeting to discuss various topics related to the environment and safety. The case example workshop which focused on the environment and safety was also held to enhance the management level of the responsible departments. Joint Environment and Safety Meeting in China Labor Accident Prevention Activities in China Shanghai Kyocera Electronics Co., Ltd. in China undertakes company-wide efforts to prevent industrial accidents by combining the forces of all employees toward creation of a workplace environment that ensures safety and security. In FY2015, June was set as safety activity month, and various activities were conducted to ensure prevention of labor accidents, including safety patrol by the General Manager, banners and posters put up to enhance employees’ safety awareness, safety and health committee members standing guard for enhanced safety awareness, holding of seminars, and holding of a contest52 on industrial disease prevention knowledge in cooperation with the labor union. As a result of those activities, the total accident rate requiring absence per thousand workers Safety patrol by general manager joint meeting to discuss various topics related to the environment and safety. The case example workshop which focused on the environment and safety was also held to enhance the management level of the responsible departments. Joint Environment and Safety Meeting in China Labor Accident Prevention Activities in China Shanghai Kyocera Electronics Co., Ltd. in China undertakes company-wide efforts to prevent industrial accidents by combining the forces of all employees toward creation of a workplace environment that ensures safety and security. In FY2015, June was set as safety activity month, and various activities were conducted to ensure prevention of labor accidents, including safety patrol by the General Manager, banners and posters put up to enhance employees’ safety awareness, safety and health committee members standing guard for enhanced safety awareness, holding of seminars, and holding of a contest on industrial disease prevention knowledge in cooperation with the labor union. As a result of those activities, the total accident rate requiring absence per thousand workers Safety patrol by general manager in FY2015 was 0.69, which is a great reduction in the number of accidents compared with 1.55, the average of overseas Group companies. Holding of a safety seminar Actions for Workload Reduction Activities Kyocera America Inc. conducts measures to reduce the physical burden on workers’ bodies during work from an ergonomic viewpoint. For example, workers would often feel pain in their neck and head in the quality inspection process as they maintained their posture of looking down into a microscope for many hours. As a solution, a work desk whose height is adjustable with an electric motor was introduced to allow workers to use the microscope adjusted to the height of their eyes. This successfully reduced the physical burden on employees from long hours of work. Kyocera Mexicana, S.A. de C.V. sets a time for employees’ Work before improvement Work after improvement to stretch during the work day to reduce the physical burden on their bodies. All factory employees are required to stop work and stretch twice a day. Employees stretching Actions to Prevent Fall-related Accidents 53 Fall-related accidents occur in the Kyocera Group (Japan). Efforts are made to Employees stretching Actions to Prevent Fall-related Accidents Fall-related accidents occur in the Kyocera Group (Japan). Efforts are made to prevent employees from stumbling, tripping or falling through education on prevention of such accidents and holding of a proactive exercise in the morning meeting at five plants (Shiga Yasu Plant, Shiga Gamo Plant, Kagoshima Sendai Plant, Kagoshima Kokubu Plant and Kagoshima Hayato Plant) and at Kyocera Circuit Solutions, Inc. Outline of the Exercise for Prevention of Fall-related Accidents Improvement of Working Environment The Kyocera Group attempts to improve the work environment including maintenance of optimal room temperatures and reduction of noise level. In FY2015, mechanical equipment, which is known to have raised the temperature at the workplace at Mie Ise Plant, was enclosed to shut off heat, and the room ventilation requirement was revised to realize a comfortable working environment. In addition, heat mitigation measures for prevention of heat illness were taken at hot workplaces in Shiga Gamo Plant, including dividing the equipment and the work areas with partitions and installation of air-conditioners in the work area. Approaches to Promotion of Health The Kyocera Group is undertaking various measures to raise awareness of health among all employees and support health in body and mind. Kyocera has long engaged in diverse activities aimed at improving mental health. For example, ongoing measures include the assignment of occupational health physicians specializing in mental health at offices, the use of consultants in and out of the company, the study of mental health measures at the In-house Occupational Health Physicians’ Meeting, and the introduction of a rehabilitation work system. Holding of In-house Occupational Health Physicians’ Meetings Kyocera holds In-house Occupational Health Physicians’ Meetings twice a year, at which in-house occupational health physicians assigned to Kyocera sites gather for discussions, with the Safety and Disaster Prevention Department taking the lead. The goal of these meetings is to enhance the level of health management services at Kyocera. Participants in the meetings share measures and problems concerning health management and discuss improvement measures and solutions for the future. Representatives of human resource departments and the health insurance union also attend the meeting. All of these departments and stakeholders combine forces to solve problems and actively promote the health care of employees. Provision of Mental Health Education to Supervisors In FY2014, Kyocera started revision of its mental health education and clarified the roles of supervisors and specific response methods for affected employees. Mental health education based on this revision is currently being provided at each site in a way that fits the specific condition of each site. In FY2015, the Yokohama Office started mental health education using the intranet for all its employees. Kyocera aims at establishing a better system for mental health education to allow prevention of mental health problems and their early solution if they do occur. 54 One Approach Health Management Reinforcement Month the lead. The goal of these meetings is to enhance the level of health management services at Kyocera. Participants in the meetings share measures and problems concerning health management and discuss improvement measures and solutions for the future. Representatives of human resource departments and the health insurance union also attend the meeting. All of these departments and stakeholders combine forces to solve problems and actively promote the health care of employees. Provision of Mental Health Education to Supervisors In FY2014, Kyocera started revision of its mental health education and clarified the roles of supervisors and specific response methods for affected employees. Mental health education based on this revision is currently being provided at each site in a way that fits the specific condition of each site. In FY2015, the Yokohama Office started mental health education using the intranet for all its employees. Kyocera aims at establishing a better system for mental health education to allow prevention of mental health problems and their early solution if they do occur. One Approach Health Management Reinforcement Month The Shiga Yasu Plant Japan set January as health management reinforcement month in FY2015 and started a “weight lose challenge” event that requires every employee to record his/her weight every day. In addition, a walking course is temporarily set up in the compound of the office during that month, and many employees participate in walking during the lunch break or after work. Record sheet Health Fair The Kagoshima Sendai Plant Japan held a health fair to provide information on health management and enhance employees’ consciousness about health promotion activities. The fair includes measurement of the blood vessel and lung conditions, which allows employees to check their current health status, as well as taste testing of various health foods. Measurement of blood vessels (left) and lungs (right) Deployment of Kyocera Perfect 5S Promotion Activities The 5S system (“Seiri”: Sort / “Seiton”: Set in Order / “Seiso”: Shine / “Seiketsu”: Sanitize / “Shitsuke”: Sustain) is at the heart of work. Efforts by the Kyocera Group to implement the 5S system perfectly are called Kyocera Perfect 5S Promotion Activities. They are being introduced globally. Each site regularly evaluates the achievement degree of 5S to ensure thorough 5S management. It has become a rule that evaluators of 5S are those who have completed 5S training and passed the test and that evaluators check workplaces other than their own. These activities are intended to prevent variance of evaluation results and establish a system that allows evaluation of 5S from a more objective 5S training (Dongguan Shilong Kyocera Co., Ltd.) viewpoint. Kyocera continues to emphasize improvement of the capability of evaluators toward realization of perfect 5S management. 55 Environmental Activities Kyocera Group Environmental Management Since foundation of the company, based on the corporate motto “Respect the Divine and Love People,” the Kyocera Group has focused all corporate activities on three pillars of coexistence (Living Together): Coexisting with Our Community, Coexisting with Global Society, and Coexisting with Nature. The entire Kyocera Group is committed to environmental management and aims for sustainable corporate development while striving to combine the goals of ecology and economy. The Kyocera Group handles many chemical substances during production processes, such as raw materials and chemical agents for fine ceramics. Regarding treatment of waste water from factories, our policy is to purify discharged water to a state cleaner than the water system into which it is to be released. It is Kyocera Group policy to render any industrial waste as harmless as possible by using the latest technology. Based on this concept, the Kyocera Group enacted the Kyocera Environmental Charter in 1991, the company’s basic philosophy regarding the environment. Kyocera established its Environment Vision 2020 in order to embody the Kyocera Environmental Charter and define the company’s stance on a long-term basis up to 2020. As a yearly goal to achieve this vision, Kyocera has formulated the “Kyocera Group Global Environmental Policy.” Kyocera Environmental Charter Based on the concept of “Coexistence (Living Together),” the Kyocera Group established the Kyocera Environmental Charter, which provides for comprehensive measures on environmental protection, development of environmentally friendly products, energy conservation, climate change prevention, resource conservation, waste reduction, proper management of chemical substances, and biodiversity protection in order to create a low-carbon producing society, recycling society and a society in harmonious coexistence with nature. Environment Vision 2020 The Kyocera Group has established the Environment Vision 2020, which clarifies the goals to be achieved by 2020 in order to work on environmental management aimed at sustainable growth while satisfying both ecology and economy demands. Kyocera Group Global Environmental Policy The Kyocera Group has established the Kyocera Group Global Environmental Policy, which sets yearly targets to be attained in the four areas of greenhouse gases, energy, water, and industrial waste. “In all production sites, the greenhouse effect gas emissions, energy consumption, water consumption, and industrial waste discharge will be reduced by 1% or more from a year earlier in terms of energy consumption unit improvement rate.” 56 Kyocera Environmental Charter Established: October 1, 1991 Revised: June 1, 2013 I. Preface Technological progress and economic development in industrialized countries have given rise to affluent societies with high standards of living. At the same time, they have led to the mass consumption of natural resources and mass discharge of chemical substances — which, in turn now threaten to escalate environmental pollution and destroy the Earth’s ecosystem. In addition, explosive population growth and widespread poverty in developing countries have aggravated these environmental problems with large-scale deforestation. The social and economic activities of both advanced and developing countries are intertwined, and with all parties intent on greater material consumption, nature’s recuperative powers have been exceeded. As a result, the Earth’s natural regenerative mechanism has been damaged on a global scale. One of our major premises up to this time — that the Earth’s ecosystem is infinitely large — is now being rejected in favor of the idea that the Earth is a closed ecosystem. Such a change in view affects the very foundation of humankind’s existence and demands a re-evaluation of the quality and quantity of the products used by humankind. This, in turn, will lead to a fundamental change in the industrial / technological system within which such products are manufactured. In the course of history, humankind has witnessed three eras of rapid development: the Agricultural Revolution, the Industrial Revolution and the Information Revolution. It is generally felt that the current environmental movement will someday be regarded as humankind’s fourth era of rapid development: the Environmental Revolution. Our future thus requires new policy goals. These should state that development and economic growth may be pursued only when proper consideration is given to the balance between nature and society and environmental conservation. While an individual's impact may be small, the cumulative result from a rapidly expanding population could cause complete environmental destruction. Therefore it is essential to establish a basic philosophy of coexistence and co-prosperity between the developed and developing countries, between business and government, and between individuals and societies. All must be viewed as participants in the stewardship of “Mother Earth,” not as opposing forces with conflicting interests. The greatest responsibility for promoting the Environmental Revolution lies with the advanced countries. In particular, businesses in such countries play a vital role, as they possess production technologies and are directly engaged in industrial activities. II. Basic Philosophy In accordance with our corporate motto — “Respect the Divine and Love People” — since its foundation, Kyocera has adhered closely to its management rationale, “To provide opportunities for the material and intellectual growth of all our employees, and through our joint efforts, contribute to the advancement of society and humankind.” We strive to conduct business in harmony with the life-giving force of our universe. Kyocera had early insight into the mindset that today's global environmental problems make demands of every business enterprise. This mindset implies that business should uphold the dignity of humankind and contribute to the sustainable development of society. Based on the management rationale stated above, the Kyocera Group adopts comprehensive measures for the creation 57 of a low-carbon producing, sustainable society — a society which exists in harmony with nature — and will further heighten our goals towards environmental protection, development of environmentally friendly products, energy developing countries, between business and government, and between individuals and societies. All must be viewed as participants in the stewardship of “Mother Earth,” not as opposing forces with conflicting interests. The greatest responsibility for promoting the Environmental Revolution lies with the advanced countries. In particular, businesses in such countries play a vital role, as they possess production technologies and are directly engaged in industrial activities. II. Basic Philosophy In accordance with our corporate motto — “Respect the Divine and Love People” — since its foundation, Kyocera has adhered closely to its management rationale, “To provide opportunities for the material and intellectual growth of all our employees, and through our joint efforts, contribute to the advancement of society and humankind.” We strive to conduct business in harmony with the life-giving force of our universe. Kyocera had early insight into the mindset that today's global environmental problems make demands of every business enterprise. This mindset implies that business should uphold the dignity of humankind and contribute to the sustainable development of society. Based on the management rationale stated above, the Kyocera Group adopts comprehensive measures for the creation of a low-carbon producing, sustainable society — a society which exists in harmony with nature — and will further heighten our goals towards environmental protection, development of environmentally friendly products, energy conservation & climate change prevention, resource conservation, waste reduction, proper management of chemical substances, and biodiversity protection in order to make proactive and continuous contributions to environmental preservation. III. Basic Policies In the course of business activities, the Kyocera Group will take a serious view of global environmental protection adhering closely to the Company's basic philosophy, stated above, and will emphasize the following points: 1. Adhering to internal environmental standards that make global environmental protection our first priority; (1) In order to minimize impact on the natural environment and any harmful effects on the ecosystem, Kyocera will establish and comply with internal standards which are more stringent than those specified by applicable international agreements and, national laws local regulations where the Company's facilities are located. (2) At all levels, Kyocera will scientifically study and evaluate the effects of business activities on the environment, and then take the necessary protective measures. 2. Kyocera will strive for the development of environmentally friendly products in two categories; (1) Kyocera will increase its research and development of Products for Environmental Improvement that make a positive contribution to the enhancement of the global environment, and strive to spread the use of such products. (2) Kyocera will increase its research and development of Environmentally Gentle Products that have a lighter burden on the environment at each stage of production, sales, distribution, consumption and disposal and strive to spread the use of such products. 3. Most efficient utilization of resources and innovation of processing technologies; (1) Kyocera will develop processing technologies and production facilities that have maximum resource and energy efficiency. At the same time, the Company will aim to reduce raw material and chemical consumption in all processes. (2) Kyocera will promote internal energy conservation activities, such as more efficient use of electricity and fossil fuels, the introduction of high efficiency equipment, and the reutilization of waste heat. At the same time, the Company will promote measures for climate change prevention. (3) Kyocera intends to purchase recyclable materials which contribute to resource conservation while maximizing resource efficiency by establishing recycling systems for wastewater and waste materials. The Company will take aggressive steps to reduce the volume of and decontaminate all waste. 4. Enhancement of environmental communication, participation in, and support for, social contribution activities. (1) Kyocera will pursue education to improve employees' environmental awareness and thus promote participation in environmental preservation. (2) Kyocera will broadly establish cooperative relationships with local communities, municipalities and business partners to promote positive environmental communication. (3) Kyocera will promote the “greenification” (tree-planting) of its facilities in an organized effort to create grounds 58 which are lush and inviting. At the same time, the Company will participate in and support social contribution activities. processes. (2) Kyocera will promote internal energy conservation activities, such as more efficient use of electricity and fossil fuels, the introduction of high efficiency equipment, and the reutilization of waste heat. At the same time, the Company will promote measures for climate change prevention. (3) Kyocera intends to purchase recyclable materials which contribute to resource conservation while maximizing resource efficiency by establishing recycling systems for wastewater and waste materials. The Company will take aggressive steps to reduce the volume of and decontaminate all waste. 4. Enhancement of environmental communication, participation in, and support for, social contribution activities. (1) Kyocera will pursue education to improve employees' environmental awareness and thus promote participation in environmental preservation. (2) Kyocera will broadly establish cooperative relationships with local communities, municipalities and business partners to promote positive environmental communication. (3) Kyocera will promote the “greenification” (tree-planting) of its facilities in an organized effort to create grounds which are lush and inviting. At the same time, the Company will participate in and support social contribution activities. IV. Promotion Organization 1. Kyocera will establish and operate an environmental management system based on ISO14001 standards, and continuously expand environmental preservation activities. 2. To ensure compliance with legal and governmental environmental regulations, and internal environmental standards, an internal review group will conduct audits on both a regular and an as-needed basis. 3. The Environmental Management Division, facility manager and environmental specialists will implement an independent auditing system regarding environmental protection at each of its business locations. V. Application The Kyocera Environmental Charter will be applied to companies within the global Kyocera Group. 59 Environment Vision 2020 For the Kyocera Group, harmonious coexistence (Living Together) is the underlying foundation of all our business activities as we strive for sustainable development through environmental management. Based on a global environmental management system (Green Management), we strive for ecological and economic compatibility in three areas: Green Products, Green Factories, and Green Communication 1. Contribute to realization of a low-carbon society Targeting a Low-Carbon Society Contribution Factor of 3 (Contribution Volume / Emission Volume) by maximizing the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions through energy creation, and suppressing greenhouse gas emissions in business activities. 2. Contribute to realization of a recycling-based society Contribute to realization of a society with sustainable recycling of resources by reducing the volume of new resource input and minimizing waste. 3. Contribute to realization of a society coexisting with nature (1)Advance conservation of biodiversity by minimizing negative impact on the natural environment, as well as protecting and nurturing the natural environment. (2)Contribute to cultivation of an environmentally conscious society, through environmental communication with various stakeholders and environmental awareness activities. Commitment to Achieving a Low-Carbon Society In addition to targets for reducing greenhouse gas emissions from business activities, the Environment Vision 2020 establishes a benchmark in aiming for realization of a low carbon society. Named the Low-Carbon Society Contribution Factor, this benchmark gives an overall assessment of the volume of contribution to greenhouse gas reduction through use of Kyocera Green Products. Low-Carbon Society Contribution Factor Calculation Method 60 *The volume of contribution to greenhouse gas reduction is obtained by converting the volume equivalent to the energy creation effect into the greenhouse effect gas, in which the photovoltaic systems produced and marketed are assumed to continue power generation for 20 years. 3. Contribute to realization of a society coexisting with nature (1)Advance conservation of biodiversity by minimizing negative impact on the natural environment, as well as protecting and nurturing the natural environment. (2)Contribute to cultivation of an environmentally conscious society, through environmental communication with various stakeholders and environmental awareness activities. Commitment to Achieving a Low-Carbon Society In addition to targets for reducing greenhouse gas emissions from business activities, the Environment Vision 2020 establishes a benchmark in aiming for realization of a low carbon society. Named the Low-Carbon Society Contribution Factor, this benchmark gives an overall assessment of the volume of contribution to greenhouse gas reduction through use of Kyocera Green Products. Low-Carbon Society Contribution Factor Calculation Method *The volume of contribution to greenhouse gas reduction is obtained by converting the volume equivalent to the energy creation effect into the greenhouse effect gas, in which the photovoltaic systems produced and marketed are assumed to continue power generation for 20 years. The emission coefficient used in conversion is set to 0.360 kg-CO 2/kWh from 2010 to 2011 and 0.505 kg-CO2/kWh from 2012 to 2014 (based on the Industry's Voluntary Rule on Indication of the Japan Photovoltaic Energy Association). With the emission coefficient change, the results were corrected retrospective to FY2013. Result of Low-Carbon Society Contribution Factor FY '10 '11 '12 '13 '14 Target Factor 0.73 1.04 1.47 1.70 2.14 FY2020: 3.00 * For this page only, fiscal years (FY) are counted in the style of Japan, where the fiscal year is represented by the year in which it begins (April 1). Participation in the Low-Carbon Society Action Plan Kyocera participates in the electric and electronic industries’ Low-Carbon Society Action Plan to fulfill our contribution to the realization of a low-carbon society. To be specific, what we attempt to achieve by 2020 includes reductions in CO2 emissions by 1% annually on average in energy basic units and reductions in CO2 emissions in products. Our efforts are in concert with the industry’s commitment to climate change prevention. 61 Environmental Activities Green Management: Basis of Environmental Management Promotion Environmental Management Promotion System The Kyocera Group formulates environment-related policies and measures through reviews and discussions in the Planning and Policy Division, Environment Division and other related divisions with the President as leader. Environment-related projects are set up whenever required to take on any environment-related challenges and resolve outstanding issues. A separate organization has been established with the Environment Division playing a central role so that Kyocera can continue activities for environmental protection. Specifically, the contents of the Kyocera Group Global Environment Policy are assimilated into our environment management system based on ISO 14001 and managed through the monthly PDCA process. Environmental Management Promotion System Environmental Education The Kyocera Group provides systematic environmental education to help all employees understand the significance of environmental protection activities and their roles in them. Specifically, environment education is divided into general/awareness education and special education and is provided to employees systematically depending on their rank and occupation so as to improve environmental awareness. 62 Environmental Education The Kyocera Group provides systematic environmental education to help all employees understand the significance of environmental protection activities and their roles in them. Specifically, environment education is divided into general/awareness education and special education and is provided to employees systematically depending on their rank and occupation so as to improve environmental awareness. Efforts to Improve Employees’ Environmental Awareness The Kyocera Group sets a specific period in which environmental protection activities such as energy conservation are conducted intensively so as to improve awareness of the environment and enhance environmental conservation activities at plants and offices. In Japan, the months from June to September were designated Summer Eco Challenge 2013 as a movement to intensify efforts for energy saving during summer. Kyocera conducted various activities during this period, including a Poster of Eco Participation in an environmental event Challenge 2014 (China) “Green Curtain” photo contest and “Eco-Lessons” which invited employees and their children as students. Overseas, Kyocera also carried out active efforts including participation in local environment-related events. Environmental Risk Management The Kyocera Group established the Kyocera Group Environmental Management Standard in 1992, which is stricter than statutory and public regulations on emissions, wastewater, soil and groundwater. Based on this Environmental Management Standard, we have more stringent voluntary management standards for each site. Thorough management for environmental conservation is thus ensured using these strict standards, including periodic environmental measurement. In addition, we have Soil and Groundwater Management Regulations to ensure the prevention of soil contamination. To comply with these regulations, we take various measures, including the use of double wall structures for underground storage tanks and leakage detection systems 63to promote early detection of leaks and prevention of the spread of contamination. Challenge 2014 (China) “Green Curtain” photo contest and “Eco-Lessons” which invited employees and their children as students. Overseas, Kyocera also carried out active efforts including participation in local environment-related events. Environmental Risk Management The Kyocera Group established the Kyocera Group Environmental Management Standard in 1992, which is stricter than statutory and public regulations on emissions, wastewater, soil and groundwater. Based on this Environmental Management Standard, we have more stringent voluntary management standards for each site. Thorough management for environmental conservation is thus ensured using these strict standards, including periodic environmental measurement. In addition, we have Soil and Groundwater Management Regulations to ensure the prevention of soil contamination. To comply with these regulations, we take various measures, including the use of double wall structures for underground storage tanks and leakage detection systems to promote early detection of leaks and prevention of the spread of contamination. Kyocera Group Environmental Management Standard Double-layered underground tank storage Leakage detection system (Leakages are detected by sensing changes in electric resistance as a result of damage to the insulation layer.) Dealing with Emergencies Dealing with Emergencies Assuming the inevitability of accidents and emergencies which may affect the environment, we have taken preventative countermeasures, such as the installation of dikes. We have also prepared procedures for dealing with emergencies. To ensure that employees are familiar with these procedures, we hold emergency training drills more than once each year. Emergency training (Kagoshima Sendai Plant) Environmental Regulations Compliance Status In the Kyocera Group, no violations of environment-related legal regulations occurred in FY2015. 64 Reports on Soil and Groundwater Contamination emergency training drills more than once each year. Emergency training (Kagoshima Sendai Plant) Environmental Regulations Compliance Status In the Kyocera Group, no violations of environment-related legal regulations occurred in FY2015. Reports on Soil and Groundwater Contamination The Kyocera Group (Japan) conducts soil surveys based on the Soil Contamination Countermeasures Act and provides survey reports to the relevant local governments. As a result, three sites have so far been designated by local authorities as warning areas, one site of Kyocera Crystal Device Corporation in Asahi City, Chiba Prefecture, in 2013; and two sites of Kyocera Crystal Device Corporation in Ebetsu City, Hokkaido, and Hachioji City, Tokyo, in 2014. Strict control of contaminants is now being carried out at these sites, including measures to prevent the spread of contamination. No spreading or effects on surrounding areas have so far been reported. Kyocera will continue to work with local authorities and take appropriate measures to prevent pollution. Environmental Audit The Kyocera Group conducts periodic internal audits to make sure the Environmental Management System is being run properly based on the requirements of ISO 14001. The results and corrective actions are reflected in the review and in the improvement of the Environment Management System. Environmental Audit Environmental Accounting The Kyocera Group established an Environmental Accounting System which has been in practice since FY2003. In its business activities, the Kyocera Group quantitatively assesses the cost laid out for environmental conservation and its conservation effects as well as economic benefits, and positively utilizes this information for environmental conservation measures. Kyocera started revision of data summation methods in FY2015 to ensure company-wide sharing of information on case examples of environmental conservation and promote efficient and effective implementation of activities for environmental conservation. [Range of data collection: 195 sites] Sites collectively certified under the Kyocera Group Integrated Environment & Safety Management System Period covered: April 2014 through March 2015 Environmental Accounting Analysis Results (FY2015) The investment amount went to a total of 412 million as a result of investments in energy-saving measures at plants. 65 Economic effects resulting from environmental conservation effects were 630 million as a result of reductions in industrial improvement of the Environment Management System. Environmental Audit Environmental Accounting The Kyocera Group established an Environmental Accounting System which has been in practice since FY2003. In its business activities, the Kyocera Group quantitatively assesses the cost laid out for environmental conservation and its conservation effects as well as economic benefits, and positively utilizes this information for environmental conservation measures. Kyocera started revision of data summation methods in FY2015 to ensure company-wide sharing of information on case examples of environmental conservation and promote efficient and effective implementation of activities for environmental conservation. [Range of data collection: 195 sites] Sites collectively certified under the Kyocera Group Integrated Environment & Safety Management System Period covered: April 2014 through March 2015 Environmental Accounting Analysis Results (FY2015) The investment amount went to a total of 412 million as a result of investments in energy-saving measures at plants. Economic effects resulting from environmental conservation effects were 630 million as a result of reductions in industrial waste and implementation of energy-saving measures. Environmental Conservation Effects Investment Effect Effect Content (million Effect content (million yen) yen) Reduction of energy consumption 417 7,111 kℓ(crude oil equivalent) Reduction of waste 157 2,006Tons 412 Reduction of water usage 7 171,000m3 Others 49 — Total 412 630 — Overall Environmental Impact The Kyocera Group monitors and manages the relationship of business activities and environmental burdens as numerical data. The data for each stage of materials procurement, manufacturing, distribution, use, and disposal/recycling are used in the formulation of measures and the analysis and assessment of results to realize effective reductions in environmental burdens. 66 412 Reduction of water usage 7 171,000m3 Others 49 — Total 412 630 — Overall Environmental Impact The Kyocera Group monitors and manages the relationship of business activities and environmental burdens as numerical data. The data for each stage of materials procurement, manufacturing, distribution, use, and disposal/recycling are used in the formulation of measures and the analysis and assessment of results to realize effective reductions in environmental burdens. 67 Environmental Activities Green Products: Environmentally Friendly Products Development of Environmentally Friendly Products The Kyocera Group aims for every product that it sells to contribute to the betterment of the global environment and endeavors to develop environmentally friendly products. Kyocera has clearly specified the Concept of Environmental Consciousness to guide our design of environmentally conscious products. Kyocera also identifies products designed to contribute actively to the climate change prevention, energy saving, resource saving, and reductions in hazardous substances as Green Products, and has set up evaluation criteria for each product based on the Concept of Environmental Consciousness. As a result of these efforts, 99% of our products were designated as Green Products in FY2015. We intend to continue being active in this respect to continue supplying environmentally friendly products to society. Concept of Environmental Consciousness Kyocera considers the three themes of “Climate Change Prevention and Energy Conservation,” “Resource Recycling” and “Environmental Preservation and Safety” as high-priority issues. For each of these, we have established clear guidelines for environmental protection at the product development stage. Concept of Contributing to Environmental Protection These products allow customers and end-users to contribute to the reduction of environmental impact through use of our products. Concept of Lowering Environmental Impact These products minimize environmental impact at all stages of the product life cycle, including manufacturing, sales, distribution, use, and disposal. 68 Concept of Environmental Consciousness These products allow customers and end-users to contribute to the reduction of environmental impact through use of our products. Concept of Lowering Environmental Impact These products minimize environmental impact at all stages of the product life cycle, including manufacturing, sales, distribution, use, and disposal. Concept of Environmental Consciousness Environmentally Conscious Designs for Printers and Multi-Functional Products (MFPs) Kyocera Document Solutions Inc. is working on environmentally conscious designs for all of its products, including long service life designs that reduce parts replacement and disposal, 3R designs that consider “reduce”, “reuse” and “recycle” and low power-consuming designs that reduce greenhouse gas emissions. In the design stage, designs are developed based on the Environmentally Conscious Design Standard from the initial development stage of new products through each of the subsequent development steps. The Environmentally Conscious Design Check Sheet is then used to make sure designs are environmentally conscious during product development. Kyocera Document Solutions Inc. also conducts a life cycle assessment (LCA), which digitalizes the resources, energy, and waste used or discharged for products or services during the stages from the acquisition of resources to manufacturing, transport, use, and disposal/recycling for all products to reduce the environmental burden of our products. 69 In the design stage, designs are developed based on the Environmentally Conscious Design Standard from the initial development stage of new products through each of the subsequent development steps. The Environmentally Conscious Design Check Sheet is then used to make sure designs are environmentally conscious during product development. Kyocera Document Solutions Inc. also conducts a life cycle assessment (LCA), which digitalizes the resources, energy, and waste used or discharged for products or services during the stages from the acquisition of resources to manufacturing, transport, use, and disposal/recycling for all products to reduce the environmental burden of our products. Life Cycle Assessments Environmentally Friendly Products The Kyocera Group develops environmentally friendly products including fine ceramic products, energy management systems (HEMS and BEMS), solid oxide fuel cells (SOFC), LED lighting, and solar power generation systems. Fine Ceramic Products Fine ceramics are representative ecological materials. Because of their excellent mechanical, electromagnetic and thermal properties, fine ceramics are used frequently in machines and equipment for industrial use in such fields as environment, energy and automobiles. This contributes to the prevention of environmental pollution, conservation of resources and the prevention of climate change. 70 Life Cycle Assessments Environmentally Friendly Products The Kyocera Group develops environmentally friendly products including fine ceramic products, energy management systems (HEMS and BEMS), solid oxide fuel cells (SOFC), LED lighting, and solar power generation systems. Fine Ceramic Products Fine ceramics are representative ecological materials. Because of their excellent mechanical, electromagnetic and thermal properties, fine ceramics are used frequently in machines and equipment for industrial use in such fields as environment, energy and automobiles. This contributes to the prevention of environmental pollution, conservation of resources and the prevention of climate change. Home-Use Solid Oxide Fuel Cell (SOFC) Cell Stack A residential-use fuel cell has two parts — a power generation unit and a water heating unit that uses exhaust heat from the power generation unit. The fuel cell has high energy efficiency, and produces only extremely small amounts of the greenhouse gases CO 2, nitrous oxides, sulfur oxides or other byproducts. Use of the fuel cell as an environment—friendly system is expected to increase. Kyocera realized the world’s highest level power generation efficiency* by promoting the development of cells and cell stacks, which form the core of solid oxide fuel cells (SOFC) with high power generation efficiency, and using fine ceramics, which have excellent thermal resistance and durability, as cell materials. * Among domestic-use fuel-cell cogeneration systems (as of January 24, 2013) 71 system is expected to increase. Kyocera realized the world’s highest level power generation efficiency* by promoting the development of cells and cell stacks, which form the core of solid oxide fuel cells (SOFC) with high power generation efficiency, and using fine ceramics, which have excellent thermal resistance and durability, as cell materials. * Among domestic-use fuel-cell cogeneration systems (as of January 24, 2013) Ceramic Filters Excellent in thermal resistance, ceramic filters are used in emission gas treatment equipment such as those at large-scale waste incineration plants which optimize efficient use of exhaust heat energy. Compared with the service temperature range (150 to 200 ℃) of conventional bag filters, ceramic filters are capable of collecting dust at higher temperature ranges (300 to 900 ℃) to realize improved energy efficiency during the use of waste heat and the reuse of filters by washing. Ceramic Glow Plugs and Stacked Piezoelectric Elements Ceramic glow plugs help start up (ignite) engines and reduce the generation of toxic substances in gas emissions. Piezoelectric stacks for fuel injectors use piezoelectric ceramics and help optimize combustion by precise control of the high-pressure injection of fuels and the volume of injection as components of fuel injectors. 72 Ceramic Glow Plugs and Stacked Piezoelectric Elements Ceramic glow plugs help start up (ignite) engines and reduce the generation of toxic substances in gas emissions. Piezoelectric stacks for fuel injectors use piezoelectric ceramics and help optimize combustion by precise control of the high-pressure injection of fuels and the volume of injection as components of fuel injectors. Aluminum Foundry Components Kyocera’s silicon nitride ceramic material features outstanding high-temperature strength, heat and thermal shock resistance as well as corrosion resistance. When used in molten aluminum smelting equipment for the production of automobile engines and aluminum wheels, silicon nitride extends the product life of components and reduces the risk of impurities entering molten metal. With such benefits, silicon nitride contributes to the reduction of waste and improves product quality. Aluminum foundry components LED Packages and Single-Crystal Sapphire Substrates Since ceramic materials are capable of efficiently diffusing the heat generated by LEDs, they can maintain high longevity and reliability without compromising LED luminescence efficiency. Such features led to the realization of very bright LEDs. Single-crystal sapphires are used as the base substrates of LEDs and the backlights of mobile phones and LCD TV sets. Cutting Tools Milling Cutter 73 Milling cutters are used in a variety of metal cutting processes. Featuring both reductions in cutting resistance and excellence in loss resistance, milling Cutting Tools Milling Cutter Milling cutters are used in a variety of metal cutting processes. Featuring both reductions in cutting resistance and excellence in loss resistance, milling cutters contribute to the improvement of productivity through stable processing and elongation of service life. Milling cutter Recycling of Used Cutting Tools and Tip Cases Kyocera collects and recycles cutting tools and tip cases after use at users’ production sites. Kyocera is actively involved in the reduction of waste and effective utilization of resources by properly recycling collected tips and tip cases for relevant applications, such as material powder and RPF (refuse plastic fuel), slag used for roadbed material, and others. Solar Power Generating Systems Kyocera started R&D of solar power cells in 1975 based on our belief that solar power technology would become essential for the creation of energy alternatives to petroleum and other fossil fuels in the wake of the Oil Shocks. For nearly 40 years since then, we have steadily focused on this business without being swayed by changes in social conditions, and have supplied solar energy products to markets worldwide. At Kyocera, the cumulative power generation*1 produced by a solar power generation system after installation minus the amount of electricity used to manufacture the system*2,3is calculated as the “energy creation effect.” The power Floating solar power plant in Hyogo Prefecture (Japan) consumed to produce a 1kW solar power generation system is about 1,550kWh. If this system operates for 20 years (service life) to generate power, it will produce 20,640kWh. The energy creation effect per 1kW system is thus 19,090kWh. The solar power generation systems manufactured and sold by Kyocera so far produce a total of 6,430MW, which produces an energy creation effect of 15,462GWh. Assuming 74these systems generate power continuously for 20 years after installation, the CO2 reduction effect will be 47,528,000 tons*4, which is equivalent to about 53.0%*5,6 of annual CO2absorption by all forests in Japan. At Kyocera, the cumulative power generation*1 produced by a solar power generation system after installation minus the amount of electricity used to manufacture the system*2,3is calculated as the “energy creation effect.” The power Floating solar power plant in Hyogo Prefecture (Japan) consumed to produce a 1kW solar power generation system is about 1,550kWh. If this system operates for 20 years (service life) to generate power, it will produce 20,640kWh. The energy creation effect per 1kW system is thus 19,090kWh. The solar power generation systems manufactured and sold by Kyocera so far produce a total of 6,430MW, which produces an energy creation effect of 15,462GWh. Assuming these systems generate power continuously for 20 years after installation, the CO2 reduction effect will be 47,528,000 tons*4, which is equivalent to about 53.0%*5,6 of annual CO2absorption by all forests in Japan. *1 Calculated from the average of expected power at 16 sites around the country in a simulation by Kyocera Corporation *2 With energy payback of 1.1 years (annual production scale: 100MW or higher), the power consumption for production was estimated (system scale 30MW/installed on the rooftop) based on the assumption of 20 years of service life (source: NEDO Commission-based Service Result Report (Photovoltaic Power Generation Technology Research Association) “Survey and Research on Solar Power Generation Evaluation,” March 2001). We are currently revising the definition of the energy creation effect as a result of the revision of the source. *3 The estimated amount of electricity used during production for solar power generation systems that were shipped from 1992 to 2010 was recorded in the year when the products began to generate electricity (Example: The amount of produced electricity in 1992 was recorded in 1993). *4 Calculated at 360g-CO2 per kWh. *5 The CO2 sink by 1ha (10,000m2) of forest is 3.57 tons-CO2 (Source: Solar Power Generation Introduction Guidebook < Main > 2000 Revised Edition NEDO). *6 Calculated assuming that the forest area in Japan is 250,800km2 (Source: Forestry Agency “Present State of Forest Resources (as of March 31, 2012)”). 75 Energy Management System *4 Calculated at 360g-CO2 per kWh. *5 The CO2 sink by 1ha (10,000m2) of forest is 3.57 tons-CO2 (Source: Solar Power Generation Introduction Guidebook < Main > 2000 Revised Edition NEDO). *6 Calculated assuming that the forest area in Japan is 250,800km2 (Source: Forestry Agency “Present State of Forest Resources (as of March 31, 2012)”). Energy Management System Kyocera developed its own Home Energy Management System (HEMS) designed to manage energy efficiently using our strengths in solid oxide fuel cell (SOFC) “energy creation technology” and “communication technology.” By linking solar power, SOFCs, and storage batteries with the utility power grid, the system conducts optimal power control. It also “visualizes” the status of power consumption on a PC or smartphone to realize more efficient power consumption. Our services for convenience stores and other commercial facilities are known as Building Energy Management Systems (BEMS). These use various sensors to collect and analyze power consumption data and conduct efficient operational management of equipment such as solar power generating systems, battery systems, LED lighting, air-conditioning, and large refrigerators. Home Energy Management System Printing Devices a-Si Photoreceptor Drum High-durability amorphous silicon (a-Si) photoreceptor drums are often used as a core component of laser printers and multi-functional products (MFPs) to help elongate the service life of equipment, reduce maintenance costs, and reduce waste. High-durability a-Si photoreceptor drum LED Lighting Kyocera’s LED lighting uses white LED lamps as its light source. They produce light close to that of sunlight, thereby creating gentle and comfortable environments. 76 They are bright enough for use in offices, conference rooms, convenience stores and other commercial shops, and are easily affixed to the ceiling with a slim and High-durability a-Si photoreceptor drum LED Lighting Kyocera’s LED lighting uses white LED lamps as its light source. They produce light close to that of sunlight, thereby creating gentle and comfortable environments. They are bright enough for use in offices, conference rooms, convenience stores and other commercial shops, and are easily affixed to the ceiling with a slim and simple design. Color tones that can be changed according to use, and low power consumption compared to fluorescent lamps are just a few of the benefits of Kyocera’s LED lighting. As our LED light packages use ceramic materials, they have an expected product life of approximately 100,000 hours. That is about 2.5 times longer than conventional LED resin packages. Convenience store using Kyocera’s LED lighting Connectors for LED Lamps and LED Backlights These connectors are made very low at only 1.4mm in height so they do not disturb light distribution. Because of this compact design, Kyocera connectors help realize LED installation in compact and thin devices. Schematic illustration of substrates fitted with LEDs and connectors Clear Encapsulation Material for LED Devices LEDs are composed of elements made of a gallium composite or other material sealed by transparent resin. The characteristics of the sealing resin affect longevity. Kyocera Chemical Corporation supplies transparent sealing materials capable of maintaining high transparency for a long time. Clear Encapsulation Material for LED Devices Organic Materials Halogen-Free Material Halogenated elements, such as chlorine, bromine, and others, may produce harmful substances such as dioxin when burned. Their use is controlled according to regulations for chemical substances all over the world, with Europe as a leader. Kyocera Chemical Corp. has developed a wide variety of halogen-free* materials that conform to such legal regulations and contribute to a reduction in the environmental burden caused by the use of chemical substances. * Based on the standard values of the Japan Electronics Packaging and Circuits Association (JPCA). 77 Molding compounds for semiconductor encapsulation Clear Encapsulation Material for LED Devices Organic Materials Halogen-Free Material Halogenated elements, such as chlorine, bromine, and others, may produce harmful substances such as dioxin when burned. Their use is controlled according to regulations for chemical substances all over the world, with Europe as a leader. Kyocera Chemical Corp. has developed a wide variety of halogen-free* materials that conform to such legal regulations and contribute to a reduction in the environmental burden caused by the use of chemical substances. * Based on the standard values of the Japan Electronics Packaging and Circuits Association (JPCA). Molding compounds for semiconductor encapsulation Low-VOC Materials VOC (volatile organic compounds) is the generic name for organic compounds which are highly volatile and turn into vapor in the atmosphere, including toluene, styrene, and many other substances. VOC is considered to be one of the causes of suspended particle matters and photochemical oxidant, which are suspected to affect human health. In the insulation varnish field, where varnish is used for insulation of motors, Kyocera Chemical Corp. has developed and markets styrene-free varnishes that reduce VOC generation to 1/50 or less that of conventional products, as well as greatly reduce odor. Insulation varnish Promotion of Green Procurement Aware of the importance of making efforts in the entire supply chain including Kyocera as well as our suppliers and business associates in order to tackle worsening global environment issues, Kyocera formulated the Kyocera Green Procurement Guideline in 1998 and has promoted green procurement since then. In FY2014, we revised this Guideline and divided it into two guidelines, the Kyocera Guideline on Environmentally Hazardous Substances, which established the standards for product specifications in promoting green procurement; and the Kyocera Guideline on Environmental Protection Activities, which describes the guiding principles of Kyocera's idea of environmental protection activities. With this revision, we have reinforced our ties with our business partners. Conforming to Environmental Product Regulations 78 Today, the creation of products that are more friendly to the global environment is being demanded while regulations on the restriction of chemical substance management and use (RoHS Directives*1, REACH*2, etc.) are being reinforced from Conforming to Environmental Product Regulations Today, the creation of products that are more friendly to the global environment is being demanded while regulations on the restriction of chemical substance management and use (RoHS Directives*1, REACH*2, etc.) are being reinforced from the perspective of preventing impacts on humans and environmental pollution. In response to these moves, Kyocera regularly holds Product Environmental Quality Meetings to develop company-wide response measures and share information on environment-related laws and regulations. In addition, each production department responds to environmental regulations by obtaining information on the chemical substances contained in each purchased item and conducting thorough management of chemical substances in every process. *1 Restrictions on the use of specified substances contained in electric and electronic equipment *2 Regulations on the registration, assessment, permission and control of chemical substances 79 Environmental Activities Green Factories: Environmental Consciousness at Plants and Offices Energy Conservation and Prevention of Climate Change Increased energy consumption has an impact on the environment, including negative effects such as climate change. We share the task of using limited energy resources more effectively, including energy use in industrial activities. The Kyocera Group works on measures for the prevention of climate change in various ways, including the setting of targets for greenhouse gases and energy reduction, and the implementation of energy-saving measures in business activities. Energy Saving and Reduction of Greenhouse Gas Emissions ·Emission coefficients are calculated based on the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures. ·Greenhouse gas means CO2, CH4, N2O, PFC, HFC, and SF6. ·Figures for overseas facilities are calculated using the emission coefficients of electricity for each country in IEA CO 2 EMISSIONS FROM FUEL COMBUSTION Highlights (2013 Edition). 80 Efforts to Reduce CO2 Emissions Associated with Freight Transport ·Emission coefficients are calculated based on the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures. ·Greenhouse gas means CO2, CH4, N2O, PFC, HFC, and SF6. ·Figures for overseas facilities are calculated using the emission coefficients of electricity for each country in IEA CO 2 EMISSIONS FROM FUEL COMBUSTION Highlights (2013 Edition). Efforts to Reduce CO2 Emissions Associated with Freight Transport Growing “Green Curtains” The Kyocera Group promotes “Green Curtains” which block strong summer sunshine and suppress rises in indoor temperature by covering windows and outer walls with bitter gourd, sponge gourd, Japanese morning glory and other climbing plants. In FY2015, Green Curtains were installed at 31 plants and offices in Japan and three sites outside Japan. The total length of all Green Curtains installed measured 1,053m with a total area of 4,314m2 (equal to about 16.5 tennis courts), which translates to a successful reduction of about 15,000kg of CO2 annually. We plan to install Green Curtains at 32 sites in FY2016. Green Curtains (Fukushima Tanagura Plant) One Approach Installation of Solar Power Generating Systems The Kyocera Group has introduced a solar power generating system at facilities at home and abroad, such as the Kyocera Head Office Building and Kyocera International Inc., Kyocera’s holding company in North America. A new solar power generating system with a capacity of 680kW was newly installed on the compound of Kyocera Crystal Device Corporation in Chiba Prefecture (Japan) in FY2015. This system is subject to application of the renewable energy feed-in tariff program. This addition means the total output of all solar power generating systems installed at Kyocera Group sites in Japan now exceeds 9.0MW. We will continue to actively introduce solar power generating systems at more Group sites to expedite reductions in CO 2 emission in business activities. In Japan 81 A new solar power generating system with a capacity of 680kW was newly installed on the compound of Kyocera Crystal Device Corporation in Chiba Prefecture (Japan) in FY2015. This system is subject to application of the renewable energy feed-in tariff program. This addition means the total output of all solar power generating systems installed at Kyocera Group sites in Japan now exceeds 9.0MW. We will continue to actively introduce solar power generating systems at more Group sites to expedite reductions in CO 2 emission in business activities. In Japan Hokkaido Kitami Plant (115kW) Fukushima Tanagura Plant (230kW) Chiba Sakura Plant (493kW) (introduced in FY2011) (introduced in FY2011 and expanded in (introduced in FY1985 and expanded in FY2012) FY2014) Nagano Okaya Plant (173 kW) Mie Ise Plant (80kW) (introduced in Shiga Gamo Plant (491kW) (introduced in FY2011 and expanded in FY2005) (introduced in FY2011 and expanded in FY2014) FY2014) Shiga Yohkaichi Plant (1,137kW) Shiga Yasu Plant (590kW) Kagoshima Sendai Plant (649kW) (introduced in FY2006, expanded in (introduced in FY2011 and expanded in (introduced in FY2011 and expanded in FY2011, FY2012, FY2013, FY2014) FY2014) FY2014) Kagoshima Kokubu Plant (1,100kW) Kagoshima Hayato Plant (40kW) Headquarters (214kW) (introduced in (introduced in FY2006 and expanded in (introduced in FY2006) FY1999) FY2014) Yokohama Office (58kW) (introduced Kyocera Document Solutions Inc. Kyocera Document Solutions Inc. in FY2012) Headquarters (12kW) (introduced in Tamaki Plant (50kW) (introduced in FY2008) FY2011) 82 Kyocera Document Solutions Inc. Kyocera Connector Products Corp. Kyoto Ayabe Plant, Kyocera Circuit Yokohama Office (58kW) (introduced Kyocera Document Solutions Inc. Kyocera Document Solutions Inc. in FY2012) Headquarters (12kW) (introduced in Tamaki Plant (50kW) (introduced in FY2008) FY2011) Kyocera Document Solutions Inc. Kyocera Connector Products Corp. Kyoto Ayabe Plant, Kyocera Circuit Hirakata Plant (60kW) (introduced in Headquarters (130kW) (introduced in Solutions, Inc. (500kW) (introduced in FY2006) FY2012) FY2014) Koriyama Plant, Kyocera Chemical Kyocera Crystal Device Corporation Corporation (1,500kW) (installed in (680kW) (introduced in FY2015) FY2014) Overseas KYOCERA Document Solutions KYOCERA International, Inc. KYOCERA Document Solutions Espana S. A. (Spain) (36kW) (America) (279kW) (introduced in Deutschland GmbH. (Germany) (introduced in FY2008) FY2006) (15.6kW) (introduced in FY2008) Shanghai KYOCERA Electronics Co., KYOCERA (Tianjin) Solar Energy KYOCERA Solar Europe s.r.o. Ltd. (China) (155kW) (introduced in Co., Ltd. (China) (93kW) (introduced in (Czech Republic) (8kW) (introduced in FY2010 and expanded in FY2013) FY2011) FY2006) KYOCERA Mexicana, S.A. de C.V. (Mexico) (100 kW) (introduced in FY2011) Reduction in CO2 Emissions by Renewing AC Heat Sources The Kagoshima Kokubu Plant supplies cold and hot water for air-conditioning by operating absorption type freezers fueled 83 by LNG. In addition to this arrangement, a high-efficiency air-cooled chiller dedicated to the supply of cold water and an up-to-the-minute waste heat recovery chiller capable of simultaneously taking out cold water and hot water were introduced to further reduce CO emissions. KYOCERA Mexicana, S.A. de C.V. (Mexico) (100 kW) (introduced in FY2011) Reduction in CO2 Emissions by Renewing AC Heat Sources The Kagoshima Kokubu Plant supplies cold and hot water for air-conditioning by operating absorption type freezers fueled by LNG. In addition to this arrangement, a high-efficiency air-cooled chiller dedicated to the supply of cold water and an up-to-the-minute waste heat recovery chiller capable of simultaneously taking out cold water and hot water were introduced to further reduce CO 2 emissions. [Annual CO2 emission reduction] 1,420 ton-CO2 Air-cooled chiller Waste heat recovery chiller CO2 Emission Reduction by Improvement of Air Compressor System The Kagoshima Sendai Plant promotes installation of a measuring system at equipment that have high energy consumption. Efficiency is analyzed based on the energy consumption to help identify equipment and other causal elements that reduce efficiency and improve energy use. For air compressors, energy efficiency was improved by identification of the causes of efficiency degradation, renewal of equipment, re-examination of piping, introduction of the unit control system, and installation of receiver tanks, thereby reducing CO 2 emissions. [Annual CO2 emission reduction] 350 ton-CO2 Air compressor Unit control Receiver tank Reduction of CO2 Emission by Recovery of Waste Heat from Pure Water Production Equipment The Shiga Yasu Plant of Kyocera Display Corporation uses pure water in the manufacturing process and applies boiler steam to heat the water. In addition to waste heat from the compressors, in FY2015, reuse of waste heat from 25 ℃ impermeable water discharged from pure water production equipment 84 started as a heat source to raise the temperature of the raw water, thereby reducing operation of boilers and reducing CO 2 emissions. Air compressor Unit control Receiver tank Reduction of CO2 Emission by Recovery of Waste Heat from Pure Water Production Equipment The Shiga Yasu Plant of Kyocera Display Corporation uses pure water in the manufacturing process and applies boiler steam to heat the water. In addition to waste heat from the compressors, in FY2015, reuse of waste heat from 25 ℃ impermeable water discharged from pure water production equipment started as a heat source to raise the temperature of the raw water, thereby reducing operation of boilers and reducing CO 2 emissions. Waste heat recovery flow chart [Annual CO2 emission reduction] 220 ton-CO2 Effective Use of Water Resources One Approach Reduction of Water Consumption by Reuse of Super Pure Water Kyocera Crystal Device Corporation Headquarters uses a specific arrangement to reduce water consumption. To be specific, of super pure water used in final cleaning of products, the effluent of good quality is reused by being put through a filtering device and a recycling line, both installed for this purpose. [Annual water consumption reduction] 20,652m3 85 Wastewater Recycling Equipment One Approach Reduction of Water Consumption by Reuse of Super Pure Water Kyocera Crystal Device Corporation Headquarters uses a specific arrangement to reduce water consumption. To be specific, of super pure water used in final cleaning of products, the effluent of good quality is reused by being put through a filtering device and a recycling line, both installed for this purpose. [Annual water consumption reduction] 20,652m3 Wastewater Recycling Equipment Waste Reduction and Recycling Measures One Approach Reduction in the Amount of Sludge Produced from Effluent Treatment by Means of Use of Waste Heat The Shiga Yohkaichi Plant treats effluent discharged from the manufacturing process at the effluent treatment equipment. While sludge produced from the effluent treatment process is generally disposed of as industrial waste, waste heat from compressors is used to dry the sludge, thereby successfully reducing the amount of industrial waste. [Annual waste emission reduction] 226.4 ton Sludge drying equipment Efficiency Improvement by Change of Effluent Treatment Chemicals The Shiga Yasu Plant treats hydrofluoric acid produced from86 the production of solar cells at a effluent treatment plant. The chemicals used for treatment of effluent used in the treatment process were revised, and the treatment efficiency was improved, industrial waste. [Annual waste emission reduction] 226.4 ton Sludge drying equipment Efficiency Improvement by Change of Effluent Treatment Chemicals The Shiga Yasu Plant treats hydrofluoric acid produced from the production of solar cells at a effluent treatment plant. The chemicals used for treatment of effluent used in the treatment process were revised, and the treatment efficiency was improved, which resulted in reduction in chemical consumption and sludge generation. [Annual waste emission reduction] Effluent treatment chemical (flocculant):407 ton/year Effluent treatment chemical (neutralizer):204 ton/year Sludge from effluent treatment:121 ton/year Effluent treatment equipment Chemical Substances Management Some chemical substances cause environmental pollution and can affect human health and the ecosystem as a result of long-term accumulation. The Kyocera Group sets a voluntary control standard and takes initiative in carrying out environmental load reduction activities. In addition, the Kyocera Group (Japan) carries out thorough control of emissions and the transferred amount of Class I Designated Chemical Substances as prescribed by PRTR Law. Management and Disposal of PCB Waste The Kyocera Group (Japan) strictly controls and manages PCB (polychlorinated biphenyl) waste at specified locations with control sheets prepared in accordance with relevant laws. Kyocera has already become an early registrant for disposal of these wastes with the Japan Environmental Safety Corporation and will dispose of them accordingly. Transporting operations for outsourced disposal (Kagoshima Sendai Plant) 87 6=19765-6;)47),:);)279 97,<+;176 1;-: 6-9/@+76:<58;176 -51::176 %);-9+76:<58;176 6,<:;91)4>):;--51::176 '):+76=-9;-,;7+9<,9-) 7<6;9@ 758)6@ '; ( '5 ( ';( 714+76:<58;176163A( &  &  &  &  &  &  &  &  :1) )8)6 Hokkaido Kitami Plant, KYOCERA Corporation             Fukushima Tanagura Plant, KYOCERA Corporation          Nagano Okaya Plant, KYOCERA Corporation           Mie Ise Plant, KYOCERA Corporation           Shiga Gamo Plant, KYOCERA Corporation            Shiga Yohkaichi Plant, KYOCERA Corporation               Shiga Yasu Plant, KYOCERA Corporation                Kyoto Fushimi Plant, KYOCERA Corporation       Osaka Daito Office, KYOCERA Corporation           Kagoshima Sendai Plant, KYOCERA Corporation               Kagoshima Kokubu Plant, KYOCERA Corporation                 Kagoshima Hayato Plant, KYOCERA Corporation              Okaya Plant, KYOCERA Connector Products Corporation              Headquarters and Chigase Plant, KYOCERA OPTEC Co., Ltd            Hirakata Plant, KYOCERA Document Solutions Inc.              Tamaki Plant, KYOCERA Document Solutions Inc.              Kawasaki Plant, KYOCERA Chemical Corporation             Koriyama Plant, KYOCERA Chemical Corporation            Moka Plant, KYOCERA Chemical Corporation          Headquarters, KYOCERA Crystal Device Corporation          Nagano Okaya Office, KYOCERA Crystal Device Corporation           Shiga Yohkaichi Office, KYOCERA Crystal Device Corporation           Headquarters and Shiga Yasu Plant, KYOCERA Circuit Solutions, Inc.           Toyama Nyuzen Plant, KYOCERA Circuit Solutions, Inc.             Niigata Shibata Plant, KYOCERA Circuit     Solutions, Inc.       :-+76,0)4.     :-+76,0)4.   7.&   7.&   Kyoto Ayabe Plant, KYOCERA Circuit Solutions, Inc.             Kagoshima Sendai Plant, KYOCERA Circuit Solutions, Inc.               Shiga Plant, KYOCERA Medical Corporation          Kobe Plant, KYOCERA Medical Corporation          Headquarters and Shiga Yasu Plant, KYOCERA Display Corporation                  Kagoshima Sendai Plant, KYOCERA Display Corporation         Kagoshima Hayato Plant, KYOCERA Display Corporation             Hiroshima Plant, KYOCERA Display Corporation            016) Shanghai KYOCERA Electronics Co., Ltd.  88             Dongguan Shilong KYOCERA Co., Ltd.              KYOCERA OPTEC (Dongguan) Co., Ltd.            KYOCERA Document Technology Company Kagoshima Sendai Plant, KYOCERA Circuit Solutions, Inc.               Shiga Plant, KYOCERA Medical Corporation          Kobe Plant, KYOCERA Medical Corporation          Headquarters and Shiga Yasu Plant, KYOCERA Display Corporation                  Kagoshima Sendai Plant, KYOCERA Display Corporation         Kagoshima Hayato Plant, KYOCERA Display Corporation             Hiroshima Plant, KYOCERA Display Corporation            016) Shanghai KYOCERA Electronics Co., Ltd.              Dongguan Shilong KYOCERA Co., Ltd.               KYOCERA OPTEC (Dongguan) Co., Ltd.            KYOCERA Document Technology Company (Dongguan) Limited            KYOCERA Connector Products (Dongguan) Co. Ltd.            KYOCERA (Tianjin) Solar Energy Co., Ltd.             KYOCERA Display (Zhangjiagang) Co., Ltd.           79-) KYOCERA Precision Tools Korea Co.,Ltd.         01418816-: KYOCERA Crystal Device Philippines, Inc.           KYOCERA Crystal Device (Thailand) Co., #0)14)6, Ltd.            KYOCERA Telecom EquipmentBMalaysiaC )4)@:1)           Sdn.Bhd. 79;0)6, $  KYOCERA America, Inc.          7<;0 5-91+) -?1+7 KYOCERA Mexicana, S.A. de C.V.            D9<,-714+76=-9:176.)+;791:+)4+<4);-,*):-,76;0-+;76;0-!);176)4$:-7.6-9/@  D#0--51::176.)+;791:+)4+<4);-,*):-,76;0-+;76 9757;1767.47*)4%)9516/7<6;-95-):<9-: D);)1:+)4+<4);-,*):-,76;0--51::176.)+;797.-4-+;91+1;@7.-)+0+7<6;9@):/1=-616 51::176:975<-475*<:;1761/041/0;:  ,1;176  D#0-;7;)4:<57.;0--51::176:7.76//<)6 01476/&!7;,)6,&! #76//<)67;, 89 Environmental Activities Green Communication: Transparency with Local Communities Regarding Environmental Matters Support of Environmental Education for Children Kyocera Group “Eco-Lessons” The Kyocera Group has conducted Eco-Lessons, a locally rooted social contribution activity, since FY2003, to help children, the next-generation of leaders, better understand environmental problems and energy, and grow with an earth-loving heart in school education. Kyocera started Eco-Lessons in China too in FY2010 based on knowhow accumulated in Japan. In FY2015, the Kyocera Group provided lessons to 15,274 children at 256 elementary schools in areas around 25 Group sites (13 prefectures) in Japan. In China, Kyocera provided lessons to 746 children at elementary schools in two cities. The total number of children who had participated in the program exceeded 96,713 in Children activlyparticipate in Eco-Lesson lecture (Japan) and out of Japan. We believe it is important to steadily continue awareness activities and endeavor to encourage children to have more awareness and compassion for the Earth. Learning about energy issues (China) Participating in Environmental Education Events Since 1996, Kyocera Mexicana, S.A. de C.V. has participated in an annual environmental education event organized by the Tijuana municipal government for local middle and high school students from Tijuana, where Kyocera operates a manufacturing plant. Attracting roughly 20,000 participants, the event enlightens students about the importance of environmental protection as they learn about local environmental initiatives undertaken by companies and the government. Students learning at the Kyocera booth Activities Related to the Conservation of Biodiversity Human society consists of various blessings from nature. On the other hand, forests equivalent to one fifth of Japan’s land area are lost from the world every year. It is also said that the effect of human activities over the last several hundreds of years has caused the extinction rate of species to be accelerated by 1,000 times. In these ways, circumstances surrounding biodiversity have become extremely serious. In regards to the Kyocera Group’s business activities, while we are benefitting from the ecological system in the form of raw materials, its output has no small effect on biodiversity. The Kyocera Group establishes working policies relating to the conservation of biodiversity on activities such as the reduction of destructive effects on the natural environment and 90 on the ecological system, active promotion of greenification at Group facilities, and participation in and support of social contribution activities. environmental initiatives undertaken by companies and the government. Students learning at the Kyocera booth Activities Related to the Conservation of Biodiversity Human society consists of various blessings from nature. On the other hand, forests equivalent to one fifth of Japan’s land area are lost from the world every year. It is also said that the effect of human activities over the last several hundreds of years has caused the extinction rate of species to be accelerated by 1,000 times. In these ways, circumstances surrounding biodiversity have become extremely serious. In regards to the Kyocera Group’s business activities, while we are benefitting from the ecological system in the form of raw materials, its output has no small effect on biodiversity. The Kyocera Group establishes working policies relating to the conservation of biodiversity on activities such as the reduction of destructive effects on the natural environment and on the ecological system, active promotion of greenification at Group facilities, and participation in and support of social contribution activities. Promotion of Kyocera’s Forestation Activities The Kyocera Group works on the prevention of climate change and the conservation of biodiversity. The Group also conducts activities to restore rich greenery in plant compounds and local forests to improve employee awareness of environmental protection. In FY2015, Kyocera conducted forestation activities in Fukushima, Nagano, Kanagawa, Shiga, Kyoto and Kagoshima prefectures (Japan), including thinning and bottom grass cutting together with local residents. Employees taking part in village forest conservation activity (Higashiomi City, Shiga Prefecture) Promoting Project Firefly The Kagoshima Kokubu Plant launched Project Firefly in November 2009 in order to preserve the distinctive local biosphere around the manufacturing plant. With the cooperation of local firefly researchers, employees improved the environment around a pond in the plant premises to make it habitable. As a result, fireflies flew around the plant in May 2010, glowing brilliantly. We also endeavor to enhance the environmental awareness of employees through this project. A firefly in the plant compound Conservation of a Stork Habitat Kyocera Document Solutions, Inc. has cooperated in stork protection activities in Toyooka, Hyogo since FY2011. We are proactively involved in eliminating nonnative moso bamboo — which proliferate in the vicinity of marshy areas — in order to restore forests covered with broad leaf trees and create an environment where storks can habitat. 91 Bamboo grove cutting a pond in the plant premises to make it habitable. As a result, fireflies flew around the plant in May 2010, glowing brilliantly. We also endeavor to enhance the environmental awareness of employees through this project. A firefly in the plant compound Conservation of a Stork Habitat Kyocera Document Solutions, Inc. has cooperated in stork protection activities in Toyooka, Hyogo since FY2011. We are proactively involved in eliminating nonnative moso bamboo — which proliferate in the vicinity of marshy areas — in order to restore forests covered with broad leaf trees and create an environment where storks can habitat. Bamboo grove cutting Mangrove Planting Since 2011, Kyocera Crystal Device Philippines, Inc. has planted mangrove trees in Naga City, Cebu Island to coincide with World Environment Day in June. In 2014, together with participants including local students, Kyocera employees volunteered to plant approximately 11,000 trees over 1 hectare of marshland in an event hosted by municipal authorities. Employees plant mangrove trees Providing Employees’ Families with Environmental Education and Awareness A recent significant increase in CO2 emissions from households, which is a suspected cause of climate change, has become a major issue. The Kyocera Group (Japan) believes that it is important for each person to seriously address global environmental issues, and has proactively promoted a program to encourage use of the Eco-Account Book at employees’ homes since FY2009 in order to support environmental protection activities at home. Participation in Environmental Events Annual Earth Expo Kyocera International, Inc. and Kyocera America, Inc. in the United States has organized and hosted an annual Earth Expo every April since 2013 at the Group’s headquarters in San Diego. In 2015, more than 50 local companies and organizations joined Kyocera under the company’s “Solar Grove” — a parking lot shaded by solar panel structures — to introduce earth-friendly products and services to approximately 550 attendees. A vendor offers electric bike test rides Main Feedback on Sustainable Management 92 Kyocera Received Environment Minister’s Award for Global Warming Prevention Activity for Fifth to approximately 550 attendees. A vendor offers electric bike test rides Main Feedback on Sustainable Management Kyocera Received Environment Minister’s Award for Global Warming Prevention Activity for Fifth Consecutive Year Kyocera was awarded the Environment Minister’s Award for Global Warming Prevention Activity consecutively for five years since its first awarding of the high output solar module in 2010. In FY2015, the Kagoshima Kokubu Plant won this award in the category of “Countermeasure Technology Introduction and Dissemination” for its excellent contributions to the creation of a low-carbon and recycling society and society coexisting with nature, through such efforts as energysaving and reduction in CO2 emissions associated from transport. Award ceremony Awards Received Related to the Environment (FY2015) Date Award Recipient April 2014 2014 Recycler of the Year KYOCERA Communications, Inc. (U.S.A.) September Encouragement Award, Osaka Environmental Award Osaka Daito Office (Japan) 2014 September Excellent Company Award (Environmental Division), Kagoshima Sendai Plant (Japan) 2014 Satsumasendai City Environment Minister’s Award for Global Warming Prevention November Activity (Countermeasure Technology Introduction and Kagoshima Kokubu Plant (Japan) 2014 Dissemination) December Excellent Enterprise, Enterprise Emission Reduction Planning KYOCERA Communication Systems Co., 2014 System, Kyoto City Ltd. (Japan) December Blue Angel Prize, Germany KYOCERA Document Solutions Group 2014 February Excellent Prize, Osaka Stop Global Warming Award (Global Osaka Daito Office (Japan) 2015 Warming Prevention) February Grand Prize, Fukushima Protocol Project Award (Production Fukushima Tanagura Plant (Japan) 2015 Industry) Kagoshima Sendai Plant, Kagoshima February Excellent Prize, Kagoshima GHG Emission Reduction Kokubu Plant, and Kagoshima Hayato 2015 Enterprise Plant (Japan) March Encouragement Prize, Kansai Eco Office Prize Shiga Yasu Plant (Japan) 2015 93 Fair Business Activities Risk Management and Compliance Risk Management Promotion The Kyocera Group is making Group-wide efforts to reinforce its risk management system to cope with global risks that are becoming ever more complicated. There are various risks including conventional business risks such as changes in the market environment, the occurrence of natural disasters, and soaring prices of raw materials; as well as other risks that may affect the credibility or business sustainability of the Kyocera Group, such as the impact of climate change, information leaks, and inappropriate working conditions or human rights violations in the supply chain. Each management division addresses these problems and finds solutions. If a serious incident occurs or is likely to occur, the Risk Management Division swiftly gathers information to cope with the situation. The Kyocera Group thus has an appropriate system in place to take care of risk related issues. Risk Management System The Kyocera Group regularly holds a Risk Management Committee chaired by a director in charge of general affairs in order to prevent and mitigate risks, minimize damage, and promote sound and efficient business operation. The Risk Management Committee conducts examination and approval of plans that deal with risks considered particularly significant in terms of the degree of influence and frequency, and checks the progress of each plan. In FY2015, the Committee conducted proactive responses to risks related to information security and disaster countermeasures. Information Security Efforts The Kyocera Group makes effective and efficient use of information assets. We have clarified the basic requirements that employees should comply with in the handling of information assets and established an information management system. Policy and System of Information Security Management The Kyocera Group regards information on management strategies, product development, expertise, technology, organization, and personnel as important assets of the company. To ensure sufficient protection of these assets, we have formulated the Technical Expertise Leak Prevention Guidelines, which specify necessary rules for the management of information assets including confidential information management, intellectual property management, physical security management, visitor management, and personnel management. In addition, the Kyocera Group has established a digital information security management policy and management regulations to ensure the thorough management of digital information. The Kyocera Group has established a Digital Information Security Committee with the President as its chairman and is implementing various digital security measures including periodic employee education, restrictions on the external use of information equipment, measures to prevent information leaks from PCs and smart devices, thorough management of IT assets, and enhancement of information security against cyber attacks. Furthermore, the audit and information system divisions conduct reviews, and when any problem is found, they endeavor to solve it while working together with the division that owns the information and the relevant management division. Protection of Personal Information The Kyocera Group regards the personal information obtained from stakeholders through business activities as important private information and strives to protect it thoroughly as a primary social responsibility. Kyocera has established a basic policy on personal information, clarifies the purpose of use of personal information and contacts for relevant inquiries, and provides employees with education on the handling of personal information to ensure the thorough management of personal information. 94 The Kyocera Group has established a Digital Information Security Committee with the President as its chairman and is implementing various digital security measures including periodic employee education, restrictions on the external use of information equipment, measures to prevent information leaks from PCs and smart devices, thorough management of IT assets, and enhancement of information security against cyber attacks. Furthermore, the audit and information system divisions conduct reviews, and when any problem is found, they endeavor to solve it while working together with the division that owns the information and the relevant management division. Protection of Personal Information The Kyocera Group regards the personal information obtained from stakeholders through business activities as important private information and strives to protect it thoroughly as a primary social responsibility. Kyocera has established a basic policy on personal information, clarifies the purpose of use of personal information and contacts for relevant inquiries, and provides employees with education on the handling of personal information to ensure the thorough management of personal information. Communication system on personal information Protection of Intellectual Property Rights The basic policy of the Kyocera Group is to safeguard the yields of research and development by the Group as intellectual property rights, and to respect the intellectual property rights of others. We assign liaison officers responsible for intellectual property to main offices and manufacturing plants. Their role is to facilitate the processes of obtaining intellectual property rights — maintaining control of rights and negotiating licenses for intellectual property rights. The Kyocera Group is undertaking activities relating to intellectual property in close cooperation with the relevant business units. The Kyocera Group also holds a Global Intellectual Property Partners Meeting, which Global Intellectual Property Partners Meeting is a joint gathering for patent offices in the U.S.A., Europe, China, Korea and Japan, who help us acquire patents, and the Group’s staff in charge of intellectual property, to discuss various topics about intellectual property including the ideal form of patent application specifications and specific case examples. One Approach Kyocera Named a 2014 Top 100 Global Innovator Kyocera was named as one of the 2014 Top 100 Global Innovators by Thomson Reuters, a worldwide provider of intelligent information. The Thomson Reuters Top 100 Global Innovators awards are presented annually to recognize companies and organizations leading the world with their innovative actions based on the analysis of the candidates’ developments in 95 intellectual property and patents using Kyocera representative receiving the trophy Thomson Reuters’ own data and criteria. In The Kyocera Group also holds a Global Intellectual Property Partners Meeting, which Global Intellectual Property Partners Meeting is a joint gathering for patent offices in the U.S.A., Europe, China, Korea and Japan, who help us acquire patents, and the Group’s staff in charge of intellectual property, to discuss various topics about intellectual property including the ideal form of patent application specifications and specific case examples. One Approach Kyocera Named a 2014 Top 100 Global Innovator Kyocera was named as one of the 2014 Top 100 Global Innovators by Thomson Reuters, a worldwide provider of intelligent information. The Thomson Reuters Top 100 Global Innovators awards are presented annually to recognize companies and organizations leading the world with their innovative actions based on the analysis of the candidates’ developments in intellectual property and patents using Kyocera representative receiving the trophy Thomson Reuters’ own data and criteria. In 2014, Kyocera received a high evaluation particularly for its patent grant success rate and global reach. Measures for Dealing with Counterfeit Products The Kyocera Document Solutions Group is implementing diverse measures in various countries around the world to protect customers from the harm caused by counterfeit products, and to enable product use with peace of mind. Vendors selling counterfeit products are warned and asked to pledge they will no longer handle them. They are requested to destroy stocks and reveal the names of their suppliers. By these and other means Kyocera Document Solutions endeavors to prevent growth in circulation of counterfeit products. The Group is also using hologram seals to distinguish between genuine and fake products, making it Product with hologram seal attached easier to determine whether a product is authentic. Promotion of Contingency Planning The Kyocera Group has a Disaster Response Manual to take appropriate actions in the event that a large-scale natural disaster damages the Kyocera Group, including minimization of personal and physical damage and implementation of swift restoration of business operations. The Disaster Response Manual provides regulations based on the Basic Guidelines for Disaster Response regarding collection and distribution of information on disasters and response measures for earthquakes, floods, wind damage, volcanic eruptions and other disasters. 96 Kyocera Group Disaster Response Basic Policy prevent growth in circulation of counterfeit products. The Group is also using hologram seals to distinguish between genuine and fake products, making it Product with hologram seal attached easier to determine whether a product is authentic. Promotion of Contingency Planning The Kyocera Group has a Disaster Response Manual to take appropriate actions in the event that a large-scale natural disaster damages the Kyocera Group, including minimization of personal and physical damage and implementation of swift restoration of business operations. The Disaster Response Manual provides regulations based on the Basic Guidelines for Disaster Response regarding collection and distribution of information on disasters and response measures for earthquakes, floods, wind damage, volcanic eruptions and other disasters. Kyocera Group Disaster Response Basic Policy Document system of the Disaster Response Manual Actions against Earthquakes In an attempt to minimize injury and damage from a major earthquake, the Kyocera Group (Japan) is installing a disaster warning system at all plants and offices. This uses the Earthquake Early Warning System provided by the Japan Meteorological Agency. The Kyocera Group endeavors to minimize earthquake damage through diverse means. These include drills using the Earthquake Early Warning System, disaster prevention training for employees, regular disaster drills held with local fire departments and other organizations. Considerable damage is expected from a tsunami that could be generated by an earthquake in the Nankai Trough. To counter the potential damage, evacuation areas have been prepared for bases that are likely to sustain damage, based on the expected maximum tsunami height and shortest arrival time. Steps have been taken to ensure employees are fully aware of what they need to do in such an event. One Approach Holding of General Drill for Large-Scale Earthquakes The Kyocera Group holds a general drill at all plants and offices assuming that a major earthquake occurred and that a fire has broken out in the building. At the Fukushima Tanagura Plant, drills are regularly held without97 advance notice. Drill programs offered to the plant employees based on situations that could actually happen in the event of a major disaster include a safety confirmation drill in Meteorological Agency. The Kyocera Group endeavors to minimize earthquake damage through diverse means. These include drills using the Earthquake Early Warning System, disaster prevention training for employees, regular disaster drills held with local fire departments and other organizations. Considerable damage is expected from a tsunami that could be generated by an earthquake in the Nankai Trough. To counter the potential damage, evacuation areas have been prepared for bases that are likely to sustain damage, based on the expected maximum tsunami height and shortest arrival time. Steps have been taken to ensure employees are fully aware of what they need to do in such an event. One Approach Holding of General Drill for Large-Scale Earthquakes The Kyocera Group holds a general drill at all plants and offices assuming that a major earthquake occurred and that a fire has broken out in the building. At the Fukushima Tanagura Plant, drills are regularly held without advance notice. Drill programs offered to the plant employees based on situations that could actually happen in the event of a major disaster include a safety confirmation drill in which some employees are randomly selected as missing persons and a drill where participants try to ascertain their safety and whereabouts. We intend to plan and hold realistic drills and training programs in preparation for unexpected emergency situations that may actually occur in the future. Emergency drill at Fukushima Tanagura Plant Business Continuity Plan (BCP) Efforts The Kyocera Group has its BCP in place and uses it to reinforce the readiness of business continuity in order to fulfill its stated BCP policy, which is swift restoration and restart of business operations in the event of severance of product and service supply due to a natural disaster. Kyocera has completed measures to physically secure important equipment, arrangement of repair personnel, arrangement of alternate production and other measures according to its established BCP in preparation for a major earthquake. In FY2015, the measures were revised to cope with the changes in the business Tabletop training assuming earthquake disastr (Kawasaki Plant, Kyocera Chemical environment, and a system that ensures continuous BCP activities was established. Corporation) Plant-wide BCP training is also conducted in addition to division-specific BCP training in order to ensure all kinds of emergency response actions, ranging from safety maintenance to prevention of secondary accidents and business restoration, thereby constantly improving our level of emergency preparedness. BCP training has been completed in nearly all Japan-based Group companies except a few select sites. In FY2016, the focus will be put on establishing a system that allows maintenance and continuation of BCP activities. For overseas Group companies, Kyocera intends to conduct BCP activities depending on the status of disaster risks (such as natural disaster or infectious disease) expected in each area or region. Initial response training in the workplace (Okaya Plant, Kyocera Connector Products Corporation) Supply Chain BCP Efforts 98 The Kyocera Group promotes evaluation of alternative items and multiple purchasing sources with respect to the that allows maintenance and continuation of BCP activities. For overseas Group companies, Kyocera intends to conduct BCP activities depending on the status of disaster risks (such as natural disaster or infectious disease) expected in each area or region. Initial response training in the workplace (Okaya Plant, Kyocera Connector Products Corporation) Supply Chain BCP Efforts The Kyocera Group promotes evaluation of alternative items and multiple purchasing sources with respect to the procurement of important raw materials and components so as to prevent the stagnation of production activities during a disaster situation. Kyocera has distributed the Supply-Chain CSR Deployment Guidelines to all business partners to help them understand our concept of BCP since FY2014. For business partners who supply us with important raw materials and components, we are carrying out a survey on the progress of their BCP efforts for business continuity in more detail. Thorough Legal Compliance The Kyocera Group ensures thorough compliance with the law by taking measures including management by each division in charge of a specific law or regulation, the establishment of an in-house communication system for notification of the enactment or revision of a law or regulation, the establishment of Employee Consultation Offices (internal reporting system), and the implementation of regular legal compliance audits. We also regularly hold the Kyocera Group Global Legal Affairs Meeting, in which legal affairs personnel of major Group companies in the U.S.A., Europe, and China participate in order to reinforce global cooperation on a global scale. At each Kyocera Group Global Legal Affairs Meeting Meeting, participants learn about each other’s action results and engage in discussions regarding various legal issues currently being faced within the Group. Measures for Fair and Free Competition The Kyocera Group complies with anti-monopoly laws and related legislation, and we are working to promote fair and free competition. For example, guidelines on compliance with anti-monopoly legislation were prepared and are already being used in employee training in Group companies in Japan, the U.S.A. and Europe. The Kyocera Group issued the Kyocera Group Global Antitrust Compliance Manual, common to the entire Group in February 2013 and distributed it to employees worldwide. We also set up a consultation office for employees to consult on antitrust laws in each region. Kyocera started education for some employees including those in sales and materials divisions in FY2014, and about 8,500 employees so far have taken the education program. The Kyocera Group intends to put together the rules to be followed by Kyocera Group employees in the form of the Antitrust Act Compliance Regulations and apply it to each Kyocera Group Global Antitrust Group company. Compliance Manual Security Trade Control System The Kyocera Group complies with the Foreign Exchange and Foreign Trade Act and other regulations relating to international security. In addition, the Kyocera Group is establishing a system for heightening security trade control. The purpose is to prevent the outflow of components for weapons of mass destruction and arms, or products and technology that could be used for their production and development. Kyocera reinforced the checking system by systematizing the list of customers required to comply with the relevant laws in FY2015. In addition, the Kyocera Group (Japan) regularly holds a Security Trade Control (STC) Committee to 99 thoroughly ensure compliance with foreign exchange and export-related laws and regulations. For overseas Group companies, Kyocera has established a system that emphasizes education on and audits of security trade control systems Kyocera started education for some employees including those in sales and materials divisions in FY2014, and about 8,500 employees so far have taken the education program. The Kyocera Group intends to put together the rules to be followed by Kyocera Group employees in the form of the Antitrust Act Compliance Regulations and apply it to each Kyocera Group Global Antitrust Group company. Compliance Manual Security Trade Control System The Kyocera Group complies with the Foreign Exchange and Foreign Trade Act and other regulations relating to international security. In addition, the Kyocera Group is establishing a system for heightening security trade control. The purpose is to prevent the outflow of components for weapons of mass destruction and arms, or products and technology that could be used for their production and development. Kyocera reinforced the checking system by systematizing the list of customers required to comply with the relevant laws in FY2015. In addition, the Kyocera Group (Japan) regularly holds a Security Trade Control (STC) Committee to thoroughly ensure compliance with foreign exchange and export-related laws and regulations. For overseas Group companies, Kyocera has established a system that emphasizes education on and audits of security trade control systems to enhance legal compliance. One Approach Measures to Ensure Security in International Distribution Kyocera is recognized as an “authorized exporter” and “authorized importer” according to the AEO (Authorized Economic Operator) system, an international standard designed to ensure safety and smoothness of international trading and for which the mechanism of mutual approval is established in each country. This authorization helps us ensure security and smooth trading related to products delivered to customers outside Japan. We will continue to improve maintenance of the security system in distribution. Authorized exporter Authorized importer certificate certificate Appropriate Information Disclosure The Kyocera Group complies with regulations relating to the disclosure of information. The Group endeavors to provide appropriate information without falsehoods or expressions that invite misunderstanding in accordance with social and moral principles. Additionally, display of product labels and operating instructions, catalogs, sales promotion materials, advertisements and other materials by Kyocera is in line with the company standard as set out in our Public Document Verification Guidelines. We are building a check system for verification by the Quality Assurance, Legal, Intellectual Property and Corporate Communications divisions. Measures for Prevention of Bribery and Corruption For the Kyocera Group, the basis of dealings with business associates is to always be fair and just, and to approach all manner of transactions in the spirit of fair play with the correct attitude as a human being. The Kyocera Group CSR Guidelines prohibit the excessive exchange of gifts, the provision and receipt of excessive entertainment, and other corrupt activities. The Guidelines also forbid activities that depart from customary business practices. Ensuring Transparency in Political Donations The Kyocera Group may provide political donations as required from perspectives such as the realization of policyoriented politics and contributing to the sound growth of parliamentary democracy. When we make political donations, we will comply with relevant laws and regulations including the Political Funds Control Act as well as relevant bylaws. Measures for Prevention of Insider Trading 100 The Kyocera Group has established management systems to prevent insider trading and educates employees thoroughly. Kyocera has enacted Insider Trading Prevention Regulations, which establish a management system for Ensuring Transparency in Political Donations The Kyocera Group may provide political donations as required from perspectives such as the realization of policyoriented politics and contributing to the sound growth of parliamentary democracy. When we make political donations, we will comply with relevant laws and regulations including the Political Funds Control Act as well as relevant bylaws. Measures for Prevention of Insider Trading The Kyocera Group has established management systems to prevent insider trading and educates employees thoroughly. Kyocera has enacted Insider Trading Prevention Regulations, which establish a management system for insider information and provide restrictions on stock trading. The company prepared an Insider Trading Prevention Handbook and distributed it to employees to enhance understanding of its importance. In FY2015, Kyocera revised this Handbook to match the revised Financial Instruments and Exchange Act put in to effect in April 2014 and distributed it to all employees. Using this Handbook, employees are continuously instructed about inappropriate trading practices including education on prevention of insider trading to new employees and newly promoted employees and advising of the no stock trading period at morning meetings. Measures for Exclusion of Antisocial Groups The Kyocera Group established a basic policy for corporate governance and internal control including the prevention of involvement in management activities by antisocial groups and the prevention of damage by such groups. The basis of the measures for exclusion of antisocial groups is that “the entire company is united in confronting antisocial groups with determination.” The Kyocera Group CSR Guidelines clearly specify how to handle antisocial groups to notify all employees of the company’s policies. The basic trading contract Kyocera uses for transactions with customers was revised in FY2014, and the contract now includes terms on exclusion of antisocial groups. More efforts will be made in the entire supply chain to redouble exclusion of antisocial groups. Establishment of Employee Consultation Hot-Line Center (Internal Reporting System) Kyocera Group employees can consult the Employee Consultation Hot-Line Center on diverse issues. Employees can seek advice and consult on diverse matters of doubt, and report actions that are or may be in violation of laws and internal regulations relating to human rights, labor, safety and health, environment, fair business practices, etc. Measures for protection of individual privacy are clarified, and employees can consult the Hot-Line Center directly by telephone, email or other means. Details of the consultation are investigated and ascertained in cooperation with the relevant divisions. This is followed by corrective action and preventive measures against recurrence. At Kyocera, consultations were undertaken on 14 matters in FY2015, and steps toward resolution were taken in each case. Legal Audit System The Kyocera Group conducts legal audits to check the status of legal compliance of the Kyocera Group as part of the reinforced effort to ensure legal compliance. In FY2015, a new audit system was established and operated with a focus on the operational process. In FY2016, new audits based on Kyocera’s audit system will be made at all Japan-based Group companies. 101 Fair Business Activities Supply Chain Management Policy and Systems Related to Purchasing Activities The Kyocera Group believes that the mutual prosperity of the entire supply chain will only be realized if all companies involved in the series of business processes including development, production, sales and service work together to meet the demands of society. To this end, the Kyocera Group actively communicates with business partners and focuses on the building of partnerships based on mutual trust. We also ensure thorough compliance with business-related laws such as the Subcontract Act, by regularly implementing in-house education and audits of personnel in charge of materials and business divisions. Basic Policy on Purchasing At the Kyocera Group, we are determined to contribute to value creation and business development through our materials business, diligently conduct work, and coexist with business partners, thereby attempting to be better people and win society’s trust. We established the Basic Policy on Purchasing with this idea as the basis of our purchasing activities. Under this policy, we conduct various surveys on corporate overviews and CSR to evaluate and select our business partners fairly. · Whether the fundamental thinking of the Kyocera Group is understood. · Whether the thinking of the business operator and the management rationale of the prospective supplier are acceptable to Kyocera. · Whether the company aims to improve management ability, technological strength and manufacturing ability; and whether business management is appropriate and stable in terms of scale and finances (e.g.: VA*1 / VE*2 proposal strength). · Whether the company excels in such areas as quality, price, delivery time, service response, etc. (e.g.: ISO9000 series or equivalent quality management systems; lead-time reduction activity). · Whether the company is seriously involved in global environmental conservation activity (e.g.: ISO14001 certification). *1Value Analysis *2Value Engineering Holding of Supplier Seminars and Social Gatherings The Kyocera Group regularly holds Supplier Seminars and Supplier Social Gatherings in Japan, China and Korea. Our suppliers are invited to these gatherings to allow them to better understand the management policies and business policies of the Kyocera Group, and to request their continued cooperation. In FY2015, an Excellent Supplier Social Gathering was held in Kyoto, with 149 people from 135 companies in attendance. We honored a total of three suppliers with an excellent supplier award for their quality, price and delivery based on the Award ceremony held at the Excellent dealings of the past one year. Supplier Social Gathering CSR Deployment in the Supply Chain The Kyocera Group promotes CSR activities together with our business partners in order to fulfill our social responsibilities in terms of human rights, labor and environmental conservation. Kyocera revised the Kyocera Supply-Chain CSR Deployment Guidelines to appropriately handle CSR issues that should be addressed by the entire supply chain, including formulation of BCP regarding conflict minerals and swift business restoration and continuation in disaster situations. 102 Specifically, we surveyed human rights, labor, environment, safety and health, fair trade, ethics, quality, safety, business continuity plans (BCP), information security and other items with the help of our business partners. For business partners of the Kyocera Group, and to request their continued cooperation. In FY2015, an Excellent Supplier Social Gathering was held in Kyoto, with 149 people from 135 companies in attendance. We honored a total of three suppliers with an excellent supplier award for their quality, price and delivery based on the Award ceremony held at the Excellent dealings of the past one year. Supplier Social Gathering CSR Deployment in the Supply Chain The Kyocera Group promotes CSR activities together with our business partners in order to fulfill our social responsibilities in terms of human rights, labor and environmental conservation. Kyocera revised the Kyocera Supply-Chain CSR Deployment Guidelines to appropriately handle CSR issues that should be addressed by the entire supply chain, including formulation of BCP regarding conflict minerals and swift business restoration and continuation in disaster situations. Specifically, we surveyed human rights, labor, environment, safety and health, fair trade, ethics, quality, safety, business continuity plans (BCP), information security and other items with the help of our business partners. For business partners whose efforts on some items was found to be insufficient, we requested them to work more proactively on CSR activities. As a result, we found that many business partners showed successful results from their efforts. In FY2016, we will work with business partners outside Japan and business partners of Kyocera Group companies. Supply-Chain BCP Survey Kyocera asks business partners to have their own business continuity plan (BCP) in order to ensure that there is no interruption of important operations in the event of damage by a disaster or an accident, to be able to restart operations as soon as possible even if they are interrupted, and to continue the supply of products and services to customers. In FY2015, we sent a detailed questionnaire sheet about BCP efforts to our business partners who supply important components necessary to realize uninterrupted supply so that they can understand Kyocera’s concept of BCP. At the same time, we asked them to monitor the current condition of their own BCP efforts and promote further efforts. Specifically, the questionnaire sheet asked about important points regarding BCP including the policy, system, action planning, implementation of actions, restoration procedures, and drills and training. 82% of roughly 440 business partners who handle important components (about 1,300) necessary to realize our supply of products and services to customers answered that they currently conduct BCP effort. Kyocera will continue to promote and spread BCP in the Kyocera supply-chain to help our business partners further promote their own BCP activities. Measures to Address Conflict Minerals The Kyocera Group has an established policy regarding conflict minerals, which is: we will not purchase materials or products that use conflict minerals, or their derived metals, which are mined in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and neighboring countries and serve as a source of funds to the armed groups that have caused human rights violations. Under this policy, we take necessary actions to handle this issue. (P18) Special Feature 2 : Response to Conflict Minerals 103 Customer Concerns Approaches to Raising Quality and Customer Satisfaction Levels Efforts to Improve Product Quality Kyocera Quality Policy The Kyocera Group has established the Kyocera Quality Policy to achieve production of quality goods that fully satisfy our customers’ needs. We develop our businesses on the basis of this Quality Policy, and aim to always be an enterprise that is worthy of trust throughout the world. Moreover, to provide a high level of satisfaction to our customers, Kyocera is doing everything possible to ensure observance and correct application of the rules, starting at the planning stages. Kyocera Quality Policy 1. Kyocera places top priority on our environmental management and product safety systems. 2. Kyocera provides products and services to our customers that exceed their expectations by putting them first. 3. Kyocera aims to be a world leader in quality by doing every job right the first time. Quality Management Systems The Kyocera Group holds meetings of the Kyocera CS Improvement Committee with the President serving as its chairman every month to improve the CS index, share quality information to prevent quality problems, and prevent the recurrence of quality-related problems. The company has established quality management systems including ISO9001, and each business unit sets its own quality targets, formulates plans and carries out quality improvements towards their achievement. Kyocera CS Improvement Committee Efforts to Ensure Product Safety Kyocera Product Safety Policy Safety is the utmost priority for all products made or sold by Kyocera. Regardless of form or function, they must not endanger a person’s life or well-being, nor inflict damage on property. From this perspective, Kyocera has set a Product Safety Policy, in addition to its Quality Policy. Kyocera established Product Safety System Guidelines as a concrete code of action at all levels of corporate activity. Additionally, the Guidelines for Product Safety Labeling serve as supplementary guidelines for understanding international standards relating to safety labels. Kyocera Product Safety Policy 1. Kyocera is fully acquainted with the latest information related to product liability and product safety. 2. Kyocera maintains an industry-leading standard of product safety. 3. Kyocera systematically practices product safety in accordance with manuals. Responses to Accidents Involving Products We have established systems that allow the CS Division and Risk Management Division to gather information and implement countermeasures if a serious product accident occurs. We also notify the competent authority of such 104 accidents and disclose information on our Web site. Kyocera Product Safety Policy 1. Kyocera is fully acquainted with the latest information related to product liability and product safety. 2. Kyocera maintains an industry-leading standard of product safety. 3. Kyocera systematically practices product safety in accordance with manuals. Responses to Accidents Involving Products We have established systems that allow the CS Division and Risk Management Division to gather information and implement countermeasures if a serious product accident occurs. We also notify the competent authority of such accidents and disclose information on our Web site. Approaches to Raising Customer Satisfaction Levels Action by the Customer Support Center The Kyocera Group operates a Customer Support Center (call center) to handle mainly matters concerning products for general consumers. By responding earnestly, correctly and promptly to customer inquiries, consultations, complaints and other issues, the Kyocera Group aims to raise the level of customer satisfaction. Valuable information and inquiries received from our customers are promptly reported to top management and shared among the relevant business segments. The information received is used to improve the quality of our products and services. In FY2015, Kyocera received 57,948 inquiries, about 4,000 more than in FY2014, mainly because of an increase in the number of questions on smartphone operation and kitchen tools including ceramic knives. Safeguarding Customer Personal Information In the Kyocera Group, the personal information of customers is as a rule obtained directly from customers, upon agreement with the customers, and only after clarification of the purpose for which it would be used is provided. Personal information stored by the Kyocera Group is handled appropriately in accordance with strict controls based on the Electronic Information Security Management Policy and associated regulations. Efforts of Universal Design Kyocera Document Solutions Inc. incorporates the concept of User Centered Design in its development process. Under this concept, users are always at the center of the life cycle of products such as printers and multifunctional products (MFPs), covering planning, design, production and sale; and products are designed based on information gathered from users and a good understanding of what they want. Wheelchair usability evaluation Particularly in the design stage, it is important to understand customers’ needs and repeat the production and evaluation of prototypes. This is how the company realizes the supply of easy-to-use products and user-friendly services. Engineers and designers whose job is to develop products actually visit workplaces where people with disabilities work, as well as place themselves in wheelchairs or wear special kits in order to recreate the physical experience of elderly people so that they can better understand the needs of diverse people. What they learn is then incorporated into the verification and development of products. One Apporch Commercialization of “miraie” smartphone for children 105 In Japan, Kyocera launched the “miraie,” a smartphone for children with a camera-equipped crime prevention buzzer realizes the supply of easy-to-use products and user-friendly services. Engineers and designers whose job is to develop products actually visit workplaces where people with disabilities work, as well as place themselves in wheelchairs or wear special kits in order to recreate the physical experience of elderly people so that they can better understand the needs of diverse people. What they learn is then incorporated into the verification and development of products. One Apporch Commercialization of “miraie” smartphone for children In Japan, Kyocera launched the “miraie,” a smartphone for children with a camera-equipped crime prevention buzzer in January 2015. This smartphone also features functions matching the age level of the child user, such as control functions for parents enabling detailed settings including use of an application to monitor children’s usage time. Moreover, this product satisfies the requests of parents who wanted us to develop a smartphone capable of checking on the safety of their children in case of an emergency. Smartphone for children “miraie” We are actively engaged in development of user-friendly products capable of meeting varying customer needs. Crime prevention buzzer using a wide key (left) and examples of location information and photographic information sent to the parent (center and right) Kyocera Received the Japan Cemented Carbide Tool Manufacturers’ Association Award 2014 for Distinguished Technical Development and Environment Activity Kyocera received the Distinguished Technical Development Award and Environment Activity Award of the FY2015 Japan Cemented Carbide Tool Manufacturers’ Association Award from the Japan Cemented Carbide Tool Manufacturers’ Association (currently Japan Cutting & Wear-resistant Tool Association) in January 2015. This award was created in 1978 to acknowledge excellent new technical developments and environmental activities that support the growth of the industry and raise awareness. Two types of milling machines used in metal processing, (MFH and MRW) as shown below, received the Distinguished Technical Development Award; and Radius cutter MRW the energy-saving activities of the machine tool production site in the Sendai Plant, Kagoshima Prefecture (Japan) received the Environmental Activity Award. Kyocera received the Distinguished Technical Development Award for the seventh consecutive year. Name Description Reason High-efficiency and high-feed cutter The MRW was realized through innovative technology which Distinguished Development of MFH allows high-efficiency and stable machining, contributing to many Technical user benefits including improved productivity, reduction in the Development High-efficiency multi-corner number of tools and non-operating hours, and reduction in Award radius cutter 106 environmental loads. Development of MRW the growth of the industry and raise awareness. Two types of milling machines used in metal processing, (MFH and MRW) as shown below, received the Distinguished Technical Development Award; and Radius cutter MRW the energy-saving activities of the machine tool production site in the Sendai Plant, Kagoshima Prefecture (Japan) received the Environmental Activity Award. Kyocera received the Distinguished Technical Development Award for the seventh consecutive year. Name Description Reason High-efficiency and high-feed cutter The MRW was realized through innovative technology which Distinguished Development of MFH allows high-efficiency and stable machining, contributing to many Technical user benefits including improved productivity, reduction in the Development High-efficiency multi-corner number of tools and non-operating hours, and reduction in Award radius cutter environmental loads. Development of MRW Use of unit control for compressors (pneumatic compressors) in Energy-saving realized by Environmental the tool production site of the Kagoshima Sendai Plant and introduction of unit control and Activity introduction of an energy measurement and monitoring system monitoring system for Award achieved reduction in power consumption and maintenance compressors costs. Kyocera Received the World Packaging Organisation’s WorldStar Award Kyocera Document Solutions Inc.’s development of a new style shock-gauge, designed to detect shock during product transport, won the Worldstar Award in the Electronic Category at the WorldStar Contest held by the World Packaging Organisation. This is an international event where products or projects related to product packaging awarded by regional packaging contests in various countries gather at one place. Internationally renowned, the awards are given to particularly excellent products selected out of the organizer’s examination of candidates’ environmental compatibility of packaging materials, New style shock-gauge economic efficiency, innovativeness and other factors. The newly developed shock-gauge was awarded for its excellent visibility and use of environmentally friendly water-based ink. Kyocera has received this award nine times in total and for the seventh year in a row. Kyocera’s Fine Ceramic Knife Received the Red Dot Design Award 2014. Kyocera’s LTD Cutlery Series ceramic knife won the Red Dot Design Award 2014 sponsored by the Nordrhein Westfalen Design Center, Germany. Recognized around the world, this design award is given to companies that have developed particularly excellent products selected according to various criteria including aesthetics and innovativeness of designs commercialized in the past Ceramic knife two years. Kyocera’s knife received the award for its curved blade shape, sharp LTD Cutlery Series edge, and ergonomic design. Kyocera Received the Japan Fine Ceramics Association’s Industrial Promotion Award Kyocera received the Industrial Promotion Award of the 2013 Association Award by the Japan Fine Ceramics Association in May 2014. The Association Award, founded to encourage promotion and growth of the fine ceramics industry, annually awards companies, organizations and individuals who have done excellent work in various fields with the Industrial Promotion Award, Distinguished Performance Award, Technical Promotion Award, International Award and Regional Award. Kyocera has contributed to the 107 growth of the food and distribution industries through its continuous exploration of new markets for some 30 years since its start of production of thermal printheads using ceramic Kyocera’s LTD Cutlery Series ceramic knife won the Red Dot Design Award 2014 sponsored by the Nordrhein Westfalen Design Center, Germany. Recognized around the world, this design award is given to companies that have developed particularly excellent products selected according to various criteria including aesthetics and innovativeness of designs commercialized in the past Ceramic knife two years. Kyocera’s knife received the award for its curved blade shape, sharp LTD Cutlery Series edge, and ergonomic design. Kyocera Received the Japan Fine Ceramics Association’s Industrial Promotion Award Kyocera received the Industrial Promotion Award of the 2013 Association Award by the Japan Fine Ceramics Association in May 2014. The Association Award, founded to encourage promotion and growth of the fine ceramics industry, annually awards companies, organizations and individuals who have done excellent work in various fields with the Industrial Promotion Award, Distinguished Performance Award, Technical Promotion Award, International Award and Regional Award. Kyocera has contributed to the growth of the food and distribution industries through its continuous exploration of new markets for some 30 years since its start of production of thermal printheads using ceramic substrates at its Kagoshima Hayato Plant in 1983. The award was received in Award ceremony at the general assembly of the Japan Fine Ceramics Association recognition of such continuous contributions. 108 Social Contribution Activities Supporting Academic Advancement and Research Supporting the Inamori Foundation’s Kyoto Prize The non-profit Inamori Foundation was established in 1984, based upon the belief of Kyocera’s founder Kazuo Inamori, that “a human being has no higher calling than to strive for the greater good of humanity and the world,” and that “the future of humanity can be assured only when there is a balance between scientific development and the enrichment of the human spirit.” The Kyoto Prize, organized by the Foundation, was established in 1985. It celebrates its 31st anniversary in 2015 as an international award that honors people who have made significant contributions in the three categories of Advanced Technology, Basic Sciences, and Arts and Philosophy. Each laureate receives a diploma, Kyoto Prize medal and prize money of 50 million yen per category. Following the Kyoto Prize presentation ceremony each November, events are held to encourage citizen interaction with the laureates, including commemorative lectures for the general public where the laureates present their path of research and world views, academic workshops involving experts in the chosen award fields, and educational programs for students from elementary school to university level. Also, a Kyoto Prize Symposium directed toward local university students and citizens is held in San Diego (U.S.A.). The Kyocera Group is fully aligned with the spirit of the Kyoto Prize and is pleased to support this award. The Kyoto Prize Presentation Ceremony The 2014 Kyoto Prize laureates Kyoto Prize Symposium held in San Diego (U.S.A.) (©Erik Jepsen/UC San Diego) Inamori Frontier Research Center at Kyushu University The Inamori Frontier Research Center was established at Kyushu University (Fukuoka Prefecture, Japan) to undertake research activities contributing to the harmony of minds and technology, and to support the education of young researchers. Kyocera agrees with the goals of the Center, and has supported its operations since 2008 by donating scholarship funds Inamori Foundation Memorial Hall housing the Inamori Frontier Research Center Inamori Academy Building at Kagoshima University In 2008, the Inamori Academy building opened at Kagoshima University (Kagoshima Prefecture, Japan) to offer a course targeting the comprehensive development of human potential. Kyocera supported the construction of the facility. In 2000, Kyocera endowed the Chair of Management Studies in the Faculty of Engineering. In 2005, the Inamori Academy of Management and Technology was founded, which later reorganized and merged into the Inamori Academy in 2008. 109 Inamori Foundation Memorial Hall housing the Inamori Frontier Research Center Inamori Academy Building at Kagoshima University In 2008, the Inamori Academy building opened at Kagoshima University (Kagoshima Prefecture, Japan) to offer a course targeting the comprehensive development of human potential. Kyocera supported the construction of the facility. In 2000, Kyocera endowed the Chair of Management Studies in the Faculty of Engineering. In 2005, the Inamori Academy of Management and Technology was founded, which later reorganized and merged into the Inamori Academy in 2008. Inamori Academy building Support for Research at Four U.S. Universities In gratitude for many years of cooperation from the American electronics industry, and based on a desire to ensure the industry’s continued development, since 1984 Kyocera has offered grants to the engineering departments of Alfred University, Case Western Reserve University, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and the University of Washington. These grants assist the research activities of appointed Kyocera Professors as well as the enrollment of overseas students and researchers at each university. Research exchange meeting by Kyocera Professors Donation of the Kyocera Collection of British Parliamentary Papers In 1998, Kyocera donated to Japan’s National Museum of Ethnology more than 12,000 volumes of documents that had been submitted to the British parliament in the 19th and 20th centuries. The collection was transferred to the Center for Integrated Area Studies (CIAS) at Kyoto University in 2006 and is utilized as a resource for research. Kyocera Collection of British Parliamentary Papers The Kyocera Museum of Fine Ceramics The Kyocera Museum of Fine Ceramics was inaugurated in 1998 in the global headquarters building in Kyoto, followed by a sister museum in the company’s Kagoshima Kokubu Plant, which opened in 2001. Free of charge and open to the public, the museums showcase the evolution and latest technological advances around which Kyocera has grown, and serve to support the future development of fine ceramics. The museum in Kyoto was fully renovated in 110 March 2014, and received more than 23,000 visitors in that year. Kyocera Collection of British Parliamentary Papers The Kyocera Museum of Fine Ceramics The Kyocera Museum of Fine Ceramics was inaugurated in 1998 in the global headquarters building in Kyoto, followed by a sister museum in the company’s Kagoshima Kokubu Plant, which opened in 2001. Free of charge and open to the public, the museums showcase the evolution and latest technological advances around which Kyocera has grown, and serve to support the future development of fine ceramics. The museum in Kyoto was fully renovated in March 2014, and received more than 23,000 visitors in that year. The Kyocera Museum of Fine Ceramics 111 Social Contribution Activities Support for Culture and the Arts The Saito Kinen Festival Matsumoto Following a memorial concert held in 1984 at the initiative of renowned conductor Seiji Ozawa, who studied under the late Hideo Saito, orchestral and operatic performances by internationally acclaimed musicians have been staged every year since 1992. Since 2006, Kyocera has supported these events, which are intended to further the musical arts and inspire budding musicians and youth. In 2015, the event was reorganized as the Seiji Ozawa Matsumoto Festival. Concert conducted by Seiji Ozawa © Michiharu Okubo Kyoto Hanatouro Project Kyocera supports the Kyoto Hanatouro project, in which lights and flowers evoking a rich Japanese atmosphere are used to decorate Kyoto’s prominent streets, temples, shrines and other historical cultural assets. More than two million people enjoyed fantastic night scenery during events held over 20 days in Arashiyama in December 2014 and Higashiyama in March 2015. Arashiyama, Kyoto vividly illuminated (Photo provided by Kyoto Hanatouro Promotion Council) Shiki Theatre Company’s Kokoro no Gekijo Kyocera supports Kokoro no Gekijo (theatre of the heart), planned and managed by the Shiki Theatre Company, which uses the stage to communicate to children such important life lessons as trust, altruism and the value of life. Children across Japan are invited to attend the free performances. Shiki Theatre Company performing Shiki Theatre Company performing “Majorin Who Threw Away Magic” “The Dream of John Manjiro” (Photo by Akihito Abe) (Photo by Akihito Abe) The Kyocera Museum of Art The Kyocera Museum of Art, which is open to the public free of charge, was established in 1998 in Kyocera’s headquarters building (Kyoto, Japan). Many works of art are on permanent display, including Picasso’s copper plate print series 347, 112 paintings, sculptures, and Qianlong glass from China. In 2014, the museum featured an Autumn Special Exhibition of selected free performances. Shiki Theatre Company performing Shiki Theatre Company performing “Majorin Who Threw Away Magic” “The Dream of John Manjiro” (Photo by Akihito Abe) (Photo by Akihito Abe) The Kyocera Museum of Art The Kyocera Museum of Art, which is open to the public free of charge, was established in 1998 in Kyocera’s headquarters building (Kyoto, Japan). Many works of art are on permanent display, including Picasso’s copper plate print series 347, paintings, sculptures, and Qianlong glass from China. In 2014, the museum featured an Autumn Special Exhibition of selected works from the National Museum of Modern Art, Kyoto, including original drawings, bound books and posters by Yumeji Takehisa, who exemplifies the Taisho-period Romanticism. The Kyocera Museum of Art The poster from the 2014 Autumn Special Exhibition 113 Social Contribution Activities International Exchange and Collaboration Donations to Schools in Uganda, Tanzania and Nepal To help improve the educational environment in areas lacking electricity, Kyocera has donated solar power generating systems and basic electrical equipment, including lighting, TVs and radios, to schools in Uganda, Tanzania and Nepal since 2009. As a pioneer in solar power, Kyocera can help improve educational standards in developing countries by giving children — our future leaders — classrooms lit by solar electricity. Solar modules installed at a school (Uganda) Schoolchildren watch a television powered by solar energy(Uganda) Solar modules installed at a school (Nepal) Solar modules installed at a school (Tanzania) Supporting “TOMODACHI Initiative” The TOMODACHI Initiative was established based on the spirit of friendship between Japan and the United States that deepened as a result of Operation Tomodachi, an emergency rescue effort conducted by U.S. Armed Forces in the wake of the Great East Japan Earthquake. This Initiative implements cultural exchange and activities geared to develop the next generation of leaders in Japan and the United States. In alliance with the Initiative’s goals, Kyocera has, together with Japan Airlines, supported programs designed to nurture the growth of children in Japan’s affected regions since 2013. Middle school students from Fukushima Prefecture receive a warm welcome at Kyocera headquarters in San Diego (U.S.A.) The Inamori-Kyocera Western Development Scholarship In 2001, Kyocera and its founder, Kazuo Inamori, set up the Inamori-Kyocera Western Development Scholarship Fund to assist economically disadvantaged university students in China’s western provinces who show both outstanding 114 academic achievement and high moral character. The fund fosters individuals who will aid regional development through science and technology. Scholarship funds are regions since 2013. Middle school students from Fukushima Prefecture receive a warm welcome at Kyocera headquarters in San Diego (U.S.A.) The Inamori-Kyocera Western Development Scholarship In 2001, Kyocera and its founder, Kazuo Inamori, set up the Inamori-Kyocera Western Development Scholarship Fund to assist economically disadvantaged university students in China’s western provinces who show both outstanding academic achievement and high moral character. The fund fosters individuals who will aid regional development through science and technology. Scholarship funds are granted at 12 universities each year, with a total of 3,879 student beneficiaries as of March 2015. Scholarship recipients Providing Scholarships to Japanese Language Students Since 1983, Kyocera International Inc. in the United States has provided Kyocera Japanese Scholarships and Best Student Awards to students at San Diego State University. These annual partial scholarships and awards recognize outstanding students of Japanese language and encourage cross-cultural studies. President of Kyocera International, Inc. (right) presents a student (left) with the Kyocera Japanese Scholarship Cultural Exchange Tours Enable Chinese Children to Visit Japan Since 1997, Kyocera has invited children from China to visit Japan, with the hope that providing firsthand experience of different cultures to children will facilitate future bonds of friendship between the two countries. A total of 424 children have taken part in the program so far. The summer of 2014 marked the 15th anniversary of this tour, with 30 children visiting Japan from Dongguan, Guangdong Province to travel around Tokyo, Yamanashi, Kyoto and Kagoshima. Chinese children visit a middle school Chinese children playing Kendama with in Japan middle school students in Japan Support for Overseas Study Since 2013, the Japanese Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology has implemented “TOBITATE! NEXT JAPAN” — a public-private overseas study program aimed at nurturing human resources with a global perspective who can succeed in the modern world. Kyocera supports this program in the hope that motivated and capable young people will grow into adults who 115 contribute to society. have taken part in the program so far. The summer of 2014 marked the 15th anniversary of this tour, with 30 children visiting Japan from Dongguan, Guangdong Province to travel around Tokyo, Yamanashi, Kyoto and Kagoshima. Chinese children visit a middle school Chinese children playing Kendama with in Japan middle school students in Japan Support for Overseas Study Since 2013, the Japanese Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology has implemented “TOBITATE! NEXT JAPAN” — a public-private overseas study program aimed at nurturing human resources with a global perspective who can succeed in the modern world. Kyocera supports this program in the hope that motivated and capable young people will grow into adults who contribute to society. “TOBITATE! NEXT JAPAN” send-off party 116 Social Contribution Activities Local Community Activities Japan Supporting Kyoto Sanga F.C. Professional Soccer Team In 1994, in response to the high expectations of Kyoto residents calling for a local professional soccer team, Kyocera helped establish Kyoto Purple Sanga (now Kyoto Sanga F.C.), with the belief that it is the responsibility of local companies to help local communities thrive. Kyocera Group companies in Japan work together to support the team. Kyocera also supports the Sanga Cup Kyoto Youth Soccer Championships, as well as a project that helps develop soccer skills in players ages 18 and younger. ©KYOTO.P.S. Pink Ribbon Activities The Kyocera Group supports the Pink Ribbon Movement to promote early detection and diagnosis of breast cancer, and donates part of the profits from its pink ceramic kitchen products to this effort. In the U.S.A., Kyocera has donated part of the profits from its pink-handled ceramic knives to breast cancer research since 2004. Kyocera supports similar activities in Australia, China, France, Italy, Korea and Japan. Ceramic knife series supports the Pink Ribbon Movement Operation of Kagoshima Nanatsujima Solar Science Museum Kyocera, working through the Kagoshima Mega Solar Power Corporation, built and operates the 70-megawatt Kagoshima Nanatsujima Mega Solar Power Plant (the largest of its kind in Japan) and the adjoining Kagoshima Nanatsujima Solar Science Museum where people can explore global environmental issues and learn how solar power generation works. More than 22,000 people have visited the facilities since they opened in November 2013. Kagoshima Nanatsujima Mega Solar Power Students touring the Kagoshima Plant where Kagoshima Nanatsujima Solar Nanatsujima Solar Science Museum In addition to offering stunning views of the Science Museum is located solar power plant and Mt. Sakurajima, the Museum aims to contribute to local revitalization. Christmas Illuminations In December, Kyocera festively illuminates its global headquarters building in Kyoto with LED lighting to enliven the 117 local community. During the holiday season, the headquarters building becomes a huge, 86-meter-high shining fir tree through facilities since they opened in November 2013. Kagoshima Nanatsujima Mega Solar Power Students touring the Kagoshima Plant where Kagoshima Nanatsujima Solar Nanatsujima Solar Science Museum In addition to offering stunning views of the Science Museum is located solar power plant and Mt. Sakurajima, the Museum aims to contribute to local revitalization. Christmas Illuminations In December, Kyocera festively illuminates its global headquarters building in Kyoto with LED lighting to enliven the local community. During the holiday season, the headquarters building becomes a huge, 86-meter-high shining fir tree through the clever arrangement of lighted windows. In 2014, many visitors enjoyed strolling in the headquarters courtyard, which was decorated by approximately 210,000 LED bulbs, providing a festive illumination on winter nights. A giant Christmas tree LED illuminations in the public space in is created through the front of the headquarters building clever arrangement of lighted windows Donation of “Kyocera Libraries” To commemorate its 55th anniversary in 2014, Kyocera donated approximately 50 million yen worth of books —dubbed “Kyocera Libraries” — to 130 local elementary and middle schools in communities where 25 of Kyocera’s main manufacturing plants and business offices are located in Japan. In response to an overall decline in readership, Kyocera hopes that this donation will enhance the development of our next-generation leaders by providing them with more opportunities to enjoy books and discover the importance of reading. Presentation ceremony at an elementary school (Yasu, Shiga Prefecture) Outside Japan Local Beautification Activities Kyocera aims to be an integral part of its local communities, participating in beautification efforts for parks, forests, rivers and areas around the company’s offices and plants worldwide on a regular basis. Kyocera Document Solutions Australia Pty. Ltd. in Australia has participated in the nation’s largest community-based environmental event, “Clean-up Australia Day” since 2011 and conducted cleanups at Lane Cove’s Blackman Park in February 2015. Kyocera continually aims to help beautify its communities. Employees taking part in the “Clean-up Australia Day” Outreach Activities for Local Children and Groups Kyocera Precision Tools Korea Co., Ltd. in South Korea has conducted outreach to disabled children and elderly persons living alone at Christmastime every year since 1999. In 2014, the118 16th year of this activity, 350 employees divided into 26 teams to deliver food and daily necessities donated by employees, and also at Lane Cove’s Blackman Park in February 2015. Kyocera continually aims to help beautify its communities. Employees taking part in the “Clean-up Australia Day” Outreach Activities for Local Children and Groups Kyocera Precision Tools Korea Co., Ltd. in South Korea has conducted outreach to disabled children and elderly persons living alone at Christmastime every year since 1999. In 2014, the 16th year of this activity, 350 employees divided into 26 teams to deliver food and daily necessities donated by employees, and also engaged in other volunteer activities such as house cleaning. Scarves delivered to children in welfare facilities Donation to the Los Angeles County Police Canine Association Kyocera Document Solutions Development America, Inc. in the United States endorses and makes donations to the Los Angeles County Police Canine Association. Stage shows displaying the dogs’ skills and safety education events help local citizens understand the role of police in keeping the community safe, enhance crime prevention awareness, and foster relationships of mutual trust in the community. A child and police dog at an event Demonstrations displaying the dog’s skills Donations to the American Heart Association Kyocera America, Inc. in the United States holds fundraising events for the American Heart Association, an organization dedicated to building healthier lives free from cardiovascular disease and stroke through education and research. In February 2015, Kyocera conducted fundraising activities and in-company sales of homemade desserts — donating proceeds to the Association. Employees contribute by purchasing cake Renovating Schools Kyocera Crystal Device (Thailand) Co., Ltd., together with local communities, joined in renovations such as re-tiling bathroom floors, painting walls and washbasins, and installing drinking fountains at schools in Lamphun Province where the company is located. These efforts greatly improved the sanitary conditions at the schools and evoked messages of joy and gratitude from the children. 119 Employees who took part in school renovations desserts — donating proceeds to the Association. Employees contribute by purchasing cake Renovating Schools Kyocera Crystal Device (Thailand) Co., Ltd., together with local communities, joined in renovations such as re-tiling bathroom floors, painting walls and washbasins, and installing drinking fountains at schools in Lamphun Province where the company is located. These efforts greatly improved the sanitary conditions at the schools and evoked messages of joy and gratitude from the children. Employees who took part in school renovations Supporting Charity Fundraising for Cancer Patients Kyocera Document Solutions Australia Pty. Ltd. in Australia supported both “Daffodil Day” and “Australia’s Biggest Morning Tea” charity fundraisers, which benefit cancer patients and research. Teddy bears, pens and other goods were sold in the office and proceeds were donated to the Cancer Council Australia. Employees participating in the “Daffodil Day” charity event Summer Festivals at Plants and Offices Every year since 1972, Kyocera has held summer festivals at its offices and plants throughout Japan to deepen exchange with the local communities. The Kyocera Group also began holding summer festivals in China in 2009 and Vietnam in 2014. The first summer festival held in Kyocera Document Technology Vietnam Co., Ltd. was a great success with about 1,500 local residents in attendance to enjoy food, games, karaoke and dance performances. The Non La Dance by employees wearing the traditional national dress, Ao Dai (Vietnam) 120 ISO9001 Certification Status Integrated Certification (5 companies) (as of April 2015) Region Company Date of registration KYOCERA Corporation (excluding overseas Telecommunications Equipment business) KYOCERA OPTEC Co., Ltd. Jul. 1992 Japan KYOCERA Document Solutions Inc. (Registration No.: JMI-0036) KYOCERA Chemical Corp. KYOCERA Solar Corp. Individual Certification (41 companies) (as of April 2015) Region Company Date of registration Region Company Date of registration KYOCERA Corporation (overseas KYOCERA America, Inc. Apr. 1994 Oct. 2014 Telecommunications Equipment business) ※ 3 KYOCERA Industrial Ceramics Corporation Apr. 1995 KYOCERA Connector Products Corporation ※ 1 Jul. 2008 KYOCERA Communications Inc. ※ 3 Feb. 2015 KYOCERA Crystal Device Corporation Mar. 1998 KYOCERA Precision Tools, Inc. Aug. 1996 KYOCERA Medical Corporation ※ 2 May 2005 Biddeford Nov. 2004 North America Japan KYOCERA Communication Systems Co., Ltd. Colorado Spring Jul. 2003 Six divisions related to computer systems U.S.A. Conway Jul. 2004 Aug. 1997 and package software AVX Corporation Myrtle Beach ※ 1 Jul. 2005 Two divisions related to mobile base stations Sep. 2004 Olean Dec. 2003 KYOCERA Display Corporation Aug. 2005 Raleigh Jul. 2004 KYOCERA Circuit Solutions,Inc Apr. 1993 AVX Filters Corporation Dec. 2003 Shanghai KYOCERA Electronics Co., Ltd. Dec. 1998 American Technical Huntington Oct. 1997 Dongguan Shilong KYOCERA Co.,Ltd. Feb. 2003 Ceramics Corp. Jacksonville Oct. 1998 KYOCERA Document Technology ( Dongguan) Co.,Ltd. Feb. 1994 KYOCERA Mexicana, S.A. de C.V. Jun. 2005 South and Central America KYOCERA Chemical (Wuxi) Co., Ltd. Apr. 2004 Mexico Avio Excelente, S. de R.L. de C.V. ※ 1 Jan. 2004 Asia KYOCERA (Tianjin) Solar Energy Co., Ltd. Jul. 2004 China El Salvador AVX Industries, Pte. Ltd. ※ 1 Dec. 2003 KYOCERA Display (Zhangjiagang) Co., Ltd. Sep. 2006 Brazil AVX Components da Amazonia Ltda. Jan. 2004 KYOCERA Connector Products Hong Kong Ltd. Mar. 2004 American Technical Ceramics Europe Sweden Jan. 2003 KYOCERA Document Technology Co., Aktiebolag Feb. 1994 （H.K.）Ltd. UK AVX Limited ※ 1 Nov. 2007 AVX Electronics（Tianjin）Co., Ltd. ※ 1 Sep. 2007 France TPC S.A.S ※ 1 Dec. 2007 Europe KYOCERA Connector Products Asia Pte, Ltd. Oct. 2004 Singapore Germany ELCO Europe GmbH ※ 1 May 2007 KYOCERA Chemical Singapore Pte, Ltd. Mar. 2003 Lanskroun Feb. 2006 KYOCERA Connector Products Korea Co., Ltd. Apr. 1998 AVX Czech Republic Korea Czech Oct. 2007 ※ 4 s.r.o. Uherske ※ 1 KYOCERA Precision Tools Korea Co., Ltd. Feb. 2004 Dec. 2007 ※ 5 KYOCERA Crystal Device（Thailand）Co., Thailand Sep. 2003 Ltd. ※ 1 KYOCERA Malaysia Sdn.Bhd. ※3 Nov. 2014 Malaysia TPC Malaysia Sdn.Bhd. Mar. 2004 Philippines KYOCERA Crystal Device Philippines, Inc. ※ 1 Mar. 2004 Israel AVX Israel Ltd. Dec. 2003 ※1 Certification of the quality management standard (ISO/TS-16949) to which automotive special requirements are added based on ISO 9001. ※2 Certification of the quality management standard (ISO 13485) to which medical-related special requirements are added based on ISO 9001. ※3 Certification of the quality management standard (TL 9000) to which telecommunications equipment related special requirements are added based on ISO 9001. ※4 Related to connectors. ※ 5 Related to electronic parts and capacitors. 121 ISO14001 Certification Status Integrated Certification (194 sites) (as of April 2015) Region Company Office / Plant Date of registration Headquarters Hokkaido Kitami Plant Fukushima Tanagura Plant Chiba Sakura Office Tokyo Office Yokohama Office Nagano Okaya Plant Mie Ise Plant Shiga Gamo Plant Shiga Yohkaichi Plant Shiga Yasu Plant Kyoto Fushimi Office R&D Center, Keihanna Osaka Daito Office Kagoshima Sendai Plant Kagoshima Kokubu Plant R&D Center, Kagoshima Kagoshima Hayato Plant Sapporo Sales Office Tohoku Sales Office KYOCERA Corporation Nagaoka Sales Office Takasaki Sales Office Utsunomiya Sales Office Okegawa Sales Office Omiya Sales Office Tachikawa Sales Office Kanto Logistics Center Atsugi Sales Office Kanazawa Sales Office Matsumoto Sales Office Hamamatsu Sales Office Nagoya Sales Office Mikawa Sales Office The Inamori Library Kyocera Keiaikan Osaka Sales Office Himeji Sales Office Okayama Sales Office Hiroshima Sales Office Kyushu Sales Office Okinawa Sales Office CV Ginza Shop CV Kyoto Shop CV Kobe Sannomiya Shop KYOCERA Connector Products Headquarters Okaya Plant Osaka Sales Office Nagoya Sales Office Omiya Sales Office Corporation Tachikawa Sales Office Matsumoto Sales Office KYOCERA OPTEC Co., Ltd. Headquarters Chigase Plant Tokyo Sales Office Kansai Sales Office KYOCERA Document Solutions Inc. Headquarters Hirakata Plant Tamaki Plant Tokyo R&D Center KYOCERA Document Solutions Japan Headquarters Sales Office: 56 locations (Contact Center) Inc. Headquarters Kansai Branch Kyushu Branch Kawasaki Plant Kohriyama Plant KYOCERA Chemical Corporation Moka Plant Oct. 1996 Headquarters Shiga Yasu Plant Kyoto Ayabe Plant Kagoshima Sendai Plant Tokyo Office (Registration Japan KYOCERA Circuit Solutions, Inc. No. Chubu Sales Office EMS635470) Headquarters Nagano Okaya Plant Shiga Yohkaichi Plant Kyoto Sales Office Tokyo Office KYOCERA Crystal Device Corporation Mikawa Sales Office Headquarters Tokyo Sales Office Kobe Plant Shiga Gamo Plant Shiga Yohkaichi Plant Shiga Yasu Plant Research Center Kobe Product Control Center Sapporo Sales Office Tohoku Sales Office KYOCERA Medical Corporation Omiya Sales Office Nagoya Sales Office Kyoto Sales Office Okayama Sales Office Hiroshima Sales Office Kyushu Sales Office Headquarters Tokyo Branch Tokyo 1st Data Center KCCS IT Management Center Tokyo 2nd Data Center Tokyo 3rd Data Center Takanawa Branch Yokohama Branch Omiya Branch Fuchu Branch KYOCERA Communication Systems Shinjuku Branch Kyoto Branch Yasu Branch Shiga Office Kyoto Karasuma Office Co., Ltd. Osaka Office Osaka ICT Branch Fukuoka Office Sendai Office Kokubu Office Sapporo Sales Office Sendai Sales Office Shizuoka Sales Office Nagoya Sales Office Kanazawa Sales Office Hiroshima Sales Office Takamatsu Sales Office Kagoshima Sales Office Headquarters Tokyo Branch Tohoku Sales Office Nagoya Sales Office Osaka Sales Office KYOCERA Solar Corporation Okayama Sales Office Hiroshima Sales Office Kyushu Sales Office Sakura Office Shiga Yohkaichi Office Kagoshima Sales Office Headquarters Tokyo Sales Office Nagoya Sales Office Mikawa Sales Office Shiga Yasu Plant KYOCERA Display Corporation Kagoshima Hayato Plant ※ The above 194 offices and plants are jointly ISO 14001 certified under the Kyocera Group Integrated Environment & Safety Management System. Individual Certification (106 sites) (as of April 2015) Region Company Office / Plant Date of registration Region Company Office / Plant Date of registration AVX Tantalum Asia Corp. ― Sep. 2001 Gurgaon Jun. 2011 KYOCERA Display Corporation HIroshima Plant ― Dec. 2002 Mumbai Jun. 2011 Japan Toyama Nyuzen Gujarat Sep. 2012 Jan. 1997 Plant KYOCERA Circuit Solutions, Inc. Pune Sep. 2012 Niigata Shibata Aug. 2000 Nagpur Sep. 2012 Plant New Delhi Sep. 2012 Shanghai KYOCERA Electronics Co., Ltd. ― Jul. 2000 Lucknow Sep. 2012 Dongguan Shilong KYOCERA Co., Ltd. ― Dec. 2000 KYOCERA Document Solutions India Private Chennai Sep. 2012 Kyocera Document Technology ( Dongguan) Co.,Ltd. ― Oct. 2001 Asia India Limited Bangalore Sep. 2012 KYOCERA Chemical (Wuxi) Co., Ltd. ― Apr. 2001 Emakulam Sep. 2012 KYOCERA Document Technology Co.,（H.K.）Ltd. ― Nov. 2000 Hyderabad Sep. 2012 AVX Electronics（Tianjin）Co., Ltd. ― Feb. 2008 Vizag Sep. 2012 KYOCERA Document Solutions Hong Kong Ltd. ― Oct. 2008 China Kolkata Sep. 2012 KYOCERA Document Solutions Asia Ltd ― Apr. 2012 KYOCERA Document Solutions (China) Corporation ― Dec. 2012 Bhubanmeswar Sep. 2012 KYOCERA (Tianjin) Solar Energy Co., Ltd. ― Aug. 2009 Guhawati Sep. 2012 KYOCERA Connector Products（Dongguan） Ranchi Sep. 2012 ― Dec. 2003 Asia Co., Ltd. Canada KYOCERA Document Solutions Canada, Ltd. ― Jul. 2008 KYOCERA Display (Zhangjiagang) Co. Ltd. ― Mar 2003 KYOCERA America, Inc. ― Aug. 1997 KYOCERA OPTEC（Dongguan）Co., Ltd. ― Dec. 2003 Washington Jun. 1998 North America KYOCERA Document Solutions Taiwan KYOCERA Industrial Ceramics Corporation North Carolina Feb. 1999 ― Jan. 2008 Corporation California Sep. 1997 KYOCERA Chemical Singapore Pte. Ltd. ― Jun. 1999 U.S.A. KYOCERA Communications, Inc. ― Aug. 2000 Singapore KYOCERA Document Solutions Singapore ― Feb. 2008 KYOCERA Precision Tools, Inc. ― Nov. 2005 Pte. Ltd. KYOCERA Connector Products Korea Co., Ltd. ― Spt.1999 Conway Feb. 2008 Korea AVX Corporation KYOCERA Document Solutions Korea Co., Ltd. ― Feb. 2010 Myrtle Beach Feb. 2008 KYOCERA Crystal Device（Thailand）Co., Ltd. ― Dec. 1999 KYOCERA Document Solutions（Thailand） Thailand ― Aug. 2006 Corp., Ltd. KYOCERA Display (Thailand) Co., Ltd. ― Jan. 2005 Philippines KYOCERA Crystal Device Philippines, Inc. ― Jun. 2006 TPC Malaysia Sdn. Bhd. ― Feb. 2008 Malaysia KYOCERA Telecom Equipment（Malaysia）Sdn. Bhd. ― May. 1998 Vietnam KYOCERA Document Technology Vietnam Co., Ltd. ― Apr. 2013 122 Region Company Office / Plant Date of registration Region Company Office / Plant Date of registration American Technical Ceramics Corp. ― Feb. 2008 KYOCERA Document Solutions Austria Austria ― Apr. 2008 GmbH AVX Greenville, LLC. ― Mar. 2010 Belgium KYOCERA Document Solutions Belgium N.V. ― Apr. 2008 Fairfield Mar. 2007 Lanskroun Feb. 2000 Irvine Mar. 2007 Czech AVX Czech Republic s.r.o. Uherske Feb. 2008 Norcross Mar. 2007 KYOCERA Document Solutions Danmark A/S ― Apr. 2008 Wood Dale Mar. 2007 North America KYOCERA Document Solutions America, Inc. KYOCERA UNIMERCO A/S ― Mar. 1996 Irving Mar. 2007 Denmark U.S.A. KYOCERA UNIMERCO Fastening A/S ― Mar. 1996 Miami Mar. 2007 KYOCERA UNIMERCO Tooling A/S ― Mar. 1996 Arlington Mar. 2007 Finland KYOCERA Document Solutions Finland OY ― Apr. 2008 Memphis Mar. 2007 Norway KYOCERA Document Solutions Norge NUF ― Apr. 2008 AVX Tantalum Corporation ― Feb. 2008 Kista Apr. 2008 KYOCERA Document Solutions Development Sweden KYOCERA Document Solutions Nordic AB ― Jun. 2008 America, Inc. Malmo Apr. 2008 KYOCERA International, Inc. ― Aug. 1997 TPC S.A.S. ― Feb. 2008 France KYOCERA Solar, Inc. ― Jul. 2010 KYOCERA Document Solutions France S.A.S ― Apr. 2008 Europe KYOCERA Mexicana, S.A. de C.V. ― Dec. 1998 ELCO Europe GmbH ― Feb. 2008 Central and South America AVIO Excelente, S. de R.L. de C.V. ― Feb. 2008 KYOCERA Document Solutions Deutschland Mexico Germany ― Apr. 2008 GmbH KYOCERA Document Solutions Mexico, S.A. ― Nov. 2008 de C.V. KYOCERA Display Europe GmbH ― Jul. 2004 El Salvador AVX Industries Pte. Ltd. ― Feb. 2008 Italy KYOCERA Document Solutions Italia S.p.A. ― Apr. 2008 KYOCERA do Brasil Componentes Industriais Ltda. ― Apr. 2007 KYOCERA Document Solutions Nederland B.V. ― Apr. 2008 Brazil KYOCERA Document Solutions Brazil, Ltda. ― Nov. 2009 Netherlands Hoeksteen Mar. 2007 KYOCERA Document Solutions Europe B.V. South KYOCERA Document Solutions South Africa Zurich Apr. 2008 Africa Africa （Pty）Ltd. ― Apr. 2008 Lisboa Apr. 2008 Portugal KYOCERA Document Solutions Portugal Lda. Porto Apr. 2008 Madrid Apr. 2008 Spain KYOCERA Document Solutions Espana S.A. Barcelona Apr. 2008 Berkshire Apr. 2008 KYOCERA Document Solutions（U.K.）Ltd. U.K. Milton keynes Apr. 2008 AVX Limited ― Aug. 2000 Russia KYOCERA Document Solutions Russia L.L.C ― Apr. 2014 New Oceania KYOCERA Document Solutions New Zealand Ltd. ― Oct. 2007 Zealand Australia KYOCERA Document Solutions Australia Pty. Ltd. ― Jun. 2006 123 OHSAS 18001 Certification Status Integrated Certification (128 sites) （as of April 2015） Region Company Date of registration Headquarters Hokkaido Kitami Plant Fukushima Tanagura Plant Chiba Sakura Office Tokyo Office Yokohama Office Nagano Okaya Plant Mie Ise Plant Shiga Gamo Plant Shiga Yohkaichi Plant Shiga Yasu Plant Kyoto Fushimi Office R&D Center, Keihanna Osaka Daito Office Kagoshima Sendai Plant Kagoshima Kokubu Plant R&D Center, Kagoshima Kagoshima Hayato Plant Sapporo Sales Office Tohoku Sales Office KYOCERA Corporation Nagaoka Sales Office Takasaki Sales Office Utsunomiya Sales Office Okegawa Sales Office Omiya Sales Office Tachikawa Sales Office Kanto Logistics Center Atsugi Sales Office Kanazawa Sales Office Matsumoto Sales Office Hamamatsu Sales Office Nagoya Sales Office Mikawa Sales Office The Inamori Library Kyocera Keiaikan Osaka Sales Office Himeji Sales Office Okayama Sales Office Hiroshima Sales Office Kyushu Sales Office Okinawa Sales Office CV Ginza Shop CV Kyoto Shop CV Kobe Sannomiya Shop KYOCERA Connector Products Headquarters Okaya Plant Osaka Sales Office Nagoya Sales Office Omiya Sales Office Corporation Tachikawa Sales Office Matsumoto Sales Office KYOCERA OPTEC Co., Ltd. Headquarters Chigase Plant Tokyo Sales Office Kansai Sales Office KYOCERA Document Solutions Headquarters Hirakata Plant Tamaki Plant Tokyo R&D Center Inc. KYOCERA Document Solutions Headquarters Japan Inc. Headquarters Kansai Branch Kyushu Branch Kawasaki Plant Kohriyama Plant Oct. 2005 KYOCERA Chemical Corporation (Registration Japan Moka Plant No. Headquarters Shiga Yasu Plant Kyoto Ayabe Plant Kagoshima Sendai Plant HIgashi Nihon Sales Office :OHS635471) KYOCERA Circuit Solutions, Inc. kyushu Sales Office Headquarters Nagano Okaya Plant Shiga Yohkaichi Plant Kyoto Sales Office Tokyo Office KYOCERA Crystal Device Corporation Nagoya Sales Office Headquarters Tokyo Branch Kobe Plant Shiga Gamo Plant Shiga Yohkaichi Plant KYOCERA Medical Shiga Yasu Plant Research Center Kobe Product Control Center Sapporo Sales Office Tohoku Sales Office Corporation Omiya Sales Office Nagoya Sales Office Kyoto Sales Office Okayama Sales Office Hiroshima Sales Office Kyushu Sales Office Headquarters Tokyo Branch Tokyo 1st Data Center (2 sites) Tokyo 2nd Data Center Tokyo 3rd Data Center Takanawa Branch Shiga Office Kyoto Karasuma Office Osaka Office KYOCERA Communication Osaka ICT Branch Fukuoka Office Sendai Office Kokubu Office Sapporo Sales Office Systems Co., Ltd. Sendai Sales Office Nagoya Sales Office Kanazawa Sales Office Hiroshima Sales Office Takamatsu Sales Office Kagoshima Sales Office Headquarters Tokyo Branch Tohoku Sales Office Nagoya Sales Office Osaka Sales Office KYOCERA Solar Corporation Okayama Sales Office Hiroshima Sales Office Kyushu Sales Office Sakura Office Shiga Yohkaichi Office Kagoshima Sales Office KYOCERA Solar FC Lake Town KYOCERA Solar FC Itami Koya ※ The above 128 offices and plants are jointly ISO 14001 certified under the Kyocera Group Integrated Environment & Safety Management System. Individual Certification (12 sites) (as of April 2015) Region Company Office/Plant Date of registration Shanghai KYOCERA Electronics Co., Ltd. － Nov. 2006 Dongguan Shilong KYOCERA Co., Ltd. － Jan. 2009 Asia China KYOCERA Connector Products（Dongguan）Co., Ltd. － Jan. 2009 KYOCERA Document Technology（Dongguan）Co., Ltd. － Jan. 2009 KYOCERA Precision Tools（Zhuhai）Co., Ltd. － Mar. 2014 KYOCERA America, Inc. － Dec. 2013 North Carolina Nov. 2013 KYOCERA Industrial Ceramics Corporation North U.S.A. Washington Jan. 2014 America KYOCERA Precision Tools, Inc. － Dec. 2013 KYOCERA Communications, Inc. － Nov. 2012 Mexico KYOCERA Mexicana, S.A. de C.V. － Dec. 2013 Central and El Salvador AVX Industries, Pte. Ltd. － Oct. 2011 South America 124 Editorial Policy This CSR report is published to report on the Kyocera Group’s CSR activities in keeping with the concept of ISO26000, International Standard concerning social responsibilities. Information contained in this report is disclosed in consideration of opinions and views received from stakeholders, and the degree of importance placed on the above activities by the Kyocera Group. Reporting Period Information disclosed focuses on content from FY2015 (April 1, 2014 to March 31, 2015 ). Scope of the Report Kyocera Corporation and consolidated subsidiaries In this report, “Kyocera” refers to Kyocera Corporation as a separate entity. The environmental data shown here are for production sites. Whenever the scope differs, it is so specified. Accuracy of Information To ensure the accuracy of disclosed information, the information presented here is disclosed after being cross-checked by multiple divisions, including the division providing the information, the Editorial Section, and the Corporate Communications Division. 125 GRI and ISO26000 Comparison Tables The Kyocera Group strives to report in conformity to international standards and refers to core subjects of Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Version 4 of GRI and ISO26000: 2010. GRI Guideline · The Company's CSR Report conforms to the core items of the GRI G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. General Standard Disclosures Item Indicator References Strategy and Analysis Provide a statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization about the relevance of sustainability to G4-1 Top Management Message the organization and the organization’s strategy for addressing sustainability. Provide a description of key impacts, risks, and Top Management Message G4-2 opportunities. Form 20-F Organizational Profile G4-3 Report the name of the organization. Corporate Summary G4-4 Report the primary brands, products, and services. Business Segments G4-5 Report the location of the organization’s headquarters. Corporate Summary Report the number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries where either the Business Development G4-6 organization has significant operations or that are Global Network specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report. Corporate Summary G4-7 Report the nature of ownership and legal form. Form 20-F Report the markets served (including geographic G4-8 breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers and Corporate Summary beneficiaries). G4-9 Report the scale of the organization. Corporate Summary a. Report the total number of employees by employment contract and gender. b. Report the total number of permanent employees by employment type and gender. c. Report the total workforce by employees and supervised workers and by gender. d. Report the total workforce by region and gender. G4-10 Respect for Human Rights and Diversity e. Report whether a substantial portion of the organization’s work is performed by workers who are legally recognized as selfemployed, or by individuals other than employees or supervised workers, including employees and supervised employees of contractors. f. Report any significant variations in employment numbers. Report the percentage of total employees covered 126by G4-11 Respect for Human Rights and Diversity collective bargaining agreements. workers and by gender. d. Report the total workforce by region and gender. G4-10 Respect for Human Rights and Diversity e. Report whether a substantial portion of the organization’s work is performed by workers who are legally recognized as selfemployed, or by individuals other than employees or supervised workers, including employees and supervised employees of contractors. f. Report any significant variations in employment numbers. Report the percentage of total employees covered by G4-11 Respect for Human Rights and Diversity collective bargaining agreements. Kyocera Group Corporate Social G4-12 Describe the organization’s supply chain. Responsibility (CSR) Supply Chain Management Report any significant changes during the reporting period G4-13 regarding the organization’s size, structure, ownership, or Not applicable its supply chain. Commitments to External Initiatives Corporate Governance Report whether and how the precautionary approach or G4-14 Risk Management and Compliance principle is addressed by the organization. Environmental Risk Management List externally developed economic, environmental and Response to International Standards and G4-15 social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the Initiatives organization subscribes or which it endorses. List memberships of associations and national or Keidanren (Japan Business Federation), JEITA G4-16 international advocacy organizations in which the (Japan Electronics and Information Technology organization: Industries Assocciation) etc Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries a. List all entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents. Kyocera Group Corporate Social G4-17 b. Report whether any entity included in the organization’s Responsibility (CSR) consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents is not covered by the report. a. Explain the process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries. Kyocera Group Corporate Social G4-18 b. Explain how the organization has implemented the Responsibility (CSR) Reporting Principles for Defining Report Content. List all the material Aspects identified in the process for Kyocera Group Corporate Social G4-19 defining report content. Responsibility (CSR) For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary Kyocera Group Corporate Social G4-20 within the organization, as follows. Responsibility (CSR) For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary Kyocera Group Corporate Social G4-21 outside the organization, as follows. Responsibility (CSR) Report the effect of any restatements of information G4-22 provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such Not applicable restatements. Report significant changes from previous reporting periods G4-23 Not applicable in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries. Stakeholder Engagement Provide a list of stakeholder groups engaged by the Kyocera Group Corporate Social G4-24 organization. 127 Responsibility (CSR) Report the basis for identification and selection of Kyocera Group Corporate Social G4-25 stakeholders with whom to engage. Responsibility (CSR) outside the organization, as follows. Responsibility (CSR) Report the effect of any restatements of information G4-22 provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such Not applicable restatements. Report significant changes from previous reporting periods G4-23 Not applicable in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries. Stakeholder Engagement Provide a list of stakeholder groups engaged by the Kyocera Group Corporate Social G4-24 organization. Responsibility (CSR) Report the basis for identification and selection of Kyocera Group Corporate Social G4-25 stakeholders with whom to engage. Responsibility (CSR) Report the organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type Kyocera Group Corporate Social G4-26 and by stakeholder group, and an indication of whether Responsibility (CSR) any of the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process. Report key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and Kyocera Group Corporate Social G4-27 concerns, including through its reporting. Report the Responsibility (CSR) stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and concerns. Report Profile Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) for G4-28 Editorial Policy information provided. G4-29 Date of most recent previous report (if any). June, 2015 G4-30 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial). Annual Provide the contact point for questions regarding the report G4-31 Support / Contact or its contents. GRI Content Index a. Report the ‘in accordance’ option the organization has chosen. b. Report the GRI Content Index for the chosen option (see tables below). G4-32 c. Report the reference to the External Assurance Report, GRI and ISO 26000 Comparison Tables if the report has been externally assured. (GRI recommends the use of external assurance but it is not a requirement to be ‘in accordance’ with the Guidelines.) Assurance a. Report the organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. b. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, report the scope and basis of any external assurance provided. G4-33 Form 20-F c. Report the relationship between the organization and the assurance providers. d. Report whether the highest governance body or senior executives are involved in seeking assurance for the organization’s sustainability report. Governance Report the governance structure of the organization, 128 including committees of the highest governance body. G4-34 Corporate Governance Identify any committees responsible for decision-making the sustainability report, report the scope and basis of any external assurance provided. G4-33 Form 20-F c. Report the relationship between the organization and the assurance providers. d. Report whether the highest governance body or senior executives are involved in seeking assurance for the organization’s sustainability report. Governance Report the governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest governance body. G4-34 Corporate Governance Identify any committees responsible for decision-making on economic, environmental and social impacts. Ethics and Integrity Describe the organization’s values, principles, standards Corporate Governance G4-56 and norms of behavior such as codes of conduct and Risk Management and Compliance codes of ethics. Environmental Risk Management Specific Standard Disclosures ( : Selected as material issues for Kyocera Group) Item Indicator References Economic Economic Performance G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Form 20-F Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for G4-EC2 Form 20-F the organization’s activities due to climate change Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan G4-EC3 Form 20-F obligations G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from government Form 20-F Market Presence Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to G4-EC5 local minimum wage at significant locations of operation Proportion of senior management hired from the local G4-EC6 community at significant locations of operation Indirect Economic Impacts Development and impact of infrastructure investments and G4-EC7 Social Contribution Activities services supported Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent G4-EC8 Environmental Accounting of impacts Procurement Practices Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant G4-EC9 locations of operation Environmental Materials G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume Percentage of materials used that are recycled input G4-EN2 Environmentally Friendly Products materials Energy Energy Conservation and Prevention of G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization 129 Climate Change Energy Conservation and Prevention of G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside of the organization Environmental Materials G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume Percentage of materials used that are recycled input G4-EN2 Environmentally Friendly Products materials Energy Energy Conservation and Prevention of G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization Climate Change Energy Conservation and Prevention of G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside of the organization Climate Change Energy Conservation and Prevention of G4-EN5 Energy intensity Climate Change Energy Conservation and Prevention of G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption Climate Change Reductions in energy requirements of products and G4-EN7 Environmentally Friendly Products services Water G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source G4-EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water G4Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused Effective Use of Water Resources EN10 Biodiversity Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent G4Activities Related to the Conservation of to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value EN11 Biodiversity outside protected areas Description of significant impacts of activities, products, G4Activities Related to the Conservation of and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas EN12 Biodiversity of high biodiversity value outside protected areas G4Activities Related to the Conservation of Habitats protected or restored EN13 Biodiversity Total number of IUCN Red List species and national G4conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by EN14 operations, by level of extinction risk Emissions G4Energy Conservation and Prevention of Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) EN15 Climate Change G4Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope Energy Conservation and Prevention of EN16 2) Climate Change G4Energy Conservation and Prevention of Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) EN17 Climate Change G4Energy Conservation and Prevention of Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity EN18 Climate Change G4Energy Conservation and Prevention of Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions EN19 Climate Change G4Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) Complete elimination EN20 G4Energy Conservation and Prevention of NOX, SOX, and other significant air emissions EN21 Climate Change 130 Effluents and Waste G4G4Energy Conservation and Prevention of Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity EN18 Climate Change G4Energy Conservation and Prevention of Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions EN19 Climate Change G4Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) Complete elimination EN20 G4Energy Conservation and Prevention of NOX, SOX, and other significant air emissions EN21 Climate Change Effluents and Waste G4Total water discharge by quality and destination Effective Use of Water Resources EN22 G4Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Waste Reduction and Recycling Measures EN23 G4Total number and volume of significant spills Environmental Risk Management EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste G4deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel EN25 Convention2 Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of G4water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by EN26 the organization’s discharges of water and runoff Products and Services G4Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of Green Products: Environmentally Friendly EN27 products and services Products G4Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials Green Products: Environmentally Friendly EN28 that are reclaimed by category Products Compliance Monetary value of significant fines and total number of G4non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with Environmental Risk Management EN29 environmental laws and regulations Transport Significant environmental impacts of transporting products G4Energy Conservation and Prevention of and other goods and materials for the organization’s EN30 Climate Change operations, and transporting members of the workforce Overall G4Total environmental protection expenditures and Environmental Accounting EN31 investments by type Supplier Environmental Assessment G4Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using Supply Chain Management EN32 environmental criteria Promotion of Green Procurement G4Significant actual and potential negative environmental Supply Chain Management EN33 impacts in the supply chain and actions taken Promotion of Green Procurement Environmental Grievance Mechanisms Number of grievances about environmental impacts filed, Thorough Legal Compliance G4addressed, and resolved through formal grievance Approaches to Raising Customer EN34 mechanisms Satisfaction Levels Social Labor Practices and Decent Work 131 Employment Total number and rates of new employee hires and EN33 impacts in the supply chain and actions taken Promotion of Green Procurement Environmental Grievance Mechanisms Number of grievances about environmental impacts filed, Thorough Legal Compliance G4addressed, and resolved through formal grievance Approaches to Raising Customer EN34 mechanisms Satisfaction Levels Social Labor Practices and Decent Work Employment Total number and rates of new employee hires and G4-LA1 Careers employee turnover by age group, gender, and region Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not G4-LA2 provided to temporary or part-time employees, by significant locations of operation Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by G4-LA3 gender Labor/Management Relations Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, G4-LA4 including whether these are specified in collective agreements Occupational Health and Safety Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint Approaches to Stimulating management — worker health and safety committees that G4-LA5 Communication(Approach to Laborhelp monitor and advise on occupational health and safety Management Relations) programs Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, G4-LA6 lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of workrelated fatalities, by region and by gender Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases Approaches to Occupational Safety and G4-LA7 related to their occupation Health / Fire and Disaster Prevention Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements G4-LA8 Approaches to Promotion of Health with trade unions Training and Education Average hours of training per year per employee by Advancing Kyocera Philosophy Education G4-LA9 gender, and by employee category Cultivation of Human Resources Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that G4-LA10 support the continued employability of employees and Advancing Kyocera Philosophy Education assist them in managing career endings Percentage of employees receiving regular performance Advancing Kyocera Philosophy Education G4-LA11 and career development reviews, by gender and by Cultivation of Human Resources employee category Diversity and Equal Opportunity Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, G4-LA12 Respect for Diversity / Work-Life Balance age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity Equal Remuneration for Women and Men Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men No discrimination with regard to male and G4-LA13 by employee category, by significant locations of operation female compensation within the same category Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices 132 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using G4-LA14 Supply Chain Management labor practices criteria G4-LA12 Respect for Diversity / Work-Life Balance age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity Equal Remuneration for Women and Men Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men No discrimination with regard to male and G4-LA13 by employee category, by significant locations of operation female compensation within the same category Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using G4-LA14 Supply Chain Management labor practices criteria Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor G4-LA15 Supply Chain Management practices in the supply chain and actions taken Labor Practices Grievance Mechanisms Number of grievances about labor practices filed, Thorough Legal Compliance G4-LA16 addressed, and resolved through formal grievance Approaches to Raising Customer mechanisms Satisfaction Levels Human Rights Investment Total number and percentage of significant investment G4-HR1 agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening Total hours of employee training on human rights policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are Respect for Human Rights and Diversity G4-HR2 relevant to operations, including the percentage of Supply Chain Management employees trained Non-discrimination Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective G4-HR3 actions taken Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining Respect for Human Rights G4-HR4 may be violated or at significant risk, and measures taken CSR Deployment in the Supply Chain to support these rights Child Labor Operations and suppliers identified as having significant Respect for Human Rights G4-HR5 risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to CSR Deployment in the Supply Chain contribute to the effective abolition of child labor Forced or Compulsory Labor Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and Respect for Human Rights G4-HR6 measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of CSR Deployment in the Supply Chain forced or compulsory labor Security Practices Percentage of security personnel trained in the G4-HR7 organization’s human rights policies or procedures that are relevant to operations Indigenous Rights Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of G4-HR8 indigenous peoples and actions taken Assessment Total number and percentage of operations that133 have been Advancing Kyocera Philosophy Education G4-HR9 subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments Cultivation of Human Resources Supplier Human Rights Assessment Percentage of security personnel trained in the G4-HR7 organization’s human rights policies or procedures that are relevant to operations Indigenous Rights Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of G4-HR8 indigenous peoples and actions taken Assessment Total number and percentage of operations that have been Advancing Kyocera Philosophy Education G4-HR9 subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments Cultivation of Human Resources Supplier Human Rights Assessment G4Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using HR10 human rights criteria G4Significant actual and potential negative human rights Supply Chain Management HR11 impacts in the supply chain and actions taken Human Rights Grievance Mechanisms Number of grievances about human rights impacts filed, Thorough Legal Compliance G4addressed, and resolved through formal grievance Approaches to Raising Customer HR12 mechanisms Satisfaction Levels Society Communities Percentage of operations with implemented local Green Communication G4-SO1 community engagement, impact assessments, and Social Contribution Activities development programs Operations with significant actual or potential negative G4-SO2 Environmental Risk Management impacts on local communities Anti-corruption Total number and percentage of operations assessed for Internal Control Audits of the Kyocera Group G4-SO3 risks related to corruption and the significant risks Thorough Legal Compliance identified Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and G4-SO4 Thorough Legal Compliance procedures G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken Public Policy Total value of political contributions by country and Thorough Legal Compliance(Legal Audit G4-SO6 recipient/beneficiary System) Anti-competitive Behavior Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, G4-SO7 Not applicable anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes Compliance Monetary value of significant fines and total number of G4-SO8 non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and Not applicable regulations Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using G4-SO9 Supply Chain Management criteria for impacts on society G4Significant actual and potential negative impacts on society Supply Chain Management SO10 in the supply chain and actions taken Grievance Mechanisms for Impacts on Society 134 Number of grievances about impacts on society filed, Thorough Legal Compliance G4addressed, and resolved through formal grievance Approaches to Raising Customer Monetary value of significant fines and total number of G4-SO8 non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and Not applicable regulations Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using G4-SO9 Supply Chain Management criteria for impacts on society G4Significant actual and potential negative impacts on society Supply Chain Management SO10 in the supply chain and actions taken Grievance Mechanisms for Impacts on Society Number of grievances about impacts on society filed, Thorough Legal Compliance G4addressed, and resolved through formal grievance Approaches to Raising Customer SO11 mechanisms Satisfaction Levels Product Responsibility Customer Health and Safety Percentage of significant product and service categories G4-PR1 for which health and safety impacts are assessed for Efforts to Ensure Product Safety improv ement Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health and G4-PR2 safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes Product and Service Labeling Type of product and service information required by the organization’s procedures for product and service G4-PR3 information and labeling, and percentage of significant Thorough Legal Compliance product and service categories subject to such information requirements Total number of incidents of non-compliance with G4-PR4 regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction Marketing Communications G4-PR6 Sale of banned or disputed products Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing G4-PR7 communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes Customer Privacy Total number of substantiated complaints regarding G4-PR8 Not applicable breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data Compliance Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with G4-PR9 laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of Information products and services 135 The Kyocera Group strives to report in conformity to international standards and refers to core subjects of Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Version 4 of GRI and ISO26000: 2010. ISO26000 ISO26000 Core Subjects Issues References Top Management Message Organizational Kyocera Group Corporate Social Responsibility Governance (CSR) Corporate Governance 1. Due diligence 2. Human rights risk situations 3. Avoidance of complicity 4. Resolving grievances 5. Discrimination and vulnerable Respect for Human Rights and Diversity Human Rights groups Risk Management and Compliance 6. Civil and political rights Supply Chain Management 7. Economic, social and cultural rights 8. Fundamental principles and rights at work 1. Employment and employment relationships 2. Conditions of work and social Respect for Human Rights and Diversity protection Labour Practices Cultivation of Human Resources 3. Social dialogue Building a Safe & Secure Work Environment 4. Health and safety at work 5. Human development and training in the workplace 1. Prevention of pollution 2. Sustainable resource use Kyocera Group Environmental Management 3. Climate change mitigation and Green Management The Environment adaptation Green Products 4. Protection of the environment, Green Factories biodiversity and restoration of Green Communication natural habitats 1. Anti-corruption 2. Responsible political involvement Promotion of Green Procurement 3. Fair competition Fair Operating Practices Risk Management and Compliance 4. Promoting social responsibility in Supply Chain Management the value chain 5. Respect for property rights 1. Fair marketing, factual and unbiased information and fair contractual practices 2. Protecting consumers' health and safety Promotion of Green Procurement 3. Sustainable consumption Risk Management and Compliance Consumer Issues 4. Consumer service, support, and Supply Chain Management complaint and dispute resolution Customer Concerns 5. Consumer data protection and privacy 136 6. Access to essential services 7. Education and awareness natural habitats 1. Anti-corruption 2. Responsible political involvement Promotion of Green Procurement 3. Fair competition Fair Operating Practices Risk Management and Compliance 4. Promoting social responsibility in Supply Chain Management the value chain 5. Respect for property rights 1. Fair marketing, factual and unbiased information and fair contractual practices 2. Protecting consumers' health and safety Promotion of Green Procurement 3. Sustainable consumption Risk Management and Compliance Consumer Issues 4. Consumer service, support, and Supply Chain Management complaint and dispute resolution Customer Concerns 5. Consumer data protection and privacy 6. Access to essential services 7. Education and awareness 1. Community involvement 2. Education and culture 3. Employment creation and skills development Community Involvement Green Communication 4. Technology development and and Development Social Contribution Activities access 5. Wealth and income creation 6. Health 7. Social investment 137 Duplication or reproduction of any part of this brochure without approval is prohibited. © 2015 KYOCER A Corporation All rights reserved
