2014 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress February 2014 to February 2015 Page | 1 Statement of Continued Support I am pleased to reaffirm that Steel Technologies LLC supports the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labor rights, environmental responsibility, and anti-corruption. We strive to make the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture, and daily operations of our Company, and to engage in collaborative efforts that advance the broader goals of the United Nations. Steel Technologies LLC will continue its support of public accountability and transparency, and therefore, commits to report on this information to our stakeholders. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our gradual integration of the Global Compact and its principles into the everyday culture and mission of our Company. Sincerely, Michael J. Carroll President & CEO Company Background At Steel Technologies LLC (“Steel Technologies” or the “Company”), we transform flat-rolled steel into products that meet the precise specifications of customers in a dynamic range of industries from automotive parts to agricultural equipment to consumer goods. As a growth-oriented company, we know that our success depends on the success of those we serve. That’s why “safety,” “excellence,” “quality,” and “commitment” are not just industry buzzwords at Steel Technologies— they are how we conduct our daily business. Currently, our robust North American platform employs approximately 1,600 people and produced approximately $2.25 billion in annual sales for the fiscal year 2014. Our Company offers supply chain solutions and logistical advantages unmatched in our industry today. At Steel Technologies, we are not only proud of where we started, but we are extremely excited about building into the future. We look forward to serving our customers for many years to come. Page | 2 Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labor Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Assessment, Policy, and Goals Steel Technologies fosters high ethical values and expects the same of all its employees. The Company’s Code of Business Conduct (“Code”) requires all employees to treat co-workers, customers, and themselves with dignity and respect. The Company relies upon each employee to incorporate these values into their everyday actions while employed by Steel Technologies. Steel Technologies’ international subsidiaries, Steel Technologies de México, S.A. de C.V. (“Steel Tech Mexico”) and STC Steel Technologies Canada LTD. (“Steel Tech Canada”), also implement a form of the Company’s Code, which is intended to preserve the human rights of the Company’s employees located outside the United States. Steel Technologies employs a large labor force, and we highly value each employee’s safety and rights as a laborer. The Company and its subsidiaries are committed to providing a safe and healthy workplace to every employee and ensuring compliance with the labor laws of each and every country in which we operate. It is our belief and policy that conflicts between employees and management can be satisfactorily resolved through honest and frank discussions in an atmosphere of mutual trust, respect, and cooperation. Steel Technologies supports the right of all employees to work in an environment free of discrimination and harassment. Discrimination or harassment on the basis of age, race, color, religion, sex, disability, sexual orientation, gender identity, military status, pregnancy, national origin, genetic information or veteran status is strictly prohibited and is not tolerated in the workplace. In the coming year, Steel Technologies will strive to Page | 3 identify any issues that may exist, constantly improve its existing policies, and improve on the implementation of policies and procedures that even more fully incorporate the Global Compact Principles into our daily operations. Implementation • Our Code specifically endorses that it is our policy to abide by the following laws that serve to prevent discrimination: Civil Rights Act of 1964, Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, Vietnam Era Veterans Readjustment Act of 1974, the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, and the Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act of 2008. • The Company has a range of Human Resources policies which reflect Steel Technologies’ proactive stance on human rights, including our Equal Opportunity Employer Policy. • Steel Technologies supports and adheres to the requirements of the Family Medical Leave Act, which provides qualified employees leave opportunities to aid in medical care of themselves or family members. Further, the Company provides eligible employees with leave opportunities beyond those required by law. • The Company provides eligible employees the ability to earn and accrue paid vacation days. • Steel Technologies provides eligible employees with a 401(k) Retirement Savings Plan to help provide financial security for its employees in the future and alleviate the economic encumbrances that may impede retirement. • As part of Steel Technologies’ mission, we will not knowingly or intentionally carry out business with any country, regime, or business in which we aware of human rights abuses. • Pursuant to Steel Technologies’ commitment to avoiding human rights abuses, in 2013 the Company implemented a Conflict Minerals reporting system ensuring that Steel Technologies’ suppliers are in compliance with section 1502 of the DoddFrank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Act”), and reporting this information on to our customers. The purpose of the Act is to ensure that minerals originating in the Democratic Republic of the Congo are not incorporated in any respect into the products we sell. • In 2014, Steel Technologies furthered its commitment to Conflict Mineral reporting by enhancing company-wide processes to further improve internal and external reporting in order to better manage and comply with the Act. • To protect Steel Technologies’ employees, travel policies, protocols and protective measures have been implemented to ensure the safety of our people traveling across the globe. • To aid in adherence to Steel Technologies’ policies, we provide an independent third-party service for employees to anonymously report human and labor rights Page | 4 violations. The Company believes this service encourages “whistleblowers” to come forward without fear of retribution. • To enhance the safety of our employees, Steel Technologies has trained 208 employees to date in First Aid, CPR, and Automated External Defibrillator use, with the goal that at least two (2) of these individuals will be working each shift in each facility. • Steel Tech Canada employs individuals trained in First Aid and safety as required under Canada’s Occupational Health and Safety Act. • All Steel Technologies plants and offices have designated storm shelters for employee safety during extreme weather events. These shelters allow for quick access and significant protection against severe storms. The shelters were designated as storm shelters with employee protection in mind and possess qualities to withstand severe weather. In addition, Steel Technologies provides weather radios at all facilities which monitor severe weather and provide any necessary severe weather updates. • In addition to Steel Technologies’ corporate-wide safety committee, each facility has its own safety committee comprised of salaried and hourly employees who discuss safety hazards and analyze safety compliance. • To ensure that appropriate safety measures are followed in our facilities, Steel Technologies uses a system of ongoing internal audits whereby Safety Associates monitor compliance with relevant safety standards during on-site reviews. • In the event a safety issue is raised, Steel Technologies employs a thorough investigative procedure which includes an analysis of the root cause of the issue and identifies corrective and preventive measures that can be taken. This information is then shared electronically and through plant–level presentations throughout the Company to help prevent future incidents in other plants and offices. • Steel Technologies has recently implemented a new safety rewards program. Under this program employees may earn points to be redeemed in a reward catalog by taking proactive measures towards increasing safety such as leading pre-shift safety huddles and reporting safety concerns. • Steel Technologies is in the process of implementing a Contractor Safety Program for all onsite contractors to ensure the highest safety standards are followed. Steel Technologies will require contractors to be properly certified in OSHA safety procedures and maintain the proper environmental permits to maintain environmentally safe work areas. This program will ensure that contractors at our facilities operate in a safe manner and follow all environmental regulations. • Steel Technologies is implementing a Safety Management System which follows the Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series, an internationally recognized safety standard developed by leading trade and international standards bodies to enable organizations to systematically control Occupational Health and Safety risks. Page | 5 This System will compile our safety data to assist with hazard identification, assess risks and help determine how to control these risks, and allow for better occupational safety management at all of our facilities. Every facility within the Steel Technologies network will have access to this data to help compare and contrast safety practices with the goal of achieving best practices company wide. • Steel Technologies is in the process of implementing a behavior-based safety program, which involves a system of trained peer observation in monitoring and correcting safety concerns with feedback. These sessions are then tracked to identify improvement or areas of concern. This program is currently being utilized in one plant and will be implemented throughout all plants by the end of 2015. • Steel Technologies follows an annual training calendar to instruct and review a range of safety topics so employees are more informed and better protected from potential work dangers. • Steel Tech Mexico recently installed environmentally friendly Eco Pickled Surface (“EPS”) equipment that leaves steel scale-free, remarkably clean, and rust resistant with no need for a protective oil coating. EPS technology provides a safer and cleaner workplace for employees because there are no hazardous chemicals or byproducts involved (i.e. hydrochloric acid). Measurement of Outcomes • Steel Technologies and its subsidiaries comply with all applicable laws and regulations that are relevant to human rights and labor. Steel Technologies’ suppliers have certified to the Company that they do not source Conflict Minerals in the materials they supply to us. • Steel Technologies not only abides by all Occupational Safety and Health Administration (“OSHA”) regulations, but the Company goes beyond its legal requirements by implementing additional safety measures, policies, and procedures that provide its employees with as safe of a working environment as reasonably possible. • Steel Technologies operates in the steel and metal work industry which has in the past been male dominated. In recent years, the Company has made efforts to increase its female employee population. We continue to strive towards the creation of a diverse workplace in all of our facilities. • As part of its diversity efforts, Steel Technologies increased its employee diversity in the last year, and continues to strive for racial diversity on a daily basis. • The Company’s OSHA recordable incident rate has been routinely below the industry average provided by the North American Industry Classification System. As of October 31, 2014, the OSHA incident rate has been reduced from 3.34 in 2013 to an incident rate of 2.47 in 2014. Page | 6 Environmental Principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Assessment, Policy, and Goals Steel Technologies understands that operating our facilities has an impact on the environment, and we are focused on minimizing our carbon footprint as much as reasonably possible. The Company has established responsible environmental policies for our operations across North America, and we comply with all environmental laws and regulations set by the countries in which we operate. Steel Technologies supports domestic and international efforts to conserve energy and natural resources while pursuing appropriate economic development. As a part of its commitment to environmentally responsible actions, Steel Tech Mexico has invested in EPS technology as an alternative method for steel pickling. Pickling is a value-added service that has traditionally been performed using caustic acids. EPS technology continuously reuses a mixture of steel grit and water to return a better product without the use of acid, while simultaneously reducing imperfections in the end product, and ultimately the potential for waste. Further, the removed scale and depleted grit can be recycled for other industrial purposes. A further benefit of EPS technology is that it eliminates the need for the disposal of hydrochloric acid. As Steel Technologies expands its operations, our goal is to continue to utilize cleaner and more environmentally friendly techniques, policies, and procedures. Implementation • Steel Technologies employs a scrap metal recycling program in which 100% of our unused scrap metal is melted down and repurposed by raw steel mills. Both Steel Tech Canada and Steel Tech Mexico have scrap metal recycling programs that mirror Steel Technologies’ program in the U.S. • In compliance with applicable law, ten (10) Steel Technologies facilities have Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plans, and eight (8) facilities have Spill Prevention, Control and Countermeasure Plans. • Steel Technologies is in the process of consolidating our headquarters and support offices into an office building which is expected to receive a Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (“LEED”) certification. The LEED certification was developed by the U.S. Green Building Council and is a set of systems for design, Page | 7 construction, maintenance, and operation of green buildings. LEED’s purpose is to help building owners and occupants to be environmentally responsible and utilize resources efficiently. • In addition, by consolidating Steel Technologies’ current headquarters with the two main support offices, Steel Technologies will be producing less waste and allow for the more efficient utilization of resources. • Steel Technologies is in compliance with the European Union regulation “Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH),” which ensures a high level of protection for human health and the environment from harmful chemicals. Steel Technologies consistently reviews the chemicals used in our facilities to determine whether any REACH chemicals are being utilized, and communicates this information to our customers. • All unused computer equipment is either donated to local high schools or is otherwise responsibly recycled. Steel Technologies recycles laptop and computer hardware (excluding hard drives) through a specialized technology recycling company. • Recently we have implemented a Bring Your Own Device policy as part of our mission to reduce the production of electronic device waste within our company. This policy allows Steel Technologies to reduce the number of duplicate company and personal electronic devices and thereby reduces our carbon footprint. • Steel Technologies’ company cell phones are recycled through mobile buyback and recycling programs. • Recently we have implemented motion sensitive lighting in several of our offices as part of our commitment to reduce energy use in our facilities. Steel Technologies also has begun the process of changing over to LED light bulbs in our plants and offices in order to consume less energy and increase the lifespan of the light bulbs we use. All replaced light bulbs are recycled responsibly. • New high efficiency water heaters have replaced older models where applicable, and foam insulation has been installed in our corporate offices to reduce energy consumption. • Steel Technologies is thoughtful in its efforts to reduce waste in acquiring and maintaining furnishings for our various facilities. Furnishings no longer in use by the Company are donated to Habitat for Humanity. • Steel Technologies works to reduce the printing of unnecessary paper copies where possible. Steel Technologies also uses a document recycling company to shred and recycle printed documents that are no longer being used. • In-house cleaning personnel have committed to using environmentally friendly methods of cleaning and pest control in the Company’s corporate offices. • In order to promote nature preservation, The Steel Technologies Foundation has pledged $50,000 over five years to The Parklands of Floyds Fork, a project linking Page | 8 100 miles of nature trails. The Steel Technologies Foundation also has supported the Kentucky Department of Fish & Wildlife to support environmental preservation. • Several of the Company’s facilities implement their own unique recycling programs which include items such as paper, cardboard, batteries, and wood pallets. Measurement of Outcomes • EPS technology reduces the use of hazardous chemicals, decreases the amount of floor space required for operations, and produces steel that requires less oil. • Steel Technologies recycled 121,557 gross tons of scrap steel in 2013, and 131,421 gross tons of scrap steel in 2014. • Steel Tech Canada recycled 5,426 gross tons of scrap steel in 2013, and 6,518 gross tons of scrap steel in 2014. • Steel Tech Mexico recycled 12,955 gross tons of scrap steel in 2013, and 15,310 gross tons of scrap steel in 2014. Anti-Corruption Principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Assessment, Policy, and Goals Steel Technologies is committed to high ethical standards, and we require that all employees understand and abide by these principles. The Company has trained numerous employees on compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”), and we are in the process of retraining employees company-wide. Steel Technologies’ goal for the coming year is our continued strict compliance with all applicable domestic and international anti-corruption laws. Implementation • Steel Technologies’ Code requires compliance with the FCPA, anti-fraud laws, conflicts of interest disclosures, insider trading laws, and whistleblower protection. • The Company annually trains its employees on compliance with Steel Technologies’ Code as well as other legal and ethical requirements. Recently we have updated our FCPA training materials to make the training more user-friendly to our employees. We now provide a web-based training module which contains informative slides and quizzes which test the employees’ retention of the important information. Steel Technologies employees must attain a passing score in order to successfully complete the training. • Steel Technologies is in the process of developing an Import/Export Manual in order to further support its compliance with federal and international law and provide for Page | 9 the safe shipment of Steel Technologies’ product into and out of the United States. Steel Technologies complies with all applicable global tariff programs and the Import/Export Manual will support our compliance efforts even as laws and regulations become more complex and ever-changing. Steel Technologies is developing a corporate statement for this initiative ensuring that employees throughout the Company are informed and aware of the legal obligations of their roles. • Steel Technologies is in the process of implementing a company-wide program to further align itself with the standards of the Customs-Trade Partnership Against Terrorism (C-TPAT). C-TPAT seeks to safeguard global trade from terrorists, while maintaining the economic health of the industry. • Our International Commerce Department periodically checks our shipping records against the U.S. Bureau of Industry and Security’s Denied Party List, which is comprised of individuals and entities that have been denied export privileges. • Steel Technologies encourages employees to report corrupt actions to an independent third party (which may be done anonymously) as described in the Employee Handbook. • Steel Technologies is committed to fully training its employees to prevent acts of corruption, extortion and bribery. Measurement of Outcomes • Steel Technologies and its subsidiaries abide by the laws of each country in which we operate. • The Company fervently cooperates with all requests for information from authorities regarding these matters. • Senior management, officers, and a significant number of employees at Steel Technologies have received training focused solely on the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and anti-corruption measures the Company endorses. The Company is currently in the process of training additional employees, including Steel Technologies employees in Canada and Mexico. Page | 10
