Columbus Corporate Social Responsibility 2014 report Corporate Social Responsibility Content Columbus & CSR ....................................................... 3 Columbus – a “people business” ............................ 4 Code of Conduct ....................................................... 5 Transparency and Credibility............................. 5 Anti-corruption .................................................... 5 Multiplicity and Non-discrimination ................. 5 Diversity ................................................................ 5 Taking Care of Employees .................................. 6 Implementing Code of Conduct ......................... 6 CSR-focus in 2014 ................................................... 7 Employee Development ..................................... 7 Employee Well-being .......................................... 7 Employee Recognition ........................................ 8 Employee Dialog .................................................. 8 Community and charity initiatives........................ 9 Parent company ................................................... 9 Columbus Denmark ............................................. 9 Columbus UK......................................................... 9 Columbus US ......................................................... 9 Columbus Norway ................................................ 9 United Nations Global Compact........................... 11 17.03.2015 Page 2/11 Corporate Social Responsibility Columbus & CSR Columbus constantly strive to create value to customers, employees and shareholders. As a global Columbus is committed to giving back to our consultancy, our most valuable asset is our communities. We operate locally and in close employees, therefore a central part of running a proximity to our customers. We encourage and healthy business is to ensure human and labour support our employees’ desire to use their time and rights in all areas where we operate and to take social talent to charity work. As we share in this report, our responsibility within the communities where we live subsidiaries are all engaged in charity activities in and work. their local communities helping people in need. In 2012, Columbus joined the UN Global Compact. This Being an international consultancy, there are natural CSR report states Columbus’ engagement and differences in business cultures, rules and laws in the compliance with the 10 principles of the UN Global countries, where Columbus operates. To ensure that Compact within the areas of Human Rights, Labour, all subsidiaries operate within the same business Environment and Anti-Corruption. conduct, we have completed Columbus’ Code of Conduct, which prospectively is the ethical guideline Columbus is a people business and our talented for our business operations and at the same time the employees are crucial to our successes. In Columbus, strategic guiding principle for our CSR. our employees are experts within our core fields, and work closely together across country borders sharing Columbus considers the overall achievements in knowledge and expertise in order to grow and keep relation to the company’s corporate social abreast of trends in our industry on a global level. responsibility to be satisfactory. We commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our Columbus has chosen to focus our CSR effort on primary channels of communication. employee well-being and development. We strive to create an environment in which we enjoy working Thomas Honoré together and where our employees are satisfied with CEO & President, Columbus their job and continue to develop themselves professionally. We want our employees to be engaged in building a great company for the benefit of employees, customers and shareholders. 17.03.2015 Page 3/11 Corporate Social Responsibility Columbus – a “people business” Columbus is an international consultancy listed on the stock exchange in Copenhagen. We own Columbus’ mission subsidiaries and have partners all over the world, Columbus maximizes productivity primarily in US, England, Holland (To-Increase), for organizations by implementing Norway, Denmark, Poland, Baltics, Russia and India. leading end-to-end industry On a global level, we are more than 1.000 employees. solutions. Columbus celebrated its 25 anniversary in 2014, and our business is a unique combination of industry Columbus’ vison consultancy expertise and industry specific software. Our best practice services and repeatable industry solutions will Our core business is sale of our consultancy services, change the way organizations sale of our own software and subscriptions and sale implement and use business of support packages, together with sale of Microsoft applications. software and subscriptions. Columbus aspires to be the leading Our industry expertise and our software are targeted global value provider in selected towards companies worldwide within the food, industries. manufacturing and retail industries. We operate across country borders, and a global delivery model is an integrated part of our business. This means, that we can provide services to multinational customers, and that our employees work closely together internationally. 17.03.2015 Page 4/11 Corporate Social Responsibility Code of Conduct Our Code of Conduct is our general ethical guideline Anti-corruption for business conduct to ensure that we in Columbus We will not tolerate corruption, money laundering, on a global level are dedicated to promote ethical bribery or other illegal or unethical business activity. business practices and protect Columbus against Our performance and competitiveness are corruption and other unethical business behavior, strengthened solely through lawful conduct. The which we believe is incompatible with the operation Group’s anti-corruption position has been clearly of a healthy business. communicated to all subsidiaries. Code of Conduct applies to Columbus’ parent Furthermore, we have implemented Columbus company and all subsidiaries. We expect and demand Authorization and Risk Management Rules (CARMR), that all parties acting on behalf of Columbus respect which encompass rules on the authorization our Code of Conduct. hierarchy and ensure the senior management’s involvement in major contracts and investments. Transparency and Credibility In Columbus, we are committed to show complete Multiplicity and Non-discrimination openness towards customers, employees, All employees in Columbus have been carefully shareholders, suppliers and other stakeholders. It is selected on the basis of professional competencies essential that their understanding of our services and without regard to religion, race, skin color, gender, products is accurate, updated and truthful. age, disability or sexual or political orientation. We Therefore, there is no incongruence between what regard multiplicity as a strength and we will not we communicate within the company and what we tolerate discrimination or harassment. do externally. Among other things, we show this by making our Diversity internal newsletters to employees available on our It is essential that all employees experience that public website. Columbus has an open and unprejudiced culture where each individual is able to make the best use of his/her competencies, and that all regardless of gender have the same possibilities for career development and management positions. 17.03.2015 Page 5/11 Corporate Social Responsibility Implementing Code of Conduct Our Code of Conduct was completed in the beginning In 2013, Columbus defined targets and action plan on of 2013, and we are working determinedly to how to ensure a more equal gender distribution in implement the guideline in Columbus on a global Columbus. Today, women constitute 29% of nonlevel. management roles, while women only constitute 20% at management level. We do this internally by communicating Code of Conduct to all employees, both from Headquarters An action plan was implemented in 2013 with the and through Country Managers. target to increase the proportion of female managers to 20% in 2015 and ensure that both genders are Furthermore, on our monthly business reviews with represented in Columbus Board of Directors with at the subsidiaries and on our update calls with the least 40% in 2017. Country Managers, we make sure that Code of Conduct is implemented in the daily operations. In regards to our customers, partners, suppliers and Taking Care of Employees other external stakeholders, we communicate our In Columbus, we wish to attract the most competent Code of Conduct via our website and in marketing employees and to retain them. Therefore, we strive material. Furthermore, we make it clear to potential to create a healthy and safe work environment. In new customers and partners that we expect them to addition, we aim to create high quality and comply with our Code of Conduct, in particular the stimulating working conditions for all employees anti-corruption principles. globally. This is ensured through policies in our employee well-being handbooks as well as our competence development program, Columbus Competence and Career framework, and our monthly employee satisfaction survey Heartbeat, which has been rolled out. As a fundamental aspect of our operation, all employees are encouraged to work in teams and share knowledge across borders. This is substantiated by our global delivery model. 17.03.2015 Page 6/11 Corporate Social Responsibility CSR-focus in 2014 Columbus is a people business. Our success depends communities, in which we operate. We fully support on our ability to attract and keep the best employees this, and we have decided to emphasize these from our industry on a global level. It is crucial that we initiatives in our CSR. not only comply with human rights, but on top of that also ensure attractive working conditions for our Employee Development employees, in particular in regards to salary, wellIn 2013, we rolled out Columbus Competence and being and competence development. This applies to Career framework, which is a system designed to all our subsidiaries worldwide. ensure a targeted and structured effort on our employees’ competence and career development. We have decided that our employees’ working During 2014, all employee in Columbus were enrolled conditions are the focus of our CSR efforts. in CCF, where they were ranked, based on aspects as seniority and competences. The framework includes Our employees in Columbus’ parent company and all specific and well-defined targets on how the subsidiaries are highly qualified and attractive on the employees can improve and develop their career to global career market. Thus, employees’ working the next level. In 2014, all Columbus’ consultants on conditions in Columbus are already on a high level. a global level were certified in our unique business Furthermore, the employee handbooks in our concepts such as SureStep+, RapidValue and other subsidiaries treat local policies on working technologies. conditions, employee well-being and employee development. In our CSR efforts, we focus on current initiatives, which apply to all employees globally, Employee Well-being because we strive to do an even greater effort in this Employee well-being is a key focus in Columbus and field. each month employee rate their job satisfaction through Heartbeat, our global employee In Columbus, we are proud, that several of our satisfaction survey. Heartbeat is a simple survey, subsidiaries are engaged in community and charity where employees are asked to answer one question: initiatives. We regard this as an expression of One a scale from one to ten the employees are asked commitment and team spirit and the initiatives are to rate their job satisfaction in Columbus. important in two ways: They contribute to the employee well-being internally in Columbus, and The purpose of Heartbeat is continuously to improve they promote Columbus as a company, which the employee satisfaction in Columbus. The survey is engages in sustainable development in the not anonymous, and this makes us able to follow the 17.03.2015 Page 7/11 Corporate Social Responsibility development in employee satisfaction on In 2014, we completed the program Columbus2020 department, country and global level in Columbus. Social Engagement Program, where 50 employees across countries and positions in The high frequency of the survey provides an exact Columbus participated setting the direction of and up-to-date picture of the employee satisfaction. Columbus’ future strategy. The participants in the The result of the survey creates the basis for specific program were all chosen due to their visionary and initiatives and improvements. innovate approach. Besides the opportunity to shine to management and colleagues, the program ensures Currently employee well-being is handled by our local that employees are being involved in setting the HR departments. It is our objective, that Heartbeat in goals for Columbus strategy beyond 2015. the longer term will replace other employee wellbeing surveys. Employee Dialog We strive to grow the dialogue with our employees In 2014, we reached an average Heartbeat response and dialogue between employees in Columbus across rate of 84%. In the same period, the employee borders in order to strengthen our community. The satisfaction also increased, reaching above seven in aim is that everyone feels as part of a global team, average, on a scale from one to ten. and that everyone's voice counts and is listened to. Employee Recognition In 2012, we launched Yammer, our social, digital In Columbus, we are proud of our many talented forum where all employees have the opportunity to employees, and therefore we launched the portal debate with each other, ask questions, post Faces of Columbus in 2012, where all employees inspirational messages and follow each other's are encouraged to share portraits. We utilize the achievements. pictures in both our internal and external communications. The purpose is to promote Once every month since January 2012, all employees Columbus as a company which puts employees at the in Columbus have received a global newsletter. The center of attention – and to show our employees that newsletters ensures that all employees obtain a each of them are an important part of Columbus, no thorough knowledge of the strategy and the matter profession. development in Columbus’ business. Furthermore, the newsletters are aimed to be inspiration and Employee recognition is vital. This is why we have motivation to work towards our common goals. launched our annual awards Columbus Awards on a global level. The purpose is to recognize and We continually strive to create more employee celebrate and teams, who made a special effort and involvement and dialog. Among other things, we will delivered extraordinary performances, in particular work determinedly to make the newsletters become towards our customers. The winners of Columbus our employees’ mouthpiece to an even larger degree. Awards are teams and subsidiaries. 17.03.2015 Page 8/11 CCor Corporate Social Responsibility Community and charity initiatives It is essential, that we are involved in community and Columbus UK also set up a Fit Bit Charity Challenge charitable initiatives. We have decided to emphasize including 62 employees of the UK team, who jointly these initiatives in our CSR report. By emphasizing counted their steps every day and together they local community and charity initiatives in Columbus, endeavoured the equivalent steps to walking around we hope to generate similar initiatives. However, the world twice. these must always be based solely on our employees’ voluntary commitment. Below is a brief description of In total Columbus UK raised over £17,000 in total for our local CSR initiatives. charity in 2014. Columbus US Parent company Columbus US hosted the 12th annual golf outing in Columbus’ parent company supports the association June 2014. Attended by more than 70 clients, nearly Hjælperytterne on an annual basis. Hjælperytterne is 20 business partners and many of our Royal Oak a bicycle association, which supports the Danish Columbus team members, the ‘outing’ is an annual association for rheumatic patients, Gigtforeningen. event that Customers, employees and business partners look forward to each year. The event is Columbus Denmark focused on building new and strengthening existing Every year Columbus Denmark donates to charity relationships with customers and business partners instead of giving Christmas presents to customers. In in a relaxed atmosphere. 2014, Columbus Denmark donated to Doctors without Borders. In addition, Columbus features a ‘charity hole’, allowing Columbus US to raise funds for a local Furthermore, the employees can choose to donate charity that benefits families in need; this year’s their company Christmas present to charity and in event raised nearly $2,000. 2014, these Christmas presents were donated to Children’s Cancer Foundation. Columbus Norway Columbus Norway participates in the bike ride Team Columbus UK Rynkeby Norge, which is a bike ride from Oslo to Paris In 2014, Columbus UK launched more charity to raise awareness and money for children with initiatives. Among other, the subsidiary arranged a cancer through Barnekreftforeningen. In 2014, one Customer charity dinner for Columbus customers and Columbus employee took part in the tour, and four partner including a raffle and auction raising money employees will take part in the tour in 2015. to The Bone Cancer Research and the Brain Tumour Columbus donated NKR 25.000 directly to the Charity. foundation; in addition to this, employees conduct a number of activities to raise money. Corporate Social Responsibility Columbus Norway is Save the Children Partner. This Columbus Russia means that Columbus Norway has committed to Columbus Russia participated in a charity race called donate 100.000 Norwegian Kroner to Save the “5275”, where three colleagues participated in a Children each year. Columbus Norway collects these running race of 5275 meters for helping seriously ill donations through sale of Christmas calendars in children. The donation was distributed between two favor of Save the Children and lottery on Columbus charity funds: Life Line and United Way. Norway’s annual Juleverkstedet. Columbus Russia also participate in the “Any coin's Columbus Norway has contributed financially to the cost” campaign, where people can donate small initiative Aid to Play, which focuses on helping changes to “Life Line”, which provides hi-tech children and youngsters in difficult conditions to get operation for children with severe diseases. a better life through sports and play Community and Charity Initiatives in 2015 Furthermore the employees in Columbus Norway By emphasizing local community and charity voluntarily donate a monthly amount from their initiatives in Columbus we hope to generate more salary to Save the Children; an amount which similar initiatives. However, these must always be otherwise would have been spent on employee based solely on our employees’ voluntary Christmas presents. commitment. 17.03.2015 Page 10/11 Corporate Social Responsibility United Nations Global Compact In 2012, we joined the United Nations Global Reporting Compact. United Nations Global Compact is the During 2014, we focused on implementing the CSR world’s largest volunteer network for companies report’s initiatives. working with Corporate Social Responsibility, CSR. UN Global Compact was established in 2000 by 30 At the end of 2014, we evaluate our CSR efforts companies from different nations together with the during the year and report these in our CSR-report, UN Secretary-General of the time, Kofi Annan. which will be uploaded on the UN Global Compact portal. By partnering with the UN Global Compact Columbus affirms that we embrace, support and enact ten general principles of corporate social responsibility. These principles are based on international recognized conventions on human rights, labor standards, the environment and anti-corruption. Once every year Columbus has committed to upload a COP, “Communication on Progress”, on UN Global Compact’s website. In the COP we describe our CSR efforts and results. Until 2015, we have decided to focus our CSR on employees’ working conditions. The motivation to partner with the UN Global Compact is that we wish to show our employees, customers, partners and investors that we take our corporate social responsibility very seriously. 17.03.2015 Page 11/11
