Sustainability Report 2014 Contents Contents A locally engaged community Interesting events in 2014............................. 3 builder From the CEO............................................4-5 Peab is one of the leading Nordic construction and civil engineering companies An insight into Peab's operations...............6-9 with over 13,000 employees and net sales exceeding 43 billion. The Group’s subsidiaries have strategically located offices in Sweden, Norway and Finland. Stakeholder dialogues about The share is registered at Large Cap, NASDAQ Stockholm. The head office is sustainability..........................................10-13 located in Förslöv, on the Bjäre Peninsula in Skåne, Sweden. The Employees......................................14-17 PEAB HAS A COMPLETE CUSTOMER OFFER The Business.........................................18-21 With our local knowledge and four specialized and cooperating business areas, we carry out both small local projects, as well as large and more complex ones. Everything planned Climate and Environment......................22-25 and implemented is fully in line with Peab’s ethical guidelines and designed responsibly and for the long term. In this way, Peab takes environmental, economic and social aspects Social Engagement...............................26-27 into consideration. Active memberships................................... 28 BUSINESS CONCEPT Glossary and UN Global Compact Index.... 29 ”Peab is a construction and civil engineering company that puts total quality in every step of the construction process first. Through innovation combined with solid professional skills GRI Index..............................................30-31 we make the customer’s interest our own and thereby build for the future.” CORE VALUES Down-to-earth Developing Personal Reliable VISION – THE NORDIC COMMUNITY BUILDER Peab builds sustainable communities for the future We are the obvious partner for community building in the Nordic region. We come up with ideas, take initiative and break new ground. We conserve resources and our climate smart solutions have spearheaded developments. Our work is sustainable throughout its entire life cycle. ABOUT THE S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T Peab is the Nordic company We work across borders with the goal to exceed our customers’ expectations. Peab is This is Peab's fourth sustainability report in accordance with the GRI (Global Reporting always close to our customers no matter whether they operate locally, nationally or in Initiative). The report describes Peab's work on the Nordic region. Satisfied customers contribute to our success in the entire Nordic issues of sustainability and covers the calendar region. year 2014, unless stated otherwise in the text. Like last year's report, which was published in Peab attracts talented people April 2014, this year's report follows the GRI's We are the number one employer in the Nordic region. Our values are simple and clear. latest G4 guidelines and in our view it satisfies Our personnel are deeply engaged and our leaders committed to helping people develop. the criteria for the base level core. The report When our employees grow, Peab grows. has not been examined by external auditors. Since Peab signed up to the Global Compact 2012, the Sustainability Report has also served as the COP report (Communication on Progress), as work on the ten principles of the UN Global Compact is described in the text. Unless otherwise specified, the report is valid for the whole of Peab's business in Sweden, Norway and Finland. The report also deals with suppliers that have activities outside the Nordic region. Hired businesses, part-owned subsidiaries and leased facilities, such as some of our office premises where other companies are responsible for operations, are not included in the report. The reason for this is that the report focuses on Peab's core business. In accordance with GRI-G4, the report focuses on the areas identified as most important in the materiality analysis. This year's prioritised areas are based on the wide-ranging stakeholder dialogue that was conducted in 2013 combined with the in-depth stakeholder dialogues conducted in 2014 with customers and suppliers. More information about Peab is available on the website: www.peab.com. If you have any questions regarding the report or Peab's work on sustainability, please contact Kristina Gabrielii, Sustainability Manager at Peab, by email: kristina.gabrielii@peab.se or by phone on +46 (0) 733 375690. Contents Interesting events in 2014 A HOLISTIC APPROACH TO An internal project was carried out during 2014 that resulted in a strategy EQUAL OPPORTUNITY AND containing clear objectives for how Peab is to work with equal opportunity DIVERSITY and diversity. Read more on page 17. The working environment is always high on the agenda at Peab. For the third year in a row, Peab organised a focus week during which CONTINUED FOCUS ON THE management groups all around the Group visited 566 workplaces WORKING ENVIRONMENT in order to discuss and highlight the importance of a safe, secure working environment. Read more on page 15. In order to cut carbon dioxide emissions, during 2014 Peab Asfalt started CONVERSION OF ASPHALT to use a carbon dioxide-neutral bio-oil instead of traditional fuel oil at the PLANTS INCREASES SHARE OF BIO-OIL asphalt plants in Veberöd, Lekhyttan and Västerås. Read more on page 24. Max IV is a unique project in Lund that will, when completed, offer world-class research. Max IV was voted the Best Futura Project at Mipim, the international real estate fair. The project is owned by Peab MAX IV VOTED BEST FUTURA and Wihlborgs, who have jointly formed the real estate company AB PROJECT ML4. Responsible architects are the Norwegian firm Snøhetta and FOJAB Architects. The construction project is expected to be completed in 2016 and will be certified in accordance with BREEAM Outstanding. Peab’s employees are proud and Peab is strong as an employer brand. SURVEYS INDICATE PROUD This is proven by the results from this year’s employee survey and the EMPLOYEES Sweden’s Best Employers survey, where Peab was ranked 21st. Read more on page 17. Every year Peab reports its carbon dioxide emissions and the company’s climate impact to CDP Nordic Report, which analyses the quality of the NORDIC CLIMATE DISCLOSURE company’s responses and awards points for them. In 2014 Peab was LEADERSHIP INDEX FOR THE FIRST TIME among the ten per cent with the highest number of points for the way they report, 96 out of a possible 100. This means that for the first time Peab is included in the Nordic Climate Disclosure Leadership Index. 2014 saw the launch of a travel portal at Peab, where employees can book hotels, trains, flights and car hire ahead of their business trips. The LAUNCH OF TRAVEL PORTAL travel portal will in due course provide better monitoring of the environmental impact of business travel. Read more on page 24. PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 3 Contents Heading towards integrated sustainability During 2014 Peab underwent a process Peab operates in a sphere that is being competition and a battle for resources such of reorientation following the major affected ever more quickly by fluctuations in as competent labour. We must respond to package of measures that had been the global economy. The debate about all of this in order to strengthen Peab's own implemented at the end of the previous climate change and environmental impact and our customers' competitive strength in year. New structures and allocations of is on the international agenda, and in our the long term. responsibility have been evaluated in business we are constantly experiencing Sustainability at Peab draws directly on day-to-day operations, while some stricter requirements from customers and our vision and core values. We carry out adjustments are still being made to legislators. Attitudes and expectations sustainability work in a way that is down to work methods. These measures have among employees and the public are earth, developing, personal and reliable, to been successful, and the trend indichanging, and the construction industry as live up to the vision of being the Nordic cates a stabilised, more efficient a whole is undergoing a change, as the Community Builder. We continue to extend business with improved profitability. map is being redrawn with stronger foreign and monitor our work in accordance with the UN Global Compact. Since we signed up to it in 2012, we can see that an enhanced focus on these issues in the company has produced progress. What more do we do to integrate sustainability into our business operations? I would like to highlight some important approaches: WE ASSUME RESPONSIBILITY Peab influences society and the environment for the people who live with what we build and install, both now and in the future. Peab is currently the biggest construction and civil engineering company in Sweden in terms of net sales and the number of employees. We are a large employer with strong local roots and many opportunities, and we must never forget that this brings major responsibility. Peab contributes to a more sustainable society and works continuously to reduce the business’ impact on the environment. We want to be involved in driving developments in a positive direction, both on our own and in partnership projects such as, for example, HSB Living Lab and Nordic e-Construction. WE ARE OPEN We want to be involved in It is Peab's ambition to report openly on how much progress has been made in our driving developments in a work on sustainability and what the chalpositive direction, both on lenges are – it is all about credibility. In 2014, as a result of transparent reporting, our own and in partnership Peab was for the first time included in CDP's Nordic Climate Disclosure Leaderprojects. ship Index for its reporting of climate impact. WE LISTEN Views put forward in the structured stakeholder dialogues that have been held for the last few years have proven extremely valuable, partly in providing a basis for 4 PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Contents FROM THE CEO withWe are a large employer strong local roots and prioritisation. In 2014 these dialogues were many opportunities, and we intensified, we measured SCI (Satisfied Customer Index) to a greater extent than must never forget that this before and an employee survey was conducted among all employees. It is of course equally important to listen actively to brings major responsibility. ” preferences and expectations in day-to-day relations. WE INTEGRATE Peab wants to view work on sustainability and diversity that Peab perhaps has furaim to phase out substances that are hazas a natural element of daily operations, thest to travel on its journey. The goal for ardous to the environment and health. which requires making use of the engage2014 was to adopt a holistic approach to Peab's local roots create opportunities ment and various competences of draw up strategies and objectives. These for social responsibility and involvement employees, as well as making sure that are now in place, with actual measures to in the local community. If you want to make responsibilities and mandates are in place. come in the years ahead. a difference, it is a good idea to choose an Integrating sustainability is not easy and it Peab works consciously to achieve area where you have the competence and will take time. It must be allowed to take long-term relations and good business genuine engagement. time, as the change is based largely on ethics. We welcome more collaborative At Peab we put an extra focus on supinsights and attitudes among people. projects in the industry and with customers porting young people in various ways, I expect us to take further steps in this and suppliers. The sustainability dialogues including in partnership with Mentor respect in 2015. above all show a request for collaboration Sweden. during the early stages of a project, as this WE FOCUS AND DEVELOP benefits resource management and the PROUD, BUT NOT SATISFIED In order to facilitate development, the total cost for all parties. Peab wants to offer employees the best organisation, structure and work method Responsibility in the supply chain is workplace, we want customers to be satisshould be evaluated on an ongoing basis. an increasingly important focus area where fied and we want good profitability, so that In addition, prioritization is required in order there is much more that can be done. Peab can continue to develop in the long to achieve an impact. The stakeholder Peab's Code of Conduct, which is based on term in a sustainable way. The industry is a dialogues and the materiality analysis indithe UN Global Compact, is an important complex one that is undergoing a major cate which areas are most important for cornerstone of the purchasing process. change, but when our competent employees Peab. These focus areas contain both Digital support in the form of a purchasing come together and work towards the same opportunities and challenges: and supplier portal was put in place in goals, we will succeed in achieving them. Health and working environment 2014, which will facilitate ongoing We already have much to be proud of, represent a constant challenge for compamonitoring work. but we cannot be satisfied, as there is still nies in the construction industry. Peab has Work on ethics and against corruphard work to be done. In 2015 we will be set a goal of halving the number of accition is about the brand, confidence and pursuing the next stage of the journey of dents at the workplace during the period secure business transactions for Peab and change for a sustainable Peab. 2015-2017. At more than 560 workplaces, everyone around us. We adopt a preventive dialogues about safety between managers approach towards training at Peab, and Förslöv, April 2015 and employees were conducted during the make sure that breaches have conseannual focus week on the subject of workquences and are made visible. A decision ing environment. was made during 2014 to implement an Peab's employees can embark on a external whistleblowing system in 2015. personal journey that develops both compeImproved resource efficiency is Jesper Göransson tence and career. We are planning further necessary in our energy-, materialand President and CEO initiatives for skills and career developtransport-intensive industry. We can see ment. It is becoming increasingly important measures close to production reducing the to attract and retain employees as competiimpact on the environment, while at the tion becomes tougher in the labour market. same time the links to financial savings and It is pleasing to note that both internal and business opportunities are obvious. In external surveys reveal that Peab has a order to be able to offer sound, healthy strong employer brand among employees. environments, Peab plays an active role in It is in the area of equal opportunity a number of industry-wide initiatives that PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 5 Contents An insight into Peab's operations Peab was founded in 1959 by the brothstrives to create and develop the sustainenables Peab to manage both varied and ers Mats and Erik Paulsson and is now able communities of the future. extensive projects. one of the Nordic region's biggest The business management system construction and civil engineering OPERATIONAL BUSINESS The Peab Group has since 2013 worked to companies, with operations in Sweden, The operational business is divided into develop a level customised, group-wide Norway and Finland. The head office is four business areas: Construction, Civil business management system. The work in Förslöv, on the Bjäre Peninsula in Engineering, Industry and Project Develophas progressed during 2014, with emphasis Skåne, where the business first began. ment. On 31 December 2014 there were on the needs of both customers and the In just 50 years, Peab has grown from 267 wholly owned companies and 59 partGroup itself. Level customisation implies that being a small local contractor to ly-owned companies in the Peab Group. See note 41 in the annual report for a list of each business area is given greater resposibecome the Nordic Community Builder, bility to ensure a profitable business with the characterised by local roots. This seccompanies in the Group. Operative net sales for the full year 2014 totalled SEK help of an efficient organisation. A large part tion provides a picture of the values of our business is currently certified in 43,820 million, an increase of around two and the structure and organisation on accordance with ISO 9001 and ISO 14001. per cent compared with 2013. which the business is based. Civil Engineering Cost-efficient organisation – PEAB AS A COMMUNITY BUILDER local entrepreneurship The Civil Engineering business area underPeab is involved in everything from building A wide-ranging programme of measures takes assignments such as the construction hospitals, offices and homes to the construcwas implemented during the financial year of major infrastructure projects and civil tion of roads, bridges and railways. The 2013 in order to focus on customers, engineering works, as well as smaller business thus contributes to adding value employees and production. This programme projects in local markets. Civil Engineering to the whole community. By understanding has laid the foundation for a more efficient also carries out the operation and maintelocal conditions, assuming social responsibusiness and a more profitable Peab. nance of roads and municipal installations. bility and challenging old truths with new Profit-related effects were already being The business is run through geographicalsolutions, Peab develops modern commuseen in production in 2014, in the form of ly-based regions in Sweden, Norway and nities where people want to settle, live and both reduced costs and higher earnings. At Finland. Clients are Transport Administrawork. Together with trade and industry, the same time, the programme of measures tions, municipalities and local businesses. industry players and the public sector, Peab has enhanced the local presence that Business concept Vision – The Nordic Community Builder Peab is a construction and civil engineering Peab builds the sustainable communities of the future company that puts total quality in every step We are the obvious partner for community building in the Nordic region. We of the construction process first. Through come up with ideas, take initiative and break new ground. We conserve innovation combined with solid professional resources and our climate smart solutions have spearheaded developments. skills we make the customer’s interest our Our work is sustainable throughout its entire life cycle. own and thereby build for the future.” Peab is the Nordic company We work across borders with the goal to exceed our customers’ expectations. Peab is always close to our customers no matter whether they operate locally, nationally or in the Nordic region. Satisfied customers contribute to Core values our success in the entire Nordic region. Down-to-earth Peab attracts talented people Developing We are the number one employer in the Nordic region. Our values are simple Personal and clear. Our personnel are deeply engaged and our leaders committed to Reliable helping people develop. When our employees grow, Peab grows. Sustainable Building of Group strategies Communities – Peab's Definition Sustainability integrated in Peab's business Everything planned and implemented is fully in line with Peab’s Strengthen and develop Peab's customer relations ethical guidelines and designed responsibly and for the long term. In Best workplace this way, Peab takes environmental, economic and social aspects To be seen and heard into consideration. Long-term profitable operation Cost efficient business 6 PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Contents A N I N S I G H T I N T O P E A B ’ S O P E R AT I O N S Operative net sales by Operative net sales by Operative net sales by business area, 2014 customer type, 2014 geographical market, 2014 Other Finland Project Development, 7% (6%) 15% (16%) 15% (11%) Public Norway 26% (29%) 9% (12%) Industry, 20% (21%) Construction, 46% (46%) Private Civil 59% (55%) Engineering, 19% (22%) Sweden 84% (82%) PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 7 Contents A N I N S I G H T I N T O P E A B ’ S O P E R AT I O N S Construction The Construction business area covers the Group’s resources with regard to construction-related services. Construction undertakes contracts for both external and internal customers. The main internal customer is the Project Development business area. The business is run through eleven regions in Sweden, two in Norway and two in Finland. Of the Swedish regions, three specialise in residential production in the metropolitan areas Stockholm/Mälar­ dalen, Gothenburg and the Öresund region. The other regions run all kinds of construction activities within their geographical area. Construction service activities are run in a national region with a primary focus on the FROM BIGGEST TO BEST Policies metropolitan areas. Peab is the biggest construction company in A number of policies constitute steering Sweden in terms of net sales and the number documents in the field of sustainability. Industry of employees. The Group is now taking the Peab's Code of Conduct is based on the The Industry business area is run through next step and aims to go from biggest to principles in the UN Global Compact, and is seven product segments: Asphalt, Concrete, best. To be the best in the industry, there are a general policy covering environmental, Gravel and Rock, Transport and Machinery, three specific target areas that will be meassocial and anti-corruption issues. The Foundations, Leasing and Industrial ured and monitored continuously through Code of Conduct is translated into various Construction. All of the product segments the Satisfied Customer Index (SCI), the languages in order to make it easily accesfocus on the Nordic construction and civil employee survey and economic results. sible to all subcontractors and suppliers. It engineering market. The business is run in These are: is supplemented by a number of underlying a large number of companies and under Most satisfied customers in the industry policies and guidelines, such as Peab's various brands. The biggest brands are Best workplace in the industry ethical guidelines. Swerock, Cliffton, Lambertsson, SkandinaMost profitable company in the industry The Code of Conduct is rooted in the viska Byggelement, Peab Asfalt and Peab general company policy, which is an inteGrundläggning. SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE grated environment, quality and working Project Development Sustainability is integrated into Peab's environment policy. The company policy The Project Development business area vision and business strategies, and work to meets the requirements of the quality includes all Peab's development of homes integrate sustainability into all areas of the management system ISO 9001:2008, the and properties. Project development takes business continues on an ongoing basis. environmental management system ISO place in the form of wholly owned projects Responsibilities and mandates are dele14001:2004, as well as the the requireor in collaboration with other partners or via gated to the business areas, and support ments contained in the Swedish Work Envijoint ventures. The business is run in two is provided by specialist competence in ronement Authority’s provision AFS 2001:1. sections, Residential Development and the area of sustainability at various levels Property Development. Residential Developin the organisation, and by steering and SHAREHOLDER STRUCTURE ment develops all kinds of homes, such as supporting documents. The Group function Peab AB is a public company. The class B apartment blocks for tenant-owners, owners CSR – Social responsibility has worked to share is registered at Large Cap, NASDAQ and tenants as well as certain types of small coordinate and develop the Group's Stockholm. There was a change in ownerhouses. Property Development carries out messages, processes and strategies in the ship during 2014. Mats and Erik Paulsson activities in respect of the acquisition, develarea of sustainability during 2014. This with their families and companies are the opment and disposal of commercial properwork has been carried out in collaboration biggest shareholders with a total of 25.6 per ties. The business includes projects in wholly with Peab's four business areas and other cent of capital and 57.6 per cent of votes. owned and partly-owned companies. Group functions. For more information, we refer to Peab’s Financial summary 2014 Annual Report. Jan-Dec Jan-Dec Jan-Dec 2014 2013 20121) Operative net sales, MSEK 2) 43,820 42,765 45,997 Net sales, MSEK 43,630 43,127 46,840 Operative operating profit, MSEK 2) 1,783 593 1,004 Operative operating margin, % 2) 4.1 1.4 2.2 Operating profit, MSEK 1,752 614 1,057 Operating margin, % 4.0 1.4 2.3 Pre-tax profit, MSEK 1,230 383 815 Earnings per share, SEK 3.48 1.01 2.47 Dividend per share, SEK 3) 2.25 1.80 1.60 1) Not translated according to IFRS 11, Joint Return on equity, % 13.1 3.8 9.2 Arrangements. Equity/assets ratio, % 28.2 24.0 24.9 2) Operative net sales and operative operating Cashflow before financing, MSEK 2 803 624 974 profit are reported according to percentage Net debt, MSEK 3,886 5,948 6,470 of completion method. Net sales and operating profit are reported according to legal Orders received, MSEK 31,690 34,292 38,743 accounting. Order backlog, MSEK 24,922 28,164 28,056 3) Board of Directors’ proposal for 2014. 8 PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Contents A N I N S I G H T I N T O P E A B ’ S O P E R AT I O N S CORPORATE GOVERNANCE IN PEAB the procurement of services from the auditors other than the audit. The audit Election Shareholders Election Nomination committee maintains ongoing contact with Auditors Constitute the Annual General Meeting Committee the company's auditors, evaluates the audit Information Proposals assignment and represents the nomination Election committee in the preparation of proposals for and payment of fees to the auditors. Finance committee Information Board of Directors Remuneration committee Executive Management Audit committee Goals The President, who is also the CEO, Strategies Reports Governance Internal audit manages the business in accordance with mechanisms the framework adopted by the Board of Ethics Council CEO and Group functions Directors and is responsible for the ongoing Executive management Sustainability Council administration and control of the Group. Peab's executive management team in 2014 consisted of six people, none of them Civil Project Construction Engineering Industry Development a member of the Board. Group functions There are a number of Group support functions that serve to manage and develop the Shareholders are elected by the AGM and three permavarious Group support processes. All shareholders, including minority internent members and two deputies are ests, can influence the company by exerappointed by employees' organisations. Of Business areas cising their voting rights at the Annual the seven members elected by the AGM, The business area managers are responGeneral Meeting (AGM), Peab's ultimate five are considered to be independent and sible for running the various businesses decision-making body. The Annual General two dependent in relation to the company and integrating work on sustainability into Meeting provides a forum for shareholders and company management and in relation the line organisation by delegating responto ask questions and submit comments on to the company's major shareholders. sibilities and mandates, thus making Peab's activities and work on sustainability. Employees have an opportunity to influsustainability issues an integral part of daily ence Peab's business via their employees' operations. Nomination committee The nomination committee consists of four representatives. The Sustainability Council and the members: the Chairman of the Board and Finance committee Ethical Council three members representing Peab's large The finance committee, which consists of Work previously carried out by the Sustainand small shareholders. One of the nomithree Board members, handles and makes ability Council was performed by the CSR nation committee's main tasks is to nomidecisions on financial matters in accordfunction in 2014. During 2014 Peab nate candidates for election to the Board of ance with the adopted Finance Policy. reviewed which competences and areas Directors at the AGM. of responsibility should be included in the Remuneration committee Group's proposed Sustainability Council. Auditors The remuneration committee, which A new structure for the composition of the The Annual General Meeting elects an consists of three Board members, draws council will be implemented in 2015. auditor to examine Peab's financial reporting. up guidelines and frameworks for senior The Ethical Council deals with any As of the 2014 meeting, Peab no longer executives in respect of salaries and other breaches of Peab’s ethical guidelines. The has individually elected auditors. The remuneration, in accordance with the Ethical Council is composed by a repreelected auditor is KPMG AB. Remuneration Policy adopted by the AGM. sentative of the executive management, Board of Directors Audit committee three representatives of the Group funcPeab's Board of Directors is ultimately The audit committee consists of the seven tions (HR, Safety and Legal Affairs) and, responsible for the business, and thus also Board members elected by the AGM. The when appropriate, the manager (Business for work on sustainability. The Board of committee prepares the work of the Board Unit Director or Chief Operations Manager) Directors comprises a total of ten members of Directors to quality-assure the company's in charge of the operations to which a and two deputies. Seven of the members financial reporting and define guidelines for specific topical issue belongs. Age and gender distribution 2014 (2013) Number of Percentage of Percentage of Percentage of Percentage of Percentage of members women (%) men (%) people aged people aged people aged < 30 (%) 30-50 (%) > 50 (%) Board of Directors (incl. deputies) 12 (13) 25 (23) 75 (77) 0 (0) 42 (38) 58 (62) Executive Management 6 (6) 17 (17) 83 (83) 0 (0) 67 (67) 33 (33) Finance and remuneration committees 3 (3) 0 (0) 100 (100) 0 (0) 0 (0) 100 (100) Audit committee 7 (8) 29 (25) 71 (75) 0 (0) 29 (25) 71 (75) Auditors (incl. deputies) 1 (4) 0 (0) 100 (100) 0 (0) 0 (0) 100 (100) Nomination committee 4 (4) 0 (0) 100 (100) 0 (0) 25 (25) 75 (75) PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 9 Contents Stakeholder dialogues about sustainability Every year Peab conducts dialogues basis in daily operations, and customer surity took place in 2013 in which Peab, by focusing on sustainability with some veys are conducted in order to obtain viewmeans of both interviews and contacts, of the stakeholder groups which affect points on cooperation. Employee surveys, made contact with a total of 180 stakeholdor are affected by the business. These shareholders' general meetings, informaers from nine of the stakeholder groups in dialogues provide an enhanced under­ tion meetings in residential areas, student the illustration below. As customer and standing of the stakeholders' expecta­ fairs, supplier meetings and partnership supplier relationships were highlighted as tions and how they view Peab's projects are other examples of contexts important areas for work on sustainability, business, the role of community builders in which Peab meets and listens to this year Peab has continued the dialogue and the work on sustainability being stakeholders. with these groups in greater detail. Intercarried out at Peab. The results con­ views were conducted with 14 suppliers tribute to development and form the SUSTAINABILITY-ORIENTED and 17 business customers, all with a link basis of what is described in this DIALOGUES to one or more of Peab's business areas. sustainability report. Since 2012 Peab has been conducting an Business customers were involved in interannual stakeholder dialogue on sustainaview form in both 2013 and 2014. In 2013 it LISTEN TO STAKEHOLDERS bility that focuses on how Peab, together was primarily those responsible for sustainPeab's business affects and is affected by a with the stakeholders, can contribute to ability who were interviewed, while this number of different stakeholders. Listening sustainable social development. This year's dialogues took place with representis an important tool that enables us to serves many purposes: the results provide atives closer to operations, such as busidevelop, to build long-term relations and to valuable input into continued work on ness area managers and project managers. create good collaboration. sustainability, it contributes to Peab’s develThis provided a new perspective and an Collaboration is a prerequisite for opment and defines the content of this opportunity to listen to those who have daily Peab's business, and every day the sustainability report. At the same time, it contact with Peab. employees meet stakeholders in various offers an opportunity to highlight the imporThe interviews dealt with areas includforums in order to reinforce relations and tance of sustainability-related issues ing how the stakeholders perceive Peab's listen to desires and expectations that are among stakeholders, which Peab underwork on sustainability, how they themselves put forward. There are well-established took to do when signing the UN Global work on sustainability, what they expect of channels for meetings, communication and Compact. Hopefully it also contributes to a a community builder, whether they consider feedback for many of the stakeholder relagreater focus on sustainability in the Peab to be outstanding or deficient in any tions. Meetings with customers and clients, industry. areas and, finally, what they believe Peab for example, take place on an ongoing A wide-ranging dialogue on sustainabilshould prioritise in future. Stakeholder inventory 2014 Students Industry associations Media Employees Employees' Authorities and organisations Shareholders Customers administrations Peab Research and institutes of Suppliers The local Politicians higher education community NGOs and Fund managers lobbyists and analysts Employers' organisations 10 PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Contents S TA K E H O L D E R D I A L O G U E S A B O U T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y CONCLUSIONS FROM THIS When asked How is Peab's work on sustainAreas for development mentioned included YEAR'S DIALOGUES ability perceived?”, many replied that the term many general challenges facing the indusThis year's sustainability dialogues have 'sustainability' is rarely discussed at worktry. Suppliers stated a number of times that been fruitful and insightful. The work of places. The focus is rather on dealing with they would like to be involved at earlier customers and suppliers in the area of factual issues such as the working environstages so that the shared experience can sustainability has proven to be varied in ment, quality and the environment. For many improve the project's prospects. A clear nature, but everyone agrees that these of the contact persons this was the first time specification of requirements and monitorissues are business-critical. Experiences of they had been asked to talk about sustainaing are also something that suppliers collaborating with Peab vary, and many bility as a general concept, which according demand, as they believe this would exclude make the point that it is the individuals in to them signalled the fact that Peab takes the rogue operators. The fact that the industry each project organisation that decide how matter seriously. Many mentioned the fact is characterised by small margins was highthe partnership works and how sustainabilithat Peab's core values (Down-to-earth, lighted by many as a challenge when it ty-related issues are handled. This emphaDeveloping, Personal and Reliable) pervade comes to driving certain sustainability-­ sises the importance of high levels of the business – employees at Peab keep their related issues, while others made the point competence in all employees. promises and are skilled producers. that sustainability is a precondition for What is expected of a community As for Peab's strengths and areas for continued competitiveness. According to builder? This was one of the questions put development, the responses varied. the stakeholders, Peab can develop its to customers and suppliers. Contributing to Strengths mentioned regularly were primarcommunication about what is being done in the physical construction of all components ily the local presence, a pervasive entreprethe area of sustainability and thus position in the social structure, infrastructure as well neurial spirit, short decision-making paths itself as an attractive business partner in as construction works, was mentioned by and the fact that Peab can be relied upon projects with a focus on sustainability. Peab most. Many also emphasised the fact that a is also considered to have potential for when it comes to production, finances and community builder is expected to assume development when it comes to taking scheduling. Employees at Peab encourage advantage of its size and propose innovaresponsibility in the local community, to take an open climate of cooperation and are tive solutions and concepts. part in the social debate and to contribute to receptive to preferences and new thoughts long-term social development. and ideas. PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 11 Contents S TA K E H O L D E R D I A L O G U E S A B O U T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y REPORT CONTENTS have been raised by most contact persons Environment, and Social Engagement. See The dialogues with stakeholders and during the interviews. To simplify the structhe illustration below for the areas identified internal prioritisation of sustainability areas ture of the report, the important areas have as most important within each section. have enabled Peab to define the areas that been divided into four general sections make up the content of this report. All areas about Peab's work on sustainability: The are relevant for the whole business and Employees, The Business, Climate and THE EMPLOYEES THE BUSINESS CLIMATE AND ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL ENGAGEMENT Health and working Customer and supplier Resource efficiency Assuming responsibility environment collaboration Phasing out of substances and participation in the Skills and career Responsibility in the hazardous to the environment local community development supply chain and health Focus on young people Equal opportunity and Ethics and anti-corruption Mentoring diversity Areas of highest priority according to stakeholder groups Construction business Selection Number of Areas with highest priority area interviews Business customers The interviews were conducted with 7 1-3 years 5-10 years public and private real estate and • Health and working environment • Health and working environment housing companies in the Swedish, Norwegian and Finnish markets • Energy efficiency • Energy efficiency respectively. • Ethics and anti-corruption • Efficiency improvement methods • Substances hazardous to the • Innovation and development environment and health • Ethics and anti-corruption • Social engagement • Efficiency improvement methods Suppliers Interviews were conducted with major 6 • Health and working environment • Energy efficiency suppliers to the construction business • Ethics and anti-corruption • Health and working environment in Sweden, Norway and Finland. • Energy efficiency • Efficiency improvement methods • Efficiency improvement methods • Equal opportunity and diversity • Customer and supplier • Ethics and anti-corruption collaboration • Innovation and development Civil Engineering business area Business customers The interviews were conducted with 6 • Health and working environment • Health and working environment public and private orderers of civil • Substances hazardous to the • Efficiency improvement methods engineering services in the Swedish environment and health and Norwegian markets. • Transport and carbon dioxide • Energy efficiency • Substances hazardous to the • Ethics and anti-corruption environment and health • Efficiency improvement methods • Energy efficiency Suppliers The interviews were conducted with 4 • Health and working environment • Transport and carbon dioxide major suppliers to the Swedish civil • Ethics and anti-corruption • Health and working environment engineering business. • Customer and supplier • Social engagement collaboration • Energy efficiency • Substances hazardous to the • Substances hazardous to the environment and health environment and health • Transport and carbon dioxide Industry business area Business customers The interviews were conducted with 4 • Ethics and anti-corruption • Customer and supplier public and private orderers of • Health and working environment collaboration services from Peab's industrial • Ethics and anti-corruption companies in the Swedish market. • Substances hazardous to the environment and health • Resource utilisation and waste • Customer and supplier • Innovation and development collaboration • Energy efficiency • Resource utilisation and waste • Transport and carbon dioxide Suppliers The interviews were conducted with 4 • Health and working environment • Customer and supplier collaboramajor suppliers to the Industry busi• Energy efficiency tion ness area based in the Swedish • Innovation and development market. • Ethics and anti-corruption • Innovation and development • Energy efficiency • Customer and supplier collabora• Efficiency improvement methods tion • Skills and career development Customers and suppliers to the Project Development business area did not participate in this year’s stakeholder dialogue. 12 PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Contents S TA K E H O L D E R D I A L O G U E S A B O U T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 13 Contents The Employees Responsible managers and inclusive halved during the period 2015-2017. One parts of the organisation, there are also employeeship are decisive for Peab's immediate consequence of this decision is health and safety officers appointed by continued success. It is also important that monitoring work and measures will be employees who represent employees on to provide employees with an opportufurther intensified. working environment issues in every single nity to develop and a safe workplace. Systematic work on the project. Peab has 698 (580) health and Peab’s employees continuously undergo working environment safety officers in the Swedish business, 83 skills development in order to meet Peab's working environment policy is inte(100) in Norway and 46 (45) in Finland. the market's requirements, but also to grated into the company policy and forms Also working at Peab are 59 so-called understand different customers' the basis of strategic work on the working HAMare (case officers in issues relating conditions and needs. environment. Work on the working environto the working environment, trade union ment is a part of the business management position). Together, the health and safety system, and Peab works in accordance officers, HAMare and those who work on HEALTH AND WORKING with the requirements of each country's working environment issues on a daily ENVIRONMENT current legal regulations. In Sweden, the basis make up approximately eight (six) per Health and the working environment is, and requirements of AFS 2001:1 are observed, cent of all employees at Peab. 100 per cent has long been, a priority issue at Peab. It is and in Norway Peab works in accordance of employees at Peab are covered by also one of the areas that stakeholders with the Norwegian Working Environment collective bargaining agreements. highlight as being one of the most important. Act as well as current regulations for the At the turn of the year 2013/2014 an The physical work carried out in the industry construction and civil engineering industry. agreement was reached regarding Peab's involves certain risks, but by means of risk The Finnish business is certified in accordhealth and safety officers. The agreement assessments, systematic work and feedance with OHSAS 18001. was concluded between Peab's Swedish back of knowledge it is possible to reduce business and both Byggnads and SEKO, or entirely avoid accidents. Working environment organisation which represent the majority of employees During 2014, minor organisational There is a high degree of competence in at the workplaces. The aim of the agreechanges were made in health and working the working environment at all levels in the ment is to further secure good health and environment. The purpose was to improve organisation. Strategic work is run at Group safety operations at Peab's workplaces by work methods, coordination and interfaces and business area level. Responsibilities means of engaged, active health and safety between different central functions, and to and mandates for issues relating to the officers with good competence and clear create better conditions to support line working environment have been delegated mandates. managers. In December, Executive Manto the line organisation and are an integral agement made an ambitious decision on a element of daily operations. In addition to Preventive work on the goal in the working environment area: the the 115 (73) employees who work on working environment number of workplace accidents shall be working environment issues in various Peab works preventively to avert accidents Number of employees by country, gender and personnel category – 13,213 in total, of whom 10.8 per cent are women Sweden Norway Finland Peab in total Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Salaried employees in managerial 1,443 95 128 15 119 6 1,690 116 positions Other salaried employees 2,157 948 386 83 134 66 2,677 1,097 Skilled workers 6,235 192 838 4 341 23 7,414 219 Total 9,835 1,235 1,352 102 594 95 11,781 1,432 Workplace accidents per 1 Sick leave Contracts of employment for all employees million hours worked Men Women Number % 60 2014 6 2014 Permanent employees 11,111 1,271 50 2013 5 2013 2012 2012 Project/temporary employees 670 161 40 4 30 3 Type of employment for permanent employees 20 2 Men Women 10 1 0 Full-time employees 11,005 1,162 0 Sweden Norway Finland Sweden Norway Finland Part-time employees 106 109 2012 2013 2014 Statistics on accidents at the workplace are based on accidents that have caused an absence of at least eight hours. In previous years, statistics has been based on data from internal systems for Norway and Finland, whereas for Sweden it has been based on data retrieved from the Swedish Work Environment Authority. From 2014 and onwards, statistics for Sweden will be based on data from the internal system as well, as a result of improved work methods. The discrepancy between internal and external statistics is marked through the hatched bar area. The explanation for the discrepancy is that the statistics retrieved from the Swedish Work Environment Authority is entirely based on severe accidents (visit www.av.se), while the internal system intercepts all accidents having caused eight hours absence. 14 PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Contents THE EMPLOYEES We are better together For the third year in a row, Peab organised a Group-wide focus week on the subject of the working environment. During the focus week of 2014, 566 workplaces in Sweden, Norway and Finland were visited by the company's managers and management groups. The purpose of the focus week is to create a dialogue and engagement around issues relating to the working environment and the areas of the working climate, employeeship and leadership. During these visits, experiences were shared and areas for improvement were discussed together. Engaging all employees in working environment issues is a precondition for the creation of safe, secure workplaces. It emerged from the dialogue that Peab's procedures for morning meetings, incident reporting, work preparation schedules and planning are much-appreciated tools in day-to-day work on the working environment. In addition, the result of Peabs new employee survey, conducted during the same period as the focus week, reveals that the work on the working environment is well functioning and that employees feel that they have access to the tools and the protective equipment they need. Working with the lessons from these visits and from the employee survey makes it possible to further enhance Peab's working environment. Each business area is informed of specific improvement areas and the opportunity to develop preventive measures in the field of the working environment. One decisive factor in development work is that all of us must assume responsibility – we contribute to each other’s working environment and the improvement work is done together. Salaried employees in managerial positions by gender Other salaried employees by gender Skilled workers by gender 6% 3% 29% Women Men 71% 97% 94% 1,806 people in total 3,774 people in total 7,633 people in total Salaried employees in managerial positions by age Other salaried employees by age Skilled workers by age 4% 17% 29% 27% < 30 years old 30% 37% 30-50 years old 59% > 50 years old 54% 43% PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 15 Contents THE EMPLOYEES at the workplaces by providing safe equipThe number of occupational illnesses regisworking environment and ethics. A total of ment, quality-assured work methods and tered in the company fell during 2014, from 458 new employees attended the introductraining in this field. When employees and 71 to 43. Peab's current system does not tion day during the year, and in 2015 the subcontractors arrive at a new workplace, have the facility to identify what kind of development of the employee introduction they are given an introduction to and a occupational illness causes sick leave, and as an overall concept will continue. review of risks at the workplace. Work the statistics only cover Sweden. The Skills development continued in 2014 to distribute safety warnSwedish Work Environment Authority has Extensive development work was carried ings in the organisation when serious inciconducted an investigation into occupaout during 2013 on a new skills development dents or accidents had occurred. A safety tional illnesses in the industry and identified model at Peab, based on the 70-20-10 warning consists of brief information about loading factors as the biggest cause (65 per skills model. The aim is that 70 per cent of what happened and advice on how similar cent) of occupational illnesses. Peab has our skills development takes place in events can be prevented. Peab's crisis for a number of years been training site day-to-day work, 20 per cent through organisation, which has been trained by the managers and health and safety officers in networks, sharing and collaboration and Swedish Civil Contingencies Agency, is ergonomics. This training is provided by our 10 per cent through formal training. Formal involved in the event of serious accidents. partner company for occupational healthtraining and courses are important for All accidents are investigated meticulously care and consists of theory, group sessions framework skills and specialist knowledge, and action is taken to avoid any recurrence. and an ergonomic inspection of their own but knowledge and skills develop best There were no fatal accidents at Peab's workplace. when learning is a part of work. The conseworkplaces during 2014. quence is that the number of hours spent SKILLS AND CAREER DEVELOPMENT Follow-up and improvement work on courses is reduced, while the number of Having the right competence in the All incidents and accidents are reported development hours increases. company is crucial for being able to meet and followed up so that lessons can be Peab's new development offering was customers' requirements and expectations. learnt from what has occurred. In Sweden launched in 2014. The first to be made In the same context, it is also important that and Norway, incidents and accidents are available were job-specific programmes Peab can offer employees the continuous registered through an online system, and in that aim to prepare employees who are to development they demand. This means Finland reporting takes place directly to the take up a new managerial role. The prothat skills development is an important area Working Environment Manager. A number grammes are structured with three main in the field of sustainability, with a strong of workplace audits are also conducted elements: Peab's fundamental values and link to both the business and the brand. every year in all countries. The results are work methods, leadership and specialist analysed on an ongoing basis, which Personnel supply became competence. combined with results from employee skills supply In addition to the programmes, there is statistics, employee surveys, employee A wide-ranging analysis was conducted a wide range of individually adapted, appraisals and the occupational healthcare during 2014 in connection with the annual free-standing development opportunities in scheme makes it possible to identified personnel supply process, in which the both specialist areas and leadership. The causal connections. This then forms the current status, future needs and potential development of Peab's skills development basis of decisions on priorities, goals and approaches to skills supply were considoffering will continue in 2015, with a greater measures. ered. One of the conclusions was that Peab focus on specialist areas, skills developneeds to adopt a new approach to supplies ment opportunities for skilled workers and Work to promote health in future, and a new, integrated function was the Nordic perspective. Apart from preventive and rehabilitative set up at the end of the year: skills supply. work on health, Peab focuses on further Goal and development appraisals developing work methods to promote Group-wide induction day The model for the employee appraisal has health. When employees are happy and The purpose of a Group-wide induction day been developed during the year. A more have a good work/life balance, the condiis to provide all new employees with a clearly defined work method based on tions are created for motivation and job greater understanding of the business and goals and performance reduces the risk of satisfaction, which are crucial for the busito enable them to settle into their work subjective assessments, while improving ness's success. Peab offers employees a quickly. The day offers an overall view of levels of equality and quality in the broad range of activities in the areas of Peab's business, featuring everything from appraisals. A pioneer group was appointed exercise and culture, as well as keep-fit history, core values and operations in the to test the new model. Evaluation will take subsidies and other benefits. various business areas to work on the place during spring 2015, after which a Number of training hours per Number of training hours per employee employee and gender and employee category Hours Hours 20 40 15 30 10 20 5 10 0 0 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 Women Salaried employees in Skilled workers Men managerial positions Other salaried employees During 2014, the number of training hours per employee has fallen as a consequence of the introduction of the 70-20-10 model, and the fact that Peab directs its training initiatives more at target groups. 16 PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Contents THE EMPLOYEES quality-assured appraisal model can be Inclusive employeeship 2015 during 2015 and elements of it will be intedesigned for all employees. In 2014, 70 per After the results from the employee survey grated into Peab's management developcent of all employees stated that they had Handslaget had been processed, it was ment programme. had employee appraisals (89 per cent of decided that HR work should be enhanced A resource will also be appointed in salaried employees in managerial positions, with a focus on including the skilled workers' 2015 with the task of revising and develop81 per cent of all other salaried employees perspective in HR processes. HR work in ing Peab's equal opportunity plan. and 56 per cent of skilled workers). The 2015 will be characterised by not only a Equal pay ambition is to increase the number of develgreater focus on skills supply, but also Legislation in each country governs work opment appraisals during 2015. Holding work to develop an inclusive approach to on equal pay in the Peab Group. For the regular discussions about goals and develemployees. Peab's core values together Group, this means that pay for women and opment with their employees is a key with the employee and managerial profiles men is set in the same way regardless of element of the manager's job at Peab. The comprise clear guidelines in this work, and gender, and it must be the type of work, holding of employee appraisals has therethe introduction of placements at construcperformance and competence that deterfore been introduced as a threshold value tion sites for salaried employees is part of mine the individual pay level. for managers with a bonus entitlement. this work. The Nordic development process For the business in Sweden, legislation shall be characterised by a diversity Strong employer brand states that a wage review including an analperspective, and the aim is to erase the old A new process for Peab's employee survey, ysis of women's and men's pay must be dividing lines between employee groups. Handslaget, was developed during the year. conducted every three years. The purpose The aim was to achieve broader acceptance of this analysis is to identify, rectify and EQUAL OPPORTUNITY among all employee groups and a greater prevent non-subjective differences in pay AND DIVERSITY focus on organisational development and and other terms of employment for equal, Equal opportunity and diversity are chalmonitoring work. The number of questions equivalent positions for women and men. lenges and core issues for the whole was reduced compared with previous years If the review identifies any non-subjective industry, and also for Peab. These issues and indexes were created for the working differences in pay, Peab must adjust these. are amongst the Group's focus areas for climate, leadership and engagement. In There is similar legislation in Norway and the period 2015-2017, with clear goals and order to guarantee the integrity of employees, Finland, including requirements for a pay a specific plan for a fundamental change in the survey was made totally digital. Almost review and associated action. culture and understanding. A project plan 10,000 employees participated, which at the Entitlement to inclusion in Peab's variwas drawn up during the year with objectime of the survey represented 77 per cent ous incentive schemes is based on position tives, and these will be specified and transof all employees (93 per cent of the salaried and there is no differentiation between men lated into action plans during 2015. employees and 67 per cent of the skilled and women within the same occupational The Group's goals in this area are: group. workers). The results of the survey were pleasing, 1. At least 40 per cent of all newly qualiMentorBygg as Peab achieved high values in all index fied engineers recruited are women. In 2014 Peab joined MentorBygg, a areas. Peab's employer brand is very 2. The proportion of employees with a fornational mentoring programme under the strong according to the international NPS eign background corresponds to at auspices of the Swedish Construction (Net Promoter Score) index. This is also least 12 per cent of the total number of Federation, which aims to increase the confirmed by Universum's and Metrojobb's employees at Peab. proportion of female managers in the annual Sweden's Best Employers survey, construction industry. The intention is that in which employees assess their current 3. The proportion of women in each manthe mentoring programme will contribute to employer on the basis of three factors: agement group within a commercial/ the future supply of managers in the industry internal identity, satisfaction and loyalty. production-related business is at least and increase the industry's ability to attract With its 21st position, Peab is one of the 16 per cent. and retain its talents by developing and best employers in the country. Skills development of managers and making use of the competence of women. Looking ahead, we focus on mainemployees in this area is an issue for the taining the good working climate. Continued whole industry and will be treated as such development areas mainly involve reducing by Peab playing an active role in the the gap between salaried employees and Swedish Construction Federation's group skilled workers, and working even more for diversity in the industry. An industry-­ with clear management by objectives. wide training programme will be developed PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 17 Contents The Business Issues of sustainability are busiform during 2014, and this will become analysed at various organisational levels, ness-critical from both a risk and an evident during the financial year 2015. and the trends vary from region to region. It opportunity perspective. Long-term is therefore not relevant to make general profitability requires work on sustainaLONG-TERM CUSTOMER RELATIONS conclusions regarding trends for the Peab bility that meets requirements and Peab strives to achieve long-term customer Group. The results are instead processed expectations from those around us, relations. Customers that make use of the within each region. while at the same time creating new opportunity to collaborate in some form are business opportunities. Good business often involved in driving social developSUSTAINABLE SUPPLY CHAIN ethics is a cornerstone of Peab’s ments. This means that Peab by collaboPeab's business concept is based on business. rating not only gains a better insight into quality in the construction process. The what the customer is demanding, but also Group contains the whole chain of producawareness of why these requirements are tion resources required to carry out the COLLABORATION AND DEVELOPMENT important, so Peab's business can be construction process, with the companies in There are many benefits of collaboration, adapted according to the customer's priorithe Industry business area offering supplies and they feature financial, environmental ties. With preparation and insight, we can of raw materials and services for Construcand social aspects. There is much to gain put forward suggestions of alternative solution and Civil Engineering. In addition, from close collaboration in the early stages, tions, customised to meet the customer's Peab depends on external suppliers and as was highlighted by virtually all particineeds. A satisfied customer passes on a subcontractors. A sustainable supply chain pating stakeholders during the year's positive view of Peab's brand, and vice requires input in all stages of the chain, and sustainability dialogues. Together we can versa. from all parties. It is therefore Peab's ambicreate better conditions for planning, effiSatisfied Customer Index (SCI) tion to develop work on supplier assessciency improvement and resource manageSCI surveys are used to investigate how ments, evaluations and bodies for moniment. This makes it possible to achieve customers perceive their contact with Peab toring and support. benefits such as reduced and guaranteed and how well the product/service supplied Requirements and monitoring total costs, increased quality and a shorter, meets their expectations. SCI surveys Peab's basic requirement is that all predictable project period. Collaboration follow an international standard and are suppliers must comply with international also provides an opportunity for learning coordinated by an independent organisaconventions and national laws, as well as and development. tion. Customer surveys are sent to busiPeab's Code of Conduct, which is based on The market is in the process of ness customers, both internal and external, the UN Global Compact. The Code of changing its structure, and various kinds of and to residential customers who have Conduct is included in general contract collaboration are becoming increasingly moved into homes developed by Peab and regulations for both project and general common. One reason is that partnerships in those occasions where Peab has carried agreements. result in more solid business relations. out measures under guarantee. This year's Peab's purchasing process contains Other positive effects that reinforce this survey included business customers of all procedures with supporting templates for collaboration trend relate to price, quality, Peab's business areas. The SCI surveys the assessment of suppliers before purtime savings and a more stimulating deal with a number of different areas. chases and evaluation after purchases. working environment. Peab often takes part Customers evaluate areas such as Peab's The assessments to be carried out before a in industry-wide development projects. The work method, documentation, business supplier is engaged represent one stage of whole industry needs to move forwards in ethics, value for money, reliability and time securing the project's requirements in areas order to be able to contribute to more planning. In 2014, the weighted average of such as quality, environment, working envisustainable social development. Collaborathe SCI result for the Peab Group was 72 ronment and total cost. In connection with tive work at Peab took on a more structured on a scale from 1-100. The results are the end of the project, an evaluation must Number of employees trained in ethics and anti-corruption Number 300 The statistics on ethical training include the number of 250 people who completed Etikrundan (three-hour course on ethics) and Basblocket (1.5-hour session on ethics). In 200 2014 Peab put a lot of emphasis on the introductory training programme for new employees, which includes 150 a brief section on ethics. About 460 new employees, half 100 of them skilled workers, completed the introductory training programme during the year. The introductory 50 training programme is not part of the statistics presented in the diagram on the left hand side. 0 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 Salaried employees in Other salaried Skilled workers managerial positions employees 18 PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Contents THE BUSINESS Collaboration on housing innovation As a partner of HSB and a participant in the HSB Living Lab project, Peab is involved in driving research into sustainable forms of housing for the future. The living laboratory , which will be built at Chalmers University of Technology in Gothenburg, will become a mobile building with five floors, where the environment is constantly changing. It is expected to be ready for occupation during 2015. The building will contain a residential area for students and visiting researchers, as well as an exhibition section with offices, showrooms for research results and much more. Over a ten-year period, people will be moving into and living in the experimental building while new technical and architectonic innovations are tested and evaluated. These include anything from replaceable façades to housing modules that adapt to the temperature and human activity. Peab is a business partner throughout the whole research period and has signed a collaborative agreement until 2025. Peab has also signed a partnership agreement in respect of construction work. How do we create sustainability that matches our climate now and in future? How can we save resources and energy? These are some of the questions that should be answered during the course of the project. HSB has developed the project together with Chalmers University of Technology and Johanneberg Science Park. Peab is working in collaboration with a number of different companies to create an arena for knowledge of sustainability and technical solutions that can be used in housing production of the future. be performed of the suppliers that are conPurchasing and Supplier Portal. For the environment. It is Peab's assessment that sidered to have a decisive influence on the same purpose, a report containing updated the biggest risks for suppliers in the first tier project and customer undertaking with an supplier data relating to credit, VAT and relate to financial crime such as illicit work emphasis on quality and environment. The corporation tax is provided daily via an and tax evasion. The challenges may be main purpose of these evaluations is to external information system. different further down the chain. Work is facilitate the feedback of knowledge and under way to investigate suppliers in Collaboration with the more tiers. where appropriate to support the supplier's Swedish Tax Agency development. International purchases In Sweden, Peab has since 2009 had an agreement with the Swedish Tax Agency to Supplier assessments are conducted The Purchasing and Supplier Portal improve checks on subcontractors and to ahead of any purchases outside the Nordic 2014 saw the launch of a purchasing and region, often in connection with a site visit combat financial crime. The partnership supplier portal, which was developed to the company in question. International provides Peab with access to information in-house. Assessments and evaluations purchases outside the Nordic region were about suppliers' payments of taxes and can here be collated digitally, available to made to a value of around SEK 647 million employer's contributions. This helps with everyone working with purchasing at Peab. during 2014. This represents around 1.6 the identification of rogue businesses and The system is not yet being used to its full per cent of the total purchasing volume. 23 increases the possibility of excluding crimextent, which has limited the possibility of site visits were made during 2014 ahead of inal elements. Suppliers are blocked for two compiling statistics from 2014. As more potential purchases outside the Nordic reasons: pure criminality or suspicions of suppliers are registered in the Purchasing region, nine of which were to new suppliers, rogue activities, insolvency/bankruptcy, etc. and Supplier Portal, it will be possible to eleven to existing suppliers and three to improve current work on documentation The supply chain suppliers' secondary suppliers. These visits and monitoring. The process of improving Most of Peab's first tier suppliers are based involve an exhaustive review of the compagovernance and guaranteeing quality in the Nordic countries, which have extenny's work in areas such as environment and control of suppliers has involved Peab's sive regulations covering child labour and quality, working environment, human rights contract register being linked to the forced labour, human rights and the working and finance. PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 19 Contents ETHICS AS A CORNERSTONE company, in business activities and in the and to provide a method of identifying soluOF THE BUSINESS community. Peab must stand for good busitions to various kinds of ethical dilemmas. Work on ethics and against corruption at ness ethics and transparency. To achieve In addition, the Group-wide introduction day Peab is about building trust and preventing this, everyone at Peab is encouraged to aimed at all new employees, as well as the risks to the brand, and aims to create assume personal responsibility for their job-specific training programmes, include secure, profitable business for all concerned. behaviour. Peab's ethical guidelines are preventive training on ethics. By preventing, checking and handling risks, attached to each employment contract. By these can be developed into opportunities signing the contract, employees themEvents during the year and create long-term value for the customer, selves undertake to observe, and where During the year, no incidents of anticompetthe company and the community. Crucial appropriate in their managerial role to itive activities, breaches of the competition elements of this work are preventive communicate, the values on which Peab's law or monopolistic behaviour leading to training on ethics and making sure that any ethical guidelines and Code of Conduct are legal action has occurred. In one case, a breaches have consequences and are based. Supplementary documents, such as supplier was excluded from new assignmade visible. A systematic work on ethics the manual for entertainment and procements as a result of involvement in have repercussions in the form of a dures for the approval of invoices, contain corruption. stronger brand, greater competitive rules on how Peab employees should In 2014, Peab discovered five internal strength and reduced costs. behave in specific matters. If anyone is incidents of suspected corruption/financial unsure about how to behave in a given situirregularities. All incidents were handled by The Ethical Council ation, help is available from their manager, the manager in charge with the support of Peab has an Ethical Council that consists from Peab's Group functions or from the the members of the Ethical Council. Two of one representative of executive manageEthical Council. incidents have been reported to the police, ment, three from Group functions (HR, whereas for four of the incidents employSafety and Legal Affairs) and, where appliPeab has for a number of years been ment law measures have been taken. An cable, the senior manager (business area able to report suspected breaches to the employment agency that Peab previously manager or Group function manager) under Ethical Council or to the Group's Security hired has been prosecuted and convicted whose business area the issue in question Department, through either an open or an of financial criminalty. belongs. The Ethical Council reports anonymous process. A decision was made directly to executive management. The in 2014 to implement an external whistleCouncil's undertaking is to answer quesblowing system. It will then be possible to tions of an ethical nature from the business submit reports of suspicions via an IT and employees, to communicate Peab's system that is outside Peab, which allows approach to ethical issues, both internally anonymous correspondence with the and externally, and to prepare and make reporter if there is any need for supplemendecisions on issues when laws or ethical tary information, as well as monitoring and guidelines are breached. In collaboration feedback of individual cases. It is expected with Peab’s Security Department, a decithat the new system will be implemented sion basis is prepared on what measures during spring 2015. should be taken in the event of a breach. Preventive training on ethics The consequence of an ethical breach can As an element of preventive work against be anything from a verbal warning to a corruption and breaches of Peab's ethical written reminder, the serving of notice, guidelines, the wide-ranging training dismissal and reporting to the police. The programme known as Etikrundan was Ethical Council makes sure that incidents started in 2009. Since then, about 3,700 that occur in the Group are handled in the salaried employees in Sweden, Norway same way, regardless of within which part and Finland have completed the course. of the business they occur and the position Throughout the course, various ethical of the person who committed the breach. dilemmas that can take place within the Peab's ethical guidelines business are discussed. The intention is to Peab's work on ethics is based on the provide participants with an opportunity to ethical guidelines, which summarise how calibrate their ethical compass against the Peab’s employees shall behave in the standards and rules that apply within Peab 20 PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Contents THE BUSINESS Purchasing volume (SEK million) in countries outside the Nordic region PURCHASING 2014 Total purchasing volume was approximately SEK 41 billion. Germany, 118,7 Poland, 28,9 The purchasing volume outside the Nordic region was Netherlands, 111,5 Latvia, 23,2 approximately SEK 647 million, representing 1.6 per cent of Belgium, 81,4 Hungary, 8,9 the total purchasing volume. Lithuania, 78,5 Italy, 7,5 Most of the purchases were of contract works, i.e. including both materials and labour. France, 70 UK, 4,4 The number of suppliers was approximately 41,000. Spain, 55,2 China, 4 About 1,700 suppliers accounted for approximately 80 per Estonia, 51,2 Slovenia, 4 cent of the purchasing volume. International purchases outside the Nordic region were made during 2014 to a value of around SEK 647 million, representing approximately 1.6 per cent of Peab's total purchasing volume. PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 21 Contents Climate and Environment Reducing the business's negative clitional business is passed on to subcontracLEED, Svanen and Miljöbyggnad (tools for mate and environmental impact is an tors and suppliers when agreements are the environmental certification/labeling of obvious part of responsible community signed, by means of project plans and in construction projects). Working in accordbuilding. Efficient resource management day-to-day work. ance with these environmental certification generates both business opportunities Peab's environmental management systems facilitates systematic work on the and the potential for financial savings – system is an integral part of the business environmental issues dealt with in the while at the same time reducing the management system. The environment polvarious systems. Peab is involved in the impact on the environment. Peab's icy is integrated into Peab's company policy development of the certification systems systemic environmental work is inteand is in harmony with the Code of Conduct, together with other industry operators. grated into the business and we work which is based on the principles of the UN continuously on issues of improvement Global Compact and the precautionary RESOURCE EFFICIENCY and development. principle. The environment policy satisfies Resource efficiency is a critical issue in the all of the requirements for ISO 14001:2004, energy-, materialand transport-intensive SYSTEMATIC ENVIRONMENTAL and large parts of Peab's business are now industry in which Peab operates. DevelopWORK certified in accordance with ISO 14001 or ments of new solutions and stricter requirePeab's climate and environmental work other national certification systems. ments come along quickly. Well-established takes place at all levels of the organisation procedures and processes, a high level of Environmental certification and is an integral part of the business. The of buildings and civil engineering competence and continuous development business areas collaborate on shared works work are therefore crucial in order to be issues, and are responsible for developing Peab works systematically with environable to rationalise resource utilisation and and running climate and environmental mental certification, both at the client's reduce the negative climate and environwork within their respective businesses. request and within in-house projects. Work mental impact. The links between resource Through environmental impact assesson environmental certification is primarily efficiency and financial savings are evident. ments at relevant levels, significant enviestablished in the market for buildings, but By employing a resource-efficient work ronmental aspects are identified, which there is increasing interest in the certificamethod, Peab sees opportunities to create form the basis of the work with goal formution of civil engineering projects. Amongst competitive advantages and lower produclations and priorities. The business areas Peab’s employees there are people with tion costs. It also creates the conditions for have resources at regional and company competence in not only CEEQUAL (a tool being able to satisfy future regulations, level to support work in day-to-day operafor sustainability classification of civil engitougher customer requirements and develtions. Environmental work in the operaneering projects), but also BREEAM, opments in the industry. Fuel consumption, 415 GWh Carbon dioxide emissions, 147,865 tonnes GWh 400 The chart shows the fuel consumption in Sweden. 350 The statistics are based on the number of litres purchased and 300 the conversion into GWh is performed using the conversion 250 factors in GRI. Separate reporting 200 of diesel with a non-fossil blend started in 2014. 150 100 2012 50 2013 Scope 1 Scope 2 2014 Fuel oil, 26,986 tons Electricity, 1,056 tons 0 Fuel oil Non-fossil Gasoline Diesel Diesel E85 Gasoline, 756 tons Scope 3 oil non-fossil blend Diesel, 83,216 tons Waste management incl. waste Diesel non-fossil blend transportation, 25,718 tons 10,120 tons Electricity usage, 117 GWh E85, 13 tons GWh 150 The statistics for electricity include the business in Sweden The above chart shows Peab's carbon dioxide emis120 and Finland. Electricity usage in Sweden is limited to the sions for the Swedish business. The emissions from electricity purchased via a central contract supplier.This fuel consumption (scope 1) were calculated with the 90 electricity is environmentally declared, and corresponds to aid of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. The emissions around 50 per cent of the purchasing volume for electricity. from electricity usage (scope 2) are based on the 60 The electricity usage in Finland is estimated on the basis of environmental declaration for hydro power electricity the finance system. by Vattenfall, and the emissions from waste manage30 ment (scope 3) are calculated with a tool developed 0 for the industry. -12 -13 -14 Electricity 22 PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Contents C L I M AT E A N D E N V I R O N M E N T Peab first with Nordic e-Construction The construction industry’s supply chain has long been characterised by orders being placed at short notice and hence, limited communication of plans. This is why over-­ capacity has long been necessary in order to be able to guarantee reliable deliveries. Peab has for about 2.5 years been running pilot projects and was the first in Sweden to use the industry standard for the electronic sharing of information for civil engineering transport operations and machine services, known as Nordic e-Construction (NeC). This standard was developed by the Swedish Construction Industry’s Electronic Business Standard (BEAst) with the purpose to rationalise the ordering and payment process. Through a digitised system which offers information in real time, an opportunity to work in the same way with all parties is given. Increased automation has contributed to less administration and thus freed up time for planning. Users and customers have concluded that the system offers more efficient routes, consolidated loading and returns. All this result in lower costs, shorter lead times and fewer errors. It can thus be confirmed that NeC brings both productivity and environmental benefits in terms of civil engineering transport operations and machine services. Standardised industry article numbers for materials, machines and services are also expected to contribute in work on environmental improvement measures, as it allows for statistics and monitoring of, for instance, fuel consumption. PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 23 Contents C L I M AT E A N D E N V I R O N M E N T Energy efficiency during 2014 Peab Asfalt started to use a waste. However, making the transition to Peab focuses on finding energy-efficient bio-oil instead of traditional fuel oil at three alternative fuels is not without complicasolutions in production, and also for the of the 21 asphalt plants in Sweden. Bio-oil tions, as there is, for example, an increased products handed over to the customer is a pure residual product from, among risk of bacterial growth in connection with when an assignment is completed. The other sources, the food industry and is certain non-fossil blends, and the availability Construction business area invested in classified as carbon dioxide-neutral by the of alternative fuels varies in the Nordic skills development during 2014 in order to Swedish Energy Agency. In 2014 a total of region. Since the end of 2014, however, improve knowledge of energy-efficient approximately 1.2 million litres of fossil fuel there has been a product on the market construction and energy monitoring. Peab oil were replaced. This measure has with a 20 per cent blend of fossil-free fuel, strives to build homes with low energy enabled Peab Asfalt to reduce its carbon in which the risk of bacterial growth has consumption levels. We plan on the basis dioxide emissions by around 3,300 tonnes, been minimised. Peab will start using this of 75 per cent of the energy consumption and the conversion of the asphalt plants fuel during 2015. specified as requirements in standards in has generated a significant increase in the Transport and travel our in-house housing projects. Peab's proportion of non-fossil fuel oil. The switch A large part of the work to reduce transport energy process for construction is inteto bio-oil has worked so well that the operations to and from workplaces involves grated into the business management conversion of a number of other asphalt good logistical planning. Efficient logistics system and is based on Sveby's industry plants is being planned. In 2014 Swerock are created as early as in the planning standard for energy . Energy Agreement also applied to start using the bio-oil in a phase in conjunction with suppliers, and it 12, an industry standard for energy number of its concrete plants. requires a holistic perspective. Peab works consumption in line with Sveby, is being During summer 2014 Lambertsson continuously with improvement measures applied together with certain clients. Sverige AB acquired the solar power comin logistics planning. An example is the The focus in Peab's construction and pany Glacell, which works in the field of work with BEAst and NeC. Read more on civil engineering projects is also on making construction and consultancy relating to page 23. the workplaces more energy-efficient by solar power plants. The combination of 2014 saw the launch of a travel portal means of a number of different measures. Lambertsson's and Glacell's activities in the at Peab, where employees can book hotels, Examples include well-insulated cabins, field of solar power sees a merger of two trains, flights and car hire ahead of their presence-controlled lighting and LED lamps. specialist companies that share the same business philosophy, local entrepreneurbusiness trips. The travel portal allows for Over the last ten-year period, Peab better monitoring of the environmental ship and a focus on energy solutions of the Asfalt has been working intensively to impact of business travel, although as all future. In Sweden, Peab has for many develop an energy-efficient manufacturing employees have not yet been introduced to years had an agreement with Vattenfall to process for asphalt. By reducing the laying the portal, statistics on carbon dioxide the effect that all electricity purchased temperature of the asphalt by around 30 through the agreement is environmentally emissions from travel will not be included in degrees, it is estimated that energy concertified electricity from hydro power. this year's sustainability report. Waste minsumption is cut by about 20 per cent and Peab's business uses large volumes of imisation and recycling carbon dioxide emissions by 30 per cent. fuel for transport, contracting machines and The construction and civil engineering In 2014, lower temperature asphalt reprethe production of, for example, asphalt and industry is responsible for a large proporsented 3.9 (3.3) per cent of Peab's total tion of waste generated in society. Increasconcrete. To reduce the proportion of fossil asphalt laid in Sweden and Norway. ing recycling levels and reducing the total diesel, Peab has been testing diesel with Fossil-free energy sources different kinds of non-fuel blends, such as volume of waste is an issue given high priIn order to cut carbon dioxide emissions, diesel produced from oil or slaughterhouse ority, from a financial savings perspective, Environmental certification of buildings Licensable and notifiable business activities Number of projects Percentage of net sales 50 10 Certified Ongoing 8 40 6 30 4 20 2 0 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 10 Licensable Notifiable 0 Peab operates licensable and notifiable business 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 activities in Sweden and Finland. These comprise Miljöbyggnad BREEAM LEED Green Buildning Svanen märkning rock and gravel quarries, water operations, transport of waste and hazardous waste, asphalt plants, The chart shows the number of projects that are certified or where certification work is concrete production and the receipt and storage of under way. An ongoing project is one that has been registered with the organisation material for recycling. Permits are renewed and responsible for the certification system. A project that is certified is one that has received supplemented on an ongoing basis. certification, although not necessarily the final certification that is provided after a certain verification period. The chart includes both projects carried out in-house in which Peab is responsible for certification and projects in which Peab is building for clients. 24 PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Contents C L I M AT E A N D E N V I R O N M E N T as well as in order to reduce the negative environmental impact. In its asphalt production, Peab is working to increase the amount of recycled material in order to avoid using virgin material. During 2014, Peab Asfalt used 11 per cent recycled material in its asphalt production in Sweden and Norway, an increase on the corresponding figure for 2013, which was 9.4 per cent. Peab has for a long time been focusing on sorting and minimising waste at the construction sites. The level of sorting has improved in Sweden in recent years, with agreements being signed with two waste contractors. In 2014, the Finnish business signed similar agreements with two waste contractors, which is facilitating both monitoring and sorting work on site. the industry in general has a more proactive CoBuilder/BASS. All suppliers must register Swerecycling is a newly established approach to substances that are hazardous goods supplied in the database in which brand within Peab/Swerock that operates in to the environment and health. Peab is Peab has an automatic filter based on State the recycling industry. The brand is estabstriving to phase out substances and criteria on hazardous substances as well as lished in each region, so that it can operate groups of substances that represent a criteria defined in-house. In Finland, the efficiently, locally and close to its customers. potential risk to health or the environment. TUKES (Finnish Safety and Chemicals Using its existing and planned plants as a Peab wants to be able to offer sound, Agency) safety sheets are used in order to base, Swerecycling and its experienced healthy environments for all people who live make sure that products in production personnel will identify effective solutions for and work in what we build, and we are comply with current legislation. both external customers and those within therefore active in industry-wide initiatives The Civil Engineering and Industry the Group. Swerycling for instance handles to phase out hazardous substances. business areas have joined forces to purand processes pure excavation material, chase a chemicals management system Proactive phasing-out work concrete, contaminated soil and a number Peab primarily uses two systems for that provides up-to-date safety data sheets of waste fractions, primarly from projects product selection in the Swedish construcand shows which products contain subwithin Construction and Civil Engineering. tion business: BASTA and Byggvarubedstances that pose risks. These are risks as ömningen (Building Material Assessment described, for example, in lists issued by PHASING OUT OF SUBSTANCES System). Both systems have property-­ the Swedish Chemicals Agency, REACH HAZARDOUS TO THE ENVIRONMENT AND HEALTH based criteria for the phasing out of and SIN, as well as group A and group B Historically, the industry has used a number substances hazardous to the environment substances in AFS 2011:19 (Chemical of substances that have recently proven to and health, and Peab is involved in work to Hazards in the Working Environment). be hazardous to people and the environdevelop these systems. The Norwegian ment. There is now greater knowledge, and equivalent is an electronic system called Number of online meetings and Waste videoconferencing hours Online meetings Processing method, non-hazardous Processing method, hazardous waste in Sweden waste in Sweden Number Total 126,847 (91,961) tonnes Total 4,891 (2,550) tonnes 50,000 <1% 40,000 <1% 6% 30,000 16% 20,000 13% 10,000 41% 15% 0 25% 2012 2013 2104 65% The use of online meetings continues to rise, replacing many physical journeys in connection with meetings, which benefits the environment, finances and 17% employees. Videoconferencing hours Landfill site Incineration Recycling Reuse Composting Hours The statistics on processing methods of waste that are reported above include the Swedish 10,000 business and are limited to the waste that is processed by our central waste contractors. Excava8,000 tion material and clay from civil engineering projects are heavy fractions that are being reused or recycled. These are not included as they would affect the total distribution between the processing 6,000 methods significantly. 4,000 There is a fall in videoconferencing hours, one reason 2,000 being that employees are replacing videoconferences 0 with online meetings. 2012 2013 2014 PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 25 Contents Social Engagement The role of a community builder is according to the world around us, which is 6. A high level of employment after strongly associated with the assuming why work started during the early summer graduation. of responsibility for social developto define new objectives. A wide-ranging 7. The right staffing creates a personal ments. This was clearly evident in this consultation process that included school, and allows the right support year's stakeholder dialogues and is fulstudents, teachers, parents, the industry, and the right challenges. ly in line with Peab's fundamental valauthorities, municipalities and researchers 8. A safe, positive, healthy environment ues and the focus on the local markets. resulted in a clear ambition: the Peab for learning and working. Peab wants to be a responsible member School shall be Sweden's best construction 9. That little bit extra that is only available of the community that contributes and civil engineering education, and the at the Peab School. towards social development. The school where students can embark on the 10. Sustainability and a long-term common thread in our engagements best journey based on their individual approach: Community + Peab + is young people. circumstances. The concept of the sustainPeab School = able vocational education is known as Best Placements School – Best Journey. The stakeholder PLACEMENTS AND TRAINING Peab offers work placements for young groups identified the following ten criteria, With a strong sense of social engagement people who want an insight into the which will be emphasised from now on: for young people and in order to recruit the industry. For example, Peab Civil Engi1. An open, developmental environment right competence, Peab is involved in neering Central Sweden hosted around 40 where anyone who is prepared to battle training and placements for young people summer placements in 2014. Last autumn has the opportunity to succeed. through various initiatives. Peab also welcomed people on placements 2. Equality between schools and between Best School – Best Journey individuals. under Tekniksprånget for the second year Development work continued in 2013 within 3. A modern vocational education at the in a row. Tekniksprånget is an initiative in the Peab School – Peab's own independent very forefront of developments. which trade and industry, the government, educational company that now comprises 4. Engaged, competent employees who employers' organisations and trade unions five upper secondary schools, 450 students are passionate about their work and are working together to strengthen and almost 50 employees. It is important who can develop in their jobs. Sweden's future skills supply and to attract that educational activities are at the fore5. Integrated teaching and active work more people to the engineering profession. front of developments and adapted on fundamental values. 26 PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Contents SOCIAL ENGAGEMENT University projects Sweden to support young people since year is awarded to people or organisations Peab welcomes university students who 2007. Mentor Sweden is a non-profit-­ that make significant contributions for a are interested in writing their university making organisation that strives to provide sustainable world. The award-winners are projects, as long as resources for super­ young people with self-esteem and the important role models that have translated vision and relevant projects are available. strength to grow through mentoring. The words into action. The theme for 2014 was This usually results in a mutual sharing of purpose is to support them in making posiTransformative Leadership for Global experiences and interesting final reports. tive decisions and resisting violence and Business”, and the jury’s award was In Finland, Peab has long had a close drugs. Peab and Mentor worked together presented to Paul Polman, CEO of Unilever. partnership and since 2014 an agreement during 2014 in the project with Tynnereds­ Sustainable social development requires with Tampere Technical University and skolan described below. Other joint activities collaboration and drive, which are also Metropolia University of Applied Science have been workshops on drug prevention, factors that relate to Peab's work method, in Helsinki. This partnership involves Peab parenting courses and seminars. which is why it is natural for Peab to support contributing to education, offering study the Gothenburg Award. Täby Badminton Club visits and supervision for university – Peab Badminton Academy projects. In 2014 guidance was provided Täby Badminton Club is a club for both CHOOSE YOUR PRICE by Peab's Finnish business to more than seniors and juniors that aims to offer all Buying a home is one of the biggest trans30 students from these universities working players support and development regardactions a private individual undertakes in on their projects. For Peab, this is a good less of their level of ambition. With Peab's life. To make the dream of a newly built way of bringing in new employees, and support, the club runs a badminton school, apartment come true for more people, Peab many are offered jobs after finishing their Peab Badminton Academy, at which about Residential Development West developed projects. 250 young people and 15 coaches are a concept that offers the customer the active. Peab Badminton Academy holds chance to choose a price that suits their SPONSORSHIP AND PARTNERSHIPS daily practice sessions, and the club bases specific situation in life. Those who have Peab has a long tradition of supporting its activities on allowing the hall to serve as not managed to build up savings, or do not activities for young people that promote a youth centre. A safe place where everyone want to lock their money into a home, can team sports, equal opportunity and diveris welcome to practise, do homework or opt for a lower price in exchange for a sity. A sponsorship policy was adopted in socialise with friends. Peab is engaged in higher monthly payment. By contrast, those 2012, in which the purpose of sponsorship many similar sports activities for young with money they want to invest in the home was specified. The focus of sponsorship people. These include Brommapojkarna's can choose the opposite. shall be on contexts that benefit social football school and the Åhus Beach development and inclusion, and engageHandball Festival. ment shall be in line with Peab's values and The Gothenburg Award for support the local community. Sustainable Development Mentoring Peab supports the Gothenburg Award for Peab has been collaborating with Mentor Sustainable Development, which every Students learn from other students Over a period of four weeks, students from the Peab School and the Tynneredsskolan school worked together to refurbish the communal area at Tynneredsskolan. The students themselves were responsible for ideas and drawings, and for actually carrying out the refurbishment. The aim of the project was to give students in the 13-16 age group a chance to try out working life as craftsmen and women. By integrating practical reality into the school's theoretical subjects, students gained greater awareness of the different vocations in the construction industry. For the upper secondary students from the Peab School, who took on the role of supervisors, collaborating with the younger students gave them a chance to try out a new role and use the skills they had acquired during their upper secondary studies. In this role, they also had to assume responsibility for teaching. The most difficult part of supervising was getting the students to work. It took a few days, but in the end everyone was involved and engaged. The best thing about the project was the team spirit, and seeing the students become happier and more positive as we worked together, says Erik Lundin, upper secondary student from the Peab School in Gothenburg (in picture on the left hand side on page 26). Assuming responsibility and collaboration were important ingredients during the project, where the parties involved were the Peab School, Tynneredsskolan, Peab and Mentor Sweden. A similar refurbishment project was carried out in 2013 at Bredängsskolan in Stockholm. PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 27 Contents Active memberships ASIS INTERNATIONAL SWEDISH CENTRE FOR INNOVATION SWEDEN GREEN BUILDING ASIS is a non-profit-making organisation for AND QUALITY IN THE BUILT COUNCIL (SGBC) safety managers and other managers in the ENVIRONMENT SGBC is a non-profit-making association field of safety. ASIS makes sure that safety The Swedish Centre for Innovation and Quality owned by its members, open to all companies management is acknowledged as a profession in the Built Environment is a node and a cataand organisations in the Swedish construction by the industry, media authorities and the lyst for research, innovation and quality develand property sector. The association strives to general public. Peab is a member. opment in the building of communities. Peab is achieve green construction and to develop and represented on the Board. influence work on the environment and sustainBASTA ability in the industry. Peab is involved in most of BASTA is an industry-wide system that aims to LIFT OPERATOR the SGBC's committees. Peab is also a member TRAINING COUNCIL (LUR) phase out hazardous substances. Peab particiof the Norwegian (NGBC) and Finnish (FIGBC) Peab is a member of LUR, which is an indepates in BASTA's science council. Green Building Councils. pendent body responsible for the content and BEAST development of LLP (Lift Operator Curriculum). SVEBY BEAst is a Swedish acronym for the ConstrucLUR authorises lift operator training companies Sveby is a Swedish acronym for Standardise tion and Property Industry's Electronic Business that commit to observe LLP and LUR's terms and verify energy performance in buildings, and Standard, and at present there are just over 90 and conditions. is an industry-wide programme that develops members. It is a meeting place for anything to tools for agreements on energy utilisation. CONFEDERATION OF SWEDISH do with e-commerce B2B, web solutions and ENTERPRISE'S SAFETY DELEGATION Peab is involved as a financier and is in the e-communication in the industry. A representaA network for profitable risk management. The steering group. tive from Peab is Chair of the Board at BEAst. office is at the Confederation of Swedish EnterSWEDISH PRECAST CONCRETE prise. Peab is a member and has also made FEDERATION BIM ALLIANCE presentations and member meetings. The Swedish Precast Concrete Federation is BIM Alliance is a non-profit-making organisation that works for improved community building a meeting place for those who manufacture SWEDISH ASSOCIATION FOR through BIM (Building Information Modeling) – SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS (NMC) concrete and those who build with it. The digital structured information management – by NMC is a non-profit-making organisation for Swedish Precast Concrete Federation is a creating networks and disseminating informacompanies and organisations that wish to provider of knowledge that lobbies for the tion, as well as developing tools and support. improve and stimulate work on sustainable benefits of concrete from a life cycle perspecThe members consist of a number of different development. The association offers a cross-­ tive. Peab is represented on the Board and in players within the community building sector, industry platform and strives to share knowlall committees. including Peab. edge, contacts and experiences between SWEDISH CONSTRUCTION companies and organisations. Peab is a FEDERATION (BI) BRAINS & BRICKS member. The Swedish Construction Federation (BI) is Brains & Bricks – B2 – is a centre of excellence the industry and employers' organisation for that focuses on flows of materials and informaCLEAN SOIL NETWORK the construction industry, with around 3,200 tion, as well as support for decision-making and The Clean Soil Network is a non-profit-making member companies. BI's purpose is to promote planning, to create the conditions for a cost-­ organisation that aims to promote development the common interests of its member companies efficient construction industry. It is a joint initiain the remediation of contamination in soil and as employers and traders in the construction tive set up by Peab, Linköping University and water. The aim is to create greater contact industry. Peab holds the position of Chair at Katrineholm Municipality. between different groups in society that are BI and has representatives on many of BI's affected by the issue, to promote current issues BYGGVARUBEDÖMNINGEN (BVB) councils/committees, including the Energy and and to collaborate with Nordic and European BVB performs assessments of building products Environment Council and the working environnetworks. Peab is a corporate member. from a life cycle perspective. Peab is responment reference group. sible for the system's criteria group. DEVELOPMENT FUND OF THE SWEDISH CENTRE FOR SWEDISH CONSTRUCTION ZERO-ENERGY BUILDINGS CENTRE FOR MANAGEMENT OF INDUSTRY (SBUF) SBUF is the construction industry's own organiThe Swedish Centre for Zero-Energy Buildings BUILT ENVIRONMENT (CMB) sation for research and development, with is a non-profit-making organisation that aims to CMB was formed as a collaboration between almost 5,000 affiliated companies in Sweden. play an active role in driving and stimulating Chalmers University of Technology and the SBUF strives to develop the construction developments towards low-energy buildings Swedish community building sector, and it is process in order to create better commercial with minimal energy requirements and as far as now Sweden's biggest forum for management-­ conditions for contractors and fitters to make possible with energy produced in-house. Peab related issues in the field of community building. use of research and to drive development work. is represented as a deputy Board member and Peab is a member of many of the CMB's Peab is represented on the Board and a couple an active member. committees. One representative from Peab is a member of the BIM Management Group. of the committees, and holds the position of Chair. UN GLOBAL COMPACT Peab signed the UN Global Compact in 2012, and is working strategically with the ten principles of sustainable business in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. GALAXEN BYGG Galaxen Bygg is the construction sector's own company for preventive work on the working environment and rehabilitation. Peab is represented on the Board of Galaxen, Galaxen Council East, as well as in Galaxen's school group. 28 PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Contents Glossary AFS 2001:1 GREEN BUILDING SCI The Swedish Work Environment Authority’s Code of EU-controlled environmental programme for Satisfied Customer Index. Statutes on systematic work on the working environment. buildings. NPS AFS 2011:19 GRI NPS (Net Promoter Score) is an index for employer The Swedish Work Environment Authority's regulations The Global Reporting Initiative is an international brands, in which employees assess their employer on chemical working environment risks. framework for sustainability reporting. on the basis of internal identity, satisfaction and loyalty. BASTA HAMARE See explanation under active memberships. Case officer in issues relating to the working OHSAS 18001 BEAst environment, trade union position. An international standard that defines requirements See explanation under active memberships. relating to working environment management ISO systems. BREEAM ISO stands for International Organization for The Building Research Establishment Environmental Standardization. REACH Assessment Method is an environmental certification REACH (Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and ISO 14001 restriction of Chemicals) is an EU ordinance on the system for buildings. An environmental management system. registration, evaluation, authorisation and restriction BVB of chemicals. ISO 9001 See explanation under active memberships. A quality management system. SEKO BYGGNADS SEKO, the Service and Communication Union, is a The Swedish Construction Workers' Union is a trade LED LAMPS trade union within LO (the Swedish Trade Union union for employees in the construction business. LED stands for Light-Emitting Diode, an energy-­ Confederation). efficient light source. CEEQUAL SIN A tool used to classify the sustainability of civil LEED The SIN list contains hundreds of chemicals that engineering projects. Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design comply with the EU's chemicals legislation. is a system for the environmental certification of COBuilder/BASS buildings. SVANEN An electronic system for choosing chemicals in the A Nordic ecolabel for products and services, construction industry based on authority requirements MILJÖBYGGNAD including buildings. in Norway. Certification system based on Swedish construction and authority rules as well as Swedish construction TUKES COP practice regarding energy, indoor environment and The Finnish Safety and Chemicals Agency. Communication on Progress, an annual follow-up that materials. the UN Global Compact requires of its members in which they report on the work they have carried out in NeC the areas of human rights, Labour, the environment Nordic e-Construction is an industry standard for the and anti-corruption. electronic sharing of information for civil engineering transport activities and machine services. UN GLOBAL COMPACT See explanation under active memberships. Global Compact principles and page references Area Principles Page Human rights 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and 18-21 2. make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 14-21 Labour 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 14-21 4. the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 18-21 5. the effective abolition of child labour; and 18-21 6. the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 14-21 Environment 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 18-25 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 18-25 9. encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 18-25 Anti-corruption 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 18-21 PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 29 Contents GRI Index General standard disclosures Indicator Description Page Full or partial Omission Strategy and analysis G4-1 Statement from the CEO about the relevance of sustainable development. 4-5 Organisational profile G4-3 The name of the organisation. 6 G4-4 The most important brands, products and services. 6-9 G4-5 Location of the organisation’s head office. 6 G4-6 The number of countries where the organisation operates, and names of countries where either the 6 organisation has significant operations or that are specifically relevant to sustainable development. G4-7 Ownership structure and legal form. 6-9 G4-8 Markets in which the organisation operates. 6-9 G4-9 The scale of the organisation. 6-9, 14 G4-10 Total workforce, broken down by type of employment, gender and region. 14-15 Omission: As subcontractors are engaged for individual projects, i.e. not on a regular basis, we have chosen not to include subcontractors in the workforce statistics. G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. 14 G4-12 Describe the organisation's supply chain. 18-21 G4-13 Significant changes regarding the organisation’s size, structure, ownership or supply chain. 6-9,18-21 G4-14 Whether and how the precautionary principle is applied in the organisation. 22 G4-15 External economic, environmental and social principles, and standards to which the organisation 4-5, 28 subscribes or which it endorses. G4-16 List of active memberships of organisations. 28 Material aspects and boundaries G4-17 List all entities included in the financial statements. 6-9 G4-18 Processes for defining the content of the report. 10-13 G4-19 List all material aspects identified. 10-13 G4-20 Describe any internal boundaries in the area of sustainability. 10-13 G4-21 Report whether the sustainability aspects are material and their external boundaries. 10-13 G4-22 Report the effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for 2-27 such restatement. G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope and aspect boundaries. 2, 10-13 Stakeholder engagement G4-24 List the stakeholder groups with which the organisation has contact. 10-13 G4-25 Principle for identification and selection of stakeholders. 10-13 G4-26 Method of stakeholder dialogue, broken down by type of dialogue, stakeholder group and frequency. 10-13 G4-27 Report key topics that have been raised through stakeholder engagement. 10-13 Information about the report G4-28 Reporting period for the information provided. 2 G4-29 Date of publication of the most recent report. 2 G4-30 Reporting cycle (annual/biannual, etc.). 2 G4-31 Contact persons for questions regarding the report and its content. 2 G4-32 GRI Index. 30-31 G4-33 Policy and current application in respect of having the report attested externally. 2 Governance G4-34 Report the governance structure of the organisation, including committees of the highest governance 9 body that are responsible for economic, environmental and social issues. Ethics and integrity G4-56 Describe the organisation's values and principles, e.g. a code of conduct or similar. 6-9 Full = Partial = 30 PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Contents G R I A N D U N G L O B A L C O M PAGCRTI I N D E X Specific standard disclosures Material aspects – Full or GRI definition Indicator Description Page partial Omission SOCIAL INDICATORS Occupational health G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach. 10-13, 14-16 and safety G4-LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker 14 health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, 14-16 and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender. G4-LA7 Workers with high incidence or risk of diseases related to their occupation. 16 Training and education G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach. 10-13, 14-17 G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee 16 category. G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development 16-17 reviews, by gender and by employee category. Diversity and equal G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach. 10-13, 17 opportunity G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee 9,17 category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. Omission: Minority groups are not reported in accordance with Swedish law. Equal remuneration for G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach. 10-13, 16-17 women and men G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, 16-17 by significant locations of operation. Supplier assessment G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach. 10-13, 18-19 for labor practices G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor practices criteria. 18-19 Omission: Refers to supplier assessments undertaken outside the Nordic region. Supplier human rights G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach. 10-13, 18-19 assessment G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights criteria. 18-19 Omission: Refers to supplier assessments undertaken outside the Nordic region. Anti-corruption G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach. 10-13, 19-20 G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures. 19-20 G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken. 20 Anti-competitive G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach. 10-13, 19-20 behavior G4-SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly 20 practices and their outcomes. Product and service G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach. 10-13, 18 labeling G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. 18 ENVIRONMENTAL INDICATORS Materials G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach. 10-13, 24-25 G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. 24-25 Omission: Data is provided for part of our operations. Energy G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach. 10-13, 22-25 G4-EN3 Energy consumption. 22-25 Omission: The statistics cover fuel consumption and electricity usage in Sweden and to some extent Finland. G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption. 22-25 Emissions G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach. 10-13, 22-25 G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas emissions, scope 1. 22 G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas emissions, scope 2. 22 G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions, scope 3. 22 G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. 24-25 Effluents and waste G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach. 10-13, 24-25 G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. 25 Products and services G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach. 10-13, 22-25 G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services. 22-25 Supplier environmental G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach. 10-13, 18-19 assessment G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria. 18-19 Omission: Refers to supplier assessments undertaken outside the Nordic region. SECTOR SPECIFIC INDICATORS Product and service G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach. 10-13, 22-24 labeling CRE8 Type and number of sustainability certification, rating and labeling schemes for 22-24 new construction, management, occupation and redevelopment. Full = Partial = PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 31 Contents Peab is the Nordic Community Builder with about 13,000 employees and net sales in excess of SEK 43 billion. The Group's subsidiaries have strategically located offices in Sweden, Norway and Finland. The head office is in Förslöv, on the Bjäre Peninsula in Skåne, Sweden. The share is listed on NASDAQ Stockholm. RHR/CC Malmö Peab AB (publ) • Margretetorpsvägen 84 • SE-269 73 Förslöv • Tel +46 431-890 00 peab.com
