Advanced Facilities Management L.L.C. Corniche Road PO Box 44038 Abu Dhabi United Arab Emirates www.advancedfm.ae www.bbih.ae AFM (Advanced Facilities Management) 2015 COP Communication on Progress 25 March 2015 Dear Stakeholders, I am pleased to confirm that Advanced Facilities Management L.L.C. supports the ‘Ten Principles’ of the UN Global Compact with respect to Human Rights, Labour, Environment and AntiCorruption. With this communication, we express our intent to advance those principles within our sphere of influence. We are committed to making the UN Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company, and to engage in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, particularly the Millennium Development Goals. Advanced Facilities Management L.L.C., will make a clear statement of this commitment to our stakeholders and the general public. We recognize that a key requirement for participation in the Global Compact is the annual submission of a COP Communication on Progress that describes our company’s efforts to implement the ‘Ten Principles’. We support public accountability and transparency, and therefore commit to report on progress within one year of joining the Global Compact, and annually thereafter according to the Global Compact COP Policy. Sincerely yours, Mr. Samih Basaddiq Managing Director Advanced Facilities Management L.L.C. Corniche Road PO Box 44038 Abu Dhabi United Arab Emirates www.advancedfm.ae www.bbih.ae ENVIRONMENT Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. *Declaration of Support Advanced Catering encourages the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies and a have a great support in undertaking initiatives to promote environmental responsibility. As UNEP conveys the message “Think Eat Save-Reduce Your Food print!” We also believe food waste as a major opportunity to assist in a transition towards a low carbon, making resource more efficient and promoting Green Economy. It can contribute to environmental sustainability, economic improvements, food security and the realization of the UN Secretary General's Zero Hunger Challenge. *Implementation We have adopted many steps to reflect the company’s view on reducing Wastage. During this process, we have classified and quantified the wastage as Wastage of: 1. Expired non cooked Food items 2. Not Served Cooked Food Items 3. Served Cooked Food Items. And undertaken following steps to reduce the wastage to a negligible statistic:  Weekly Reporting Slow Moving and Near Expiry Items and make an action plan to consume it.  Daily Reporting of Wastage and monitoring the same for cooked food items which used to come as wastage but not served at all.  Serving Less food at one time  Discussing the food wastage with the consumers and the person representing the consumers from time to time.  Unavoidable food waste is being sold for making food of Birds and cattle feed.  Rest of food wastage is being disposed of in an environmental friendly way through a renowned environmental service company. Advanced Facilities Management L.L.C. Corniche Road PO Box 44038 Abu Dhabi United Arab Emirates www.advancedfm.ae www.bbih.ae *Measurement of Outcomes The implementation has a win-win outcome. As a growing entity, Advanced Catering grows up with a healthy competition by reducing their cost to a remarkable extent and as a highly responsible Environmental Service Partner we achieve one of the best environment objectives. Wastage of Served Cooked Food Items Vehicle taking the wastage Advanced Catering Meeting with Clients AFM – Audit & Accounts Department Supports AFM Program on “YES to Environment” Advanced Facilities Management L.L.C. Corniche Road PO Box 44038 Abu Dhabi United Arab Emirates www.advancedfm.ae www.bbih.ae ENVIRONMENT Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. *Declaration of Support Advanced Laundry L.L.C. encourages the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies and a have a great support in undertaking initiatives to promote environmental responsibility. In full support of UNEP’s campaign on “Go Green – Minimize waste and recycle more” We believe that protecting the environment is everyone’s responsibility, and starts with understanding environmental issues. The basics includes using of eco-friendly/ biodegrable materials, reducing how much energy and materials we use, re-using what we can and recycling the rest. Protecting the environment is essential to the quality of life for present and future generations, and the current challenge is the combination of environmental protection with economic growth continues in a way that is sustainable. *Implementation Advanced Laundry L.L.C uses ready biodegrable fabric care solutions products from Diversey, Inc., approved and certified by OECD – Organization for Economic and Cooperative Development. *Measurement of Outcomes The OECD test guideline uses laboratory test to measure the degree and the rate of biodegration over a set time frame (28 days most commonly). Ready biodegrable materials will biodegrade rapidly in the environment and when discharged as waste water constituents will be effectively broken down during wastewater treatment, thus producing less pollution. As the ready biodegradable materials breaks down into its non-toxic components, it will not cause dangerous chemical that can poison water or pollute air. Advanced Laundry Staff supports AFM Program on ‘YES to Environment!’ Advanced Facilities Management L.L.C. Corniche Road PO Box 44038 Abu Dhabi United Arab Emirates www.advancedfm.ae www.bbih.ae HUMAN RIGHTS & LABOUR Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. *Declaration of Support Advanced Facilities Management supports and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights and the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. AFM-HR Philosophy states that, “People are our most important resources, with this in mind; we make sure that our employees are productive and they are given opportunities for staff development and skills enhancement trainings to become professionals and experts in their field of specializations” *Implementation “We believed that there is no tool for Development more effective than the Empowerment of our People”. Part of our HR Best Practices, we have a range of Learning & Development Programs inspired by the four elements of Empowerment: 1. Responsibility Our employees need to feel a sense of ownership and see the big picture of how their contribution fits into the organizational vision of our Company and clients – Culture fit. This will help to develop their sense of responsibility and value to our clients’. 2. Trust We instill among our employees the culture and value of trust by influencing them to be working with Integrity, credibility, consistency, dependability and honesty for the good of the team and our clients’. 3. Training Employees cannot take on new responsibilities without the tools to do the Job. In advanced Facilities Management, we involve all our employees on the different range of training i.e. Awareness Related Trainings, Skills & Functional Related Trainings, and Behavioral Trainings towards our employees’ optimum development. 4. Support Our employee empowerment is enhanced through support, spending time coaching, testing out ideas, and allowing them to handle challenges. We are leading employees through our Performance Management System through a wide range of tools and techniques to assist them deliver consistent high performance. Advanced Facilities Management L.L.C. Corniche Road PO Box 44038 Abu Dhabi United Arab Emirates www.advancedfm.ae www.bbih.ae *Measurement of Outcomes “AFM Learning and development programs had increased training hours spent (per person/per annum) by 30 – 35 hours end of 2014 and is being maintained as per the International Standard – required learning hours per employee beginning of 2015.” “As per survey results, increased percentage of Customer Satisfaction from 2014 and beginning of 2015.” HR Induction QHSE Induction ‘Train the Trainer’ ‘On-Job Training’ Advanced Facilities Management L.L.C. Corniche Road PO Box 44038 Abu Dhabi United Arab Emirates www.advancedfm.ae www.bbih.ae Technical Training AFM – Employees Awarded by ADFCA – Abu Dhabi Food Control Authority for excellent performance. Advanced Facilities Management L.L.C. Corniche Road PO Box 44038 Abu Dhabi United Arab Emirates www.advancedfm.ae www.bbih.ae ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. *Declaration of Support AFM-Mojumaat Workers City & AFM-ADFCA Project supports precautionary approach to environmental challenges and undertakes initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility on energy and water conservation. AFM believes that conserving energy benefits the environment by reducing the emission of greenhouse gases. Innovative energy conservation practices can result in decreased methane releases or the amount of biosolids generated, among other benefits and promotes a better, healthier and greener environment. AFM-ADFCA Project also supports – UAE’s ‘Think Green – Reuse & Recycle Zero Waste Program’. AFM believes that reducing, reusing, and recycling will help communities and contribute in protecting our environment by saving money, energy, and natural resources. *Implementation AFM – Mojumaat Worker’s City & AFM-ADFCA Project have taken many measures and initiatives on conserving energy and water: Advanced Facilities Management had reduced the water consumption of Mojumaat Workers City by fixing water saving equipments. Following are the equipments and measures we taken to reduce the water usage.  Aerators in wash basin mixers in labor, staff accommodation, office, kitchen, mosque and laundry.  Washer Regulator inside the angle valves of health faucets, and mosque ablution area.  Fixed typical shower heads and water flow regulator (PCR-E9 l/Min) to reduce the water usage to 50%.  Reuse of laundry water for landscape irrigation purposes. AFM Water Saving Equipments Washer Regulator Tap Aerator Shower Water Regulator Re-use of Water Advanced Facilities Management L.L.C. Corniche Road PO Box 44038 Abu Dhabi United Arab Emirates www.advancedfm.ae www.bbih.ae Reduction of electrical consumption is a major part of energy conservation. AFM-Mojumaat Workers City has taken following measures to save electricity in efficient manner to reduce electricity cost up to 60%.  Photocell sensors for external lighting. Street lights are on only when really required.  Solar system for street lighting.  Led lamps as a replacement of fluorescent lamps.  Air curtains for air conditioning system.  Capacitor banks for power factor correction. AFM Energy Saving Equipments Capacitor Bank Photocell Sensor Led Lamps Solar System for Steet Lighting Air Curtains Advanced Facilities Management L.L.C. Corniche Road PO Box 44038 Abu Dhabi United Arab Emirates www.advancedfm.ae www.bbih.ae AFM-ADFCA Project has taken following measures to save electricity in efficient manner to reduce electricity cost.  Turning off lights in all rooms if the room is not in use—and instructs employees to do the same.  Use “free” light by opening curtains and blinds whenever the sun is shining, and turning off the bulbs.  Turn off all electronics at the end of the day  Turn off HVAC in any room that is not in use—and remind employees to do the same. *Measurement of Outcomes  AFM-Mojumaat Workers City has reduced electricity cost up to 60% from last year 2014 to date.  AFM-Mojumaat Workers City has reduced water usage up to 50% from last year 2014 to date.  AFM –ADFCA Project is using 6V LED Spotlight in the whole ADFCA Building. The Replace incandescent (standard) light bulbs with energy-saving Light-emitting diode (LEDs), which not only use less energy, but also last 10 times longer before burning out. AFM-ADFCA MONTHLY RECYCLED WASTE REPORT 800 600 400 200 0 PLASTIC WASTE Qty / Kg PAPER WASTE Qty / Kg CARTON WASTE Qty / Kg CAN WASTE Qty / Kg PLASTIC WASTE 728.25 PAPER WASTE 1770.5 CARTON WASTE 1436.5 Advanced Facilities Management L.L.C. Corniche Road PO Box 44038 Abu Dhabi United Arab Emirates www.advancedfm.ae www.bbih.ae MOJUMAAT WORKERS CITY OPERATIONS STAFF SUPPORTS AFM PROGRAM ON ‘YES TO ENVIRONMENT’! ADFCA PROJECT STAFF SUPPORTS AFM PROGRAM ON ‘YES TO ENVIRONMENT’
