Corporate Sustainable Responsibility Enabling Users and their business 1 Corporate Sustainable Responsibility Our commitment It is important that Computacenter gives something back to these societies and communities where it can.” Computacenter understands that the Since 2007, the Group has based its approach following the establishment of our commitment services that it provides to its customers, to Corporate Sustainable Responsibility on to the Principles, we have adopted and revised and therefore the value that it can deliver the 10 core principles (the ‘Principles’) of a number of our existing policies and to its shareholders, require vital contributions the United Nations Global Compact (‘UNGC’). procedures across the Group, and will continue from a wide range of stakeholders, including This includes setting objectives and behaving to do so on an ongoing basis. We actively seek its employees, contractors, suppliers and in a manner which is consistent with these to collaborate with and encourage our business partners. The societies and Principles when dealing with its own suppliers and contractors to operate in a communities which provide and support workforce and in its business interaction with similar socially responsible manner. This is these individuals and organisations therefore each community in each country within which reviewed by the Group through the completion themselves make an indirect, but important it operates. In 2009, the Group published its and ongoing review of relevant third party contribution, towards the Group’s success, first Communication on Progress on the UNGC documentation. The Group makes additional and it is important that Computacenter gives website, and we have continued to do so on enquiries to ensure that the commitments we something back to these societies and an annual basis ever since that time. The receive from our suppliers are fulfilled. communities where it can. Additionally, Group believes that the UNGC provides it with it is increasingly the case that our existing an appropriate framework through which and prospective customers view activity in to measure its development and progress in this area as one of the determinant factors this area. We strive to incorporate the UNGC in whom they want to do business with. and its principles into our strategy, culture Therefore, not only is making an and day-to-day operations, through the Mike Norris appropriate contribution in this area the development, communication and Chief Executive Officer right thing to do for the wider community, implementation of relevant policies 10 March 2015 it is the right thing to do for our business. throughout the organisation. Indeed, We strive to Computacenter plc Corporate Sustainable Responsibility incorporate the UNGC and its principles into our strategy.” 2 Our Progress in 2014 Human rights 2015 objectives 2015 objectives 1a. Support and respect the • Completion by all employees of • For an increased number of UK business internationally proclaimed Computacenter in Germany of compliance employees to complete some form of human rights – Human Rights training related to ‘Business Ethics’. ‘health & safety’ training during the period. • To continue awareness through a • For the German business to successfully 2014 objectives and achievements – Sustainable Development Principles roll-out a number of health-related SI not formalised Week to be held during the period. promotions for its employees in 2015, Continue to maintain human including health awareness courses. rights awareness, including through 1b. Support and respect the These will be split into an awareness the Company’s ‘Principles of internationally proclaimed webinar, e-learning around health Employee Behaviour’. human rights – Health and Safety management and an associated Following a related Group-wide ‘Values workshop for Computacenter in Review’, Computacenter has adopted a 2014 objectives and achievements – Germany managers. It will also number of values that represent how it SIs = AIR and AFR* include four webinars related to stress, wants to do business. These include a Maintain the AIR at below 2.5 and the movement, nutrition and relaxation specific reference to the fact that ‘people AFR at below 1.0 across all of our main for employees. matter’ to Computacenter, whether they operating geographies. • Computacenter in Germany to be are employees, customers or suppliers, In the UK, the average AIR decreased to deemed compliant with BS OHSAS and require that people involved with 0.59 (2013: 0.82) and the average AFR 18001 during a 2015 surveillance the business be treated with respect and decreased to 0.33 (2013: 0.46). In the audit, and the successful roll-out by an acknowledgement of each person’s UK, an internet-based training and risk that business of a new compliance tool intrinsic value as a human being. assessment programme was used to to ensure that Computacenter in Germany In the Group’s German business, deliver targeted training in the area of has implemented appropriate actions with an ‘e-book’ for every employee was health & safety. As a result, 2,977 regards to labour-related requirements launched in 2014 raising awareness employees completed some form of and environmental protection. and providing training modules on the health & safety training during the period, • For Computacenter in France to train environment, health and safety and and increased levels of activity are all relevant staff, both at the Company’s sustainable development. expected during 2015. In addition, headquarters and at customer sites, In France, enhance focus through a 57 Project Managers have gained an with regards to the implementation ‘Sustainable Development Principles IOSH certification so they can assist in of prevention plans in this area. Week’ to be held by our French business the delivery of certain health and safety in April 2014, and ensure increased requirements for certain projects 2. Ensure that the Group is not numbers of employees participate undertaken by the UK business. complicit in human rights abuses against the level achieved in 2013. In Germany, the average AIR increased A ‘Sustainable Development Principles to 2.02 (2013: 1.48) and the average 2014 objectives and achievements – Week’ was held during 2014 by AFR increased to 1.16 (2013: 0.85) SI not formalised Computacenter in France. During In France, the average AIR increased Continue to maintain key and new this event, a communication relating to 1.06 (2013: 0.98) and the average vendor assessments through the vendor to sustainable development, the AFR increased to 0.59 (2013: 0.51) conformance questionnaire and the environment or human rights was Continued stress prevention training for monitoring of returns. communicated to the French workforce managers in the Group’s German business. This objective has been completed by every day to promote general awareness In 2014, the German business provided the Group’s UK and French businesses. of related issues. 3 stress prevention webinars for Implementation by the Group’s German In Germany, the continuing provision of approximately 100 participants. business of an updated supplier ‘leadership guidance’ workshops which, Additionally, in 2014 almost 100% of questionnaire to incorporate additional amongst other things, focus on the all employees of Computacenter in UNGC related principles already human rights of the Group’s employees. Germany completed the training contained within its Supplier Terms During 2014, a total of 4 workshops “Health and Safety at Work”. and Conditions. were held for 50 participants. In France, continued training of increased The German business updated its The updating of compliance training in numbers of employees in ‘fire risk’. Supplier questionnaire during the ‘Business Ethics’ and ‘Anti-corruption This has been completed, teaching reporting period, although this will be and fair competition’, to subsequently relevant employees the basic principles updated further as a project to harmonise be completed by employees in of fire-fighting. Additionally, those the Supplier questionnaire used across German business. employees in charge of evacuating the Group’s UK, German and French Each of these training modules has individuals from French offices have businesses is now underway. been updated by the Group’s German received appropriate training in that business, ready for completion by area during the year. employees in 2015. * AIR – Number of accidents per 1,000 employees 3 AFR – Number of accidents per 100,000 working hours 2015 objectives 2015 objectives The ‘Family Service’ offering was • Continue to maintain key and new • Maintain current status and continue to continued throughout 2014, which vendor assessments through the reassess vendor conformance, through included amongst other things the vendor conformance questionnaire the review of questionnaire responses. provision of a 24-hour hotline for and the monitoring of returns. individuals to discuss any personal • Development of a standardised Supplier 5. Abolish all forms of child labour or professional issue that they wish questionnaire across the Group’s UK, to, in confidence, and additionally German and French businesses. 2014 objectives and achievements – childcare support. The project ‘Women SI not formalised at Work’ was continued and developed, Labour standards Continue to develop young careers and formulating principles for equality and 3. Uphold employees’ freedom seek assurance from all key vendors that the promotion of women and outlining of association no child labour is deployed, on behalf of measures and objectives for the the Group, in non-European geographies. business to help achieve this aim. 2014 objectives and achievements – In Germany, the Exploras Programme, In France, to continue awareness SI not formalised which regulates conditions for working through the Sustainable Development Continuation of positive interaction with students at Computacenter in Germany Principles Week held in April 2014. French and German Works Councils was continued. In addition, The Sustainable Development week within new Group operating structure. Computacenter in Germany was again was held as planned with Sustainable In accordance with the German Works awarded the ‘Fair Company Seal’ from Development related communications Constitution Act, and on the basis of a Handelsblatt and Junge Karriere for the being sent to the Computacenter in changed operating structure within the manner in which it accommodates and France workforce on every day during German business, a new Works Council treats interns and students. that week. These related principally was elected during the reporting period. In France, aim to increase the level of to the company’s commitment to Through positive cooperation with charitable fundraising and fulfil the terms Sustainable Development, Anti-Bribery Management, the impact of the of the agreement signed with Aide et Action and Corruption, Eco-Driving and organisational change on work carried Increase of 25 per cent in fundraising for sustainable use of electricity, water out by the Works Council has been kept Aide et Action against that raised in and paper. to a minimum. 2013, through the completion of various In September 2014, Computacenter Extensive engagement with French fundraising activities throughout the year. conducted its first Group-wide Works Council concerning the restructuring employee survey, which included of Computacenter in France in 2014. 2015 objectives approximately 13,400 employees A number of agreements were made • The continuation of the Exploras across the organisation. between the business and Works Council Programme in Computacenter in Germany during the reporting period, including and to keep the ‘Fair Company Seal’ from 2015 objectives an Agreement on Transport Subsidies Handelsblatt and Junge Karriere. • To continue the provision of the in April 2014. • In France, aim to maintain the level of ‘Family Service’ to Computacenter charitable fundraising and fulfil the terms in Germany staff. 2015 objectives of the agreement signed with Aide et Action. • Completion of the project ‘Women at • Continuation of positive interaction with Work’ by Computacenter in Germany. French and German Works Councils within 6. Support equality in respect of • In France, to continue awareness the Group operating structure. employment and occupation through the Sustainable Development and eliminate all discrimination Principles Week held in June 2015. 4. Eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labour 2014 objectives and achievements – SI not formalised 2014 objectives and achievements – Continued provision of online training SI not formalised relating to the General Equal Treatment Maintain current status and reassess Act for German employees. vendor conformance, through the review Anti-discrimination training had been of questionnaire responses. available and provided throughout the This objective has been completed across year by the Group’s German business. the Group’s UK and French businesses. Continuation of the ‘Family Service’ offering In France, aim to increase the level of to employees and the development of the charitable fundraising and fulfil the terms project ‘Women at Work’. Computacenter plc Corporate Sustainable Responsibility of the agreement signed with Aide et Action Increase of 25 per cent in fundraising for Aide et Action against that raised in 2013, through the completion of various fundraising activities throughout the year. 4 Environment 8. Undertake initiatives to There was a 0.7 per cent reduction in Our Progress in 2014 7. Apply precaution to promote greater involvement Group greenhouse gas emissions in 2014 activities which can impair in the community against the comparative prior year levels, the environment notwithstanding the ongoing expansion of 2014 objectives and achievements – the Group’s global activities and increase 2014 objectives and achievements – SI not formalised in its revenues during that period. continued SI not formalised Continue to track and monitor, and increase Continued investments in new Continue to monitor the energy the level of, charity fundraising activities. technologies helped the carbon emissions consumption levels at the Group Employees in the UK raised nearly produced by our datacenters. Head Office and the CO2 emissions £145,190 (2013: £130,000) during 2014, of Computacenter UK vehicles, with for Prostate Cancer UK, the Alzheimer’s 2015 objectives the aim of lowering these. Society and the Teenage Cancer Trust. • Continue to track customer demand The average CO2 emitted per UK fleet A number of additional charitable for ‘Green IT’ offerings. vehicle has continued to reduce from activities were organised by the UK • Continue to monitor the level of carbon 168 g/km in 2009 to 119 g/km in 2014, business during the year, including dioxide emissions across the Group, following the ongoing expansion of our a sponsored 10-day trek in Peru for and where possible to reduce these. ‘Green Fleet’ Programme. This represents a team of 15 UK employees. a reduction of 29% over five years. In Germany, several blood donation Anti-corruption In Germany, successful completion campaigns were organised to take place 10. Impede corruption in all its of audit of quality and environmental within working hours, in association forms, including extortion management system (ISO: 9001:2000 with the Red Cross. and bribery and ISO 14001:2005) Our French business has maintained The Group’s German business was its partnership with Aide et Action to 2014 objectives and achievements – recertified as compliant with the ISO support schooling for children worldwide SI not formalised 9001:2000 and 14001:2005 quality and who are forced to work due to their To complete the implementation of environmental management systems. circumstances. Increase of 25 per cent recommendations arising from the The Group’s French business obtained its in fundraising for Aide et Action against external audit of the Group’s Anti-bribery ISO 14001 certificate – Computacenter that raised in 2013, through the policy and procedures. in France continues to engage in completion of various fundraising Following an external assessment of understanding the environmental impact activities throughout the year. the Group’s anti-bribery and corruption of its activities. This includes measuring, procedures in 2013, additional monitoring and reducing its consumption 2015 objectives procedures have been implemented by of natural resources, optimising its • Increase the level of charitable fundraising the Group during the course of 2014. management of waste collection raised by the UK business. and disposal, and sending related • Maintain partnership with Aide et Action 2015 Objectives communications to its customers in France to support schooling for children • An audit of compliance with the Group’s and suppliers. forced to work due to their circumstances. updated anti-bribery and corruption • Organise blood donation campaigns in procedures will take place in the UK 2015 objectives Germany in association with the Red Cross. and Germany during 2015. • Successful audit of the quality and • Completion by all employees of environmental management system 9. Encourage the development Computacenter in Germany in 2015 (ISO 9001:2000 and 14001:2005) within of environmentally friendly of compliance training related to the Group’s German business in 2015. technologies ‘Anti-bribery and corruption’. • Implementation of the EU Directive for efficient energy management to 2014 objectives and achievements – December 2015. This will include an SI = Proportion of customer contract energy audit to analyse the energy wins where ‘Green IT’ was part of the consumption of Computacenter in contract scope Germany, and following this to improve Continue to track customer demand for its energy efficiency on a continuing ‘Green IT’ offerings and monitor carbon basis. The audit is required by law and dioxide emissions across the Group will take place once every four years. In 2014, within the Group’s UK business • The commencing of a project to review and, 13.9 per cent (2013: 13.4 per cent) of new if appropriate, revise the environmental key contract wins included a ‘Green IT’ brief. performance indicators of Computacenter in Germany, and subsequently to track performance of these. 5 Our CSD approach for 2015 The Group will continue to base its approach in this area on the UNGC 10 core principles. In line with our Group Operating Model, we will look to harmonise our additional CSR aspirations and targets across the Group. We will continue to focus on lowering the environmental impact of our business activities, and providing our employees with a supportive environment within which to work. We will continue to contribute appropriately to the communities which provide and support our people, and additionally to external causes chosen by our employees. The UNGC continues to be an appropriate tool and framework to guide us towards the achievement of our CSR aspirations, and accordingly we will remain committed to it in 2015. Simon Pereira Company Secretary 10 March 2015 Computacenter plc Corporate Sustainable Responsibility 6 Computacenter plc Hatfield Avenue Hatfield Hertfordshire AL10 9TW United Kingdom Tel: +44 (0) 1707 631000 Fax: +44 (0) 1707 639966 E&OE. All trademarks acknowledged. © 2015 Computacenter. All rights reserved. www.computacenter.com
