UNITED NATION GLOBAL COMPACT Communication On Progress (COP Report) 2014 ABDELGADIR HUSSEIN GAAFAR TRADING ENTERPRISES To: Secretary-General of the United Nations CC: Executive Director of UNGC Presentation and submitting of second Communication On Progress As part of the (UNGC) we are glad to express our full support and commitment to the ten (UNGC) principles. We are committed to uphold them and at the same time reflecting, absorbing the ten principles in our business operation so as to synchronize our strategies, operations plus achievements, synonymously with the (UNGC) initiative and its core values. Since we are a member of the Sudanese Businessmen and Employers Federation we have contributed and participated in an extensive work to spread and educate other members of the SBF to participate in the UNGC. As a small business and due to the nature of our organization the changes and effects of the UNGC on the business community was reflected in our active role as member of the UNGC local net work One of our great ambitions is to eradicate Malaria which kills more number of people than those who were killed in the war in Sudan. We are working with NRS international group through LLINT to different NGOs and local health gov’t authorities We have also successfully organized and participated with UNIMIS, UNAMID and UN Entebbe office in a Seminar held in Khartoum on how to be a member of the UNGM and to be a vendor to the UN Organizations working in Sudan specially in the conflict and civil war torn zones in areas like Darfur, Western Blue Nile and Nubba mountains. . Hussein Gafar GM & CEO COP Our activities, policies and plans since we have joined the UNGC can be reflected and summarized in the below paragraphs which gives some description of polices and pragmatically taken actions in the implementation of the (UNGC) in our organization. Human Rights and Labour Freedom of expression of opinions between all member of staff during weekly and monthly meetings held at different level of our organization management on any complaints or ideas to improve the working conditions and environment. Our employees are made aware of all human rights and also to reflect these policies in the day to day dealing with our customers and clients. Copy from this COP will be published and distributed amongst all concerned customers and business associates and partners. Our policy strictly prohibits any kind of child labour. All our workers are covered through special type of medical and pension scheme insurance policy plus been members of the local workers federation ie: the government of Sudan social insurance scheme which guarantee them compensation after services or retirement. We are also committed to no sexual harassment in our operation and equal opportunity in jobs for males and females plus special training program internally conducted and to join courses organized by specialized workers centers. We are part of special scheme for young graduates training within our organization for short terms. One of our organization contributions to a friendly healthy environment orders were made out to all our correspondence and communications is to be done via Email and to change most lights into LED lights, by doing so we avoid the huge usage of printing paper and saving energy. Anti-corruption: Part of our local culture or society is totally and utterly against any kind of bribery and corruption. Our organization has its own anti-corruption policy which is passed to all employees at all levels. CSR& Community Engagement: Our responsibilities and contribution to the society is reflected but not limited to the following projects in which we are donators, sponsors and members of board of directors.  Ahlia University  Kordfan University in western part of Sudan Elobied city  Maternity and child hood organization Conclusion: We hope by submitting our COP that we will be able to established a common ground of understanding between our stake holders and all parties involved and concerned Key performance indicator (KPI) KPI Target + Action Measurement & Results Forced Labour + Child Zero tolerance also prohibition of child Accomplished Labour labour Labour To comply with the human rights and labour 94 % laws in accordance to UNGC and other local laws Reduce Energy and printing We are replacing all lights to LED and using 42%reduce Papers CDs + Flash and E-messages to reduce cost from usage of printing papers original consumption Anti-Corruption Awareness and training to all our staff for Analysis level of zero tolerance with non-existence completed Right to Opinions & New This is to review any staff complains or 83% Ideas ideas Kind Regards Hussein Gafar GM&CEO
