UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) & CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) ANNUAL REPORT 2015 DKG GROUP GAJAH ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | 1 CONTENT CHAPTER 1 : STATEMENT 3 CHAPTER 2 : GROUP PROFILE 4 CHAPTER 3 : CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 12 CHAPTER 4 : ANNUAL ACTIONS 16 CHAPTER 5 : MEET OUR STAKEHOLDERS 19 CHAPTER 6 : UNGC PLINCIPLES 26 CHAPTER 7 : HUMAN RIGHTS 28 CHAPTER 8 : LABOR & ANTI-CORRUPTION 29 CHAPTER 9 : ENVIRONMENT 32 CHAPTER 10: SOCIETY 42 CHAPTER 11: INFORMATION ON THE REPORT 50 STATEMENT of Continued Support We have been committed to aligning our operations and We are continually recognized for these efforts through the DKG Group respects the environment, supports strategies with the Compact's Ten Principles, which are results we deliver. We collaborate with customers, sustainable development and is committed to universally accepted and cover human rights, labor, health suppliers and communities worldwide, acting ethically to environmentally sound business practices. To fulfil this and safety, the environment and anti-corruption. Our protect the environment and improve quality of life. commitment, DKG Group integrates environmental Human Rights & Sustainability Policy defines how we Through our products, services, operations and principles, programs and practices into each business, abide by these principles and related global standards. Our partnerships, we promote the efficient use of resources, strives for the continuous improvement of its environmental Ethics Policy, which is reviewed annually, guides us as we supporting global sustainability as well as business performance through application of the DKG Group grow and confront new business issues in the countries in success. We work to grow our business through Environmental Management System and provides which we operate. Our Ethics Policy defines how we treat sustainable products and services, improving operational appropriate information, communication and training to each other with fairness, dignity and respect, and provides effectiveness and expanding our engagement with key build internal and external understanding concerning the guidance regarding acceptable and appropriate practices stakeholders on sustainability issues. Company's environmental commitment. and actions for all of our employees. As part of our commitment to support the Compact’s Ten Principles, we THE global consumer demand for high quality foods that DKG Group remains committed to strengthening have updated our Communication on Progress (COP) are fresh tasting, safe and nutritive has created pressure communities through environmental conservation, social Report. for the development of new and improved production and service and education where we work and operate. It is the processing technologies and services. We are focusing on dedication and hard work of all of our employees across Our COP Report provides details on how we are a multidisciplinary approach, identifying key innovative the globe that allow us to achieve the sustainability goals implementing the Ten Principles and meeting many, if not sustainable solutions along the food chain, while at the we set for ourselves and to stand behind our vision of most, best practices under each criterion relevant to our same time reassuring the consumer of their safety. creating a more safe, comfortable and sustainable world. company. In addition to posting our COP Report on the UN Global Compact website, we also post it on our public website, where you will also find our most recent Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Report, Business and Evagelos N. Drimtzias Christos D. Katsanos Sustainability Report, Ethics Policy and Human Rights & President Executive Director Sustainability Policy. For more than 20 years, DKG Group, a global diversified technology and industrial leader, has made sustainability an integral part of business through its vision and values. DKG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | 3 GROUP EVOLUTION EVANGELOS N. DRIMTZIAS 1992 DRIKA FARM DRIKA Farm was founded in 1996 by Evagelos N. 1996 Evangelos N. Drimtzias as a Sales Technician and Drimtzias and Katerina Kaparaki. DRIKA Farm's then Account Executive of the GRODAN Group for facilities are located in an area of ​0,5 Ha on the Balkan Countries (Greece, Serbia, site Ammoudares -Ierapetra, Crete,Greece, 200 Albania,FYROM,Bulgaria), Turkey, Cyprus, Egypt. meters from the sea side.Its production focused in Mini Cucumber. 1992 CHRISTOS D. KATSANOS 1992 K INSPIRATIONS 1993 (AGROCONSULTANS HELLAS) a boutique consulting agency that works with Christos D. Katsanos has been involved as a personal brands, consumer brands and startups production manager and then Greenhouse led by Christos D. Katsanos Manager in Greece innovations such as: Branded product (Prima tomatoes), Cluster type tomatoes, Hydroponic cultivation method. In 1998 as a Technical/Sales Advisor for Grodan products and solutions. DKG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | 4 GROUP EVOLUTION ASK ME 2003 The Askme® Translation and DKG CONSULTING 2001 Localisation Division of the DKG Group services are focused on greenhouse and farm was formed with the objective to activities include advice regarding hydroponic undertake complex translation projects, techniques, crop selection, plant propagation, offering a complete range of translation feeding solutions recipes, harvesting based on and localisation services in the Greek TGM® and TFM® methodologies, is also a market. Head of the ASK ME division is service provider for quality, environmental & Eleni Mathaiopoulou food safety systems.. 1996 DKG GROUP 2001 IRTC 2001 The International Research & Training Centre On December 2011 was established the DKG for Sustainability (IRTC) is a training facilitator GROUP led by Christos D. Katsanos and organisation that provides a greater Evangelos N. Drimtzias . The headquarters of understanding of key issues for the the Group is located in Thessaloniki, Greece, with agriculture industry and provide solutions for additional advocacy office operating in Crete. those with an interest in the sector. DKG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | 5 GROUP EVOLUTION GLOBALG.A.P. 2003 IQ CROPS 2011 The Group's department AskMe officially translates provides intelligent agricultural supplies to the in Greek language the GLOBALG.A.P. documents, agricultural sector. In general, IQ CROPS Ltd related to Fruit and Vegetables Certification promotes innovative solutions based in new (Integrated Farm Assurance). Also Group's technologies and scientific results offering safety Executive Director Mr. Christos D. Katsanos to the consumers and the environment towards become Official GLOBALGAP train-the public natural systems and biological solutions that trainer. promote plant health and growth. 2003 AGRISYSTEMS 2003 GREEN CLUB 2007 DKG GROUP was Co-founder of TUV HELLAS DKG GROUP is a founding member and has been AGRISYSTEMS Division. appointed as the Coordinator of The Green Club®, External Lead Auditor for Quality, Environment a Reputation Management Growers Association and Agriculture that consists of 21 member companies. These Lead Trainer on ISO 9001, ISO 14001, ISO growers who are located all over Greece grow 22000, GLOBALGAP & AGRO Standards hydponically a number of different vegetables in greenhouses. DKG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | 6 GROUP EVOLUTION Hydroponics.gr 2011 is a web tool where all the experience and 2012 ISO 14001:2004 practical application of knowledge of DKG on In December 2011 DKG Consulting Ltd (member hydroponic cultivation is available for its of the DKG Group of Companies and Initiatives) customers and to the public. More specific, achieved ISO 14001:2004 Certification, the this knowledge and experience is based on international standard for environmental rockwool substrates (Grodan products) and management systems. DKG’s Know How 2011 ISO 9001:2008 IQ GREENING 2011 DKG Consulting Ltd also renewed its certificate of 2011 provides foliage base architecture practices for a registration for the International Quality Standard healthier and more sustainable urban living ISO 9001:2008. The management system for the environment. The following green design practices scope of certification which this time extended to such as : Vertical Green Walls, Urban, Farming, “Design, Implementation and Support of Total Roof Gardening, Green Sound absorbent Walls Greenhouse & Farm Management – Training on Total Greenhouse and Farm Management”. DKG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | 7 GROUP EVOLUTION FRAOULABEST AWARD Our Integrated System of Hydroponic 2015 TROPOS BRANDING Strawberry (FraoulaBest) solution is a one stop creative shop led by Christos D. Katsanos and Dimitris Gartzonikas . We 2013 awarded in the Green Business Innovation Awards.Our client TSACHALOS GREEN design brands from the ground up (big B), TRADE SA was awarded for contribution to and help existing companies present green business but especially for its themselves better (little b) by applying Zero innovative hydroponic system Fraoula to low Budget Branding Methodology. Best . www.tropos.gr www.fraoulabest.com 2013 TODAY GLOBALG.A.P TOMACCINI AWARD 2013 2015 1st place in the award category Research & Documents Ver.5 Development has been taken by TOMACCINI The Askme® Translation and as the first Snack Tomato in the Greek market. Localisation Division of the DKG Tomaccini received the prize as a joint award for Group translate the GLOBALG.A.P the three companies that contributed to its documents Version 5,0, achieving creation; Hellenic Greenhouses SA, AB more than 200,000 words up to now. Vassilopoulos SA and DKG Consulting Ltd DKG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | 8 GROUP Members TROPOS Branding is a one stop creative shop. We design brands from the ground up (big B), and DKG Group is a diversified international help existing companies present themselves better (little b) by applying group of companies and initiatives with Zero to low Budget Branding operations in various sectors. The activities Methodology. of the Group conducted principally in Balkan and Southeast Mediterranean IQ CROPS provides DKG Consulting services Countries (Greece, Romania, Bulgaria, intelligent agricultural supplies to the agricultural sector. In general, IQ are focused on greenhouse and farm Serbia, FYROM, Bosnia, Montenegro, CROPS Ltd promotes innovative DKG activities include general advice Albania, Cyprus, Egypt and Turkey). regarding hydroponic techniques, crop or solutions based in new technologies and scientific results offering safety to CONSULTING product selection, cultivar (variety/ies) the consumers and the environment selection, plant propagation processes, Maintaining business success for more than towards natural systems and biological general cultivation practices, distance solutions that promote plant health crop monitoring, feeding solutions 20 years is not easy. But each of DKG recipes, harvesting, packaging and postand growth. Group's companies has proven its ability to harvest practices based on Total adapt and prosper in ever-evolving needs Greenhouse Management ®and Total Farm Management® methodologies. and deliver long-term growth. The AskMe DKG Consulting Ltd is also a service Translation and Localisation provider for quality, environmental & food Department of the DKG Group was safety systems The Group's success and its unique formed with the objective to business model, based on sustainability, undertake complex translation innovation and flexibility, have made DKG projects, offering a complete range DRIKA Farm's facilities of translation and localisation are located in an area of 0,5 Ha on the one of the biggest consulting, inspection, services in the Greek market. site Ammoudares -Ierapetra, urban farming, foliage based architecture, Crete,Greece, 200 meters from the sea intelligent crop supplies and training side.Its production focused in Mini The IRTC Cucumber facilitator bodies, offering specialized International Research & Training sustainable solutions to individuals, Centre for Sustainability (IRTC) is a professional groups and corporations within training facilitator organisation that the fresh produce and agro supplies trade provides a greater understanding of key issues for the agriculture industry industry creating value through people, and provide solutions for those with an and for people, all driven by a brand-centric interest in the sector, through top quality speakers and presentations philosophy. from industry leaders and researchers.. DKG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | 9 DKG GROUP’S TERRITORY GREECE BULGARIA ROMANIA TURKEY SERBIA CYPRUS BOSNIA MONTENEGRO FYROM ALBANIA EGYPT Consulting on greenhouse DKG CONSULTING and farm activities OPERATIONAL STRUCTURE IQ CROPS Intelligent agricultural supplies FINANCE / ACCOUNTING A one stop creative shop, TROPOS BRANDING design brands.. Training facilitator IRTC organization QUALITY MANAGEMENT Fresh Hydroponic DRIKA FARM products Translation and ASK ME Localization Department COMPANIES IQ GREENING Foliage base architecture Hydroponic Strawberry FRAOULA BEST Solution Hydroponic Lettuce SOLUTIONS MAROULI BEST Solution A Reputation Management GREEN CLUB Growers Association Digital Knowledge HYDROPONICS.GR Diffusion EU PROJECTS & STUDIES Greenhouse Business LIVE CELL Concept THE FRIENDS OF Association of a special XINOMAVRO Greek wine variety DKG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | 11 OUR CODE – OUR RESPONSIBILITY Governance Our Code is a public statement that DKG Group is committed to doing the right thing. It serves as a DKG Group is continuously valuable resource to help employees and others make informed, ethical decisions. Our Code includes strengthening its corporate governance references to relevant Requirements, Policies, system, recognizing that sound Procedures and Practices and other helpful tools corporate governance is extremely and resources. important in operating the company effectively, efficiently, and in a way that We conduct business on the basis of fairness, good increases corporate value over the midfaith and integrity, and expect the same from parties to long-term. with whom we do business. DKG Group expects its stakeholders to show the same ethical behavior in The Board of Directors of the DKG Group sets their business conduct. high standards for the Company's employees, officers and directors. Implicit in this philosophy We believe our success depends on the trust and is the importance of sound corporate confidence placed in us by our customers, people, governance. It is the duty of the Board of shareholders, suppliers, partners, advisers, and the Directors to serve as a prudent fiduciary for community at large. shareholders and to oversee the management of the Company's business. The foundation principles underpin our desire to maintain that trust and form our Code of Conduct: To fulfill its responsibilities and to discharge its duty, the Board of Directors follows the procedures and standards that are set forth in these guidelines. These guidelines are subject to modification from time to time as the Board of Our Values & • • • We act with honesty and integrity We comply with laws and with our policies We respect confidentiality and do not Directors deems appropriate in the best interests of the Company or as required by Behaviors are misuse information • We value and maintain our professionalism applicable laws and regulations. the Foundation • We work as a team of our Code DKG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | 12 Governance Risk management and Practices internal controls We have adopted numerous governance and management practices to ensure continual The president and director recognize that the improvement on sustainability issues. Group is ambitious and seeking significant growth. Our Board of Directors which comprises the President, the Executive Director, the Finance The Board has in place a formal process for Director, the Quality Executive and the Project identifying, evaluating and managing the Manager, views effective corporate governance significant risks faced by the Group. as an essential element for the ongoing sustainability of the DKG Group and its The president and director are responsible for operations. We continue to develop our the Group’s system of internal control and for corporate governance practices to ensure that reviewing its effectiveness. However, such a we meet regulatory requirements. We evaluate system can provide only reasonable, but not our mechanisms on an ongoing basis and strive absolute, assurance against material to ensure our corporate governance practices misstatement or loss. provide for effective stewardship in all targeted areas of sustainability. There is a formal process in place to regularly Our corporate governance practices are review the control systems across the Group to described in our: Corporate Governance ensure that they develop to mitigate emerging Guidelines and Code of Business Conduct & risks and in anticipation of expected growth. Ethics. Twice a year the Accountant presents to the Among other topics, the Board is responsible for Board for discussion and approval a summary the following: of the key internal controls in place during the the strategic direction of the Group prior period and proposals for enhancements to the integrity of financial statements and these controls in the forthcoming period. Based accounting practices on this process, the directors believe that the the contribution to sustainable development Group has internal control systems in place the Human Resources appropriate to its size and nature. DKG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | 13 External Commitments & Standards External Commitments A big part of our success has come through the International codes and principles. The Group sharing and learning that takes place with other recognizes the principles enshrined in the UN leaders in corporate responsibility, including: Universal Declarations of Human Rights and is a Our greatest satisfaction is to provide our participant in the UN Global Compact, promoting its clients with exceptional value and service. ten principles that support human rights, labor Along the way, we have been honored to • United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) rights, environmental protection and anti-corruption. receive recognition for our leadership, • Global Reporting Initiative (Organizational In addition, the company has adopted internationally community service and success as a Stakeholder) standards for its Quality Management System. sustainability consulting firm. • Quality protocol GLOBALG.A.P. (Associate Member) The DKG Group is committed to reporting the We were proud to receive the following certificates: impacts of its business in a transparent and External Standards comparable way as it is an organizational • ISO 9001 DKG Group is guided also by a series of stakeholder of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). • ISO 14001 DKG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | 14 One Team Whatever the strength of the individual, we will accomplish more together. We put the team ahead of our personal success and commit to building its capability. We trust each other to deliver on our respective Safety obligations. Everything we do relies upon the safety of our workforce and the communities around us. We Commitment to Excellence care about the safe management of the Our commitment is to demonstrate excellence in environment. all spheres of our work and in our interactions with customers, shareholders, suppliers, Respect colleagues, partners and communities. In We respect the world in which we operate. It addition, we commit to exercising judgment, begins with compliance with laws and professionalism, rigour, self-discipline, regulations. We depend on the relationships we perseverance and team spirit. have and respect each other and those we work with. We value diversity of people and thought. Customer Orientation We promote a customer-centred culture that Integrity emphasizes outstanding service and meets our We behave with integrity and in an ethical commitments at every level of our organization. manner in everything we do and say, thereby earning and maintaining the trust and respect of customers, shareholders, suppliers, colleagues, Shareholder Focus partners and communities. We are focused on creating sustainable shareholder value through developing profitable products and projects, and soundly managing the business for the benefit of customers, What We VALUE shareholders, suppliers, colleagues, partners and communities. DKG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | 15 November 2014 ANNUAL ACTIONS 26-28 November 2014 Presentation on our FraoulaBest (hydroponic strawberry) system via our Research and Training 12 January 2015 Organization (IRTC) during the IRLA DKG GROUP’s ED Mr. Christos D. Symposium. Katsanos keynote speaker on “Leadership www.youtube.com & Personal Development” Seminar of Business School of Mediterranean 25 January 2015 College. The launch of Tropos Food www.slideshare.net Channel , a channel for the promotion of food from the Production to the Final Consumption . www.youtube.com 29 January 2015 Co-operation Agreement between Rodopi Ultra Trail NGO and Tropos Branding Co 26 February 2015 Proud to be one of the supportive www.prlog.org partners helping realize AgroDesign / Brand It project November during DETROP 2015 . 2015 February 2015 DKG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | 16 March 2015 ANNUAL ACTIONS 28 March 2015 Workshop for the Cultivation of Aromatic and Medicinal Plants in the area of ​Tzoumerka. Mr. Christos D. Katsanos as a keynote 2 June 2015 speaker analyzed the side of Branding The Tropos Branding participated in the www.youtube.com Greek flora Wealth organized by BALKAN Botanical Garden Kroussia. Mr. Christos D. Katsanos developed branding issues 18 June 2015 GREEN BUSINESS INNOVATION AWARDS TSACHALOS GREEN TRADE SA was awarded in the Green Busness Innovation Awards concerning its Integrated System of Hydroponic Strawberry production and Trade named FraoulaBest. Tropos Branding and DKG Consulting (members of DKG 27 July 2015 GROUP), the companies that installed, monitor and GreenSun : A new project of Tropos promote the system were there. Branding Co, that aims to promote the positive elements of Greece worldwide. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=px5 zCpb-kAA 09 August 2015 Workshop for the Development of the Mountains. at Syrrako Ioanninon. Mr. Christos D. Katsanos as a keynote speaker analyzed the side of Location Branding. August 2015 DKG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | 17 September 2015 ANNUAL ACTIONS 17 September 2015 GRODAN Export Markets Dealers met in 21 November 2015 Rotterdam. Mr. Evagelos Drimzias represented The STUDENTS FOR LIBERTY IQ CROPS Ltd (member of The DKG Group) the NETWORK“ oranized its Regional official dealer of Grodan in Balkan countries, Conference in Thessaloniki,Greece at IEK Cyprus and Egypt. Delta Campus. Our CEO Mr. Christos D. http://www.dkggroup.com/2015/09/grodanKatsanos was a Keynote Speaker. export-markets-dealers-met-in.html 26 November 2015 IRTC accepted the invitation of the AFS to 27 November 2015 interact with the students on topics of The 2nd celebration of Orange Mandarins kiwi Hydroponics and Greenhouse Management. Olive in ARTA. Tropos Branding, will be attended Mr. Christos D. Katsanos, Agronomist M.Sc., by its Brand Strategist Mr. Christos D. Katsanos MBA shaded his knowledge and experiences with who will present the topic The Contribution of the young farmers !. Branding in the development of new products: the case of hydroponic products type Snack 5 December 2015 Workshop for Aromatic and Medicinal 8 December 2015 Our CEO Mr. Christos D. Katsanos at the Plants in Thessaloniki. Mr. Christos D. Economist – The 2nd Agricultural Business Katsanos as a keynote speaker analyzed Summit, as one of the speakers at A NEW the side of Branding ERA FOR ENTREPRENEURSHIP AND http://www.eaffe.org/ START-UPS session and he presented the The importance of Branding“ December 2015 DKG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | 18 MEET OUR STAKEHOLDERS Our Team • ELENI MATHAIOPOULOU, Head of Translation & Localization • DIMITRIS GARTZONIKAS, Project Manager • LAMPROS PODIOTIS, Finance & Accounting Services • CHRISTINA PAPAIOANNOU, Researcher & Trainer at IRTC • GREGORY DARIS, IT Senior Consultant • DIMITRIS VOURIS, Food Scientistic • ANDREAS KIZIRIS, Researcher & Trainer at IRTC • CHAROULA SPINTHIROPOULOU, Ph.D, Viticulturist & Oenologist • EVAGELOS DRIMTZIAS, President • DIMITRA NOTIOU, Management Assistant • THANASIS MANOLOUDIS, Energy & Renewable Sources Management Executive • ELENA GADONA, Visual Communication • DIMITRIS DASKALAKIS, Quality Management Executive • GREGORY KARAISKOS, Green Walls Expert • CHRISTOS KATSANOS, Executive Director • STEFANOS GIALAS, Roof Garden Expert • KATERINA KAPARAKI, Production Manager • MANOLIS KAPARAKIS, CRM Manager Our People are Key to DKG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | 20 DKG Group’s Success. Clients WE CONSTANTLY STRIVE TO EXCEED OUR CLIENTS’ EXPECTATIONS THROUGH UNPARALLELED COMMITMENT TO QUALITY PRODUCTS, SERVICES & SUSTAINABLE PRACTICES DKG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | 21 Partners We work with our business partners in an honest, respectful and responsible way. DKG Group gains its competitive advantages through strong performance rather than through unethical or illegal business practices. WE SEEK TO WORK WITH OTHERS WHO SHARE OUR COMMITMENTS TO SAFETY AND ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE. DKG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | 22 MORE SOCIAL THAN EVER #MoreTransparent GAJAH ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | 23 We Live in the #SocialAge SUSTAINABILITY is our Key Driver United Nations Global Compact Principles PRINCIPLE 1 PRINCIPLE 2 PRINCIPLE 3 PRINCIPLE 4 PRINCIPLE 5 Businesses should Make sure they are not Businesses should The elimination of all The effective abolition of support and respect the complicit in human rights uphold the freedom of forms of forced and child labor. protection of abuses. association and the compulsory labor. internationally proclaimed effective recognition LABOR human rights. of the right to collective LABOR HUMAN RIGHTS bargaining. DKG Group believes HUMAN RIGHTS Our Code of Business DKG Group has not been children’s fundamental LABOR Principles states that “We complicit nor does ever human rights should be will not use any form of DKG Group recognizes expect to be complicit in protected. DKG Group DKG Group shall respect forced, compulsory or that human rights are an violation of human rights shall not use child labor. the rights of employees to child labor”. integral part of corporate abuses whether through All employees must meet associate, organize and citizenship and we direct involvement the minimum age for bargain collectively in a respect and support the (through beneficial employment as specified lawful and peaceful Universal Declaration of involvement via third by applicable laws and manner, without penalty Human Rights and the party), nor assisting other regulations or interference. Guiding Principles on parties by remaining Business and Human silent. Rights: Implementing the United Nations' Protect, Respect and Remedy Framework'. DKG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | 26 United Nations Global Compact Principles PRINCIPLE 6 PRINCIPLE 7 PRINCIPLE 8 PRINCIPLE 9 PRINCIPLE 10 Eliminate discrimination Business should support Undertake initiatives to Encourage the Businesses should work in respect of employment a precautionary approach promote greater development and against corruption in all its and occupation. to environmental environmental diffusion of forms, including extortion challenges. responsibility environmentally friendly and bribery. LABOR technologies. ENVIRONMENT ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION ENVIRONMENT DKG Group has a high DKG Group fundamentally DKG Group shall not DKG Group comply with level of environmental Sustainable agricultural opposes any kind of discriminate in hiring and laws and regulations as a awareness and has practices are encouraged corruption and bribery and is employment practices, minimum requirement and committed to to be adopted by all of committed to high standards including salary, benefits, we share best practices environmentally friendly, our clients, in order to in combating them. advancement, discipline, across divisions and sites. resource-efficient increase the quality, the We ensure that all termination or retirement, The achievement of the production as well as the taste and quantity of their employees can understand on the basis of race, ISO 14001 demonstrates development of watercrops and practice the Group religion, age, nationality, that DKG has implemented saving and sustainable Code of Conduct in social or ethnic origin, a sustainable products. Environmental everyday working life. sexual orientation, environmental criteria are considered in gender, political opinion management strategy all decision-making or disability. processes. DKG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | 27 Our Approach to Human Rights & Labor DKG Group has taken a series of measures to Fact #1 ensure we comply with our responsibilities to The DKG Group respects, supports and respect and protect human rights. In particular, we operating in accordance with all applicable national and international regulations and laws aim to carefully and comprehensively manage with reference to human rights issues identified through the human rights. materiality assessment. These include issues such as privacy, labor standards, health and safety. We Fact #2 have signed up to the United Nations Global DKG Group has not been complicit nor does Compact (UNGC) Principles relating to human ever expect to be complicit in violation of rights, confirming and formalizing our commitment. human rights abuses whether through direct involvement (through beneficial involvement via third party), nor assisting other parties by remaining silent. Fact #3 All Human beings We have respect for the diverse national cultures and differences in laws and traditions are born Free and in countries where we operate. Our core values are based on the fundamental rights of Equal in Dignity and every individual, such as the protection of privacy, freedom of opinion and expression, Rights freedom of association, non discrimination and the right to be heard. DKG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | 28 We Provide a workplace that is free from harassment and intimidation We do not tolerate any form of abuse or harassment. This includes Labor Policies actions that can reasonably be considered as offensive, intimidating or discriminatory, as well as any form of sexual harassment. than the maximum hours of daily labor set by local laws. We respect the legal rights of our employees worldwide to join DKG Group respects the privacy of its labor organizations or trade unions. employees, and will only take an interest #Freely-Chosen Employment in what employees do outside of work if DKG Group ensures that the overall terms of employment are #Ethical Dealings voluntary. it affects the Group’s reputation or We encourage our employees to conduct business according to #No Discrimination our Code of Ethics. We comply with all applicable laws and legitimate business interests. We label regulations on bribery, corruption and prohibited business DKG Group prohibits discrimination based on race, color, age, and treat personal information as gender, sexual orientation, gender identity and expression, practices. ethnicity, religion, disability, union membership or political affiliation. ‘confidential’ and we only use personal information when needed to operate #Privacy #No Harsh or Inhumane Treatment DKG Group prohibits physical abuse, harassment or the threat of We consider the right to privacy of our employees a core value. effectively or comply with the law. Employees’ data is highly protected. Our employees are committed either. to confidentiality when dealing with third parties. #No Child Labor #Minimum Wages DKG Group complies with the minimum age laws and requirements #Donations DKG Group compensates its employees with wages and and do not employ child labor. benefits that meet or exceed the legally required minimum We donate to non-profit organizations annually. We also encourage under the law. #Health and Safety our employees to get involved by participating in our donation We provide our employees with a safe and healthy workplace in committees. #Working Hours compliance with all applicable laws and regulations. DKG Group does not require its employees to work more #Volunteering #Freedom of Association DKG Group is highly involved in the community and encourages its DKG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | 29 employees to participate in those programs. THE FACTS Workplace Employee Relations Health and Safety Anti-Corruption Training & Education DKG Group recognizes that one of its According to our Code of Business Conduct With the rapid evolution of the sustainability greatest strengths lies in the talent and ability Our Employees are in a safe environment, which sets out guiding principles in its ethics and corporate responsibility field, we of its employees. Employees are expected to protected from hazards of the job. They are and business conduct as adopted and recognize the importance of continuous hold themselves accountable to the highest provided with ready access to clean toilet professional standards, with mutual respect approved by the Management of the Group. learning. We set aside professional facilities, potable water, adequate heat, being the basis of all professional The Code of Business Conduct discusses in development funds for education and training ventilation and sanitary food preparation, relationships. Human resource goals have detail the ethical practices which DKG Group opportunities, including conferences, been established to guide the Group activities storage and eating facilities. Procedures and expects from all employees, including seminars, external training and education in employee relations. It is the Group’s policy: systems are in place to manage, track and conflicts of interest, bribery, policies on opportunities. • to deal fairly with employees; report occupational injury and illness. corporate entertainment and acceptance of All employees have access to the IRTC library • to provide equal opportunity for all in All of our employees have medical insurance gifts and the integrity of our record keeping that consists of more than 1,000 books recruiting, hiring, developing, promoting according to the Law, and we are working on and compensating without regard to race, and reporting. Training in this area has been articles, offering diversity of knowledge. a program of improvements to ensure the carried out and will be refreshed on an on religion, color, age, gender, disability, Employees enjoy extensive internal technical genetic information, military or veteran safety of every employee working for the going basis. Group, promote better health, and create a and business skill training. External programs status, sexual orientation, gender, gender identity and/or expression, citizenship, pleasant working environment. Each and and seminars are also provided to develop national origin, or other legally protected every employee must act to cooperate with For a series of years, cases of corruption employees in their current roles, and to status; have not been recorded, neither allegations prepare for future roles. the safety and health measures that have • to maintain a professional, safe and for suspected fraud, bribery or market abuse We aim to create an environment where been decided upon. discrimination-free work environment; have been reported. The Group's occupational health and safety everyone is encouraged to give their best and • to recognize and compensate employees management system tracks four key realize their full potential, through the based on their performance; and provision of learning and development • to provide a competitive array of benefits. performance indicators: opportunities. Sexual, racial, ethnic, religious or any other • the number of injuries, the number of type of harassment has no place in the fatalities, the Group! work environment. Racial, ethnic and religious harassment includes such conduct • number of illness due to work and the as slurs, jokes, intimidation or any other • number of other illness (e.g. flu). verbal or physical attack upon a person because of race, religion or national origin. DKG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | 30 Labor Force Charts Employees by Gender Employees by Age 3 17% 33% 28% Male 26-35 67% 36-45 Female 55% 45+ Educational Level Health & Safety indicators Number Days lost due of incidents to incidents 11% Post-graduate degrees Number of 0 0 (Master’s, PhD) persons injured 45% Number of University Graduates 0 0 fatalities 44% Illness due to 0 0 Graduates of Technical work Educational Institutes Other illness 3 3 DKG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | 31 ENVIRONMENT We are committed “We are committed to making a positive impact on the environment. We do this to prospective clients through our sustainable feasibility studies, to a Healthy through the support and solutions we give our customers, through our work to minimize our own impacts and through our leading role in Environment advocating change beyond our business and out in the wider world” DKG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | 33 ENVIRONMENTAL DATA Based on our office's utility bills and on our time and billing tracking system from 2009-2014 , we have the following information available as a baseline against Our Environmental data are which we can measure future performance: consolidated annually, including Natural Gas Paper the energy we use in our offices, Water Electricity Fuel Consumption Printing Ink Consumption Consumption Consumption Toner the fuel consumed as we travel, Consumption cartridge (m3) (kWh) m3 (kWh) (lt) and other elements necessary to (sheets) calculate our environmental 2 x 17ml 2014 17 2320 367 4106,62 3150,25 1000 0 footprint. The data include our subsidiary companies where the 2013 15 2305 308 3473,00 7591,28 2500 4 x 17ml 0 Group has management control. 2012 20 1853 306 3444,00 8235,06 1000 2 X 13ml 1 The results are disclosed in this report and are communicated 2011 25 2565 658 7368,77 7187,01 2500 12 4 x 13ml internally to employees. 6 x 13ml 2010 10 2507 449 5030,92 6.093,98 2500 2 x 17 ml 5 1 x 9ml 2009 23 2501 353 3949,97 9.552.25 8500 4 x 13ml 9 DKG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | 34 Our Environmental Code of Conduct is built on national and international norms and standards for environmental management. The Code sets a minimum applicable operating standard for all of the Group’s businesses. Each business is expected to implement its own Environmental Management System, tailored to suit its size and type of activity. We also monitor our customers' environmental performance on regular basis to ensure the continual improvement. We know that the importance of protecting the environment is one of the key foundations of doing business and maintains a comprehensive infrastructure for planning, managing, assessing, improving, monitoring and measuring environmental impacts. How We Grow DRIKA Farm and our clients have a products is certified according to ISO water, they are able to put all of their greenhouse ecosystem. responsibility to practice sustainable 14001 standards) and we can feed energy toward producing great tasting cultivation. These sustainable growing them water and nutrients. vegetables and fruits. Bumblebees fly around to pollinate the practices and compliance with Good Growing hydroponically in this material plants and rather than pesticides, we Agricultural Practices (GAP) ensure that means our plants can stretch their Additionally, because less energy is use a program called Integrated Pest greenhouses have limited nutrients directly where they need it – spent on survival and fighting adverse Management where ‘good bugs’ (such environmental impact. on their roots – rather than on their environmental conditions, greenhouse as lady bugs) prey on ‘bad bugs.’ leaves or on other parts of the soil. produce typically has higher nutrient Additionally, we’re able to use a fraction Plants are grown in Grodan rockwool Greenhouses help us to create the contents and yields than field-grown of the land and water that traditional roots, (The manufacturing of GRODAN proper environment by providing our vegetables. Even with computer farming requires with high yields and by plants with the perfect temperature, controlled irrigation and temperature, sterilizing and re-circulating our run-off humidity and the optimal amount of Mother Nature is still active in our water. DKG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | 36 Advantages of Hydroponic Cultivation 🍂 All year round growing, availability and consistent quality of the produce therefore, you can pick at the peak of ripeness to insure optimum taste and deliver fresh. 🍂 Completely Non GMO varieties. 🍂 Greenhouse vegetables offer safe foods for your family. 🍂 Ability to control temperature and humidity Greenhouses are able to regulate temperatures. Therefore, we can create the perfect growing environment for our plants to thrive and become flavorful. 🍂 The state of the art greenhouses are controlled with the use of Integrated Pest Management (IPM). IPM is a proactive program designed to control the population of undesirable pests with the use of natural predators. IPM works by identifying potential pest problems, monitoring populations, reducing pest populations and evaluating the effectiveness of treatments. Effectively replacing the use of pesticides, IPM addresses pest issues with insects found throughout nature, which means that we use “good bugs” to help with pollination and to help eliminate the “bad bugs”. 🍂 The heat for greenhouses is usually created with biomass energy sources. Biomass is viewed as one of the main renewable energy sources of the future, biomass is virtually carbon-neutral and almost inexhaustible. Waste products generated from everyday living and efficiently converting them into energy while capturing the CO2 for our plants. 🍂 Growing in greenhouses protects your plants from adverse weather conditions and we can achieve a high caliber of cleanliness and security in facilities. 🍂 Recycle all of leachate irrigation water to reduce our footprint on the environment. DKG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | 37 Food Safety KEY ELEMENTS ► Controlled Greenhouse Environment: Produce are grown using advance Grodan hydroponic technology under fully controlled environment for We strictly implement and increased food safety assurance in an efficient and environmentally friendly way. monitor Food Safety Principles including Good Agriculture ►Integrated Pest Management (IPM): Practice (GAP), Good Hygienic Greenhouses use Integrated Pest Management (IPM), an effective and environment Friendly, approach for pest control to ensuring food safety by minimizing chemical uses. Practice (GHP), Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) ► Properly Grown, Packed and Transported: and Hazard Analysis and Critical Highly trained and experienced group of people. Produce are grown, packed and distributed at Controlled Control Points (HACCP) in our Temperature and Humidity in strict hygienic environment. Use refrigerated trucks for delivery to maintain the Drika Farm and clients safety and integrity of the produce. Greenhouses, Packhouses and ► Chemical Free Cleaning and Sanitation Technology: Storage & Distribution Centers. Use Professional Cleaning System to clean and sanitize the facilities. All facilities and operations are fully certified for Global Food ► Effective Traceability and Recall System: Safety Initiative (GFSI) standard. Effective food safety management at all levels of the supply chain including Greenhouses, packing facility, distribution center, and transport operation. Can easily trace the produce consistently and efficiently from the point of origin to the point of consumption. GAJAH ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | 38 Product Responsibility DKG Group has committed to publicly share its views on the principles that are the foundation for product safety legislation or regulation. Consistent with our commitment to the principles, we support the development of responsible, science-based laws, regulations, standards, practices and procedures that safeguard the community, workplace and environment. DRIKA Farm (member of DKG Group) and all of our clients embrace a strong commitment to growing sustainable products by applying Good Agricultural Practices (G.A.P) in order to increase the quality, the taste and quantity of their crops, and to promote safe and efficient working practice. Apart, each of our client's products has the ability to trace the history, use or location of a product by means of registered identifications that is vital for consumer’s safety. Patented & Intelligent Agricultural Supplies The products and solutions of IQ CROPS have in their DNA, what is depicted in its logo, IQ = Cleverly quality products. Smart quality solutions in the field of production of fresh produce from the field to the greenhouse. The scientific basis and documentation of products / solutions in cooperation with their applicability to the business world make the people of IQ CROPS ideal partners in a wide range of everyday growing needs in a series of many crops. From patented solutions (Ηarpin) to the top hydroponics substrates (GRODAN), the exceptional efficiency fertilizers (Haifa), the multiplication products, solutions for hydroponic strawberry and lettuce are some of the products / solutions can be found to the IQ CROPS. D KG Group is focusing to meet increasingly high sustainability standards and to enable its stakeholders to positively influence their impact on environment and society. We are associate member of GLOBALG.A.P® (the global partnership for safe and sustainable agriculture), we commit to respond to its recommendations by providing advice to greenhouse growers/suppliers to apply sustainable growing practices and compliance with Good Agricultural Practices (GAP). Also Mr. Christos D. Katsanos (Executive Director of the Group) is Official GLOBALGAP train-the public trainer and in cooperation with the Training Department of TUV HELLAS (TUV NORD) S.A. & IRTC, DKG Group offers training programs for corporations and individuals in the areas of GLOBALG.A.P. protocol, AGRO 2-1 & 2-2 standard (Greek certification scheme for agriculture enterprises) and ISO 22000 standard (HACCPHazard Analysis Critical Control Point). Finally, the Group's department AskMe officially translates in Greek language GLOBALGAP® documents related to Fruit and Vegetables Certification (Integrated Farm Assurance). 📊 SOCIETY • Presentation on our FraoulaBest (hydroponic strawberry) system during the IRLA Symposium. • Keynote speaker on “Leadership & Personal Development” Seminar of Business School of Mediterranean College • Workshop for the Cultivation of Aromatic and Medicinal Plants in the area of ​Tzoumerka, as a keynote speaker we analyzed the side of Branding • Participated in the Greek flora Wealth organized by BALKAN Botanical Garden Kroussia. We developed branding issues • Workshop for the Development of the Mountains. at Syrrako Ioanninon. As a keynote speaker we analyzed the side of Location Branding. • The STUDENTS FOR LIBERTY NETWORK“ oranized its Regional Conference in Thessaloniki, Greece at IEK Delta Campus. • The 2nd celebration of Orange Mandarins kiwi Olive in ARTA. We present the topic The Contribution of Branding in the development of new products: the case of hydroponic products type Snack“ Organize & Contributing to a Series of Innovative Training Programs • We accepted the invitation of the AFS to interact with the students on topics of Hydroponics and Greenhouse Management. • Workshop for Aromatic and Medicinal Plants in Thessaloniki. As a keynote speaker analyzed the side of Branding • At the Economist – The 2nd Agricultural Business Summit, as one of the speakers at A NEW ERA FOR ENTREPRENEURSHIP AND STARTUPS session and we presented the The importance of Branding“ Create & Support ASSOCIATIONS DKG Group is a founding member and has been DKG Group is also co-founder of “The Friends of appointed as the Coordinator of The Green Club®, a Xinomavro“, a group of people who share the same Reputation Management Growers Association that philosophy about life, love Xinomavro (a special wine from consists of 21 member companies. These growers who an indigenous Greek vine variety) and like to collaborate are located all over Greece grow hydponically a number and share their experiences. Members keep regular of different vegetables in greenhouses. They have meetings for various events and activities, such as: perfected the growing environment for tomatoes, Viticulture activities (pruning the vines, stretching the wires cucumbers, peppers and lettuce by giving the plants and straightening of the piles, harvesting), Wine testing exactly what they need the perfect climate, the right and lunches, Wine exhibitions, Creative activities in nature amount of light, the right amount of nutrition, exact (vine and wine paintings by children). amount of water and carbon dioxide and the proper ventilationwhich means that plants can grow strong, healthy and big. By those practices they have achieved a high reputation in the market. All members are certified against Integrated Crop Management processes (GLOBALGAP, AGRO 2-1&2-1) and Food Safety Management Systems (ISO 22000:2005). Another Project that DKG Consulting is involving since the DKG has also contributed to the idea and the inception is CRETACERT, a non profit organization created implementation of CottonBest.eu ™, a Certified for managing the high Reputation of the quality agricultural traceability program based on the Pioneer Hi-Bread Hellas products of Crete,Greece . protocol and as a reliable, realistic and flexible system promotes the cooperation among all cotton market “players” without binding any of them. DKG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | 44 CULTURAL HERITAGE DKG Group as a co-founder to the Cultural Foundation Methexis“, is founded to meet the needs and beliefs of founders and its members who place as protractor the quality, culture, participation and cooperation and aims to the universality of the individual and the art of everyday life «The daily art of living».  Support and conduct events to raise awareness of the local community in cultural, sports education, environmental protection upgrade routine.  The organization or creation of schools and training courses of various subjects  H implementation actions of counseling, mentoring, training, education and training.  Developing initiatives to assist the community  The creation of the Movement Supporters Club  Cooperation with other agencies to protect the flora and fauna of sensitive ecosystems  Working with local and national organizations to capture, rescue, conservation and enhancement of cultural and natural resources  The Memorandum of Cooperation with other organizations similar interest in Greece and abroad.  The development of the Volunteer Spirit  Submission cultural – tourist proposals for implementation of actions relating to the cultural and tourism promotion – development,  Voluntary participation in improvement projects and maintenance and the development of corresponding studies for their implementation,  Participation with other agencies on projects, activities, interventions and programs for the improvement of daily life  The promotion of Greece and other countries, and the promotion of its products, which may take informal or formal and structured form.  The emergence, development and protection of cultural heritage and monuments of our country and beyond.  The organization of cultural activities and the actions and initiatives of cultural and social character.  H production of printed and electronic promotional material activities For more please visit : www.m-f.gr & www.ekthesisyrrako.blogspot.com/ DKG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | 45 “People of the DKG Group contributes to two television show series that aims to educate and entertain those who are seeking adventure or cultural treasure. For more please visit : www.orizontas.org & www.enxoro.gr The Orizontas specialized for six years in the broadcasting and communication support of trail running races outside classic track. In this direction included collaborations with the Rodopi Ultra Trail 100 miles, the Rodopi Challenge 50 miles, Round Lake Ioannina and 30 km Run Greece. The program is broadcast digitally by the television station Epirus TV1» via Digea. Also in the world via satellite and OTETV and online from www.epirustv1.gr “En-Xoro” TV Show is a long term effort where through site records, citing remarkable archival materials and lodging experience and views of individuals and organizations of the wider Area of our Folk Culture, seeks to rescue and exploit the rich cultural heritage of Epirus in particular and the Greeks in general through a perspective that believes in their strength and in their ability to offer a lot in today's Greek. DKG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | 46 Wellness As part of our commitment, we are helping our associates to become more active participants, volunteers and supporters to physical, creative and entertainment activities. DKG Group cares about people's health and well-being and want to make a positive difference in people's lives, both physically and emotionally. We aspire to help people lead active, healthy lifestyles through our support of programs that encourage active living. The 6th anniversary ROUT 100miler was celebrated in the best possible way, since the race left the best impressions on the athletes that had the chance to compete in the beautiful forests of Rodopi. Some members of DKG Group take active part as organizers, participants and some others as volunteers and supporters. DKG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | 47 Volunteerism People who give their time are essential to the prosperity of any event Volunteering is a noble act of serving the humankind on freewill using one’s competitions with no cost to the final beneficiary and without accepting any profit or reward for the discharge of such competencies. The Group serves volunteerism either by providing charitable gifts to eligible nonprofit organizations or by taking active part ( some members of DKG Group) as volunteers and supporters at the Rodopi Ultra Trail (ROUT) event, the Rodopi Challenge (ROC), and Haidou Trail Party, Haidou Kids DKG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | 48 Sponsorship We are happy and proud to support the sailboat Limoncello for many years. Limoncello helps the local tourism development since it participates to water sport events like the Aegean Regatta race that is held in different Greek islands every year. Apart from the tourism development, also encourage close relationships, teamwork, solidarity and understanding among various people who join the crew. INFORMATION ON THE REPORT How we intend to make this CSR & COP available to Abbreviations our Stakeholders AGRO Standard Hellenic certification scheme for agriculture enterprises DKG’s COP & CSR will be published on the UN 2.1 & 2.2 Global Compact website http://www.unglobalcompact.org COP Communication on Progress DKG’s COP & CSR will be published on the DKG Group website http://www.dkggroup.com & http://www.csrCSR Corporate Social Responsibility dkggroup.com/ GRI Global Reporting Initiative DKG’s COP & CSR will be published on the Group’s ILO International Labour Organization social media profiles on linkedin http://www.linkedin.com/company/the-dkg-group IPM Integrated Pest Management facebook https://www.facebook.com/thedkggroup IRTC International Research and Training Centre for Sustainability twitter https://twitter.com/thedkggroup slideshare http://www.slideshare.net/DKG_GROUP ISO International Organisation for Standardisation youtube https://www.youtube.com/user/thedkggroup G.A.P. Good Agricultural Practices DKG’s COP & CSR will be sent via e-mail to all ROUT Rodopi Ultra Trail our employees UNGC United Nations Global Compact DKG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | 50 CLOSING FEEDBACK REPORTING PERIOD In this report, DKG Group describes As part of our commitment to open This report focuses on the results of its efforts, progress and plans in and honest dialogue with our activities in fiscal 2014 and 2015 (from relation to sustainability and Global stakeholders, we invite feedback on December, 2014 to December 2015) Compact Principles. All information in the contents of this report, or any but includes some activities continuing the Report is reliable and properly other COP or CSR issues of from before and more recent ones. reflects the feasibility of Group's importance that we have not covered. targets, expectations and ambitions. DKG Group will continue to be guided Please address all feedback to Dimitra by its core values and its unwavering Notiou, at csr@dkggroup.com focus on ethical operation and service to its stakeholders. In 2016, we look forward to improving on the things we can control and continuing to lead the right way every day. We invite you to join us in our sustainable world, and welcome your continued support in this journey. The committee of CSR & COP Report Editors: Proof reader: Editing: Photo credit: Christos D. Katsanos Evagelos N. Drimtzias TROPOS Branding Co Gregory Daris, & Dimitra Notiou Dimitris Gartzonikas, Christos D. Katsanos Publication Current issue: December 2015 Next issue: Scheduled for December 2016 THANK YOU We value your opinions and feedback, and we would appreciate your thoughts about our initiatives and communications. Tell us what you liked, what we could improve or what you would like to see in our next report. To do so, please contact with Dimitra Notiou, at csr@dkggroup.com ● 5b Ioustinianou Str. 55134 Kalamaria ,Greece ● Tel:+30.2310.488915 ● Fax +30.2310.488916 ● E-mail: welcome@dkggroup.com ● Website: www.dkggroup.com
