04 WELCOME 06 THE COMPANY 08 THE CUSTOMER 24 THE WORKER 28 THE SUPPLIER 34 THE SOCIETY 42 THE CAPITAL 48 ANNEX welc For Agromediterránea, 2014 was a year of great changes. Changes that brought aligned with our clients’ needs but also with internationally recognized references. us into a new era full of challenges and opportunities of which we took advantage With the renewed trust of our main client, and that will continue to allow us to grow Mercadona, we are again the associate as a company and enrich our environment. supplier for our country’s main retailer and distributor and we want to continue In 2014 these changes led to the growing together and offering, on a internationalization process that has already daily basis, higher quality, freshness and established our presence in 14 European varieties of products to the consumers. countries and garnered 30 major retailers What’s more, in the final stretch of last as clients. We are committed to enhancing year, Agromediterránea changed owners our product offer and to this end we have and passed into the hands of a group of audited our facilities and working methods. agricultural societies based in the Region We certify that we not only meet but even of Murcia and the Valencia Community surpass the highest international standards who have reaffirmed their commitment to of food safety and quality criteria. We the company, its team and its objectives, have proudly maintained and expanded and is equally committed to developing the Global G.A.P. certification in all of our their Levante area into the “market garden farms, as well as an audit that resulted in the of Europe”. All these changes provide highest rating of our management system, stability for our organization’s growth and according to the BRC, IFS and QS standards. the strengthening of our position as leading We can ensure that our work is not only agricultural producers. ome Agromediterránea’s prime objective is to meet the needs of our consumers; accordingly we value relations with a high level of professional ethics, seriousness and reliability. These are of sustainable development. It is the very cornerstone of the way we work. Maintaining 5 need to be leaders in Quality, Service, and Price; values we cultivate each day with our suppliers. a balance between commercial success food safety and product quality and these are Backed up by our outstanding facilities, technical and social responsibility is vitally important our top priorities. We ensure 365 days a year teams respond with the latest technology to to us. That is why we collaborate with local service, always offering the most competitive satisfy the needs of our most exigent clients. We associations and strive for daily improvement, market prices. will continually invest in technology and adapt following the indicators of the United Nations our facilities to deal with emerging commercial Global Compact, in which we have participated We have all the skills and components that will demands, with the clear objective of improving since 2013. allow us to fulfil our objectives and make our effectiveness and productivity. We work every goals a reality. We have the best possible teams day to lead the way in supply chain control, from Our customers, workers, suppliers, society and of motivated people who feel a special passion, the field to the table. The production processes, capital are the components for which we work in every sense, for their professional fields and for transport and storage of our products ensure every day and to whom we are committed. the fields in which they work; diligently working that they reach the consumer, wherever they To each and every one, thank you for your every day with the aim of attaining continuous may be, with optimum freshness and quality. support and for your continued effort to improvement. Employees are a company’s main ensure that these times of change translate asset and our commitment is to provide them Being a successful company does not negate into Agromediterranea’s best opportunity for with quality and stable employment. our social responsibilities and we always success. bear in mind this very sensitive aspect: Our suppliers are another key factor for the Agromediterránea’s social and environmental Rafael Martínez Soriano success of Agromediterránea. We endeavour to commitment. Social responsibility, in all Director General of Agromediterránea establish long term relationships, encouraging Agromediterránea’s activities, accords with investment and mutual commitment. We greatly our ethical principles and within a framework 6 The Company The Agromediterránea agricultural company started out in 1983, in the small town of Dolores de Pacheco in the Spanish province of Murcia. With the aspiration of always offering the best that earth can produce, Agromediterránea has become one of the largest producers and distributors of fresh greens and vegetables in Spain. This reality is only possible thanks to the relationship of mutual trust between our workers, clients and suppliers. Our activity is based in the Southeast of Spain, mainly in the Region of Murcia and the adjoining provinces of Albacete, Alicante, Almeria and Granada, where we work with a profound social and environmental commitment, taking advantage of a climactically privileged place and grateful for the excellent conditions that we enjoy. 7 START OF THE ACTIVITY 1983 CENTRAL HEADQUARTERS Carretera Pozo Aledo. Km. 3. 30739. Dolores de Pacheco. Murcia, Spain PHONE NO. +34 968 17 30 01 EMAIL info@agromediterranea.es WEBSITE www.agromediterranea.es MARKET Vegetable production and handling, domestic and international RSC MEMBERSHIPS Organization affiliated with the Global Compact of the United Nations and Social Pact for the Environment in the Region of Murcia NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES Annual average of 1,200 employees THE CUSTO 08 MER 01.1 01.2 01.3 MAXIMUM QUALITY AND FRESHNESS AT THE MOST COMPETITIVE PRICE FOOD SAFETY, OUR TOP PRIORITY FROM THE SEED TO THE TABLE: MAXIMUM CONTROL AND EFFICIENCY 09 Agromediterránea aims to create relationships of mutual cooperation with customers and to treat them individually and personally, and respond to their specific needs. We adapt to satisfy the most demanding 10 customers; complying with their specifications, suggestions and ideas; incorporating different formats and processes that are required and always within a framework of responsible processes. We want to continue to count on the millions of Fruit and vegetables’ recognized properties along customers who rely on us every day. Customers with their contribution to the health of the whole who choose our products because they are looking family, have made them fundamental diet elements. for a healthy lifestyle based on good nutrition that In order to administer the body’s daily requirements compliments physical exercise. Our mission is to of vitamins, minerals and fibre, the scientific and continue offering the best products, striving each medical community recommends, according to day to comply with this firm commitment and with individual energy requirements, eating at least five the responsibility that goes with it. servings daily of fruit and vegetables. This mission translates into commitments such as collaboration with associations like 5 al Día (5 a Day) or Más Brócoli (More Broccoli), and who are thoroughly committed to wholesome eating and the Mediterranean diet. Agromediterránea’s greens and vegetables contribute to the improvement of healthy eating habits and, as a result, people’s lives. Subsequently, we provide the consumers with products that are tasty, safe and of the highest quality. 11 01.1 Maximum quality and freshness at the most competitive price 12 Our products are selected daily at their • Active production 52 weeks, 365 days per • Night harvests in the summer seasons to optimum point of freshness, quality and food year. obtain the product in as fresh a state as safety, with a working methodology focused • 5,000 hectares of land in agricultural possible. on the continuous improvement of production production in five provinces. • 65 tractors and more than 400 implements. processes. • Geographic mobility: distribution of crops • Vacuum cooler on the production floor: according to the best climatic conditions of System that allows us to cool the product To do this, we are equipped with everything each season: summer farms, winter farms evenly by applying a vacuum (12 pallets in necessary for obtaining the best yield from and even mid-altitude farms for spring and 30 minutes), favouring optimal conservation natural resources, and with proper respect for autumn. without losing freshness. the environment: • Department of crop programming and • Intelligent storage in the production plant: development. Allows minimizing the time between the entry • Department of continuous improvement. and exit of the pallet, to thus avoid breaking • R&D department: Study of varietal the cold chain. developments, new varieties, phytosanitary measures, fertilizers, herbicides, etc. • 12 harvest-preparation platforms, which represents a savings in costs and, above all, a breakthrough in quality (the product is not handled practically at all) and freshness (faster access directly from the farm to the distribution platforms). We are one of Spain’s 3 largest producers of lettuce, zucchini (courgette) and radish. 13 Assortment of our main 14 products in 2014 SPINACH CHARD RED OAK LEAF ICEBERG LETTUCE LITTLE GEM ROMAINE LETTUCE CURLY ENDIVE LETTUCE SWEET CORN GREEN COURGETTE WHITE COURGETTE CORIANDER PEPPERS MINT BROCCOLI GREEN CABBAGE RADISH SAVOY CABBAGE 15 Agromediterránea’s presence by countries Spain Germany United Kingdom Switzerland Austria France Poland The Netherlands Czech Republic Italy Belgium Hungary Lithuania Serbia Romania 16 01.2 Food Safety, our top priority Continuous improvement is an essential part of the philosophy of our company. In order to improve the quality and the competitiveness of our products, and with the highest possible food safety, we have for years been making significant human and 17 financial efforts to develop strategies aimed at the management of best practices throughout the productive process. • Currently, all Agromediterránea’s farms are • This year, Agromediterránea has passed the • In order to further strengthen the future of our certified according to the international best corresponding audits and testing to obtain the company and of our products and processes practices standard Global G.A.P. Also, in 2014 most demanding international certifications in through risk assessment, a redesign of the food we developed the G.R.A.S.P Risk Assessment the food industry: IFS, BRC and QS, as well as quality and safety system was initiated in 2014, on Social Practice module, which covers various audits required by our international redirecting all of our work towards the increase the indicators related to corporate social clients and continuous inspection of the same, of value in our company in order to meet the accountability and workers. having passed them all with the highest results. needs of the our clients and consumers. 18 • Similarly, Agromediterránea respects and adapts to the brands and individual quality standards of each of our clients. Agromediterránea evaluates all products in accordance with current rules and regulations, at every stage of their life cycle, ensuring that there is no risk to people’s health and safety. For this we have our own laboratory equipped with the most advanced technologies and accredited at international level by the ENAC standard in the UNE 17025 standard. National Accreditation Body In 2014, the lab included in its scope of accreditation the multi-residue analysis by liquid chromatography with triple quadrupole detector and the dithiocarbamates analysis by UV/VIs. These are included in the existing multi-residue analysis by gas chromatographymass. This resulted in an increase of 5 times the number of active substances and the increase of matrices included in the scope of accreditation. The number of samples analysed in 2014 was 1,800 units, and the forecast is to increase this number by a factor between two and three, while at the same time including new matrices to analyse. Likewise, during all phases of planting, harvesting, transport, handling, storage and optimal preservation, all of our products comply with the conditions that are laid down in regulations, their technical specifications are also adhered to in order to preserve freshness and ensure that there is no risk to the health and safety of our consumers. The Quality Control Department is of vital importance in this self-evaluation of products to ensure that they comply with our internal requirements and the specifications of our clients. 19 01.3 From the seed to table: maximum control and efficiency 20 Agromediterránea has everything in place to ensure that the entire process, from the nursery beds to our consumers’ homes, is integrated in a meticulous and simultaneously effective organization. Control of the entire production and commercial process is our main competitive advantage and it is vital to ensure that a product is safe, fresh and of the highest quality. Nursery Farms Our 10-hectare nursery area, distributed in three separate sites A cultivation area of 5,000 hectares in 18 farms distributed in with an output capacity of 200 million plants, allows us to provide 5 Spanish provinces (Murcia, Almeria, Granada, Alicante and an efficient and continuous service to all our farms, as well as carry Albacete) ensures agricultural production 365 days a year. We out exhaustive quality control starting with the reception of the take advantage of our optimum climate at all times and seasons, seed, controlling temperatures, and irrigation in proper doses and and provide continuous service to our customers with the measurements. Technology and care combine to create a solid maximum guarantee of freshness and food safety. foundation on which to obtain the best product. 120 hectares of multispan and multitunnel greenhouses have also been built according to crop condition, thus ensuring the supply of various products. Our latest generation cutting-edge harvesting machines enable us to harvest and package the product directly on the farm, keeping us one step ahead in terms of quality and freshness, as this is completed on-site and can then be moved directly to the distribution platforms. 21 22 Production Plant We have the agricultural sector’s most modern automated installations. With more than 15,000 m², our production facility is equipped with pallet trucks, robots, transfer carts, automatic binding and labelling machines as well as a storage capacity of 50,000 m³ and 5,500 pallets. With more than 100 pallets of flow/ hour and powerful control and identification systems, we reduce costs and improve the control of both packaging and product quality. The facilities are located on a completely urbanized plot of 64,000 m2, and their design is based on 4 fundamental concepts: • Food Safety and Quality. • Elimination of worker-strain to attain safe and ergonomic work environments. • Environment and social commitment. • Competitiveness. This modern infrastructure at the plant, in terms of packaging lines and storage, allows us to cater for our clients´ individual demands, incorporating the products into the refrigeration chain as swiftly as possible. Real-time control of product stocks and the automatic identification systems of the same guarantee total control and reliability throughout the entire process. Fleet of trucks The company’s own fleet of more than 50 refrigerated trucks allow us to offer a safer and more efficient service directly from the field and the production plant to the customer. 23 THE WOR 24 KER 02.1 02.2 CODE OF ETHICS AND RESPONSIBLE CONDUCT TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT Agromediterránea’s team of 1,200 workers are distributed in teams carrying out their different specialized activities. Following the philosophy of continuous improvement and increased productivity every worker is essential for achieving maximum efficiency in the processes of production, management and 25 marketing. For this reason, one most important strategy is to empower professionalism and the continuous development of all the people who are part of the company. The approach to our employees involves taking steps to ensure good nationality, disability or personal belief. It is the company’s duty to always labour practices, respect for human rights and implementing adequate ensure that every person who works in the company will be treated measures for contracted companies and partners. respectfully, regardless of their title and position. Agromediterránea defends equality from a global perspective, strictly ensuring non-discrimination. Good professional practices involve safeguarding equal opportunities for persons with a different race, sex, 02.1 Code of Ethics and Responsible Conduct To ensure internal social responsibility, Agromediterránea adheres to a improvement in responsible management. The document contains the code of ethics and responsible conduct; there is a document that sets out values we have identified with since we began over thirty years ago, the standards of conduct for the company with regard to its workers and adapting them to the new needs of the environment and of people. This ensures compliance with good professional practices. Created as a frame Code is a way of being consistent with these values and commitments, of reference for everyday work, a series of principles define the form of always seeking excellence and competitiveness in our management. our working methods and business culture, and that aim at ongoing 02.2 Training and Technical training Development One of Agromediterránea’s primary responsibilities is the training and development of its workers. Aiming to enrich and add value to the great team that comprises Agromediterránea, many 26 educational activities took place in 2014 that responded to the needs identified in work areas. Close to €200,000 of investment in training To this end, various “Food Defence” courses related to safety and the prevention of food risks were given to a good part of the staff, from the field as well as from the warehouse and central offices. 5,500 hours of training Also, several courses on “Good agricultural and handling practices” were imparted for handlers in all involved departments, with the aim of providing our customers with safe products of the Good Agricultural Practices apply highest quality. not only to products but also to people. Therefore, we developed Consistent with the protection of workers, training has been provided for selected personnel in “Standards of performance the voluntary GRASP module: in security incidents” as part of the Prevention Plan, as well GLOBALG.A.P. Risk Assessment as “Correction of repetitive movement” and “Training for preventive activity” for our most important asset people. for Social Practices, developed in order to assess social practices in Skills training exploitation, addressing specific issues related to the health, safety At Agromediterránea we consider to be vitally important the people’s talent or training as well as their attitude towards their and welfare of workers. work, the team and the organization, thus the need for continuous effort in skills training. In this regard, the “Skills program for field personnel” was launched during 2014, for nearly 100 people from different departments and categories (farm managers, technical coordinators, area coordinators, supervisors, crew coordinators...). It reinforced subjects such as: a positive attitude, skill development, team work, monitoring and evaluation. 27 Specific programs The challenge of for field personnel internationalisation Professionals from the field are the most numerous The start of Agromediterranea’s internationalization strategy has Total employees: 1,192 in the Agromediterránea workforce. Every year, the been a major challenge for the entire workforce, from the relationship company develops ongoing training programs that with customers in different countries to working with new standards, are tailored to specific needs. During 2014, training formats, raw materials, supplies... programs were developed in “Basic Pesticide Applicator”, “First Aid”, “Hygiene and Food Agromediterranea strengthened language training in 2014, especially Safety” and “Basic training in the prevention of for workers in contact with international clients or suppliers, as well as CT Indefinite 95,66% occupational hazards”. for the management team. CT Temporary 4,34% Likewise, a “Customer Service and Public Relations” course was provided, aimed at standardizing the team’s communication style Over 55 years of age 3,41% and interpersonal skills, promoting the culture of excellent treatment, telephone service procedures and techniques, excellence in customer Under 35 years of age 37,29% service, development of competence in knowing how to listen and Between 35 and 55 how to be assertive. 59,30% years of age THE SUPP 28 LIER The base of Agromediterránea’s business relationships with suppliers is set in the values of honesty, fairness, kindness and a high level of ethics. A fruitful 29 business relationship is based on good relations with suppliers. Support for our internationalization Regular suppliers process At Agromediterránea, depending on the type of product or In terms of supplier management, internationalization supply provided to the Company, we divide our suppliers was, without a doubt, the biggest challenge that we into three broad categories: faced in 2014. Exporting our products to the main European supermarkets signified a substantial • Suppliers of raw materials: own agricultural expansion of our references and, as a result, the need production on farms that are owned or leased, legally to venture into the supplier market, sourcing the protected agricultural producers and auctions, grain materials needed to meet our customers’ specific exchanges and other farmers that are not legally requirements in terms of packaging, wrapping and protected. labelling. • Suppliers of auxiliary materials: the field (fertilizers, insecticides, etc.) and stores (plastics, boxes, Besides expanding our range of suppliers to obtain strapping, production materials, etc.) these new materials; in response to the increase in • Suppliers of services and other provisions: suppliers demand that began in October with the launch of of fuel for trucks, repair and maintenance, electricity, the export campaign, we have also improved our transport, independent professional services, infrastructure in order to ensure reliable service. insurance premiums, waste management, leases and royalties, telephone, etc. 30 Due to the launch of our international business, acquisition of cardboard boxes increased by 340%, going from 280,000 to 950,000. To this end, we carried out the following investments have had to be provided to the production In the last quarter of 2014 we prepared almost 6 and contracting: centres every day without causing a collapse of million labels for export. the warehouses. A JIT (just in time) provisioning • Rental of a 1,000 square meter tent. system was implemented to this end, supported In 2014 we created an exclusive department The flow of packaging both in terms of purchase by the three cardboard box assembly machines, for labelling, and we trained specialists who as well as rental grew in such a way that we had which enabled us to attend orders for boxes could reliably meet the marking and coding to use this auxiliary warehouse to regulate the from one day to the next without accumulating requirements of any kind of format. transit of the same, without creating bottlenecks surpluses. in the main facility. Rental of two desktop printers, going from eight • Construction of two new docks for loading and to ten machines operating at full shift. • Expansion of the fleet of rental forklifts and unloading trucks. pallet trucks. Such movements of materials required new entry To move all these packages, we had to expand and exit routes in our facilities, for which two the fleet of machinery, increasing its number by 12 docks with adaptable ramps were built. units, including forklifts, electric pallet trucks and stackers. • Construction of a module office for labelling Another item which saw dramatic growth has • Installation of three cardboard box assembly been the labels for export. Just as with the other machines. references for this market, this has signified The emergence of cardboard packaging has an expansion in the area of infrastructure and been another of the challenges that we had to suppliers. overcome. Thousands of packages of this material More than 70 regular suppliers of different goods and services 31 Purchases from suppliers amounting to 16 million Euros Agricultural supplies Besides the purchase of materials to The purchase of supplies, such as fuel and incorporate into our preparations, all the electricity to maintain the activity in our strictly agricultural provisions grew in farms and production centres, was also parallel with the cultivation of all the new a very important economic component, references and the increase in volume of remaining unchanged at more than 3 existing ones. Agromediterránea worked million Euros. during 2014 with more than 70 different suppliers of goods and services, mainly Overall, the amount of purchases from being agricultural products such as seeds, suppliers exceeded 16 million Euros, 95% fertilizers, plant protection, substrates, of the purchases corresponding to national irrigation equipment and plastics for suppliers and the rest were international. agriculture. We bought 800 million seeds in 2014 32 Fertilizers and deficiency Seeds for our contributions for business the plants In order to stock up on seeds, essential for our acBaltic white peat In their various stages of growth, by an amount of tivity, we engage in medium to long-term and staThis peat is extracted mainly from bogs in Estonia EUR 2.6 million. Outstanding due to its volume: ble programs with 19 premier trading houses with and Latvia. Peat formation is the first stage of the locations as diverse as the Netherlands, the United natural process by which vegetation is converted to 5,200,000 kilos and/or litres of top dressing States, Japan and Spain, and production in both hecoal. It is formed as a result of the decomposition With a base of mainly Nitrogen, Phosphorus, mispheres. and partial coalification of vegetation in the acidic Potassium and Calcium. Raw materials originating water of marshes and wetlands; Agromediterránea in countries such as Algeria, Morocco, China, Russia We are in favour of fostering a partnership associabeing one of the largest importers. and Belorussia. tion with our suppliers, i.e. close collaboration and cooperation with them, creating strategic and theVermiculite Phytosanitary treatments also, to protect them refore mutually beneficial alliances. A mineral formed by silicates of iron and magnefrom pests and fungi. 230,000 kilolitres sium, which retains moisture and nutrients for the The necessary products could not be lacking for plant to assimilate in its initial phase. germination of these seeds in our seedbeds in the provinces of Albacete, Granada and Murcia: 33 THE SO 34 CIETY 04.1 04.2 04.3 RESPECT FOR THE ENVIRONMENT UNIVERSITY ENVIRONMENT CONSUMERS 04.4 CORPORATE RELATIONS 04.5 OTHER ACTIVITIES Agromediterránea’s concept is that of a global and responsible business with a strong belief in commitment to our environment, investing in growing together with the communities in which we are present, reinforcing the links with them and promoting respect for human 35 rights within its sphere of influence. Agromediterránea is an active player in society, not a mere spectator. With this principle we become involved in the projects in which we participate, because we believe in them and have an interest in supporting their duration, thus focusing the investment in our community from a perspective of contribution to the development of the societies in which we operate. The best way to meet these expectations is by establishing close collaboration between the company and society, while maintaining a continuous and fluid dialogue with their interest groups and promoting actions that contribute to the advancement of the people. We carry out our commitment in collaboration with governments, NGOs, and other social agents in social action projects and activities related to social development and environmental conservation. In accordance with this premise, and additional to the effort to offer tasty and nutritionally-balanced products as a socially responsible company, Agromediterránea is also committed to those who are most disadvantaged and who do not have their basic needs covered. Since its inception, Agromediterránea has incorporated the values of corporate social responsibility into its work methods, so that they are naturally integrated in the company’s strategy, culture and organization. Agromediterránea has belonged to the United Nations Global Compact for responsible business management since 2013. We support and promote the 10 principles of the Compact which concern fundamental rights of individuals, labour rights, environment and good corporate governance. These criteria are integrated into our strategy and working methods, and we commit ourselves to continuous improvement in these areas through indicators and specific plans. 04.1 Respect for the environment 36 Our environmental • The increasingly extended tendency to use organic fertilizers. management • Crop protection: Lines of action with integrated pest control (products that do not adversely affect the policies are based environment, or the auxiliary flora and fauna); and the release of pest predators (minimizing the use of pesticides). on a series of basic • Recovery of water: In all the farms we have collection systems for irrigation water: it is collected in a reservoir, and principles, such as: through the pump system the water is transferred to a repository which is also prepared for the collection of rain water. An entire system of pipes in the greenhouses collect rain water through downspouts and piping and transport it to the below ground level repository. • Preparation in the field: We are carrying out a simultaneous harvest and preparation strategy in the field of crops such as broccoli, cabbage, little gem, oak leaf, romaine lettuce, iceberg lettuce and zucchini. This new way of working ensures a fresher product, as well as savings in shipping and handling, and helps to save fuel and resources. 37 Conservation of Plant and animal species The existing vegetation bordering our farms is among Historical and cultural interest (archaeology): biodiversity and the elements to be preserved, and mainly the tree and There is an archaeological site located on our protected sites shrub species as they serve as a support and provide farm on the municipality boundary of Moratalla many animals with sustenance and shelter. with a surface area of approximately 1 hectare. In the farm Maintenance of the terraces, as well as unique individual This site corresponds to a time between the Bronze Age and the Late Roman period with environments where areas, mainly of woodland, that exist in zones of a great number of Iberian remains. we develop our agriculture land, with particular attention to traditional varieties within the compass of each of our farms, both production we devote in the Mediterranean Basin, Sierra Maria Natural Park special care to all and the Cabo de Gata – Níjar Regional Park. the areas considered The different isolated wooded areas on each farm are protected sites. all preserved and maintained. 04.2 University 38 environment CSR Chair of the Members of the Region University of Murcia of Murcia’s UniversityAs a sign of our commitment to Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), and in Business Foundation order to receive ongoing advice and participate in best business practices in Agromediterránea is a member of the Region of Murcia’s Universitythis area, Agromediterránea is a sponsoring company of the CSR Chair at the Business Foundation, an entity created in 1988 to be a “connecting University of Murcia (UMU), directed by Professor Longinos Marín. link between the University and business”. Among the objectives of Thanks to the Agreement signed in 2010 between the University of Murcia and the the Foundation these stand out: to encourage and develop shared Department of Education, Employment and Training in the Region of Murcia, the knowledge, dialogue and cooperation between the University Chair has the support of organizations and companies such as Agromediterránea and business to promote entrepreneurship, growth and economic for the promotion of research on all issues related to CSR. The Chair has the development in both the Region of Murcia and within our wider social following objectives: context. • The advancement of research on CSR issues. Likewise, Agromediterránea collaborates with the ENAE Business • The promotion of the active involvement of universities, organizations and School, the leading business school in south-eastern Spain, belonging society as a whole in the advancement of CSR policies. to the Region of Murcia’s University-Business Foundation. • The dissemination, information and awareness of CSR among companies, institutions and society. • The promotion of education and training in CSR between organizations, universities and any other interested parties. • The generation of knowledge, the sharing of experiences and good practices between companies in the area of CSR. • The stimulus of companies and universities to develop and communicate their CSR policies. 04.3 Consumers Promotion of habits 39 for healthy living +Brócoli In our quest to promote healthy lifestyle habits among consumers and society in general, Agromediterránea is a member of the “+Brócoli” (”More Broccoli”) association. The entity, whose main purpose is promoting the consumption of broccoli, brings together farmers, traders, researchers, nutritionists, restorers and all those related entities and persons interested in spreading the healthy, nutritious and tasty benefits that this cruciferous vegetable offers. Agromediterranea holds the presidency of the association since 2012. 5 al Día In Agromediterranea we encourage actions to promote “5 a day”, comprising companies, institutions and individuals who take charge of their message and to achieve the improvement of our society’s eating habits by collaborating and reporting the health benefits of eating 5 servings daily of fresh fruits and vegetables. 04.4 Corporate 40 relations As an innovative company that is involved with its environment, Agromediterránea is an active member of the main business associations in the Region of Murcia. Among them, the Regional Confederation of Business Organizations of Murcia (CROEM) and the Association of Fruit and Vegetable Producers-Exporters of the Region of Murcia (PROEXPORT). 04.5 Other activities Donations to the disadvantaged In our actions to support disadvantaged groups, The agreement was formalized after the visit to the In 2014, Agromediterránea donated over 25,000 Agromediterránea makes regular donations of logistics centre of the Caritas Food Warehouse in kilos of vegetables and 45,000 pieces of mixed products to different associations. Among others, an Murcia. That warehouse handles the distribution lettuce to the Caritas Diocese of Cartagena, agreement was signed in April 2014 in collaboration of resources for people in need or at risk of which is responsible for the distribution of these with the Caritas Diocese of Cartagena, establishing social exclusion, distributing contributions from foods to their health centres in the Murcia region, a stable relationship of collaboration between the companies to its various parish centres. contributing to the maintenance of people in need. company and this charity association. A new framework of cooperation and dialogue This collaboration agreement issues from the between both organizations was established contribution of horticultural products that through this agreement. Agromediterránea has made since 2012 to the Caritas Diocese of Cartagena. 41 Over 25,000 kilos of Furthermore, during the last year Agromediterránea promoted and contributed to vegetables and 45,000 the development of other collaborative activities with society, such as: pieces of lettuce donated • Educational visits to the Agromediterránea facilities and farms for universities, institutes, to Caritas in 2014 • housewives, retirees. Participation in and sponsorship of fairs, congresses and conferences for the dissemination of good agricultural practices, efficient work methods and habits for healthy living. • Sponsorship of local festivities and sports events. THE CAPI 42 TAL 43 Agromediterránea has a business history of more than 30 years in the agricultural sector. Its commitment during all this time has always been to offer the best product with excellent service for the customer and consumer, and being increasingly competitive in order to ensure the sustainability of the business and the environment in which it operates. The company has always been committed to constant investment in human and material resources, infrastructure, new agricultural techniques and business management, as well as in the development of training programs. Dynamism is essential in order to continue growing nationally and for opening the company up to new international markets. Social responsibility in every sphere of action, in accordance with our ethical principles and in the framework of sustainable development, is the cornerstone of our working methods. The balance between business success and social responsibility is particularly important to us. 44 Some figures from 2014 In 2014 Agromediterránea achieved a turnover of € 60,201.000. The company sold a total of 114.7 million units of product, which meant a 115 Million units of greens and volume of 73,772 tons of production. vegetables sold in 2014 Nearly 74,000 tons of production The products that have sold the most have been romaine lettuce, little gem, iceberg lettuce and green zucchini, positioning us among the main domestic producers of these vegetables. Agromediterránea is one of the largest producers in Spain of: lettuce, Top 5 producer in Spain of: lettuce, zucchini, and radish. zucchini, and radish Production 5 numbers 40 million units of romaine lettuce TOP 40 million units of little gem lettuce hearts 20 million units of iceberg lettuce 15.5 million kg of green zucchini 15,500,000 units, one of the largest producers in Spain 45 5.2 million kg of broccoli 2.5 million units of red oak leaf lettuce 2.5 million kg of white cabbage 2.4 million kg of white zucchini 2 million units of sweet corn 1 million kg of radish 1 million kg of peppers 1 million kg of spinach 800,000 kg of savoy cabbage 650,000 kg of chard 400,000 units of curly endive 150,000 kg of mint 80,000 kg of coriander Internationalization Change of strategy ownership During 2014 Agromediterránea decided to invest in new horizons and initiated an On 1 November 2014 there was a change of company ownership. internationalization strategy. Our export activity began in the last quarter of the Agromediterránea was acquired by a group of seven agricultural year, at the same time as the winter campaign. companies with a long tradition in the sector in the Region of Murcia and Valencia. In this way, with the new ownership, Agromediterránea maintains By the end of 2014 Agromediterránea had obtained 30 clients in 14 countries. its structure and organization of producers of fruit and vegetables (OPFH for its Spanish initials) and has renewed its condition as horticultural The internationalization strategy has led the company to invest in diversifying its associate supplier for Mercadona. range of services, and adapting product offerings to the needs of its international clients. The aim is to become the trusted provider of the leading distributors and The new management team of the company is led by Rafael Martinez supermarkets in Europe. Soriano, expert in the agricultural sector with 20 years of experience in the food industry. 46 5 TO Little Gem lettuce 40,000,000 units Romaine lettuce 40,000,000 units Iceberg lettuce 20,000,000 units Green zucchini Broccoli 15,500,000 kg 5,275,000 kg One of the largest producers in Spain Red oak White White Savoy leaf lettuce cabbage zucchini Sweet corn Radish Peppers Spinach cabbage Chard Curly endive Mint Coriander 2,500,000 units 2,500,000 kg 2,400,000 kg 2,000,000 units 1,000,000 kg 1,000,000 kg 1,000,000 kg 800,000 kg 650,000 kg 400,000 units 150,000 kg 80,000 kg We export our 114.7 million products to more units of product than 14 countries sold (2014) 48 Annex Renewal of Commitment to the Global Compact 2014 Agromediterránea has belonged to the United Nations Global The 10 Principles of the United Nations Global Compact Compact since 2013. This report certifies that during 2014 The 10 Principles of the Global Compact are based on Universal Declarations and Conventions Agromediterránea worked in different areas and with different applied in four areas: Human Rights, Environment, Labour Standards and Anti-corruption. interest groups in order to establish goals and areas for improvement that will allow us to align our strategy and operations with the ten principles of responsible corporate governance that Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally are universally accepted and held by the Global Compact. One proclaimed human rights. year later we renewed our commitment to continue working in this Principle 2: Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. direction and strengthen our indicators in the four subjects covered Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective by the Compact: human rights, labour standards, environment and recognition of the right to collective bargaining. anti-corruption. Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forms of forced or compulsory labour. Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. Principle 6: Business should uphold the elimination of discrimination in employment and occupation. Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 49 50
