2014 corporate responsibility report On front page: AB Kevin De Guzman “ Grieg Star is part of the privately owned Grieg Group and is a fully integrated shipping company and owner of one of the world’s largest open hatch fleets. In addition, the company operates a fleet of conventional dry bulk Create lasting carriers as well as manages a financial investment portvalue through our folio. Grieg Star also owns Squamish Terminals in British Columbia. Operating worldwide, we have offices in USA, common effort Canada, Europe, Asia and South America. Our Board of Directors, Management and senior staff are located in Bergen and Oslo, Norway. Our branch offices outside Norway are staffed with experienced commercial people who deal directly with customers in their area from contracts to bookings. The operations staff deals with the stowage, loading and discharging of the ships in their area and are in direct contact with local stevedores, agents and vendors. Since our beginning in 1961 we have taken part in the fast-growing worldwide trade in wood pulp and paper. These commodities originally accounted for most of our business. However, as the benefits of our specialized ships became evident, other industries have also come to prefer our service. As part of the Grieg Group we share common values and a commitment to corporate responsibility, ethical business conduct and the environment. Our values are to be solid, open, proud and committed our vision to create lasting value through our common effort. Grieg Star’s specialized ships are built to meet our customers’ high quality requirements and to deliver superior cargo care. Highly qualified seafarers, trained for our operations, man the ships. A high return rate among the crew is emphasized to ensure familiarity with the ships and operational requirements. Grieg Star focuses on long-term competence development both onboard and ashore. In-house ship management ensures safe and efficient operation. Safety and security of employees, the environment, cargoes and ships have the highest priority. Grieg Star – a solid and dynamic partner! 2 Grieg Star Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 Forget about business as usual The world is constantly changing, and so are our business environments. Forget the phrase “business as usual”. Change is an inherent quality of life. You can read the impact of these changes directly in the quarterly reports of companies all over the world. New desires, new needs, new habits. They affect our businesses. Some doors are opened. Other doors are closed. Just think about the tremendous growth in world population. Or about how leaps in technology have changed everyday life through the last twenty to thirty years. The green shift we see ahead of us will change our business models and behaviour. We might cherish some changes and be worried by others, but our focus should be directed towards the question: how do we tackle these changes? “ Elisabeth Grieg The maritime industry needs more innovative and sustainable Chair, Grieg Star solutions in order to dramatically reduce greenhouse gas emissions. This is high on the agenda across our industry and in Grieg Star. Grieg Star is committed to the principles in the UN Global Compact and seeks to continuously improve our performance in joint effort with others in the industry. The Maritime To me change is first Anti-Corruption Network represents one key arena for sharing experiences and strengthening efforts to tackle corruption and foremost a challenges. We are encouraged by signs of positive developments in i.e. the Suez Canal, infamously known as ‘the Marlstate of inspiration, boro Canal.’ Forget business as usual – this is a new habit. meaning and intrigue. We have been good at handling change in the Grieg Group. In 2014 we celebrated 130 years of business. For 130 years we have had the foresight, resources, courage and probably the luck necessary to thrive in a global competitive environment. For Grieg Star, 2014 was a challenging year with tough markets, but our financial position remains solid. So what’s our recipe? Well, it’s very simple and extremely demanding: To understand the world in which we are operating, make sure to have qualified assumptions about where it is heading, and the ability to adjust our business models and services accordingly. To me change is first and foremost a state of inspiration, meaning and intrigue. We change for a reason. Because there is something we want to achieve, something we believe will improve people’s lives, our companies or even our society. We want to leave traces also outside our economic results. Grieg Star Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 3 In 2008 the Grieg Star Group committed to the ten principles principles become embedded in the way we conduct our of the UN Global Compact. This is a strategic policy initiative business and thus our corporate culture. We promote and use for companies dedicated to sustainable business development, our influence to voice UN Global Compact’s principles and covering human rights, labor, the environment and antiideas, and report on progress by applying the Global Reporting corruption. We strive to implement these principles in our Initiative as our reporting standard. Our GRI index is found on strategies and operative work. It is imperative that these pages 16-19 of this report. Bergen Oslo Gothenburg Squamish Rotterdam Bremen Vancouver Livorno Seoul Tokyo Atlanta Savannah Long Beach Mobile Shanghai Manila Bergen/Oslo118 Manila33 Singapore Vancouver27 Atlanta23 Squamish15 Shanghai14 Gothenburg8 Rio de Janeiro Seoul  7 859/37 Rotterdam7 Tokyo5 Livorno4 Rio de Janeiro  3 Singapore1 seafarers/ships Bremen1 Letting our employees have their say Developing relationships with our high, there will always be room for are presented. A case in point is the stakeholders is vital to a responsible improvement. Based on the feedback, we input from the officers regarding their business conduct. We try to keep this in have explored company-wide as well as encounters with corrupt practices like mind also as we work to refine our local possibilities for doing things even bribery and facilitation payments, people processes. One important aspect better. leading to the development of our is to develop a working environment procedures to fight corruption in ports. based on participation and engagement. Likewise, our seafaring officers are meeting semi-annually to share Working together with our employees Using a variety of tools to achieve this, experiences, discuss and learn from each like this is a powerful tool for 2014 was the year of our employee other. Bringing leadership, life at sea, as developing our organisation. Using it satisfaction survey. All our shorewell as business related matters to the systematically contributes to improve based employees had the opportunity table, these gatherings serve as a main the way we conduct us and do our to give input on a wide range of issues arena for defining and developing our business, while strengthening our team concerning their working life. Although company culture. Being very practically and creating a common mind set. the general scores all over were very oriented, a lot of initiatives and actions 4 Grieg Star Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 Grieg Star Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 5 49.345 The amount of USD raised for our calamity fund after Haiyan 6 Grieg Star Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 Mr Kevin and Mrs Kareen Damayo are among those of our employees who got help from the calamity fund to rebuild their house after Haiyan. A new home after Haiyan Super Typhoon Haiyan/Yolanda killed at least 6.300 people in the Philippines in November 2013. Millions were displaced or rendered homeless. Our seafarers and employees from our offices around the world gave donations to a calamity fund to help those of our colleagues who were affected by the typhoon. Many survivors are still suffering from emotional distress amid efforts to physically rebuild their lives. Grieg Star set up a calamity fund to help our colleagues. Combined with funds originally set aside for annual Christmas celebrations in 2013, we managed to raise USD 49,345. In the past year, we have helped fourteen of our seafarers and their families. Some had the roof swept away, others had walls torn down, and a very few lost their whole house. Although not enough to rebuild a whole house, we have helped our colleagues in need to start anew. A total support of USD 24,000.00 has been distributed. The beneficiaries have received the funds in three installments, and have sent supporting receipts and reports to Grieg Philippines. In the first weeks after Haiyan, office staff and seafarers from the worst hit areas traveled to visit some of our colleagues and distribute relief goods and assistance. The expenses for these visits and relief goods amounted to USD 3,375. A visit to three of our seafarers’ families in Tacloban City in August 2013 showed us that there is still a tremendous need for assistance to rebuild the city and the residents’ lives. The same goes for many other municipalities across the Central Visays. During our visit to 3AE Kevin Damayo, Mrs. Po (wife of Deck Fitter Leonard Po), and Mr. and Mrs. Cormanes (parents of Motorman Toby Cormanes), heartbreaking stories of how Haiyan struck and how they managed to save their lives were shared. Mrs. Po told us she and her children survived by seeking shelter in a small attic above their kitchen. They live in a one-story house, and it was just pure luck the water level did not reach the attic. The descriptions of how they survived were examples of the saying that the Filipino spirit is stronger than any typhoon. Grieg Star’s Calamity Fund continues to be readily available to our seafarers when forces of nature might strike again, and the need for support arises. Grieg Star Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 7 Grieg Star’s first female cadet Thirty days spent onboard and thirty days manage the same tasks, and at times maybe spent ashore are two completely different stories. do them more effectively because of better Ashore, thirty days is short, as you have your organization skills. same old routine. But onboard, different norms For tasks on deck that may require a lot of apply – it is a massive routine change. A day strength, Shawntel is assisted by her colleagues, onboard feels like a whole year ashore, at least but always encouraged to manage on her own if once you take your first steps on that gangway. possible. Being away from home is a challenge to You need to end your tedious lifestyle to adapt anyone at sea. to a new culture – where everyone is a part of a We can never be assured that the harmonious whole – in upholding quality service female cadets will serve as long as our current and safety of life at sea. Captains and Chief Engineers, but with the right Being onboard M/V Star Florida for the first combination of career development planning thirty days made a considerable change in Deck and understanding, we know they can reach far. Cadet Shawntel Denuyo Agujar (18). We are blessed to have them onboard; they do a Boarding as the first female cadet in Grieg Star, good job and contribute to a happy and lighter Shawntel felt the weight of expectations upon her ship, says Captain Burgos. shoulders. Many eyes were watching her every Shawntel has in her short time onboard been able move. to visit new places and go ashore, and loves the I had to conduct myself according to the adventures that come with being a seafarer. expectations, and entered the battlefield, keeping I feel lucky to be onboard M/V Star Florida. I in mind the guidance given prior embarkation have the best set of officers and crew around me, all and trusting my abilities to encouraging and seeing to that Engine Cadet Marn 1016/112 complete a whole year of Glysdi Amora and I learn and develop every day. cadetship. At first it was hard Her most memorable experience onboard are to know my role onboard, the many firsts she has had since embarking the Number of men vs women not knowing the tasks to be vessel; especially the first time she drove the crane done, or where my learning and the first time she maneuvered the ship. The would start. The biggest thrill and excitement of managing a new task, challenge was finding out how to fit in. makes her career choice so fulfilling. Everyone onboard was men. Fathers. Brothers. Shawntel grew up close to the sea, and taking up Sons. Not surprisingly, with Shawntel’s outgoing a maritime education was just natural to her. Males and positive attitude, she managed to find her and females are graduating with Bachelor of place in the environment onboard. Spending time Science Degrees in Marine Transportation and with her colleagues was an important factor, and Marine Engineering, and it made her want to try as she enjoyed taking on new sports such as ping well. She wants to prove that she can do it and is pong and basketball, and being the vocalist or determined that a career at sea can be combined drummer during karaoke gatherings. with a family life, as long as it is planned together Her shipboard training is going very well. with her future “Mr. Right”, as well as having a close Captain Jose Ferdinand Burgos is impressed with and open dialogue with the company. her abilities on the bridge, and she tackles to a I am thankful to Grieg Star for the opportunity great extent the job of a Junior Officer. Shawntel I have been given; for trusting me and for believing takes part in deck maintenance works together that it is possible to reach the top. In Grieg Star, with the Bosun, and serves on the bridge the cadets are taken care of. All are ensured together with the Chief Officer. To further enhance sufficient sea service and a job and career waits her knowledge, she extends her time on the bridge after graduation. We are proud to be Griegorians, to study maritime regulations and complete her and I am proud to be the pioneering shefarer of training record book. the company! In terms of work, especially on the bridge, I do not see any problem. Women can easily 8 Grieg Star Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 Deck Cadet Shawntel Denuyo Agujar calls herself the pioneering shefarer in Grieg Star. 87% Return rate seafarers 2014 2013 2012 2011 Repatriation due to accidents 6 3 8 4 Number of ‘near 96 82 75 34 miss’ reported Lost time injury frequencies 2,8 2,2 2,7 2,1 Total reportable cases 8,6 7,6 5,6 7,9 frequencies Fatalities 0 0 0 0 Grieg Star Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 9 Shipping operations entail discharge of harmful emissions. Given its environmental vision of “No harmful emissions to air, sea and land” Grieg Star’s strategy is to work systematically and continuously to improve its fleet’s energy consumption. Status by year-end 2014 is a 29.4% reduction measured by EEOI (CO2 index), including technical measures and using ecospeed. Hence, the Group is beyond its internal target of 20% reduction (of the CO2 index) by year-end 2015 compared to 2006 levels. We have during 2014 been able to identify how the savings are split between technical measures and the use of ecospeed. So far 11% of the reduction is related to technical measure and the remaining part is ecospeed. The single biggest technical contributor is fleet renewal including recycling of older vessels. Being ISO 14001 certified also puts pressure on the Group to continue to improve, both at sea and ashore. The Ship Energy Efficiency Management Plan, which is a practical tool to manage environmental performance and to improve operational efficiency, has been high on the agenda in 2014. Measuring systems are now on board all the Group’s modern vessels (from H-class), enabling advanced performance analysis. This put us in a position to make the right decision for optimized use of antifouling systems, propeller polishing intervals, main engine optimal tuning and other initiatives we did not have the possibility to measure previously. Our theory is that “if you can not measure it you can not improve it!”. We have during 2014 been able to harvest from our investment within this field. To prepare for implementation of the Ballast Water Management Convention, the Group has put ballast water treatment systems on two of its new open hatch ships. The technology is being evaluated, with respect to efficiency, liability and spare part consumption as well as alternative makers and new Fleet performance analyst Svenn Sørstrand (right) and VP new-buildings and projects, Jan Øi technology. Grieg Star is also involved in several improvement projects as “Working Group 5” (“WG5”), being five ship owners cooperating on environmental shipping Data is key to be green in a systematic way. This work has been continued Every hour almost 1,000 pieces of data is sent from our ships through 2014 with meetings on several levels within to a database, ready to be turned into the basis of Grieg the WG5 companies. Their ‘Smart Contract’ project aims to demonstrate emission reductions and cost Star’s effort to improve energy efficiency. savings potentials, by adjusting and testing commercial framework optimized for the maritime transpor– If you can’t measure it, you can’t improve it, Jan Øivind Svardal, vice tation supply chain. president for new-buildings and projects in Grieg Star says. Our ship management team is constantly looking for ways to make our ships more energy efficient, and thereby both more climate friendly and economic. The key is data – lots of data. And the data comes from sensors on board our 24 ships, about ten sensors per ship. 29,4% Our reduction of CO2 emissions since 2006 – The sensors are registering speed, draft, weather, wind, engine power, fuel consumption and so on. Every 20 seconds they register data and every 15 minutes we get the average value of the different data sent to a database, fleet performer analyst Svenn Sørstrand explains. That is more than 378 million readings a year, and in 2014 gave Svenn about 8,5 million different pieces of data to analyse. The staggering 10 Grieg Star Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 vind Svardal, uses vast amount of data from our ships to help the rest of our ship management team make our ships even more energy efficient. amounts of data help provide evidence when new ideas for to rely on information from the suppliers alone, the team used saving energy are put to the test. its huge database of readings from the ships. That gave them information enough to choose the right antifouling system to Over the last couple of years Jan Øivind and his team have further improve energy efficiency. looked at trimming, antifouling and propeller polishing to make sure we use as little energy as possible when shipping With as many as 24 ships with these sensors, we are no goods around the world. The last improvement included adlonger in a pilot phase. This is now a part of our production, justing how often the propeller of our ships should be and it demands a lot more resources than expected. But the polished. numbers indicate success. Grieg Star is ahead of goals when – We had our first proper look at how often we were it comes to cutting CO2 emissions. polishing our propellers seven years ago. We had an idea, but – Our next big thing is to get the performance of the no hard data. Still, we decided to make a change and see how engines to be at its best. We are using the numbers to look it worked out. Now we have the data, and we can fine-tune into this as well, Svenn says. the frequency of polishing even more. It is still not an exact An auto tuner is installed in the engine of one of our ships science, but we feel confident in our advice, Jan Øivind says. to fine-tune the pressure in the cylinders. Jan Øivind is eager In 2014 Grieg Star had several dockings, and the team to get the data from the test. utilised these opportunities to have a more thorough look at – If we succeed in this, it may mean a lot to further lowering the antifouling systems used on the ships. Instead of having our energy consumption. Grieg Star Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 11 Building environmental resilience Grieg Star has since 2011 successfully collaborated series of the workshop focused on energy efficiency and with WWF-Philippines with various projects linked to conservation, waste management and biodiversity conservation, and included discussions, where the teachers marine conservation in Palawan, Philippines. engaged in role-playing, human bingo, foot-printing and games. These activities can well be transformed to a Being active in the Philippines is important to our company. classroom setting, and will be welcomed by students. It is one of the ways we wish to give back to the country that has provided us with loyal, skilled and competent seagoing On the second day of the workshop, WWF-Philippines’ personnel for more than three decades. research vessel, M/Y Navorca, was transformed into a floating classroom. The 80-foot wood and fiberglass vessel Our latest collaboration, “Education is Adaptation”, is an was acquired in 2008 and refurbished with modern navigation, Environmental Life Skills Seminar and Workshop for high communication and research equipment through the help of school teachers from four municipalities in Grieg Star, Grieg Foundation and WWF-Norway. This Palawan. The seminar and workshop, lasting for is the first time M/Y Navorca was turned into a field two days, was conducted as three separate legs, and targeted 120 participants. With 50 students in one high school class, the teachers will 120 Teachers on classroom. Talking about a coral reef is far different from actually showing the teachers and students one. contribute to creating 6,000 environmental WWF-seminar Showing, rather than telling, makes it easier to stewards in Palawan. understand real-world applications. The floating The project’s objective is to increase the knowclassroom played host to three talks. The Captain ledge and awareness of academic administrators and faculty taught a class on renewable energy technologies, proudly members on environmental challenges, focusing on climate showing off the vessel’s solar panels and microwind turbines, change. By touching base with the educational system, this which supply the vessel with free, zero-emissions electricity. initiative has assisted in developing practical and long A researcher from Tubbataha Management Office showed term solutions in caring for our environment. The lecture teachers how to craft digital maps of coral reefs plus other 12 Grieg Star Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 Photo: Master Norberto Lee Improved RightShip rating There are a lot of different rating systems around when it comes to security and environment. The RightShip ship vetting system is among the toughest to get a high rating from, and we are proud to say that our rating at RightShip has improved over the last years, and our risk ratings are now as good as they Photo: WWF Phillipines/Gregg Yan can be. We have had a nice improvement the last three years, climbing from an average rating of 4,5 three years ago. In 2014 we got a rating of 5 stars out of 5 possible. It is something we are proud of, HSSEQ Manager Odd Are Sletten says. marine habitats. Tubbataha Reefs Natural Park is a 97,030-hectare Marine Protected Area and is recognized as having the highest He gives credit for the improvement to focused coral diversity in the world. teamwork. In stead of just fixing whatever was wrong, M/Y Navorca crewmen led the final group, snorkeling coral people from different disciplines sit together to make reefs and future Marine Protected Area at the outskirts of Puerto sure what is fixed once, will stay that way. Princesa. During the session in Puerto Princesa grey skies broke to pour sheets of rain, an opportunity to teach residents in the area This has given us knowledge across disciplines how to harvest rainwater, leaving behind 10 plastic drums. and a greater sense of understanding each other’s challenges and work, Sletten says. Our goal is to educate not just students, but the teachers themselves. Concrete experiences like fishing community visits make it easier There is more work to be done, in risk management for the educators to integrate conservation into their curriculum. as well as environmentally. In 2014 we managed to Examples for math and science lessons can be skewed towards the increase our environmental rating from 3 to 4 stars, environment, which was practiced during the first day of the seminar. for 17 of our ships, all holding an EIAPP certificate. This makes learning less theoretical and more progressive. This is made possible by being an affiliated member All teachers were supplied with educational material and of World Ports Climate Initiative/Environmental Ship teaching kits enough to distribute to their students. Having Index (WPCI/ESI). The majority of our ships are access to manuals and activity sheets generated cheer among the holding a “D” for GHG emission rating measured on a teachers and motivated them to bring the topic of climate change scale from “A” to “G”, of which “A” is highest score. more actively into their classrooms. “Education is Adaptation” has gained support from the RightShip is a vetting company, initially formed to Department of Education, the Palawan Council for Sustainable improve dry bulk safety and quality standards. RightDevelopment Staff and it is our hope that there will be more focus on Ship is focused on helping industry avoid preventable including environmental awareness in the curriculum of high school incidents, while reducing the carbon dioxide emissions students in the Philippines. emitted by the world marine fleet. Grieg Star Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 13 Our Ethical Guidelines The Grieg Group aims to be recognized by high standards for health and safety, environment and ethics. The objective of this policy is to state the requirements for business practice and personal behaviour. The target group is all employees working for the Grieg Group, including the members of the Board of Directors within each of the companies and subsidiaries to the Grieg Group. It is the responsibility of all employees to o se d understand and demonstrate these principles. All relePlea ctive Prote y follow rd the onal ctl a r Pers t and stri ts on bo Wea vant Norwegian and international regulations must be Equip nd requ ru le s men a irem en w o rk ing ing safe nyth carefully observed. Personal and business conduct must ard main Help nment a safe tain a report a nd nbo n ation enviro nsider u be well within the intentions of the principles outlined co me o e udy th s instructi inform on s you co and any crew Wel to st you rieg Star’ rking e ala w th s given b rms y the rage below. The management in each of the companies has G o F o llo se ncou observe secure w l. ction nd u W e e d d e in st ru ti a ensure d y w an safe an e vess place to belo sure a nboa rd th e work age bins e the overall responsibility to ensure that the guidelines to en nment o enviro th Keep rrect ga of garba o the c r handlin e rb g g prop are observed and respected. Violations of the ethical guidelines will have consequences, and serious instances t o no may result in termination of employment. The ethical se d as Plea desig nate d are n tside lated uPtio y formn ke ou ot re guidelines are approved by the Board of Directors in orr or accepfat an Smo stricte ard d a rea n no c ffer y, ci litatio Ente r work o r an y re nbo all companies within the Grieg Group and apply from star Grieg rruption not o does cluding due gifts , in ents and briber un . a m embe ion pt r of to yo u reas ing a fire esc ors, or do pes and a of co paym ar is ti-Corru ing walk January 2013. nd g St k Blo ially arou An et c l Grie aritime rg N) ta ports. y leve the M k (MAC c espe utes at an in oyee give Networ tices reported e or prac exit ro empl promis cluding corrupt be ely No er , (in y nt s will ul timat 欢迎 off lu e an ci de d may ng of va l) to ss All in ACN an orities. coho M auth anythi ttes or al or busine y to ciga re cial may an pt ap pr op riate 登船 The values shared by the Grieg Group shall be exic offi publ r. Nor r or acce partne ee ask fo gift. 我们 意格 建议您学 请务 oy due empl ibe or un any br 利 必： pressed in the way business is conducted and in interac保登 戈星航公 以下信 习 ET CIGAR K A N 确 穿戴 LAKU dung 性n 船工 息 并严 个人防护 at Pelin raturan da 。 作环 司的指 并留 格遵 循船 衣和设备 tion with each other, with customers, suppliers and other i nl ah Kenaka serta patu l secara ke Pribad tan di kapa Al hi pe tat 境的 安 全 示， 保障 以 帮助 上规 则及 ， 要求 ； 报告 维持安全 ra rja persya gan ke hal stakeholders. The values are: Open, Solid, Proud and TANG h men jaga Turutla an dan la tidak aman lingkun porkan sega la 任何 你认 的工作环 为不 安全 境并 AT DA am yang anggap 遵从 的情 Committed. n ah da SELAM Anda ua 船员 况; di baw yang n sem 给出 rmasi untuk m da 的任 ri info Grieg Star ng aman h alar pelaja ya rkanla 何警 Harap uhi petunjuk gan kerja Denga dari kru n 告和 提示 at un uk rja da t mem tikan lingk kapal. petunj pat ke 保持 ； m tepa 垃圾 工作场所 as di at as pian te yang mem h kera mpah aman pat sa nangan禁 an 桶， dan ny Jagala n tem格 以确 的整洁并 止腐 Ethical principles na ka 利 an pe 保垃 gu mem 包bena astik 戈星r 败 圾的 正确使用 untuk 括贿 航不提供 妥善 h yang 赂， 处理 sampa 严禁 便 或接受 利性 。 • We will carry out our business fairly, honestly and 许诺 任何级别 物品 或给予 的员工 给任 （包括 任何 香 有价 提供 ， 付款 任何形式 和不 适当 的腐败， 的礼 请勿 作方 何政府官 烟或酒 值的 格利 物 ： openly 局中 戈星航是 取或 ；任何员 员或 商 精） 的礼 者收受任 工也不 业合A N 口处 的一 海事 在非 JANG 物 何贿 得索 nt uk员an ， 反腐 指定 dite的腐 G 赂或 ng件将 败行 主要针 败 区域 ARAN 不 ea ya 报 抽烟 ar ar 当 及 告给 为 所 对港 DIL a lu 最终 ； • We do not accept any form of discrimination of em海 ak 有的 UPSI enerim ok di ya有ng tid 关当 事反腐局 事 pun m pelicin, Merok 进入 KOR n mau awarka suap, ua ng ruang te rlarang di kapa l 局。 及 的禁 任何跟你 ak men asuk asuki Anda 止区 域； 船上工作 . Star tid rupsi, term tak pantas Mem rjaan t peke ployees or others involved in our activities Grieg ko ota atau jen is di ah an gg terkai rjalan ngga 封堵 无关 CIGA segala dan ha h RET adala si Maritim 防火 人行通道 Star up ar ea be ta ieg or idik alangi ar di Gr gan Anti-K memb a. di sekit 逃生 Mengh ususnya 通道 或门禁， wan rin ng ag leh Ja ACN) ya di derm ar karya r kelu • We do not accept any form of corruption, nor will ak bo kh pintu, ran dan jalu an a Semu tingkat tid njanjikan, (M k ko rup rup ak n 。 特别 a prakti ktik ko da 是 semu n, me warka erikan se suatu Segala pra ke MACN kebaka mena asuk kan g. u memb (term da dilapor berwenan ata rga pa at berha we condone it taking place on our behalf so as to ol) ke nis pejab yang dan akoh bis mitra rokok resmi atau karyawan at a pejab Semu rima pun. mene ng CIGARET mana ak boleh ya diah influence business. tid juga un ha maup suap ntas. pa tidak • We will avoid doing business with others who do not accept our values and who may harm our reputation. • We shall be careful about giving and accepting gifts or other services. • We will keep clear and updated records of all business transactions made on behalf of the Grieg Group. • We will avoid situations where personal interests may Should we pay or risk conflict with the interests of the Grieg Group. • We will treat all information, assets and property of International shipping is exposed to corruption risks in the Grieg Group responsibly and professionally. ports around the world, and our seafarers need to tackle • If an employee is concerned about a potential breach these challenges and be firm in standing their ground. of any of the Grieg Group’s ethical principles, these concerns should be reported immediately. Individuals may report through the regular channels; to their Grieg Star does not accept any form of corruption and has detailed superior, or to their superior’s superior. The concern procedures for handling challenging situations in ports and taking may also be raised to any member of the board of preventive measures. Our seafarers are in the forefront and need directors in each respective company within the our support. A practical end measure, which has proven helpful Grieg Group. for captains and crew are posters of our anti-corruption statement onboard vessels. Posters are available in Mandarin, Bahasa Reporting of potential breaches of the ethical principles Indonesia and English. All our agents have also signed our Supplier is considered loyal, and will be treated in a responsible Code of Conduct and are regularly followed up to ensure we tackle manner. Whoever reports such incidents will not experithese challenges together. ence any negative consequences. Grieg Star is also training seafarers and staff in identifying risks and handling challenges, and are pleased to hear back from our 14 Grieg Star Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 The Maritime Anti-corruption Network (MACN) is a global business network working towards the vision of a maritime industry free of corruption that enables fair trade to the benefit of society at large. a delay? It is comprised of major vessel owners and other companies in the maritime industry including cargo owners, ports and terminal operators, and seafarers that they also see some improvements in some ports and in service providers. the Suez Canal. As remarked by one of our captains after a training session on anti-corruption; MACN and members promote good corporate practice in the maritime industry for tackling “I remember anti-corruption as one of the topics of discussion during bribes, facilitation payments and other forms of the last conference and I was one of those non-believers. I did not corruption by implementing the MACN Antibelieve that it would be possible to eradicate corruption in the corruption Principles, communicating progress shipping industry. But this positive change in China is proving me on implementation, sharing best practice and wrong. This is also proof that if everyone, from shipping companies to creating awareness of industry challenges. seafarers, work collectively, then changes can be imposed.’ MACN also collaborates with key stakeholders The Maritime Anti-Corruption Network provides a unique platform including governments and international for businesses to contribute to the elimination of corrupt practices in organizations to identify and mitigate the root the maritime industry. The network has grown to approximately 50 causes of corruption in the maritime industry. members from across the maritime industry, including Grieg Star. By sharing best practices and raising the bar on our common efforts we http://www.maritime-acn.org/ will contribute to more positive change in the years to come. Grieg Star Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 15 Global Reporting Initiative GRI Standard Disclosure Description of the Indicator Page/References indicators Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision maker of the organization Refer to Annual Report Grieg Star Group AS 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. Refer to Annual Report Grieg Star Group AS Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization Grieg Star Group AS 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services Ship owner / Ship management / Chartering / Operations 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation Refer to www.griegstar.com 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters Bergen, Norway 2.5 Countries where the organization operates Refer to www.griegstar.com 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form Shareholding company, not listed 2.7 Markets served World-wide 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation Refer to Annual Report Grieg Star Group AS 2.9 Significant changes in size, structure, or ownership None 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period WWF Philippines Environmental Leadership Award Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period January 1 December 31. 2014 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any) 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) Annual 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its content Senior Vice President Human Resources Ole Steinar Mjell, Corporate Responsibility Manager Marit Trodal, Chief Financial Officer Annicken Kildahl 3.5 Process for defining report content Involvement of relevant departments and content providers 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, etc). All subsidiaries, divisions and countries included. 3.7 Limitations on the scope of boundary of the report GRI reporting does not include Product Responsibility. Customer related indicators are not measured per today and other indicators are irrelevant. 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries etc Refer to accounting principles in Annual Report 2014 3.9 Data measurements techniques Refer to accounting principles in Annual Report 2014 3.10 Effect of any re-statements of information Nothing to report 3.11 Changes in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods None 3.12 GRI Index table Published in Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 3.13 External assurance for the report Financial reporting only. Other parameters are self declared. Governance, Commitments and Engagement 4.1 Governance structure of the organisation 4.2 Whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an execuThe chair is not executive officer tive officer 4.3 For unitary board structure, state the number of members of the Three external board members highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendaFormal mechanisms for shareholders only. Notification tions or direction to the highest governance body. policy for employees involves board as ultimate recipient. To be revised in 2015. 4.5 Compensation for the highest governance body, senior managers, and Refer to accounting principles in Annual report 2014 executives 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conBoard members abstain from board discussions if potenflicts of interest are avoided tial conflict of interests occur. 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the memIndependent executive search bers of the highest governance body 16 Grieg Star Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conRefer to www.griegstar.com for details on values, ethical duct, and principles guidelines and supplier code of conduct. 4. 9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organiAnnual audits corresponding to board agenda, input from zation external ISO 14001 audit. 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own perforInternal audit and self assessement. mance 4.11 Whether and how the precautionary approach or principles is adInternal compliance committee identifies and recomdressed by the organisation mends actions for improvement to organisation. Also refer to director’s report in Annual Report 2014 4.12 Externally developed charters, principles, or other initiatives to which UN Global Compact the organisation subscribes or endorses 4.13 Memberships in associations and/or national/international advocacy Member of the Norwegian Shipowner Association (NSA), organisations Maritime Anti-Corruption Network (MACN) and the Nordic Committee of DNV GL. Board representation of SOS Children’s Villages Norway, advisory board member of Bellona’s Sahara Forest Project, Bergen Shipowner Association, Incentra, Marintek, Norwegian Training Center (Manila), Castex/Intercargo. 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization Employees, suppliers, environment, local community 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to Strategic decision to target some key stakeholders engage actively. 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement Involvement of employees, supplier engagement via Incentra network and manning agency in the Philippines, some environmental co-operation projects in the Norwegian shipping industry 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder Health & safety , competence development on environengagement mental issues. Co-operation with WWF Norway, NSA and other shipping companies to increase energy efficiency. International anti-corruption network for shipping industry, the Maritime Anti-Corruption Network. ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Management Approach EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Refer to key figures in Annual Report 2014 EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to Not reported climate change. EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations. Refer to financial statements in Annual Report 2014 EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. Refer to directors report in Annual Report Grieg Shipping Group 2011 via www.grieg.no EC6 Spending on locally-based suppliers at significant location of operaNot reported tion. EC7 Procedures for local hiring proportion of senior management All crew including officers are recruited from the Philippines. Scholarships at cadet level available. Crew management responsible for career development plans. Manning agency in Manila run by local management and staff. EC8 Infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public Supporting SOS Childrens Village Cebu and WWF Philipbenefit pines. ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Management Approach EN1 Materials used by weight or volume Not applicable EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials Not applicable EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source To a very low extent during dry docking. Not recorded. EN5* Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements Energy saved by 9 % compared to 2007 EN8 Total water withdrawal by source All consumed fresh water is produced onboard. EN11 Location and size of land in areas of high biodiversity value outside Not relevant protected areas Grieg Star Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 17 EN12 Impacts on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiverBallast water is treated in accordance with IMO regusity lation. EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight Not reported EN18* Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight Recovery equipment for repair of freezer and aircondition compressors. Weight not reported. EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination Estimated grey water pr. crew member is 200 l/day, approximately 37000 tons/year. Produced onboard. EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Amount of waste is not quantified. Shore delivery of segregated waste to approved recipient. EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills No significant spills reported in 2014. EN26 Environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact Not reported mitigation EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are Not reported reclaimed by category EN28 Significant fines and sanctions for non-compliance with environmenNone tal laws and regulations SOCIAL PERFOMANCE INDICATORS Labor Practices and Decent Work Management Approach LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and Refer to non-financial figures on www.griegstar.com region LA2 Employee turnover by age group, gender, and region Reported as return rate for crew: 95%. Male and female crew. LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreeLand based personell: None. Crew: 100% International ments standards LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes International rules and standards are followed (crew) LA6* Formal joint management-worker health and safety committees Practiced onboard the vessels due to size of organisation. Internal working environment committee at HQ/ Oslo office. LA7 Injuries, occupational diseases, lost days, absenteeism, and work-reRefer to non-financial figures via www.griegstar.com lated fatalities LA8 Education, training, prevention, and risk-control programs in place None regarding serious diseases LA9* Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade International standards apply. unions LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category Approximately 12 hours (all crew levels included) LA13 Diversity within governance bodies and employee categories Refer to non-financial figures via www.griegstar.com LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category Not reported Mobile worker working pattern LT9 Description of policies and programmes to determine working hours Work in progress to improve rest hours and leave periods and rest hours, rest facilities and leave for seafarers to ensure compliancy with Maritime Labour Convention. LT10 Approaches to provision of facilities to enable mobile workers to mainInternet access onboard all vessels has been estabtain personal communication while working lished Ship safety inspections LT13 List the accients when ships have been detained by port inspectors None ??? Use of labour providers Describe how these criterias relate to existing international stanManning office in Manila follows international ILO dards such as conventions of the ILO conventions. 18 Grieg Star Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 Continuity of employment LT17 Describe measures in place to provide income security and employSeafarer(ratings) have contracts for one period ( 9 ment continuity for workers employed/contraced repeatedly but not months) at sea at a time, and have to apply for next continuously period. Officers have stand by payment. Human Rights Management Approach HR1 Human rights clauses or screening related to investment agreements None HR2 Screening of suppliers and contractors regarding human rights Due diligence part of pre-qualification of major supplier contracts HR4 Total number of discrimination and actions taken None HR5 Freedom of association and collective bargaining Crew is organized by international seamen associations HR6 Child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of Included in supplier code of conduct. Also refer to Grieg child labor Green’s business purpose via www.grieggreen.com HR7 Forced or compulsory labor Included in supplier code of conduct and risk assessments Society Management Approach SO1 Impacts of operations on communities, including entering, operating, Local employment and scholarship opportunities. and exiting SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks Key risk areas on country/port level analysed and folrelated to corruption. lowed up regularly via branch offices SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption Anti-corruption training workshops conducted at policies and procedures. bi-annual officers conferences and regularly in manning agency. SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. Incidents reported and raised to agents and local port offices in some countries. Improvements in internal procedures for handling challenges in ports and posters onboard vessels stating anti-corruption policy, available in Mandarin, English and Bahasa Indonesia. SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development Via the Norwegian Shipowner Association and lobbying SO7* Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly None practices SO8 Fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning proviNone sion and use of products Grieg Star Group applies the G3 core performance indicators and some specific indicators for the Transport & Logistics sector in its reporting on sustainability. The GRI index for 2014 is self-declared. Grieg Star Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 19 www.griegstar.com
