Hans Følsgaard A/S Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 Content CEO Statement..................... 3 Employees............................ 4 Environment......................... 5 Society.................................. 6 Suppliers............................... 7 CEO Statement Hans Følsgaard A/S supply We have a wide range of contacts especially and employees regarding sustainable within Danish Industry and infrastructure, enterprise. Addtech has a Code of Conduct solutions and products for but also in Norway and Sweden. As we that covers all subsidiaries, and each year a the electric & electronics have a wide range of contact to suppliers sustainability report is produced to present industry in Scandinavia as worldwide. We are involved in more than the results of the CSR work. The reporting 20 countries throughout the world and do complies with the guidelines for Application well as for the infrastructure acknowledge and respect our responsibility Level C of the Global Reporting Initiative within the telecom and and obvious opportunity to exert our (GRI). See Addtech CSR Report power market. influence on society in matters of social responsibility. HF joined the UN Global Compact 12.12.12 to manifest our commitment and to promote Trade, distribution and technological socially responsible business and ethical development is all about relationships. behavior. We are pleased to confirm our Our main role is to be the link between continue support the UN Global Compact supplier and customer, and through longand its ten principles. term cooperation’s on both sides, we create a mutual understanding of needs Our employees are our most valuable assets. Jørgen Stenberg and characteristics and better business for Endeavoring to give them increased job CEO all parties. Our long-lasting partnerships autonomy our CSR work too is based on a some of which have lasted 50 even 60 high degree of employee involvement. Our years -are stable but not static. The longemployees have made a catalog of ideas and lasting partnerships tend to have their own from this we have all jointly selected three dynamics, where development takes place topics we wanted to work with in 2014, with an iterative application of innovation, viz. work environment, suppliers and how thus customer, distributor and producer to reduce CO2 emission, paper and energy jointly follow the market development with consumption. The outcome of which you will a mutual acceptance of the opportunities find in this year’s COP report. existing and new markets offer. As from July 1 2014 Hans Følsgaard A/S has a new majority shareholder, viz. Addtech Yours sincerely AB. Addtech AB consists of more than 100 Jørgen Stenberg operating technology-trading companies CEO in the Nordic countries that all work 100% autonomously. There will be no changes in the day-to-day business and management in HF. Addtech runs long-term Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) work that covers all subsidiaries in the Group. Addtech’s overarching goal is to fulfil the requirements and expectations of customers, shareholders 3 Employees Our employees are our most You get what you give; in HF, we allow employees a high degree of autonomy. valuable assets and we treat They have the freedom to manage much of them as such. Our future their own work and to determine whether development depends on to work from home or in the office. Giving our employees freedom with responsibility them; their well-being and job we get flexible, dedicated and satisfied satisfaction are important to us. employees. Place of work assessment Wishing to maintain and improve the good work environment, we initiated a place of work assessment in 2014. The 2014 assessment comprised a safety evaluation of the buildings and equipment and a questionnaire with a long series of questions on the physical and psychosocial work As from the end of 2014 all employees have Attract and keep the best employees environment. tables with lifting/lowering mechanism and HF has appointed a small internal committee an extra sound-absorbing screen on the that will look into the report and plan of The response rate was 66% and the result of table. action to see whether new initiatives could the assessment more than satisfactory. be made endeavoring to make HF one of the Warehouse best working places in Denmark attracting Conclusion In our warehouse, we have also taken and keeping the best employees. The assessment resulted in a report and measures to make the work environment as a plan of action. The report concluded safe and comfortable for our employees as that we have a positive and healthy possible. E.g. we store in four only to spare work environment, physically as well as the neck of the lift truck driver, we have aids psychosocially. The open office is bright and for heavy lifts, tables with lifting/lowering No incidents of involvement in ■ Employees 67 sound absorbing with focus on a good work mechanism and ramps for trucks to unload labour rights violations have been ■ Administration/Sale/Purchase/Finance 50 environment with plenty of space for the themselves. reported in 2014. ■ Warehouse 9 individual employee. The open office is an ■ Norway 7 important factor for the knowledge sharing Massage and coaching ■ Sweden 1 principle in HF, thus any downsides of the As an extra improvement of the work Average age: ................................. 46.5 years open office will be attended to. environment, we have in 2014 expanded Average seniority: ............................8,7 years our weekly massage to include coaching. Sick absence:.........................................1,82% Female 17 Male 50 Offering our employees these two options on a weekly basis has been a great success measured by the affirmations given by the employees and the number of users. 4 Environment In HF we care about the This year we have as mentioned had focus Some of the measures we have taken are: Products on how to reduce CO2 emission, energy and ■ Dome light in our warehouse using the As Technical Partner for our customers, we environment and aim to build paper consumption. In order to reduce CO2 daylight as far as at all practicable out of take pride in developing environmentally environmental sustainability emission we need to measure it and monitor consideration for our employees as well as responsible and cost effective solutions in into our business functions and it: the environment. close cooperation with our customers and ■ We use gas heating. processes wherever possible. Paper consumption ■ Only areas where employees come suppliers Small everyday actions make a regularly are heated. Temperature Example: difference too: sensors control the heating. Hans Følsgaards R&D department work This is another proof of the dedication and ■ Energy efficient fluorescent lamps closely with our customers to develop involvement from our employees. Our IT (Argon). Only one gate to minimize sustainable products. Thus, our R & D manager came up with this idea to create draught. department has just developed a unique focus on our paper consumption and ■ We use only electrical trucks and stackers product with multifunction that can implemented a programme that constantly Packaging / reusable & biodegradable replace an existing product that due to monitor and tell you how much paper is used products. its construction has a very short lifetime. when printing from the individual PC. ■ Our suppliers directly reuse approx. The new product reduces raw materials 20% of all our dispatch packaging. consumption by 50% having a beneficially This small measure has created focus on our ■ Our packaging is reusable board environmental and financial impact. paper consumption and reduced it by 9% in without print. 2014. ■ Our package stuffer is either reusable The product will be launched mid-2015 on paper from the suppliers, or the world market. Warehouse biodegradable air bags. Our central warehouse is located 100 meters ■ Our logo tape is made with watercolour Reduced by 9% 3.10 1.122,1 kg 70.648,6 Hours from our HQ and employs nine people. Our and the tape itself is made from fibre Laser prints Used trees Produced CO2 Equiv. to bulp hour warehouse is designed and organized out of instead of oil. consideration for our employees as well as ■ We assort all garbage into – paper – HF has neither been sued nor fined or the environment. We have focus on creating board – metal – electronics – wood and received any penalties for violation of the best possible work environment and combustion. environmental laws or environmental constantly strive to find ways to find ways to ■ We constantly strive to find ways to pack regulations. reduce CO2 emission. as space saving as possible to reduce CO2 emission. Carriers In HF we only want to contract with socially responsible carriers and we aim to get reports on the CO2 emission from all our carriers. The first figures we have received in 139.953 kWh 1.116.667 km 554.624 CO2 /kg 2014. Electricity consumption Transport driven Emmissions in total from non-renewable by employees in line resulted from inand energy of service outbound shipments. 5 Society HF actively supports many HF actively supports many worthy causes Small everyday actions make in the community, thus provide financial a difference too: worthy causes in the community, support to humanitarian organizations and In December our warehouse got the idea thus provide financial support to sports associations. that they wanted to support the efforts of humanitarian organizations and Julemærkehjemmet* to help overweight This year we have donated to the fight children. Our warehouse asked all carriers sports associations. against cancer and to UNICEF not to bring any Christmas presents but instead donate an equivalent amount of HF has a long history of supporting sport money in a box dedicated the children and its young people and providing them of Julemærkehjemmet. This amounted with as much help as possible in meeting in 4.000 DKK, which were handed over their potential goals. personally by our warehouse manager –he got a very warm welcome and a tour around the premises of Julemærkehjemmet – a memorable day. In our office in Norway our employees decided not to give customers any Christmas presents but donated 5.000 NKK to UNICEF instead. * Facts about julemærkehjemmet: Julemærkehjemmet Has room for 48 children aged 10 to 14 years. The children come with various symptoms (including obesity) of not thriving optimally in their everyday life. Changes in diet and physical standards, confidence lifting challenges and pedagogical efforts give the DKK 547.107 children a completely different appearance, a more appropriate behavior and an improved Sponsorship & donations quality of life without bullying. 6 Suppliers We consider ourselves the It is characteristic of HF to have very longSupplier Code of Conduct lasting partnerships with both customers and We have taken several measures to right-hand man not only for suppliers. Our oldest partnerships go back promote supplier sustainability. We our customers but also for our 50 and even 60 years. Immediate advantages encourage our suppliers to sign our supplier suppliers throughout the world. being that communication and mutual Code of Conduct that support the ten understanding ensures efficient trade and principles of the UN global compact. technological development as the alliances also provide solidity and stability that Audits/supplier screening benefits all parties in the supply chain. We screen our suppliers biennially and next screening will take place in 2015. Based on a Our choice of suppliers is essential for our risk assessment we audit selected suppliers. business and we are very selective with our In 2014 based on our risk assessment, we suppliers. We ensure not only that their audited two suppliers in China. product match our customers’ requirements, but also that our suppliers are socially responsible and prepared to observe the principles of the UN global compact. The outcome of the audit showed no Better Business for all violations of principles and regulations. We help our customers make the right decisions in their choice of product as we help our suppliers match customer requirements. Thus, we aim to make better business for our clients, our suppliers and for us. 7 HF FØLSGAARD HF DANYKO AS HF SVERIGE AB THEILGAARDS TORV 1 BARK SILAS VEI 8 VARUVÄGEN 9 DK 4600 KØGE N 4876 GRIMSTAD S 125 30 ÄLVSJÖ TEL: +45 4320 8600 TEL: +47 37 090 940 TEL: +46 (0)8 555 409 85 hf@hf.net danyko@hf.net hf.sverige@hf.net www.hf.net www.hf.net www.hf.net
