We care about cars. We care about you. CONTENTS CONTENTS 4 5 6 7 Our agreement to the Our CSR Edito 2 questions to Global Compact commitments 2014: a new era, Sandrine Ferré, Arval, a leading player a new slogan Communications & CSR in sustainable mobility Philippe Bismut, CEO Arval Director, Arval 8 10 13 14 Economic Commitments Interview Actions Responsibility Arval develops innovative and sustainable solutions, Laurence Trif Marketing Director, Actions from around the world and acts responsibly in Arval everything it does 16 18 21 22 CONTENTS Social Responsibility Commitments Arval pursues a fair human resources policy that respects employee diversity and individuality Interview Thérèse Vercruysse HR Director, Arval Actions Actions from around the world 24 26 29 30 Civic Commitments Interview Actions Responsibility Arval promotes a culture of road safety, combats Tracey Fuller CSR Manager, Actions from around the world exclusion, and supports Arval UK education 32 34 37 38 Environmental Commitments Interview Actions Responsibility Arval minimises the environmental impact of its Valeria Evangelista Head of Corporate Vehicle Actions from customers’ 725,000 vehicles Observatory & Corporate Social around the world Responsibility, Arval Italy Designed and Produced : AWAKIT / ©Shutterstock 40 Zoom on Corporate Vehicle Observatory with Alessandro Pigazzi, Head of Arval Consulting 2 3 OUR AGREEMENT TO THE GLOBAL COMPACT OUR CSR COMMITMENTS OUR AGREEMENT TO THE GLOBAL OUR CSR COMPACT COMMITMENTS Arval, a leading player in sustainable mobility: 4 pillars and 12 commitments. A decade after signing the agreement, Arval is as committed as ever to aligning its operations and strategies with the Global Compact’s ten guiding principles. OUR ECONOMIC OUR SOCIAL OUR CIVIC OUR ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY Developing Pursuing a committed Combating exclusion, Acting to reduce HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR sustainable solutions and fair human promoting education, impacts on climate in an ethical way resources policy road safety and culture and pollution • Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect • Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom the protection of internationally proclaimed Human of association and the effective recognition of the Rights. right to collective bargaining. • Principle 2: Businesses should ensure they are not • Principle 4: Businesses should support the eliminacomplicit in Human Rights abuses. tion of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. • Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. ENVIRONMENT • Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimina1/ Enhance our Total 4/ Train staff 7/ Influence and act 10/ Promote the tion of discrimination in respect of employment and Cost of Ownership members to build up for road safety choice and use • Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautiooccupation. (TCO) approach long-term and ethical of eco-friendly business relations vehicles/solutions nary approach to environmental challenges. • Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives ANTI-CORRUPTION to promote greater environmental responsibility. • Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the • Principle 10: Businesses should work against 2/ Act with business 5/ Promote diversity 8/ Apply a corporate 11/ Reduce the development and diffusion of environmentally corruption in all its forms, including extortion and ethics philanthropy policy environmental friendly technologies. bribery. focusing on education, footprint linked to health and culture our own operations Within this report, a large number of examples show how Arval is putting 3/ Embed CSR in our 6/ Solidarity-based 9/ Be compliant with 12/ Apply specific range of products employment the UN’s guiding policies commitments in these principles into action. and services management principles concerning sensitive management Human Rights sectors 4 5 EDITORIAL EDITORIAL / 2 QUESTIONS TO 2014: customers, employees and stakeholders. Based on our the efforts, expertise and passion of our teams, we’ll experience and expertise, we are determined to let our continue to deliver the unrivalled service quality that employees, customers and partners make CSR a part defines Arval’s reputation, success and personality. A NEW ERA, of their daily reality too, through consulting, offers, products and numerous actions. By promoting these It’s a reminder that while cars remain our core values in the ecosystems of our customers, suppliers business, we are also firmly focused on the people we A NEW SLOGAN and partners, we ensure that together, we’ll continue to tread lightly on this earth despite the hundreds of work with, and the world they live in. It’s a promise that each of us at Arval is keeping every day. And the “ thousands of vehicles we operate around the globe. reason is simple: We care. Our new slogan says it all: “Arval. We care about cars. We care about you.” It’s a powerful promise that, through Philippe Bismut CEO, Arval “We are also firmly focused on the people we work with, and the world they live in. 2 QUESTIONS TO “ Sandrine Ferré Communications and CSR Director, Arval What are Arval’s sustainable aim to continuously reduce our Rather than follow a “top-down” development actions? own CO2 emissions. Lastly, our approach, we encourage local Our CSR strategy is based on civic responsibility is demonsand individual initiatives that are 4 pillars: economic, social, civic trated by our eco-driving and relevant to local issues, for and environmental. Looking at the safety programmes for drivers. instance an educational project in economic pillar for instance, India, or reforestation in Brazil. Arval develops consulting misOther initiatives may be more Who looks after CSR at Arval? sions and mobility audits to widespread, like the UN’s Global help customers shape their CSR The Corporate CSR team defines Road Safety Week in May. At Arval, Corporate Social Responsibility is part of our DNA ever since the company was founapproach, car policy and our CSR strategy and key india strong commitment and a long-standing priority. ded in 1989. In 2004, we were the first full-service mobility solutions to reduce cators. Our role is to coordinate Our aim is to generate enthuWith a fleet of 725,000 vehicles worldwide, Arval has leasing company to sign the United Nations Global their CO2 emissions. In terms actions and exchange best siasm and raise awareness of CSR, naturally integrated issues such as environmental Compact, and in 2011, we became the first multi-brand, of social responsibility, Arval practices within the CSR commushowing what great things we can protection, road safety and societal commitment in multi-segment, full-service leaser in France to annually carries out the Global nity, and communicate internally do individually and as a group. its business – a choice that illustrates an established obtain ISO 14001 certification. Our Corporate Social People Survey (launched by BNP and externally on initiatives that responsibility and a real desire to confirm our Responsibility strategy relies on 4 pillars economic, Paribas) to gauge our employees’ take place in each country. expertise towards our customers and stakeholders. social, civic and environmental in line with those commitment, expectations and We rely on a network of CSR corresThis responsibility and awareness are not new to of BNP Paribas. Within these pillars, 12 comopinions. Environment-wise, we pondents in the various countries. Arval: Corporate Social Responsibility has been mitments help us structure our actions towards 6 7 ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY 1/ ENHANCE OUR TOTAL COST OF OWNERSHIP (TCO) APPROACH 2/ ACT WITH BUSINESS ETHICS 3/ EMBED CSR IN OUR RANGE OF PRODUCTS AND SERVICES 8 9 ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY / COMMITMENTS ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY / COMMITMENTS 2/ ACT WITH As a key player in automotive leasing, Arval strives to develop innovative and sustainable solutions that help its customers improve their cost-efficiency, including fleet optimisation, hired costs, enhanced TCO, and mobility audits. Arval furthermore aims to act responsibly in everything it does, striving for honesty and integrity in every aspect of its business. BUSINESS ETHICS 1/ ENHANCE OUR TOTAL COST OF Arval aims to help customers optimise the Total Cost of Ownership (TCO) of their vehicles, while offering full transparency ENSURE SUPPLIER STANDARDS A charter has been developed for suppliers, and is systematically signed and applied by all entities in the scope of ISO 14001. Rather than signing the OWNERSHIP in its disclosure of information. For this supplier’s own charter, Arval insists that reason, Arval’s Total Cost of Ownership its charter, which fully respects Global Compact principles, is included in all (TCO) methodology always includes direct and indirect costs and incentives. In its mobility Request for proposal (RFP) and new audits, Arval Consulting applies even more contracts. Furthermore, a questionnaire ENSURE ETHICAL BEHAVIOUR APPROACH comprehensive standards, incorporating on the supplier’s CSR policy is all means of transport to calculate the Total At Arval, honesty and integrity are upheld as essential values in systematically included in each RFP, and Cost of Mobility for mature audiences. the workplace. For this reason, the company enforces a strict Code many countries send an annual CSRArval also aims to explain any hidden costs to of Conduct and anti-bribery policy that apply to every Arval suboriented assessment to major suppliers. customers and provide solutions to optimise sidiary and cover relationships with all stakeholders across the On top of this, Arval regularly audits and their fleet management, thereby offering whole lifecycle of the vehicle leasing product. assesses key suppliers. them increased value for money. To help customers make better-informed To ensure adherence to these policies at a local level as well as decisions, Arval gives them access to various headquarters, the internal PC&C (Permanent Control and Comtools: Arval Analytics, Arval FleetView... pliance) function is entrusted with the following responsibilities: • Upholding rules governing the acceptance of gifts within business relationships • Ensuring all working relationships are subject to a signed contract • Following up financial transactions to eliminate the possibility of legal or fiscal fraud • Enforcing the strict ban on cash payments from customers or partners, even in countries where this form of payment may still be common practice • Advising employees on how to behave and speak with competitors 10 11 “ ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY / COMMITMENTS ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY / INTERVIEW 3/ EMBED CSR IN “THIS RANGE OF TOOLS OFFERS OUR CUSTOMERS AND DRIVERS A UNIQUE, INNOVATIVE AND ENJOYABLE EXPERIENCE.“ OUR RANGE Laurence Trif OF PRODUCTS Marketing Director, Arval AND SERVICES HOW DOES ARVAL INTEGRATE ITS CSR COMMITMENTS WOULD YOU DESCRIBE ARVAL DRIVE CHALLENGE IN ITS PRODUCTS AND SERVICES? AS CSR-FRIENDLY? DEVELOPING SUSTAINABLE SOLUTIONS Customers are increasingly requesting their car leaIn fact, yes, as this tool promotes more virtuous IN AN ETHICAL WAY sing companies to incorporate Corporate Social Responsibility driving behaviour. Arval Drive Challenge is an app developed as in their solutions. In this light, Arval diversifies its products part of the Arval Smart Experience. Available to both customers As a subsidiary of BNP Paribas that specialises in the full-service and services to accompany its customers in their cost optimiand the broader public, it allows the driver to monitor his or her leasing of multi-brand vehicles to companies, Arval develops sation, CO2 reduction and road accident prevention. driving behaviour and change the latter in accordance to the innovative solutions to help its customers adopt a responsible Hence, our sales Account Teams, accompanied by the Consulspecific advice delivered by the app. approach to mobility. Our customer CSR approach is built around ting team, offer, as part of Arval’s TCO (Total Cost of Ownership) However, this app is not the only way Arval sustains safer four cornerstones: approach, alternatives either in the car policy itself (electric, driving. Our training programmes (Safety Driving and Eco hybrid or other lower carbon footprint cars) or in the tools Driving) play a key role in achieving this objective. • Car Policy (enhancing Total Cost of Ownership through fleet COMMUNICATE SYSTEMATICALLY AND and services developed by the Marketing team. analysis, vehicle selection advice, CO2 reduction targets) PROMOTE OUR CSR APPROACH LASTLY, COULD YOU TELL US A FEW WORDS By the end of 2014, we finalised the deployment of Arval ABOUT CAR SHARING? • Sustainable Services and Solutions (advice on choosing leasing Arval’s commitment to CSR is what sets Smart Experience in all 25 countries where Arval is present, services with embedded CSR, fleet optimisation through car an initiative welcomed by our customers. This range of tools Our investment in car-sharing solutions benefit our it apart as a fleet manager – and, for this sharing, Arval preferred maintenance network) offers our customers and drivers a unique, innovative and customers, our employees and the environment. The objective reason, it strives to regularly commuenjoyable experience. Substantially, Arval Smart Experience of this solution is to optimise the overall mobility of the comnicate on how promises are put into acenables companies in their fleet management (with Arval pany’s employees. • Driver Care (eco and safety training, safety kits for drivers, safety tion. Arval’s different entities regularly Fleet View, for instance) and helps them to achieve their CSR This car-sharing solution is recommended to customers upon and eco tips, eco smart apps) organise discussion groups around objectives (thanks to Arval Drive Challenge). determining their mobility needs, as part of a mobility audit. • Reporting and Offsetting (regular reporting on fuel costs, CO2 important CSR topics such as road safety, emissions and driver accidents, plus fleet and business reviews to car-sharing, and fuel alternatives. advise customers on action plans and carbon offsetting solutions) All new local websites include a section on sustainable development, accessible from the homepage, which presents Arval’s CSR policies and commitments. 12 13 ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY / ACTIONS ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY / ACTIONS ACTIONS FROM AROUND THE WORLD In collaboration with Mobility Car This year, Arval Netherlands delivered Arval Hungary sends mystery shopSharing, a car-sharing leader in one of the first hydrogen vehicles. pers to its car parks every month to Switzerland, Arval Switzerland offers This initiative reflects how Arval ensure our customers are receiving the carpooling solutions to its customers. endeavours to adapt its product range best service. to its customers’ mobility needs. Arval Poland has given greater visibility In 2014, Arval Turkey continued to to their CSR actions both internally offer Eco & Safety training. In addition and to the broader community by to over 600 drivers trained in the developing a CSR section on the previous years, 218 customer drivers website and promoting CSR actions on and 460 TEB bank drivers benefited Social Media platforms. from the training last year. Since 2013, Arval Slovakia has been Arval France Consulting facilitated a total Arval Spain has been selected as a giving customers the chance to try cost reduction of €1,746,100, i.e €430 per Spanish representative in its category their vehicles in different situations in vehicle per year, thanks to comprehenin the European business awards. The ARVAL’S TCO APPROACH cooperation with well-known driving sive audits and action plans. At the same EBA highlights the most innovative schools and professional instructors time, Arval France for the 6th consecutive businesses on the continent to proThe 2014 fleet barometer survey showed that TCO TCO is fairly straightforward: it is easy to track and with many years of experience in year celebrated the renewal of its ISO mote success, innovation and ethics in medical aid, psychological traffic 9001 certification, evidence of its proacthe European business community. (Total Cost of Ownership) is the most important to compare. Most of our customers value our TCO moves and motor sports, as well as tive adaptability to market needs and criterion for large and very large companies approach as it allows effective benchmarking. training in improved driving techexcellence in terms of customer services. (+100 employees). Arval’s TCO approach is effective as However, despite its efficiency the TCO approach niques. it takes into account the most important components does not consider all the costs generated by the fleet. cost reduction, efficient mobility and carbon footprint Our long-term goal is therefore to move from a TCO reduction. to a TCM (Total Cost of Mobility) methodology. 14 15 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 4/ TRAIN STAFF MEMBERS TO BUILD UP LONG-TERM AND ETHICAL BUSINESS RELATIONS 5/ PROMOTE DIVERSITY 6/ SOLIDARITY-BASED EMPLOYMENT MANAGEMENT 16 17 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY / COMMITMENTS SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY / COMMITMENTS Along with its commitment to being a corporate citizen for customers and stakeholders, Arval fully recognises and upholds its responsibility towards employees. Across all aspects of the company, it strives to pursue a committed and fair human resources policy that respects employee diversity and individuality. 4/ TRAIN STAFF MEMBERS TO BUILD UP LONG-TERM AND ETHICAL BUSINESS RELATIONS Arval is committed to establishing and maintaining managerial training programmes that help staff to build long-term ethical business relations. As part of this commitment, Arval has adopted the BNP Paribas Management Principles, which have long proved their worth as guidelines for ethical business conduct. 5/ PROMOTE DIVERSITY Non-discrimination is one of the pillars of Arval’s Human Resources Guiding Principles and of the Arval Mobility Policy, which was fully implemented in 2013. In order to enforce this commitment, Arval trains its HR managers in non-discrimination practices and teaches them to promote inclusion and diversity. The Arval Management Committee now has strong female representation and a wide spread of nationalities. 18 19 “ SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY / COMMITMENTS SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY / INTERVIEW 6/ SOLIDARITY-BASED “WE ARE CONVINCED THAT DIVERSITY WITHIN EMPLOYEMENT OUR TEAMS LEADS TO INCREASED CREATIVITY AND IMPROVED PERFORMANCE.“ MANAGEMENT Thérèse Vercruysse HR Director, Arval Communication and interaction are a key part of how Arval shows its respect for employees. Each year, the Global People Survey gauges employee satisfaction, and results are used as a basis for improvement. In addition, bottom-up communication practices such as HR breakfasts, workshops and focus groups help employees and managers to interact more closely. To further improve communication and transparency, Arval has launched a Mobility Portal in 2014 to advertise vacancies across the company, giving employees everywhere a chance to WHAT IS ARVAL’S APPROACH TO MANAGING PEOPLE? WHY DOES ARVAL PROMOTE DIVERSITY? diversify and grow their careers. As Head of Human Resources, my mission is to purOne of our core principles is to promote diversity sue a committed and fair human resources policy by training and fight all forms of discrimination by valuing each indivistaff members, helping build up long-term ethical business dual and respecting differences. Our employees are treated relations and promoting diversity. Arval recognises that equally throughout their career regardless of their age, race, employees are crucial to the success of any entity and that colour, language, political or religious beliefs, gender, disability the group results will depend on appropriate staffing and or sexual orientation. While in some countries these principles the competencies of our people. We therefore established a are embedded in the law, in other countries where they are not number of master policies and guidelines to guarantee that as obvious, Arval endeavours to apply its diversity milestones to Arval is “the place to work”. ensure that employees receive the same rewards and benefits. The Arval way to manage people is ensured, firstly, by our At Arval, we are also convinced that diversity within our teams Global Team composed of a Talent, a Learning-and-Developleads to increased creativity, improved performance and ment, a Rewards-Budget and Control, an International Admiefficient internationalisation. Therefore, we encourage internistration, and a Tools-Management HR officer; and secondly, national mobility and recruitment, and provide the technical by our regional and local HRs who adapt Arval’s master support to facilitate international administration (expatriapolicies to local cultures and laws. Our master policies tion, international moves, etc.). are applied worldwide to ensure that local HR policies are developed in alignment with our Arval group policies (and more widely with the BNP Paribas Group policies). WHAT ROLE DO ETHICS PLAY AT ARVAL? We believe that harmonisation is a key principle of efficiency. At Arval, we operate with a ZERO tolerance poHowever, our HR governance also involves local HR, providing licy even if no damage. We consider that a firm cannot be us with their outlooks. The Arval way of managing people is more or less ethical: either it is ethical or it is not. For insnot one-sided. tance, anti-fraud and -bribery is communicated as part of the Managing our people is also about listening to them. Every “Business Fundamentals” during arrival training. year, we conduct a Global People Survey to define internal Additionally, we have identified a number of sensitive benchmarks and identify the development scopes of our HR functions and are organising continuous mobility in these to processes. This initiative is welcomed by our staff and particiguarantee compliance with our business ethics while maintaipation rates are above 80%. Through this remarkable number ning stability and service consistency to our customers. of responses we perceive that our people are pleased with our responsiveness to their claims and needs. 20 21 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY / ACTIONS ACTIONS FROM AROUND THE WORLD Arval Portugal supports Academia Employees’ wellbeing is a key concern Arval France works proactively to dos Champs, an association that uses for Arval Netherlands. Our Dutch promote diversity and ensure that tennis as a tool for social integration. branch offers its employees a fitness there is no discrimination between Arval Portugal employees and their gym, a varied range of sport activities, its employees. A diversity policy and families are regularly invited for tennis proper working areas, balanced meals several other agreements have been lessons. and fresh fruit. signed, and events organised to raise employees’ awareness of diversity. Keeping pace with a world where Arval UK won the CSR International change is the norm, Arval Belgium Excellence award for its employees’ offers its employees the possibility to Health & Wellbeing initiatives in July take language courses to enable them 2014. to operate in an international scene. ARVAL TAKES CARE OF ITS PEOPLE Arval endeavours to be a “learning company” very different ways including classroom training, in order to enhance the level of performance of conferences, seminars, workshops, on-the-job employees on the job, support talented people in training, coaching and e-learning. their careers, and develop employability within the Each tool has its own strength and weaknesses. Our company through mobility. Arval therefore regularly employees are directed towards the training that delivers comprehensive training programmes in best meets their needs. 22 23 CIVIC RESPONSIBILITY CIVIC RESPONSIBILITY CIVIC RESPONSIBILITY 7/ INFLUENCE AND ACT FOR ROAD SAFETY 8/ APPLY A CORPORATE PHILANTHROPY POLICY FOCUSING ON EDUCATION, HEALTH AND CULTURE 9/ BE COMPLIANT WITH THE UN’S GUIDING PRINCIPLES CONCERNING HUMAN RIGHTS 24 25 CIVIC RESPONSIBILITY / COMMITMENTS CIVIC RESPONSIBILITY / COMMITMENTS PROMOTING PERSONAL SAFETY Arval seeks to be a corporate citizen in each of its actions and is committed to promoting Arval Smart Experience to challenge Drivers a culture of road safety, combating exclusion, and supporting education through various Arval undertakes a number of initiatives to help customers optimise fleet safety. PersoRoad safety is embedded in Arval Drive activities including corporate and other sponsorship. nalised advice is offered so customers can Challenge, an Arval Smart Experience tool. This select a vehicle that answers their safety application avaible to both customers and the wider community contributes to transforming 7/ needs. Arval considers it as a corporate duty to drivers’ behaviour by monitoring their driving help prevent road accidents and uphold its habits and giving them tips for improvement. “duty of care” responsibilities. Every year, it publishes a fleet review on accident rates and road safety programmes to fleet managers. The company’s expertise in the field of accident management and risk has allowed Customers are INFLUENCE it to develop a comprehensive road risk programme to help customers limit their exposure. Customers benefit in terms of encouraged to include safety training in their AND ACT legal responsibility and improve their control on visible and hidden costs of accidents (lost time, vehicle off the road for Company Car Policy FOR ROAD repair, missed orders and business opportunities...). SAFETY 8/ TRANSFORMING DRIVER BEHAVIOUR Another of Arval’s objectives is to raise awareness on road safety by organising numerous events every year. For instance, Arval organises a variety of training sessions dedicated to eco-safety/eco-driving and road safety. Arval also proposes internal training and awareness programmes to its customers worldwide. All customer road safety initiatives are tested internally before being APPLY A CORPORATE PHILANTHROPY offered externally, as a mean of guaranteeing their quality and effectiveness. Customers are encouraged to POLICY FOCUSING ON EDUCATION, include safety training in their Company Car Policy. HEALTH AND CULTURE As well as helping to improve road safety, Arval is committed to corporate philanthropy, with a particular focus on education, exclusion, health, road safety, culture and solidarity. Since 2008, all Arval subsidiaries have maintained close and sustainable relationships with local Non-Governmental Organisations (NGOs). See highlights p.30 26 27 “ CIVIC RESPONSIBILITY / COMMITMENTS CIVIC RESPONSIBILITY / INTERVIEW 9/ BE COMPLIANT “EVERY YEAR, WE ORGANISE AND DELIVER A WITH THE NUMBER OF CAMPAIGNS AND EVENTS TO ENCOURAGE SAFER BEHAVIOUR AND POSITIVELY UN’S GUIDING INFLUENCE A REDUCTION IN THE NUMBER OF PEOPLE KILLED AND INJURED ON OUR ROADS.“ PRINCIPLES Tracey Fuller CSR Manager, Arval UK CONCERNING HUMAN RIGHTS COULD YOU TELL US ABOUT ARVAL’S COMMITMENT TO ROAD SAFETY? Road safety is embedded within our culture and Furthermore, we ran “Drink & Drug Driving Workshops” where our employees were informed about the risks of alcohol and drugs, how long these substances stay in the system and how this affects our driving behaviour. has been for a number of years. We are fully committed to In order to insure that the United Nations’ guiding this area, as is demonstrated by the wide range of initiatives WHAT EXTERNAL ACTIONS DID ARVAL UK UNDERTAKE principles of Human Rights are respected throughout that we deliver to promote this essential message to our cusTO PROMOTE ROAD SAFETY BOTH TO CUSTOMERS its business relationships, Arval complies with Global tomers, our employees and to the global community. AND THE WIDER COMMUNITY? Compact principles both internally and in its upstream Our messages go beyond just drivers to cover all road users, for example promoting the safety of cyclists and pedestrians For customers we regularly send information inrelations with suppliers. The company’s global procuof all ages. Every year, we organise and deliver a number of cluding our road safety cards, promotional posters, a driver rement contracts consistently include a reference to campaigns and events to encourage safer behaviour and posisafety newsletter and (hints and tips) documents such as the Global Compact, and clearly stipulate that business tively influence a reduction in the number of people killed and our winter driving guide. We also highlight any changes in partners must communicate any non-compliance. injured on our roads. legislation and seek opportunities to promote the Arval Drive Challenge app (see highlight p.26). On a number of occasions At tender level, suppliers are systematically given WHAT MAJOR INTERNAL ACTIONS HAVE BEEN last year we supported key customers with their own road the latest Communication on Progress, as well as a safety events using the good practices that we have deveTAKEN IN THE UK? summary of Arval’s CSR policy, and are required to loped from our own experiences. sign Arval’s suppliers’ charter. Contracts of any nature As examples in the UK, we organised an Employee In the community, we sponsored several important events Safety Day during national Road Safety week in June 2014 in such as the Brake Fleet Safety Awards for the seventh year must include a commitment to refuse child labour and partnership with emergency services and key suppliers. At running and “SafeDrive, StayAlive” which is a road safety show corruption, and to reduce the environmental impact of this event, employees were given practical advice on how to for 16-year-olds that reaches over 3,000 pupils each year. business actions. Furthermore, for full transparency with stay safe on the road as well as the chance to use a driving stakeholders, the Communication on Progress report simulator to test their skills. We also provided advice on cycle is published annually on the Global Compact website. helmets and maintenance as well as tyre checks in partnership with a tyre manufacturer. An employee competition on the day resulted in 3 members of staff joining us at a customer safety event and taking part in a safe driving experience. 28 29 CIVIC RESPONSIBILITY / ACTIONS CIVIC RESPONSIBILITY / ACTIONS ACTIONS FROM AROUND THE WORLD In addition to its ongoing commitment to donate to the Telethon foundation that further medical research on rare genetic diseases, Arval Italy in October 2014 together with the initiative “Sulla Strada KEY FIGURES Giusta On the Right Track“ launched a donation programme consisting of donating €1 for every new car registered to Meyer Children’s Hospital in Florence. Arval Italy also encourages employees, Over £21,000 €3,000 €50,000 customers and suppliers to join the was donated to more than 15 local was mobilised by ARVAL Russia for was raised by Arval Romania to support initiative and make donations to the & national charities by Arval UK and 339 disabled children at the Pervomaysky Hope and Homes for Children, a NGO hospital. hours dedicated to volunteering actions. orphanage. working to provide a better environment for poor and orphaned children. Arval India supported Aseema ChariTwice a year, 3 apprentices 5,132 hours table Trust through donations of various kinds. The NGO aims to equip children 10 aged between 16 and 18 received have been dedicated to train from marginalised communities with comprehensive training in a variety of Arval France customers and emhigh-quality, value-based education employees of Arval Czech Republic business areas at Arval Switzerland. ployees in road safety. to enable the development of their donate blood, a lifeline for many people needing long-term or emergency limitless potential. treatments. ARVAL & ASSOCIATIONS Arval Netherlands sponsored a For Christmas, 3 Arval Luxembourg student team who participated in the employees helped the “Stëmm vun Arval applies a corporate philanthropy policy focusing on education, health and culture. Shell eco-marathon. This competition der Strooss” association to organise a brings together around 200 teams and Christmas lunch for the homeless in To achieve its civic goal, Arval works in partnership with several associations. 3,000 students from across Europe to Luxembourg. battle for ultra-energy efficiency on EDUCATION Malteser the road. Children in Need Initiativa verde Red CrossComputers4Africa ASSOCIATIONS Mission Handicap Dementia Care UK Koruncuk Foundation for Children in Need of Protection HHC Romania Tree-nation Arval Germany supported KinderIn 2014, Arval Spain worked on acquiring Dunkelziffer CULTURE Blood Bank Special Olympics unfallhilfe with a Christmas donaISO39001 certification. This standard HEALTH tion. This NGO helps children and will mirror Arval’s efforts in acting for APF teenagers to recover from road road safety. Academia dos Champs Aseema Stemm vom Stroos Drop of hope accidents. As part of their activity, La cravate solidaire they also promote road safety. Elo Social Kinderunfallhilfe Macmillan Brake 30 31 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY 10/ PROMOTE THE CHOICE AND USE OF ECO-FRIENDLY VEHICLES/SOLUTIONS 11/ REDUCE ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT LINKED TO OUR OWN OPERATIONS 12/ APPLY SPECIFIC POLICIES COMMITMENTS IN SENSITIVE SECTORS 32 33 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY / COMMITMENTS ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY / COMMITMENTS Thanks to their knowledge of the latest innovations in engine While our business is a pillar of the international automotive industry, the potential footprint efficiency and alternative fuel, Arval’s experts help customers choose the vehicles best suited to their needs. As a result of their advice, vehicle on the environment is considerable. Our duty is therefore to do our best to minimise our CO2 emissions can be reduced by around 5 tonnes per vehicle during the environmental impact, as well as raise awareness among our customers and actively help 5 tonnes duration of the contract. Eco-driving training programmes teach drivers them reduce theirs. For several years, Arval has developed many activities both upstream, how to use their vehicles more efficiently. Initially, increased awareness of best practices (e.g.: driving with tyres inflated at only 60% of the rethrough research and discussions with manufacturers, and downstream, with customers commended level causes over-consumption of 1 litre per 100) enables and colleagues. The company is committed to accurately measuring and optimising the drivers to cut their consumption by around 5%; subsequently, training less CO2 emissions per environmental impact of the 725,000 vehicles leased to its customers. aims at bringing about a real change in behaviour, and at cutting fuel vehicle consumption and CO2 emissions by 8% to 14%. Arval also promotes environmentally-friendly vehicles (electric, hybrid, etc.) and driving behaviour through other initiatives, including the production of “green catalogues” offering advice and suggestions. 10/ 11/ REDUCE ENVIRONMENTAL PROMOTE THE CHOICE FOOTPRINT LINKED TO AND USE OF ECO-FRIENDLY OUR OWN OPERATIONS VEHICLES/SOLUTIONS Arval regularly takes stock of its environmental footprint and implements new ways to reduce it. Arval has developed a number of innovative services to help customers build an optimal car policy. Thanks to Arval’s tailored advice, ECO-DRIVING ISO 14001 CERTIFICATION customers can select the most ecological vehicle for their purposes In all countries, Arval offers customers and and reduce vehicle emissions. Other services include fleet optimiemployees the opportunity to participate Arval’s commitment to the environment has been recognised with ISO sation, car-sharing programmes, eco-driving training and tips for in a complete eco-driving programme, 14001 certifications in the UK, France, Spain, Italy, the Czech Republic, OPTIMISATION OF ARVAL FLEET driver, carbon offsetting for customer fleets, and regular reports on whereby drivers are encouraged to change Romania, Hungary, Belgium, the Netherlands, Germany and Slovakia. Every year, Arval fully compensates fuel costs and driver accidents. their behaviour behind the wheel and Arval recognises that its day-to-day operations and products have both a the CO2 emissions of its own learn to use their vehicles more efficiently. positive and negative impact on the environment and is fully committed company cars all over the world. MANAGEMENT OF VEHICLE EMISSIONS The different courses teach drivers how to minimising the pollution and harmful effects of its actions and products This is an internal choice by the to drive according to various principles wherever practicable. company, supported by its staff. In Arval offers a comprehensive programme to help customers reduce such as economic driving, respect for the This commitment is expressed through the ISO 14001 Environmental 2014, a number of Arval entities the impact of their fleet on the environment. The programme starts environment, and passenger and driver Management System (EMS) and other environmental initiatives. participated in REDD+Kenya, a by measuring the emissions of the customer’s fleet and establishes security. The programme can be expanded project that aims at reducing the quantitative reduction goals. Various optimisation actions are then with a driving proficiency training course impact of deforestation in Kenya that prepares drivers for unforeseen traffic The company is currently developing its environmental approach on proposed. Arval helps with the decision-making process, manages and protecting biodiversity. Other situations. several different fronts: the calculation of CO2 volumes, and provides its expertise for car countries have chosen specific policies and driver training. When emissions remain above the Paper usage Eco-friendly travel projects locally. reduction objectives, Arval provides offsetting solutions and manages Energy consumption Eco-efficiency of buildings the traceability, quality and eligibility of the underlying compensation Recycling project. 34 35 “ ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY / COMMITMENTS ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY / INTERVIEW 12/ APPLY SPECIFIC POLICIES COMMITMENTS “ AS ARVAL’S ENVIRONMENTAL PILLAR EXPERT, IT MAKES ME HAPPY TO SEE HOW OUR COMPANY BRINGS TOGETHER ITS CORE ACTIVITY AND THE WELFARE OF OUR PLANET.“ Valeria Evangelista IN SENSITIVE Head of Corporate Vehicle Observatory & Corporate Social Responsibility, SECTORS Arval Italy COULD YOU DESCRIBE ARVAL’S COMMITMENT WHAT MAJOR INITIATIVES HAVE BEEN TAKEN TO Arval is committed to applying risk TO ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES? MAKE ARVAL ECO-FRIENDLY? guidelines for new customers and contract As Arval’s environmental pillar expert, it makes Either in collaboration with local offsetting operators renewals. These guidelines comply with me happy to see how our company brings together its core or local NGOs, all Arval countries are engaging in offsetting their all sector exclusion policies created by activity and the welfare of our planet. Cars are at the heart CO2 emissions. Tree planting is one of the most frequent initiaBNP Paribas: defence, palm oil, nuclear of our business and we are committed to tread lightly on this tives undertaken by Arval to compensate its carbon footprint. power, wood pulp, coal-fired power earth by primarily promoting the use of eco-friendly vehicles, Additionally, a number of countries, of which Arval Italy, have generation and basic agricultural comencouraging the commitment of our employees and implemented car-pooling solutions for their commuting customers in environmental actions, offsetting our CO2 employees. Alongside, in Italy, we offer free parking spaces to modities. The aim is to create strict emissions and contributing to changing driving behaviours. employees who commute together. A welcomed initiative investment and financing policies for For instance, thanks to our TCO (Total Cost of Ownership) that takes us a step further in reducing our CO2 emissions. sectors that may have a significant impact approach and our worldwide consulting academy, we on the environment. can provide our customers with advice on different HOW CAN WE TAKE THIS FURTHER? mobility solutions. While our TCO approach allows us As the result of in-depth analysis, While in some countries environmental awarto create a comparison between traditional, hybrid and these policies address the most critical eness is instinctively integrated in the local culture and electric cars, and other alternative fuels, it also allows our points in the production chain, accountherefore in business decisions, other countries have not customers to choose the right vehicle depending on their yet attained this maturity. ting for the bulk of potential impact in mobility needs. Adapting their car choices to their needs While all Arval countries are engaged in CO2 allows them to reduce their emissions and fuel consumption each segment. They stipulate essential offsetting, Arval’s ambition is now to raise consciousness considerably. conditions and precise complementary Sustainable mobility is also a topic at the heart of our on sensitive environmental sectors to a global level and criteria. As such, these criteria help find alternative energy solutions for all our buildings. Corporate Vehicle Observatory activities. Our internal In Italy and in the Netherlands, this initiative has pinpoint all the risks related to a research platform is committed to creating and spreading a already been implemented with great success. transaction, ensuring that only culture of corporate mobility, dealing also with environmental The two buildings operate on renewable energies which sustainability, innovative technologies and alternative fuels. responsible projects are selected. guarantee low CO2 emissions. As part of the Arval Smart Experience which brings our cus￼ tomers a brand-new, innovative and interactive service offer and facilitates relationships between fleet managers, drivers and Arval, we’ve developped Arval Drive Challenge. This app ensures that drivers adopt responsible choices and behaviour to reduce their fuel consumption and CO2 emissions. 36 37 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY / ACTIONS ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY / ACTIONS ACTIONS FROM AROUND THE WORLD At Arval Brazil, offsetting the annual Arval Netherlands invested in 550 This year, Arval UK achieved 12% carbon footprint is an ongoing commitsolar panels on the roof of their builreduction of overall CO2 emissions. ment. Since 2011, more than 4,000 ding. These solar panels annually In addition, the waste management trees have been planted in Brazilian deliver 120,000 kWh of energy, accounsupplier was changed to ensure all forests through a partnership with a ting for 9,000 hours of charging (semi) waste is sorted at a material recovery local NGO called Iniciativa Verde. electric cars at an average charging facility plant and recycled. Now, none time of 4 hours. of the waste goes to landfill. By signing a contract with Vireo Car In addition to promoting eco-friendly Arval Italy’s headquarters in Scandicci Arval Finland and Arval Denmark Arval Germany has turned ISO 14001 Wash, an environmentally friendly paper and using bicycle couriers are in a modern and sustainable reduced their paper consumption guidelines into a major environmencar wash, Arval Morocco endeavours to transport documents and mail, building called “Saetta Fotovoltaica”. by introducing an archiving service tal action. In addition to labelling cars to keep its cars clean and stay green. Arval Austria proactively recommends Its design ensures a safe and comforfor their customers and drivers: all that release below 120g of CO2 per km, By selecting waterless cleaning, our low CO2 cars to its customers. Arval table work environment. The low documents are sent electronically Arval Germany uses ISO 14001 certiMoroccan branch is contributing to Austria is also established in a “Green environmental impact of the building is and are automatically archived on fication as a criterion for selecting its saving a scarce resource. Building” office that guarantees an guaranteed by the use of renewable their online platforms. Customers and suppliers. overall remarkable CO2 offsetting. energies such as a geothermal plant drivers have 24/7 access to online for internal heating/cooling and a phoapplications and can therefore consult tovoltaic plant which was completed documents at any time. at the end of 2014. ARVAL & ISO 14001 This year, Arval Romania has been In 2014, Arval Hungary undertook to This year, Arval France is celebracommitted to compensate 100% of its increase its recycled paper consumpting its 10,000th tree planted in the As of 2014, 15 countries have been certified monitor all environmental aspects of its business, CO2 emissions through its partnership tion to 80%. Alongside, Arval Hungary Paris region as part of its long-term with Tree-Nation. After La Pedregoza contributed in planting 1ha of trees. partnership with ONF. In addition, ISO 14001 adding up to 86% employees working in an raise awareness on ecological matters and encourage plantation in Colombia, Arval Romania Arval France has offset 3,559 tonnes of ISO 14001-compliant environment. the commitment of its employees and customers to engaged in reforestation projects in CO2 emissions produced by its internal Arval continuously develops new processes that help eco-friendly actions. Africa. fleet in 5 years. 38 39 CORPORATE VEHICLE OBSERVATORY CORPORATE VEHICLE OBSERVATORY CVO “The CVO’s main areas are fleet management funding and operations, technological innovation, environmental sustainability and road safety“ Alessandro Pigazzi, Head of Arval Consulting What can you tell us about the role of Corporate Vehicle Observatory? Launched in 2002 by Arval, the Corporate Vehicle Observatory (CVO) is a platform that provides an expert view of the industry and a research organisation with access to a wide range of market data. A key element of what the CVO delivers is the “Think Tank” approach that gathers intelligence from fleet managers, procurement specialists, car manufacturers, public authoriTo complete the picture provided by the CVO, resources are dedicated to understanding future trends by surveying the fleet market, the regulatory framework surrounding it and strategies being developed in response to the changing landscape. Typically this type of information is gathered from a large base of more than 4,800 decision makers in 15 countries and through a specific study called the Annual Fleet Barometer. CORPORATE ties and the press. The CVO has gained international recognition for its activities partly through its demonsHow does CVO benefit customers and other potential trably neutral position and independent approach. stakeholders? One of the main missions of the CVO is to share Customers who are part of the CVO community gain VEHICLE knowledge with all the stakeholders through a constant access to the data created and the papers published in-depth analysis of the significant trends of the autoby the CVO. Together with other interested parties they motive market through independent approach. benefit from a solid base of information on which they can build their fleet strategies. OBSERVATORY In addition to providing information, the CVO orgaWhat are the main areas of intervention and goals nises a number of industry events that bring together of the CVO? key players from the fleet industry, suppliers, financial institutions and trade bodies. These events, based Although not the exclusive focus of the CVO, the four around the activities of the CVO, create a valuable main areas are technological innovation and alteropportunity for networking and exchanging information. native energies, sustainability and environmental Finally it should not be forgotten that through the close impacts, road safety and accident prevention, and fleet links between CVO and Arval Consulting, customers also management funding and operations. have the opportunity to gain access to best-in-class The CVO provides detailed background information for consulting services to help them reach the each of these four areas. This information covers topics objectives they may set based on the information such as new drivetrains and energy sources, policies, provided by the CVO. driver management, funding strategies and taxation impacts. 40 41 CONTACTS SANDRINE FERRÉ Communications and CSR Director sandrine.ferre@arval.com AURÉLIE BRUNEAU CSR Manager aurelie.bruneau@arval.fr 22, rue des Deux Gares 92564 Rueil-Malmaison Cedex France Tel: +33 (0)1 57 69 50 00 We care about cars. We care about you.
