CSR Report 2015 Corporate Social Responsibility Report OKI Group’s CSR OKI Group’s CSR The OKI Group´s initiatives of corporate social responsibility (CSR) focus on contributing to the improvement of the quality of life for people around the world through sound corporate activities based on our corporate philosophy. Corporate Philosophy The people of OKI, true to the company’s “enterprising spirit,” are committed to creating superior network solutions and providing excellent information and communications services globally to meet the diversified needs of communities worldwide in the information age. OKI Group Charter of Corporate Conduct For the betterment of corporate value, the OKI Group (Oki Electric Industry Co., Ltd. and members of its group of companies) seeks to provide satisfaction to its customers at all times and to become a trusted partner for our stakeholders, including shareholders and investors, employees, customers and suppliers, and the local societies of the areas in which it operates. In addition to complying with all related laws and regulations, the OKI Group will implement sound corporate activities consistent with social norms, and contribute to the improvement of the quality of life for people around the world. Customer Satisfaction A Better Working Environment The OKI Group is dedicated to developing and providing The OKI Group ensures and maintains a safe and comfortable products and services that ensure continued customer working environment for all employees. satisfaction, in full consideration of safety and ease of use. Respect for Employees Fair Corporate Activities Respecting the individuality of each employee, the OKI The OKI Group conducts appropriate transactions and works to Group creates a corporate culture in which its personnel are ensure fair, transparent, and free competition. encouraged to engage in challenges facing the group with courage and determination. Good Communication The OKI Group engages with society through a variety of Environmental Conservation interactions, and discloses company information in manners that In order to realize and pass on a better global environment, the are appropriate and fair. OKI Group promotes environmental management and makes efforts to conserve the environment through its products and its Intellectual Property and business activities. Information Management The OKI Group recognizes the importance of intellectual Social Contribution property, and properly manages and protects company and As a good corporate citizen, the OKI Group implements social customer information, including personal information. contribution activities dedicated to the betterment of society. Respect for Human Rights Regional Awareness The OKI Group respects the human rights of all persons involved The OKI Group endeavors to build a positive relationship and in its corporate activities and eliminates illicit discrimination of grow together with local societies, respecting the cultures and any kind. It does not allow child labor nor forced labor. customs of the countries and regions in which it operates. 2 OKI Group CSR Report 2015 OKI Group’s CSR The OKI Group, as described in its corporate philosophy, aims at contributing to improve the quality of life for people around the world through its core business, namely the manufacturing and distribution of products and services that can serve the development of the information age. Our commitment to the pursuit and fulfillment of this idea underlies the group’s corporate social responsibility (CSR) initiatives. Based on this understanding, in order to cohesively promote our CSR initiatives, we enacted the OKI Group Charter of Corporate Conduct, as a statement of values to be shared by all OKI Group companies. We also established “OKI Group Code of Conduct”, which is to be conformed to by all executives and employees of the group. We have adopted the charter and code across the entire group, and are working to thoroughly implement them through various means such as training programs. We will continue to consider social responsibilities from all the relevant angles – namely, from the aspect of the United Nations Global Compact and the international standard ISO26000 regarding social responsibility along with the aspect that comes in the shape of expectations received from stakeholders, in order for us as the OKI Group to further boost the contribution to our regular business while simultaneously reconfirming the social responsibilities we should fulfill. Foundation of CSR at the OKI Group CSR Initiatives by the OKI Group Contributing to the Improvement of the Quality of Life for People around the World Customers Corporate Philosophy Shareholders/Investors Local Communities Business Partners Global Environment Governments NPO/NGO Corporate Activities Creation of Economic Value Statement of values OKI Group companies need to share Corporate Governance Respect for HumanRights IntellectualProperty and Customer Satisfaction Fair Corporate Activities Good Communication Respect for Employees A Better Social Contribution Regional Awareness OKI Group Charter of Corporate Conduct Environmental Information Management Working Environment Conservation Code of conduct to be conformed to by all OKI executive officers and employees Compliance Employees OKI Group Code of Conduct The OKI Group’s Activities Social Responsibilities Stakeholders in Business Participation in the United Nations Global Compact The Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact Human Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of Rights internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labor Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; In May 2010, OKI signed the United Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and Nations Global Compact to declare its support Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. for the Compact. It also became a member of the Global Compact Network Japan, which is a Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; local network in Japan. The OKI Group Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental supports the ten principles of the United responsibility; and Nations Global Compact in the area of human Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally conscious technologies. rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption, and engages in activities for helping create AntiPrinciple 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, Corruption including extortion and bribery. sustainable societies. OKI Group CSR Report 2015 3 A Message from the President A Message from the President We keep people’s trust through our unlimited drive based on an “enterprising spirit” and sincere business activities. President Oki Electric Industry Co., Ltd. information age.,” has inherited the strong determination it We execute our responsibilities toward has held since its foundation to “create new businesses with societies based on our corporate new technologies” and “make the world more convenient,” philosophy. and has become the core of what the OKI Group considers OKI has taken on the baton from its predecessor, “corporate social responsibility (CSR).” Meikosha, founded in 1881 as the first communication device manufacturer in Japan and the company that worked to develop domestic production of the newly invented We contribute to society through our products and services. telephone. Our corporate philosophy, “The people of OKI, true to the company’s ‘enterprising spirit,’ are committed to Based on this philosophy, the OKI Group’s mission is to creating superior network solutions and providing excellent contribute to society through our products and services. information and communications services globally to meet The OKI Group has been undertaking a series of activities the diversified needs of communities worldwide in the to correctly understand the social needs, establish 4 OKI Group CSR Report 2015 A Message from the President technologies, achieve quality to satisfy our customers, and values to be shared with all group companies, and the OKI sustain the maintenance system as part of our sales and Group Code of Conduct that should be conformed to by all marketing, technology development, production, and executive officers and employees. The Group also joined maintenance. As a result, we in the OKI Group now play an the United Nations Global Compact in 2010, whose ten important role in Japan for supplying and maintaining principles concerning human rights, labor, the environment various systems including systems for financial institutions, and anti-corruption are used as the Group’s references to telecommunication infrastructures for telecom carriers, and further enhance activities. In the course of promoting our various public systems such as transportation and disaster major pillar for the mid-term business plan, namely, prevention in Japan, while our ATMs and printers are widely “Expanding business in global markets,” we will ensure to used overseas. recognize and assume our responsibility as a global In order to continue to live up to the expectations of company while enhancing the Group’s governance, and customers as well as of societies, our Mid-term Business work toward contributing to building sustainable societies. Plan 2016, to be concluded at the end of FY2016, states the management policy of “Realize sustainable growth through continuous investment by securing stable We contribute to the realization of a better global environment, in accordance with profitability.” At the same time, we also proposed our ideal the OKI Group Environmental Vision 2020. image, namely to “become a high-value added creation group, contributing to the realization of safe and From this perspective, we believe that proactive actions comfortable society.” The OKI Group will accelerate for reducing environmental load are some of the most activities toward growth with the following three pillars; important corporate activities of the OKI Group. Taking the “Expanding business in global markets,” “Supporting global environmental issues into consideration, we have customers’ ‘asset-free’ management,” and “Realization of developed the OKI Group Environmental Vision 2020 for safe and comfortable society.” Moreover, to give these the purpose of contributing to the realization of a better activities substance, we will strive to boost our human global environment, in which the targets for 2020 are resource measures by promoting diversity, starting with the established in the following four areas; “Realization of employment and nurturing of global human resources and low-carbon societies” “Prevention of pollution,” “Resource greater participation by women. Everyone of our group circulation” and “Biodiversity conservation.” To achieve employees will put themselves in the shoes of stakeholders these targets, we will enhance our efforts in business in order to think over approaches for providing a high-value activities and products. added service while also putting into practice “Marketing and Innovation” as the hub activity. In this way, we will cut This CSR Report 2015 is intended to help all the right figure as a high value added creation group. stakeholders better understand the OKI Group’s initiatives. We sincerely hope that as many people as possible will read this report. Your honest opinions regarding our CSR We promote responsible corporate initiatives would be greatly appreciated. management as a global corporation. In order to advance responsible management, the OKI Group has enacted and thoroughly implemented the OKI July, 2015 Group Charter of Corporate Conduct, the statement of OKI Group CSR Report 2015 5 Company Profile / Editorial Policy Company Profile Net Sales Profile Billions of yen Corporate Name: Oki Electric Industry Co., Ltd. 600 540.2 Founded in: January 1881 483.1 455.8 423.5 Company Established: November 1, 1949 400 Capital: 44 billion yen 258.3 Employees: 20,653 (Consolidated), 226.0 238.8 205.1 3,881 (Non-consolidated) 200 * As of March 31, 2015 Head Office: 1-7-12 Toranomon, Minato-ku, Tokyo 105-8460, Japan 0 Tel: +81-3-3501-3111 2011 2012 2013 2014 (Fiscal year) Consolidated Non-consolidated Business Segments Info-Telecom Systems Employees The OKI Group offers telecom systems, social Number of employees infrastructure systems, mechatronics systems, and 25,000 solutions & services, utilizing its core technologies of 21,090 20,653 info-telecommunication and mechatronics, etc. 20,000 16,736 17,459 Printers 15,000 The OKI Group manufactures printers for business 10,000 use utilizing its LED technology, and distributes them throughout the world. 3,881 5,000 3,373 3,678 3,788 EMS and Others 0 The OKI Group offers Electronics Manufacturing Services (EMS) and 2011 2012 2013 2014 (Fiscal year) other services, based on its highly sophisticated design and production Consolidated Non-consolidated expertise developed within the group. Editorial Policy The OKI Group “CSR Report” featuring our corporate social [Information featured in this PDF version of the report] Greater Stakeholders’ interests responsibility efforts and results is published in order to inform our • Discussions related to GRI and stakeholders of the group’s initiatives in an easy-to-understand way. ISO26000 Meeting • Initiatives in the industry such as Since the establishment of CSR Promotional Organization in fiscal EICC, GeSI and JEITA Our CSR 2005, OKI has worked continuously with a focus on the defined • Opinions from stakeholders on last Commitments Stakeholders’ interests year’s Social and Environmental activity areas, assuming the OKI Group’s social responsibilities that Report • Opinions from stakeholders are deeply rooted in our Corporate Philosophy. The present report collected through various surveys mainly describes the results of the activities in each of these areas for of employees and others Corporate governance fiscal 2014. Significance to the OKI Group Priority themes • Corporate Philosophy In the Special Features section, the two themes are featured as (Achievements in fiscal 2014) • The OKI Group Charter of “Meeting Our CSR Commitments.” In the articles, the important Corporate Conduct, the OKI Group [Information provided on the website] Code of Conduct issues for us as we work toward achievement of the Mid-term • Mid-term Business Plan 2016 Business Plan 2016 are placed on the horizontal axis, while the global Priority themes (Policies and systems • The OKI Group Environmental and other related information) Vision 2020 initiatives and the stakeholders’ voices received in various aspects of • The OKI Group Environmental Significance to the OKI Group Greater Policy the corporate activities are placed on the vertical axis. • The United Nations Global Compact Detailed information on each priority theme, such as that on specific • Priority themes about CSR policies and systems for it, are provided on our website. Also, • Risk management and other issues regarding our environmental response, we issue an “OKI Group GRI (Global Reporting Initiative): Environmental Report” containing detailed information on all sorts An international NGO that develops and disseminates globally applicable of data. Note also that the information on the website also includes sustainability reporting guidelines a comparative table that shows the relationship between the OKI ISO26000 (International Organization for Standardization 26000): Group’s CSR activities and the core themes of ISO26000. An international standard providing guidelines for social responsibility (published in November, 2010) EICC (Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition): Reference Guidelines An alliance of electronic manufacturers focusing on CSR that has enacted a code of conduct in the supply chain • Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Version 4.0 (GRI) GeSI (The Global e-Sustainability Initiative): • Environmental Reporting Guidelines 2012 (Ministry of the Environment) A partnership of information and communications technology companies • UN Global Compact COP (Communication on Progress) Policy that collaborates with EICC about CSR management in the supply chain 6 OKI Group CSR Report 2015 Company Profile / Editorial Policy C O N T E N T S Net Sales by Business Segment in fiscal 2014/Consolidated OKI Group’s CSR 2 EMS Other 7.5％ 3.4％ A Message from the President 4 Company Profile / Editorial Policy 6 Printers 540.2 Info-telecom 23.9％ billion yen systems CONTENTS 7 65.2％ Special Feature: Meeting Our CSR Commitments Net Sales by Market in fiscal 2014/Consolidated 1. ICT to Realize a Safe and Comfortable Society 8 Latin America North America 6.4％ 4.1％ 2. Towards Achieving the OKI Group Environmental Vision 2020 10 Other Europe 2.6％ 10.5％ 540.2 billion yen Japan China 63.3％ Promoting CSR at the OKI Group 11 13.1％ Management Corporate Governance 12 Risk Management/Compliance 13 Information Security 15 Together with the Stakeholders Scope Covered by This Report Improvement of Customer Satisfaction 16 Time Period Good Communications with This report covers fiscal 2014 (the year from April 1, 2014 to March 31, 2015). However, the report also discusses some facts preceding this Shareholders and Investors 17 period, as well as policies and plans to be implemented in subsequent periods. Respect for Employees 18 Organizations Social Contribution 19 The report covers the activities of Oki Electric Industry Co., Ltd. (OKI), and its consolidated subsidiaries. However, the environmental performance data covers OKI’s 15 locations and 32 subsidiaries in Japan, Consideration for the Environment 20 and 46 overseas subsidiaries. Corporate Names / Names of Organizations Oki Electric Industry Co., Ltd. aims to be a globally known growth company. It is commonly called “OKI.” In this report, Oki Electric Industry Co., Ltd. is referred to as “OKI,” and its corporate group, including its subsidiaries and affiliates, as the “OKI Group.” The names of the organizations referred to in this report, in principal, are those used as of April 2015. Forecasts, Plans and Targets In addition to factual information about the past and current activities of For further information, please contact the OKI Group, this report also includes forecasts, plans and targets for the future. They reflect assumptions and judgments based on CSR Division information available at the time of writing. Thus, readers are requested Oki Electric Industry Co., Ltd. to understand that the future results of the company’s activities could be e-mail: oki-csr@oki.com different from what is described in this report. OKI Group CSR Report 2015 7 Meeting Our CSR Commitments: Special Feature 1 Meeting Our CSR Commitments Special Feature ICT to Realize a Safe and 1 Comfortable Society With the Mid-term Business Plan 2016, which ends in fiscal 2016, our management policy is to realize sustainable growth through continuous investment by securing stable profitability, as part of our effort to become a high-value added creation group, contributing to the realization of safe and comfortable society. Here, we would like to introduce the OKI Group approach from the view of Information Communication Technology (ICT) that contributes to the realization of a safe and comfortable society. To achieve the sustainable growth incorporated in the that is being analyzed and processed as big data, which, more and management policy of the Mid-term Business Plan 2016, the more, is being put to practical use in cyber-physical systems (CPS) to defining point of us in the OKI Group is to launch from the core influence activities in the real world (physical) while its use via social predominance we have cultivated up to now, so that we can systems such as smart grids and transport systems means that it is maximize business opportunities by opening up new markets based beginning to influence corporate and social activities. on the shift in business environment. While expanding business and supporting asset-free management through maintenance, EMS and cloud services in global markets for mechatronics and printer OKI Group Approach businesses, we at OKI Group will make the realization of a safe and We are developing products and technology that make use of comfortable society, which is an integral part of the social preeminence in areas such as sensing technology and short range infrastructure field for the next generation, a pillar for underpinning wireless network technology as part of our effort for the realization and achieving sustained growth. of a safe and comfortable society. Therefore, we will offer safer and more comfortable products Making Use of Sensing Technology and services to our domestic customers, starting with those in the We at OKI are striving to create ultra-sensitive human-detecting financial, telecommunication and public sectors, as well as customers sensor products that use radio waves to detect all sorts of motions in global markets. In addition, we will roll out high added value from big ones like walking through to small ones like breathing. products that make the most of the technical forte we have built up With such products, systems can be developed to provide detailed over the years, in order to further contribute to the realization of observation of the elderly and anyone else who needs caring for, as safe and comfortable society. such products will enable real-time recognition of changes in physical condition and lifestyle rhythm of people, even if they are at Market Changes as We Strive rest in bed. for Realization of a Safe and Highly sensitive human-detecting sensor Comfortable Society Active In the “Smart Japan ICT Strategy” announced by the Ministry Resting Sensor of Internal Affairs and Communications (MIC) in May 2014, as part Body movement Empty of the ICT growth strategy vision, ideas are put forward for the creation of new innovation by utilizing ICT to connect various Observation system commodities and services. This strategy also reveals ideas for priority projects in which ICT smart towns are developed to encourage local Sensor revitalization as well as solve social issues in areas like medical care, education, disaster prevention, transportation, female participation Active in society and aging infrastructures. Moreover, the strategy includes Reacts to even breathing Resting ideas for developing and maintaining an ICT environment for the when a person is motionless Empty Tokyo Olympics and Paralympics in 2020. In other words, this is the Home Care Care facilities/retirement home government’s initiative for the realization of safe and comfortable Example of how observation can be performed using ultra-sensitive society. human-detecting sensors Thus, in acknowledging the arrival of the “Internet of Things” (IoT), where, in terms of technology, new value can be created by Again, making full use of video recognition technology, traffic linking a diverse range of things to the internet to mutually spread flow analysis systems could be enhanced by street-mounted information, the structuring of a Machine to Machine (M2M) cameras supplying information on traffic volume and vehicle environment that makes possible information exchange between distinction, such as small and large classification. The expectation “things” is already on the move to become part of tomorrow’s for such recognition technology is building as it is able to detect world. In line with this, there also is an enormous amount of traffic jams, spilled cargo, vehicles driving up the wrong side of information collected and stored on clouds by a variety of sensors highways and accidents. 8 OKI Group CSR Report 2015 Meeting Our CSR Commitments: Special Feature 1 Camera Detection of traffic jams Detection of Installed devices wrong-direction driving OKI is commercializing a 920MHz Communication Detection of accidents band wireless multi-hop network section system that makes full use of our Accumulating section highly reliable multi-hop wireless Video footage Analysis Aggregation and section network technology*. Being able to analysis (Cloud) combine data collection and analysis, Function of analysis section: Count number of vehicles and distinguish vehicle varieties this network system offers various (Using vehicle length, width and height to classify vehicles) solutions for systems such as energy Inside lane: Small vehicle passing Middle lane: Large vehicle passing management systems (as it can recognize in real time the amount of 920MHz band wireless multi-hop unit(Master unit/Slave units) electricity, gas and water being used in a building) and for systems that monitor deterioration in structures that are integral to social infrastructures, like bridges and tunnels. Traffic flow analysis system using video sensing * Wireless multi-hop network technology: This is technology for transferring data via Making Use of Short Range Wireless multiple wireless communication devices, rather like a bucket-relay system. As the system can be configured of a single master unit and multiple slave units, an Network Technology inexpensive wireless network with a broad operating area can be built. In addition, On the back of the reforms to the Radio Law in Japan, there is channels are chosen automatically for signaling, so it is good against interference and offers excellent reliability. mounting expectation for 920MHz band short range wireless systems ascribed to smart meters and sensor networks. Compared From here on, we in the OKI Group will continue to combine to the 2.4GHz band used mostly in LAN, the 920MHz band’s and improve these potent technologies we possess, in order to reachability is higher and further as well as being able to go around develop our niche in the field of next-generation social obstacles to reach destinations, so it is favored for use outdoors or infrastructures, such as those for disaster defense/disaster at sites with lots of obstacles, like factories and hospitals. This mitigation, social infrastructure maintenance management and frequency band is a sub-GHz one that is getting more and more next-generation traffic systems. And, in addition, we will use ICT to popular internationally as the frequency band for smart cities. This solve various social issues to keep up work for the realization of popularity is expected to stimulate the market. safe and comfortable society. 920MHz Band Wireless Multi-hop Network Application Example: River Monitoring System In recent years, an increasing number of rivers are unpredictably signal devices, even if communication channels are broken, the system is bursting their banks due to abnormal weather such as localized heavy able to promptly and automatically reselect a channel and reconfigure rain or unseasonal downpours, which are outside of past patterns and the network to ensure collection of data without any missing data. And, cannot be foreseen. Most of the major rivers in the Class A river system as the monitoring center obtains data from all locations in real-time, controlled by the government are installed with water-level monitoring areas under threat of flood damage and their situations can be grasped, equipment, but the more numerous medium sized and small rivers of information passed on quicker than normally to the nearby residents, the Class B river system are far less well equipped, so evacuation and actions taken to evacuate or counter flooding. guidance prior to flooding has become an issue. Furthermore, even when equipment is installed, monitoring staff must go to the river concerned to collect data, which hampers real-time decision making. We at OKI latched onto these issues, and developed a river monitoring system that incorporates 920MHz band wireless multi-hop network technology. This system involves the data of various sensors (rain gauges, water level indicators, etc.) installed at observation points along the river concerned being sent by wireless signal to a monitoring center, where that data is cyclically collected and checked to confirm An all-weather 920MHz river status in real-time. Thanks to the use of multi-hop wireless network Water level indicator for measuring water at an band wireless box installed on an existing outdoor technology, which enables the signal to hop along a number of wireless observation point loudspeaker system Topics Strengthening Our Maintenance Support Setup for Social Infrastructure Systems In April 2014, we at OKI set up a call center for social infrastructure quickly rectify it using high-level specialist knowledge and maintenance systems to provide a one-stop service that handles calls from usage technology. Our call center is staffed round the clock by well versed, inquiries through to recovery work at times of breakdown for the full-time technicians. Moreover, the center has an ample service menu, systems we supply to social infrastructure systems such as firefighting with services like M2M technology that enables automatic messaging command/wireless systems, municipal disaster prevention systems and to the call center about breakdowns of machines offered in the road management systems. The call center is operated 24 hours a day, “machine breakdown auto alert service”. The center also offers well 365 days of the year by OKI Customer Adtech, the support service rounded measures for risks accompanying disasters and security, such company in the OKI Group. as quake-resistant buildings, system duplication and security To constantly assure safe operation of social infrastructures that are management based on ISO27001. continually evolving, it is important to swiftly discover the problem and OKI Group CSR Report 2015 9 Meeting Our CSR Commitments: Special Feature 2 Meeting Our CSR Commitments Special Feature Towards Achieving the OKI Group 2 Environmental Vision 2020 We in the OKI Group established the “Environmental Vision 2020” (see page 20 for details) in 2012 as one of our midterm goals for reducing the load on the environment in four different fields. Here, we would like to introduce specific initiatives we have taken with products in two fields: “Realization of a low-carbon society” and “Prevention of pollution”. Realization of Low-Carbon Societies Our Approach to Reducing CO2 in ATMs through Products Being used more and more in both financial institutions and convenience stores, ATMs catch the eye of the public for their The 21st Conference of the Parties (COP21) to the United convenience and low energy consumption. As part of this, when Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change was held on we at OKI launched the ATM “CP21Z” in November 2014, we December, 2015, and the countermeasures against global warming newly introduced an “energy-saving mode”, which have increased the significance. We at the OKI are striving hard to turns off the power of peripheral units when the reduce the environmental load in our main products: printers and CP21Z has not been used for a fixed time. The automated teller machines (ATMs). power consumed while the ATM is in this standby Our Approach to Printers and Multifunction Printers mode is 60% less than our conventional product Up to now, we have developed our OKI printers and in that class. Moreover, to reduce the number of multifunction printers to meet demand in all regions based on vehicle call outs of security guards attending to world-class product quality. However, under such circumstances, ATMs in convenience stores, we have introduced the number of new components needed increased, and larger banknote cassette trays, which contribute to development time, cost and environmental load all became issues. indirectly reducing CO2. So, at that point, we pushed ahead with efforts to communalize ATM “CP21Z” platforms on both the hardware and firmware sides, in areas such as LSI, power supply, control substrates and mechanical sections, in Prevention of Pollution through Products order to simultaneously develop multiple product types. By doing Ever stricter regulations are being imposed on chemical that, development time was reduced dramatically while control substances in countries around the world, with strict controls load also was reduced because less materials and maintenance placed on all materials for both the product and its packaging. In materials were needed. As this saves energy and resources in each order to properly meet these regulations, OKI Data, which operates step of product lifecycle – in other words, design, production and in many overseas areas, steadfastly implements advanced levels of maintenance – reductions in the environmental load are achieved. chemical controls as well as using in-house-developed software Both the A4 monochrome LED printers in the B400/500 series COINServ-COSMOS-R/R (hereon referred to as COSMOS-R/R) to and the A4 monochrome LED multifunction printers in the meet strict environmental standards, such as Europe’s RoHS MB400/500 series launched in January 2015 are products that Directive and REACH Regulation. share this communalized platform strategy. By revising mainstay Controlling chemicals in products requires processes such as components like the LSI and power component inspections, aggregating/evaluating and reporting. supply, we managed to cut the These processes are fraught with issues at every turn. In the power consumption for deep sleep inspection process, an enormous number of components have to be mode to less than one third of the tracked and treated in various formats during inspection. With the conventional consumption. This aggregating/evaluating process, calculations have to be made for breakthrough conforms to two the content by percentage of chemicals and judgments made to international environment standards: determine whether or not a material contains a substance forbidden the “International ENERGY STAR A4 monochrome LED printer by the RoHS Directive and other such directives. And, with the Program” and the “Blue Angel Mark”. “B432dnw” reporting process, there are various formats that have to be implemented in accordance with varying rules applied by customers. Also, the demand for an IT system response is increasing. Therefore, the user-friendly COSMOS-R/R is a business tool that enables us to cope with work issues and the frequent revisions to directives and regulations in way that lets us keep evolving. International ENERGY STAR Program Blue Angel Mark From here on too, we in the OKI Group will endeavor to fulfill This is an international energy saving This label was introduced by the German system for office equipment. Federal Environmental Agency in 1978 our “Environmental Vision 2020” by committing ourselves to The top 25% of products with excellent and it has been leading the way as an activities and expansion that will reduce the environmental load in energy saving features are approved in this eco label ever since. program. our products and business activities. 10 OKI Group CSR Report 2015 Promoting CSR at the OKI Group Promoting CSR at the OKI Group We in the OKI Group are working hard to comply with CSR that is rooted in our corporate philosophy, the seven priority themes shown in the table below are promoted by the Group’s organization dedicated to CSR promotion through collaboration with related divisions. In the following pages, the details of activities carried out in fiscal 2014 for each theme are explained. CSR Priority Themes: Focal Points and Achievements Priority Themes Focal Points for Fiscal 2014 Achievements in Fiscal 2014 Focal Points for Fiscal 2015 Full Compliance Enhanced  responses to overseas E nhanced expansion of protection P romotion of effective management with Laws and compliance risks measures for overseas compliance risks based on risk evaluation Enhancement of measures to Enhanced contents of training programs Strengthening of policy to gain greater Regulations communicate the contents of education and verified benefits using attitude penetration with training contents P13,14 programs survey F urther promotion of CSR procurement Further promotion of CSR procurement Continued inspection of CSR procurement and conflict minerals, and commence same inspections overseas Information E nhancement of security management in Introduction of security control tools in S trengthening of measures to counter Security oversea sites Asia and Oceania regions internal fraud Enhanced responses to cyber attacks Strengthened response to targeted mail Strengthening of security at bases in P15 China Improvement of E nhance quality control T horough implementation of quality T horough implementation of quality Customer training,matching unique aspects of training in business sector training in accordance with nature of business S trengthened UD initiatives for ATMs work Satisfaction Expansion of the application range of Expanded application of UD P16,17 universal design technique technology Good D  isclosure of activity status for the E nhanced communication with E xpansion of communication with Communication Mid-term Business Plan 2016 in a timely domestic and overseas investors and domestic and overseas investors and appropriate manner explain approaches S trengthening of approaches to with Shareholders promote constructive dialogue and Investors P17 Respect for P romotion of diversity Implementation of seminars and P  romotion of diversity management Employees C  ontinuing entrenchment of the discussions to promote greater female Continued promotion of nextsupports for the development of the next participation generation development P18 generation G  ained the next-generation Continued promotion of work-life Continuing promotion of work-life development certification (Kurumin) for balance balance one yet another company in the Group Strengthening support in initiatives for Continuing support for the mental and C  ommencement of time unit healthy body and mind physical health of employees accreditation system for leave according to purpose Social C  ontinuing activities for reconstruction Intermittent implementation of various C  ontinued implementation of activities Contribution support disaster recovery support activities for disaster recovery support Continuing promotion of social Implementation over 10 years of remote C  ontinued promotion of activities P19 contribution activities inside and outside workplace training making a contribution at home and Japan Implementation of activities linked to abroad training support at home and abroad Consideration for [Realization of low-carbon societies] the Environment Increase in energy consumption A  chievement of revised targets for unit Improvement of energy consumption efficiency in business activities consumption efficiency, planned facility renewals, P10,20,21 Minimization of CO2 emissions through Completion of development of 7 and re-examination of operations, etc. and innovation of products with low power products with lower power CO2 emission control through consumption consumption innovation of low electricity-consuming OKI Group products Environmental [Prevention of pollution] Report  eduction of emissions of hazardous R  chievement of reduction targets for A  mission reduction of hazardous E chemical substances into air and water unit consumption chemical substances into air and water systems Achieved secure compliance with system Improvement of compliance with regulations referring to the information Secure compliance with regulations on regulations on chemical substances in concerning the revised regulations chemical substances in products products [Resource circulation] E xpansion of the treating amount of the N  ot yet achieved (subject to the  xpansion of amount treated under E Cross-jurisdictional Waste Treatment adjustment to the applications of Cross-jurisdictional Waste Treatment Manufacturer Scheme expanding approval scopes) Manufacturer Scheme (promotion of proper treatment and recycling) [Biodiversity conservation]  Involvement in prevention of pollution R  ealization of low-carbon  eduction of the impact on ecosystem R from a biodiversity viewpoint societies:Achieved services Prevention of pollution: Achieved Resource circulation: Not yet achieved (See the details above) OKI Group CSR Report 2015 11 management CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The OKI Group recognizes sustainable growth and increases corporate value over midand long-term as its most important management priorities in earning the trust of its various stakeholders. To this end, we are working to enhance corporate governance based on our fundamental policies, including “enhancement of management fairness and transparency,” “timely decision-making processes,” and “full compliance and fortification of risk management.” Executive Officer System Corporate Governance Structure OKI appoints executive officers to implement operations based OKI maintains a corporate auditor system, with the Board of on management policies determined by the Board of Directors so as Directors and an Audit & Supervisory Board. With an executive to separate the functions of business execution and oversight of officer system in place, it strives to promote timely decisionmaking management and promote timely decision-making processes. processes by separating business execution and oversight. It Moreover, to assist the president in making decisions, the Company endeavors to improve the fairness and transparency of management has established the Executive Officer Committee. by nominating outside directors to the Board as well as setting up a Utilization of Voluntary Committees voluntary committee on nomination, remuneration, etc. so as to OKI has established the Personnel Affairs and Compensation ensure effective supervision from an independent and objective Advisory Committee as a voluntary committee to secure transparency standpoint. In addition to objective audits by Audit & Supervisory in the decision-making processes for appointments of board Board members and the Audit & Supervisory Board, OKI seeks to members and executive officers and remuneration for them. Outside bolster risk management and ensure rigorous compliance via the Risk directors play the leading role on the committee. After deliberating Management Committee, which includes outside directors. from an objective perspective on appointments or dismissals of board Board of Directors, Audit & Supervisory Board members and executive officers as well as the structure and level of The Board of Directors in principle meets once a month but can their compensation etc., the committee reports their findings to the call extraordinary meetings when necessary, and is responsible for Board of Directors. deciding fundamental management policies and other important Moreover, with the establishment of the Risk Management matters and overseeing business execution. To enhance management Committee, where outside directors and Audit & Supervisory Board fairness and transparency, two of the Board’s eight members are members attend as advisors, to grasp the risks attendant with outside directors with a high level of independence. To clarify business execution and respond to them unerringly, OKI strives to management responsibility for each fiscal year, shareholders are to promote rigorous compliance and reinforce risk management. vote on a resolution at the June 24, 2015 annual general meeting of shareholders to set tenure at a year for Board nominees approved at that annual meeting and subsequent ones. Internal Controls The Audit & Supervisory Board comprises four Audit & In accordance with Japan’s Companies Act and the Ordinance Supervisory Board members, two of which are outside Audit & for Enforcement of the Companies Act, the Board of Directors passed Supervisory Board members with a high level of independence. Based a resolution concerning the Basic Policy for the Establishment of an on audit policies, methods, etc. decided at Audit & Supervisory Board Internal Control System and OKI has been developing a system to meetings, Audit & Supervisory Board members attend Board of secure appropriate business operations. Pursuant to the Financial Directors’ meetings and other important meetings, verify the content Instruments and Exchange Act, we also have an internal control of reports received from directors etc., and conduct investigations reporting system in place, through which we submit internal control into matters concerning the Company’s operations, financial status, reports to the Kanto regional bureau of the Ministry of Finance and etc. Collaborating closely with outside directors, the Internal Auditing disclose assessment results of the effectiveness of our internal Division, and the accounting auditors, Audit & Supervisory Board controls related to financial reporting. members audit the performance of duties by directors. Corporate Governance Structure General Meeting of Shareholders Nomination/Dismissal Nomination/Dismissal Nomination/Dismissal Personnel Affairs and Audit & Supervisory Board, Board of Directors Compensation Advisory Committee Audit & Supervisory Board Directors Advisory (including independent directors) Accounting Members Audit (including independent Auditors (including independent Audit & Supervisory Board members) directors) Report Risk Management Committee (including independent directors/Audit & findings 業務執行 Supervisory Board members) Audit Oversight Collaboration President Business execution Executive Officer Committee Accounting audit (Executive officers) Internal controls audit Internal Audit Business Sections, Subsidiaries and Affiliates Auditing Division 12 OKI Group CSR Report 2015 management Risk Management/Compliance We in OKI Group have set up a Risk Management Committee as an advisory committee to the Board of Directors. The committee unerringly works to recognize the various risks that accompany business activities, and intensifies efforts to prevent those risks from manifesting. In accordance with our “Compliance Commitment” and “OKI Group Code of Conduct” and, in order to perform corporate activities fairly, we are focusing on the enhancement of training and the promotion of integrated, systematic, companywide risk management cored around the Compliance Committee. Furthermore, we have established consultation and reporting channels as well as whistle-blowing regulations such as those about the protection of whistle-blowers. We thus try to discover and rectify improper activities at an early stage. In fiscal 2014, we further organized in-house infrastructures on Ensuring Risk Information Sharing the premise of an earthquake focused directly on the metropolitan and Communication, Enhancing area, and, likewise, reviewed our existing BCP. Management In fiscal 2012, OKI set up the Risk Management Committee Enhancement of Compliance Training (with the President as Committee Chairman, and outside directors In order to deploy compliance-related measures across the and Audit & Supervisory Board members as advisors). The committee group, we in the OKI Group give training sessions for compliance is strengthening our risk management, and also discusses and managers at six sites in Japan as our regular training. Participants decides basic policy related to risk management undertaken by the learn in these sessions, and roll out the gained knowledge in their Group as well as handling reports on risk information that business units. The deployment of such knowledge is checked accompanies the work of executive officers and divisions as well as through an e-learning program for all executive officers and promoting measures to prevent manifestations of risks. In fiscal 2014, employees of the group. In addition, various measures are promoted we revised the regulations on risk management to provide clearer to communicate the training information in specific formats, rules on the definitions of risks, responsibilities of the division in including the booklet called “Case Examples of Compliance” and charge of each risk, and quickly sharing and reporting risk regular articles in our house organ (Intranet) that features possible information in the Group. compliance related issues in operations and actions to be taken. At the same time, the compliance risks (risks associated with In fiscal 2014, taking corruption related laws and the antitrust violation of laws, regulations and in-house rules) requiring common law as the theme for our training program for our compliance management across the Group are managed by the Compliance managers, we focused on training as well as thoroughly incorporating Committee (the chair being responsible for compliance), which our Compliance Commitment, the OKI Group Code of Conduct and oversees the Control Division that registers risks, implementing measures that need to be taken at times of risk into the compliance preventive measures within the Group and carrying out regular training units for the all different levels of training, starting with new verification of the implementation status. directors in the group. Note that we at OKI implement compliance In fiscal 2014, we strengthened the expansion of prevention awareness studies continuously to check on the benefits and issues of measures to the companies in our overseas group, reconfirming the various forms of training. In the study implemented in February 2015, situations in our approaches to observe international labor standards a lot of the feedback commented on how the necessary compliance (e.g. ILO conventions and recommendations) and local labor laws in related information (laws and regulations, etc.) was difficult to find. all our overseas companies as part of our risk prevention measures Therefore, we will continue to enhance the ways in which we link related to the labor training to areas such as law. Apart from that, improving use of we also organized disseminating overseas training knowledge about the materials and carried intranet “compliance out training in our portal site” we have overseas companies prepared. Compliance Portal Site on subjects such as prevention of bribery Participation rates in compliance training programs (for the OKI Group in Japan) in fiscal 2014 corruption and Participation security export controls. Examples of teaching materials for overseas Training overview rate Training session for compliance managers (implemented from July to August 2014) 100％ Emergency/Disaster Response Focused themes: Corruption related laws and antitrust law The e-learning program (about on-the-job compliance) The OKI Group has established “Safety Countermeasure 100％ (implemented from December 2014 to January 2015) Committees” at its domestic and overseas sites, as well as in its group companies, in order to ensure “protect people’s lives“, About On-site Investigation by the Fair Trade Commission “prevent secondary accidents“, “contribute to local communities On 18 November 2014, the Fair Trade Commission conducted an and foster good relationships with them“, and “continuity of on-site investigation at OKI due to suspicions about antitrust law business operations“ in the event of disasters. For “continuity of violations related to our products and services for digitalizing wireless business operations“, each business and corporate (headquarter) communication systems for firefighting and emergency use. We at division develops a Business Continuity Plan, (BCP), based on BCP OKI fully cooperated with the investigation and take very seriously the situation that has emerged. Therefore, we will work even harder to Development Guidelines. The contents of the BCP are reviewed thoroughly implement compliance. annually. OKI Group CSR Report 2015 13 management Risk Management/Compliance Information Technology Industries Association (JEITA), using it to Enhancement of Approaches to implement a survey on their CSR promotion and the activities and Anti-Corruption another survey on the usage situation of conflict minerals. Also, for We put into practice in fiscal 2013 the “OKI Group Antioverseas suppliers, we referred to the EICC* Code of Conduct to Corruption and Anti-Bribery Policy” in the group companies in and compile a survey chart, which we started to use in some areas to outside of Japan, and are enhancing our approach to anti-corruption. conduct surveys. These rules and policies take account of the global trends * Electrical Industry’s Citizenship Coalition toward stricter sanctions imposed by laws and regulations relating to anti-corruption (such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and UK OKI Group Procurement Policies Bribery Act), and set out the fundamental points for carrying out List of Requests for suppliers operations properly while complying with the related regulations applicable to each country and region in which the OKI Group 1. Compliance with laws, regulations, and societal norms operates. In fiscal 2014, we trained employees to understand and • Compliance with laws and regulations related to production thoroughly implement this basic policy. And, we also commenced full and sale of materials, environmental laws and regulations, operation of specific rules in OKI governing the exchange of gifts and laws and regulations related to product safety, laws and receiving/offering entertainment, and pressed ahead with regulations related to labor, occupational health and safety, preparations to run the program in all the companies of the group. and other laws and regulations • Prohibition of child labor and forced labor Note that OKI is a managing member of the Anti-Corruption • Prohibition of discrimination by race, gender, or other Working Group of Global Compact Network Japan (GCNJ). The characteristic Working Group shares • Realizing a safe and sanitary working environment issues for engaging in • Prohibition of deviation from fair business practices anti-corruption measures 2. Environmental considerations with the participant 3. Sound and stable business management companies, promotes 4. Appropriate levels of quality and cost, and stable supply information exchanges 5. Appropriate management and protection of information with experts and 6. Cooperation for continuous supply discusses anti-corruption 7. Basic policy for conflict minerals measures that should be taken by the participant companies of the UN Introducing the activities of the Anti-Corruption Working Group at the GCNJ Learning Forum Topics  roviding Electronic Component BCP P Global Compact. (4 June 2014) Support Service and Conflict Minerals Survey Service Elimination of Anti-Social Forces OKI Engineering (OEG), a company providing technical services for reliable evaluations and environment conservation, started in Regarding our response to anti-social forces that threaten September 2014 to provide a BCP support service for electrical civilian order and safety, across our entire organization we make our components and survey service for conflict minerals. The BCP corporate stance fully clear in our “Basic Policy for the Establishment support service involves finding out information on component of an Internal Control System” by working with the police to production cancellation and conducting surveys on alternative resolutely prevent any kind of relationship with organized crime. components for customers that are using the component Furthermore, our “OKI Group Code of Conduct” lays out our code as concerned. This service helps reduce component supply disruption a conduct for each individual to maintain a resolute attitude to shut risks, which is an essential part of BCP. Whereas, the survey service out such anti-social forces. To enable employees to take a strong, for conflict minerals involves OEG conducting a survey on the conflict minerals using the CFSI's Conflict Minerals Reporting specific stance, we have compiled a manual on how to respond to Template to investigate the components used in the customer’s organized crime as well as a Case Examples of Compliance and DVD products and then OEG compile the survey results and do the training material that provide extensive help. In addition, our calculations for each individual component. transaction contracts carry a clause for eliminating organized crime, so if we ascertain that a business partner is a criminal organization, we can sever the relationship. OKI Engineering VOICE Yuji Emori, Electronic Parts Information Division Teaming up with Suppliers At OKI Engineering, we already have been Enhanced CSR Procurement Activities providing an environmental information survey To comply with social responsibilities while responding to our service for electrical components under the RoHS stakeholders’ requests, cooperation from the suppliers within the Directive and REACH Regulation, but to fulfill requests from customers we have started providing a service to supply chain is essential. Recognizing this point, OKI will dedicate establish a business continuation plan in the manufacturing itself to building a trusting relationship as a partner, and promote industry as well as another service for investigating conflict CSR procurement based on the “OKI Group Procurement Policies”. minerals. Team work with suppliers is essential for a company to In fiscal 2014, we continued on with our work from the previous fulfill its social responsibility. From here on too, we at OEG will fiscal year with major suppliers based on the OKI Group Supply continue to provide services that contribute to the promotion of Chain CSR Promotion Guidebook , which conforms to the Supply CSR in the supply chain. Chain CSR Deployment Guidebook” of the Japan Electronics and 14 OKI Group CSR Report 2015 management Information Security Based on the OKI Group Security Policy, the OKI Group has established a system to ensure information security under the leadership of the Information Security Committee. We properly manage and protect company and customer information, including personal information, through various activities such as reviews of efforts for information security (biannual), and information security audits. Three Perspectives of Information Security Sharing and Remedying Issues In the OKI Group we use the three perspectives shown in the with Suppliers diagram below to broadly promote information security measures for Aiming at an improved information security level across the computers, networks and information systems. supply chain, we at OKI continuously verify how information security Monitoring of computer measures are implemented at suppliers to whom we provide critical Network invasion detection IT usage monitoring security status confidential information. Here, we ask our suppliers to carry out Systems for Visibility self-evaluations and to score themselves based on check lists (Monitoring, etc.) prepared by us. In this way, suppliers and OKI are sharing issues and remedying any problem points found. In fiscal 2014, we at OKI used OKI Group Information these self-evaluations to share and remedy issues with the suppliers Security Basic Policy Systems for Support (IT governance) Systems for Protection not reaching the OKI standard, and, as a result, all the targeted (Introduction of IT) (Rules, training, etc.) suppliers achieved high evaluations. Definition of confidential data Management of confidential and regularization of data using a shared server management process Organization of IT platform to prevent information Implementation of information security training Acquisition of ISMS Certification leak routes and blanket checks The OKI Group has acquired the ISMS* certification (as of June In fiscal 2014, we reviewed our database management system 2015) for divisions involved in building and operating internal that handles information on customers and partners in order to information systems, and for divisions engaged in general system boost measures used to combat data leaks notably caused by design development, in order to improve the reliability of network internal fraud. We also galvanized monitoring of databases handling solution construction and related services (5 companies, 7 divisions). personal information as well as implementing other actions such as In fiscal 2014, all of us in each division worked to promote limiting the use of online storage services and limiting mail sending implementation of the standard revised in the previous fiscal year in using free-mail addresses. all the certification categories, so that by fiscal 2015 we have changed over to the new standard in five of the seven divisions scheduled to be assessed for certification. OKI-CSIRT for Prompt Response to * ISMS: Information Security Management System Security Incidents We have established an organization specializing in security incident response called OKI-CSIRT*1, which collaborates with Enhancing the Protection of external organizations, such as the Nippon CSIRT Association, CSIRT Personal Information in other companies and ministries/agencies, in order to enhance our We in the OKI Group have enhanced the preventive measures against threats to computer security in the protection of personal information, based on the group and improve our capacity to respond to them. In fiscal 2014, in Privacy Policy. We have committed to the order to address the increasing targeted email*2 attacks, we further protection of personal information under the strengthened measures to deal with attacks on servers and leadership of our Chief Privacy Officer. Privacy implemented countermeasures to deal with emails pretending to managers have been appointed in all divisions come from staff in government and municipal offices. and in group companies. We also are encouraging group companies *1 CSIRT: Computer Security Incident Response Team to acquire the PrivacyMark certification, to show that they are *2 T argeted email: Email sent to a specific organization or individual, as a cyber attack to steal information taking appropriate measures to protect personal information. OKI and seven group companies have acquired this certification as of June 2015. Enhanced Actions at Overseas Sites Since fiscal 2008, we in the OKI Group have promoted the implementation of information security measures at overseas sites, Topics  oughening Up Social Media Usage T with our Chinese site getting the ball rolling. And, from fiscal 2013, Guidelines we started laying down information security guidelines and To prevent information leaks originating in private use of social appointing security managers as part of our effort to boost security in media tools, we at OKI established the “OKI Group Social Media the Asia and Oceania region. In fiscal 2014, we introduced security Usage Guide”. In November 2014, we set up a site “social media management tools to keep abreast of the security status of computers usage guidelines (including the above guide)” on our intranet to used by employees in Asia and Oceania, so that swift countermeasure make employees fully aware of the situation. instructions can be provided for any untoward activity. OKI Group CSR Report 2015 15 Together with the Stakeholders Improvement of Customer Satisfaction Under its quality philosophy of “providing products that always make customers happy”, we at OKI incorporate our “Product Safety Basic Policy” and related rules into our quality control system and operate them in accordance with the nature of each operation. Furthermore, we have obtained ISO9001 certification at all our production sites, and have built the most appropriate quality control system for each production line and product. Also, continuous efforts are being made in each operation to incorporate the customers’ voices, which are received through daily communication and the surveys on their satisfaction levels, to improve our products, services and systems. have undergone the training as of fiscal 2014. Moreover, the lectures Supporting Enhancement of are skillfully designed with a balanced approach to mathematical Manufacturing knowledge and the need to show examples of application in actual We at OKI brought together our engineering functions – such business, and are created with our own analysis tools, so that as production control, product safety, environment and intellectual employees can easily apply what they have learned to the jobs they property (scattered throughout our divisions until then) – in the do. Indeed, the employees in charge of lecturing strive to improve Engineering Support Center established in our Corporate (head themselves by gaining QC qualifications and also strive constantly to office) in April 2014. And, we now use these gathered functions to improve the quality of their lectures. support manufacturing in business section and group companies. Taking production control as one of its functions, the Engineering Support Center holds the “OKI Group Production Universal Design Initiatives Reform Presentation Meetings”. These provide an opportunity for OKI Group defines universal design as the achievement of a high staff from various bases to share their approaches to making level of usability (basic user-friendliness) and accessibility reforms in order to involve peer groups. At the meeting held in (consideration for elderly and disabled, etc.) in products and services December 2014, so that all customers can use them properly, effectively and representatives from five satisfactorily. User opinions gathered in verification experiments etc. companies and nine are reflected in our products and services. divisions, including Application Example of Universal Design Technology: overseas bases such as Universal Design Initiatives for ATMs Brazil and Thailand, gave We at OKI are taking universal design presentations on various initiatives to improve operability of themes, like the Automated Teller Machines (ATMs), development of one of our core products. For instance, production technologies our “ATM-BankIT Pro”, a widely used and reforms in ATM in Japan, is equipped with a Presentation by OKI Data Manufacturing manufacturing processes. (Thailand) – winner of the first prize handset to enable the visually impaired to operate the ATM using audio guidance. It also is equipped with an Improvement of Training on Quality “easy-operation mode” for the elderly To maintain product manufacturing at a constantly high level of and has an ergonomic body design that quality, it is vital that all employees act with quality control (QC) in allows wheelchair users to get close to “ATM-BankIT Pro” mind, to make full use of correct procedures and appropriate QC the ATM as well as an angled screen for easy viewing. methods in actual work. For this reason, it is necessary to implement In February 2015, we reviewed the screen design and operational basic training about quality for all new employees as quickly as flow all our ATMs (approximately 6,000) used by Mizuho Bank, Ltd. possible after they have joined group companies. At OKI, we conduct (Mizuho Bank), to update their operability in line with universal design, thorough quality training at all stages, from the point of joining the such as visibility, understandability and usability. In specific terms, in company, after assignment to a division and through to when such addition to using a universal design font, we also improved useremployees become key technicians. friendliness by providing an operation flow that takes into consideration An example of this comes from the Systems Hardware Business the menus frequently used for transactions and screen guidance Division where staff watches over development and production of incorporating written and illustrated explanations. We have unified OKI mechatronic products based on a quality principle used to operability in all the ATMs used by Mizuho Bank, even applying the formulate a quality policy that states that we should take every effort new screen to the compact ATM “CP21X” installed outside of banks. to be a trusted vendor that offers inspiration and satisfaction to the It should also be noted that we changed the ATM screen customer. Thus, the division has compiled three curriculums to teach programming language to the HTML*1 in order to achieve this according to occupation and level of experience the tenets of quality, user-friendly upgrade quickly and inexpensively. In the future, we will which are grouped as: (1) QC way of thinking, (2) QC story, (3) Seven establish an off-site server as a Web-ATM*2, as well as uniformly QC tools, (4) Statistical method, (5) Method of reliability and (6) manage ATM software, so that contents changes and service Quality engineering. All employees entering the division must have expansion can be carried out with greater flexibility. studied these tenets within the first three years of employment. The *1 HTML stands for Hypertext Markup Language, a commonly used language for inserting symbols or codes inserted into files for display on the Web. current lecturing style has been in use since 2002, and 775 people *2 Web-ATM is a generic term for an ATM using Web architecture. 16 OKI Group CSR Report 2015 Together with the Stakeholders Topics  aining Certification for Color Universal Design G For our “ATM-BankIT Pro” and ATM software user-friendly manner. With the “ATM-BankIT Pro”, “UNISONATM+V10”, we took and passed in July we scored well for incorporating flicker lamps across 2014 the color universal design (CUD) assessment set the entire mouth of slots for mediums such as cash by the specified NPO Color Universal Design cards as well as bright medium text lamps. And, Organization (CUDO) – thus, gaining CUD likewise, with “UNISONATM+V10”, we achieved a certification. simple screen design that anyone can use while CUD is a way of providing access to products, enabling customizing of the ATM screen through facilities, building, environments, services and selection of backgrounds (20 patterns) and buttons information without the need to distinguish between (two patterns). colors, enabling more people to access things in a The “ATM-BankIT Pro” Color Universal Pass Certificate Good Communications with Shareholders and Investors The OKI Group appropriately discloses useful information to shareholders and investors in a timely and appropriate manner, including, management strategies and operating results. We actively work on disclosure and IR activities, focused on the IR Unit which is dedicated to such work. The group also makes every effort to prevent insider trading. products and services and updates of information on our IR site, and Greater Communication with send out as required the compiled data in emails in Japanese and Institutional Investors English to some 1,400 people, such as investors. Fully aware that managing efficiency and corporate value improvements are linked to receptiveness of market needs that can be made use of appropriately in management and business activities, Thorough Prevention of Insider Trading our management team at OKI – starting with the president – is In order to protect shareholders and investors and gain the trust pursuing all forms of communication with institutional investors, such of securities markets, we in the OKI Group clearly state in our OKI as interacting with them at settlement/management briefings and IR Group Code of Conduct that we will neither buy nor sell stock or meetings. other securities based on insider information, nor provide any such In fiscal 2014, we proactively held IR meetings in locations information to other parties. We strive to prevent insider trading. abroad, such as Europe and Asia. Meanwhile, in Japan, we As relevant rules were revised to better address the enhanced participated in IR conferences held by securities companies as well as regulations on insider trading resulting from the amendment of using small meetings geared to domestic and foreign investors and Financial Instruments and Exchange Act in April 2014, we used a plant visits to explain in great detail the progress of the “Mid-term compliance training (e-learning) theme to raise awareness about the Business Plan 2016” and situations in each of our business portfolios. regulations related to the revisions made in the previous fiscal year, using concrete examples to explain those regulations. In this way, we made all employees of the Group in Japan fully aware of the revisions. Good Communications through IR Site and News Mail We at OKI are posting on our website simultaneous SRI Index Efforts Japanese and English versions of A socially responsible investing (SRI) index is a stock index a diverse range of IR which looks at CSR as important evaluation criteria in addition to information, like settlement financial aspects. As of April 1, 2015, OKI is a stock in the data, to ensure that we maintain Morningstar Socially Responsible Investing Index (MS-SRI).* an open and fair broadcasting of * The Morningstar Socially Responsible Investment Index (MS-SRI) is the first IR information. We regularly socially responsible investment index in Japan. Morningstar Japan K.K. selects 150 companies from among enterprises in Japan by assessing their upgrade the website with the aim of making it easier to use for social responsibility, and converts their stock prices into the index. investors. And, just like last year, we won a bronze prize for “Gomez IR Site Comprehensive Ranking 2014” released by Gomez Consulting (Gomez) under Morningstar Japan K.K. in June, 2014. Furthermore, we compile filing information for Tokyo Stock Exchange and settlement information, press releases on new OKI Group CSR Report 2015 17 Together with the Stakeholders Respect for Employees Believing that protection of each employee's human rights underlies all business activities, we have proclaimed “Respect for Human Rights” in the OKI Group Charter of Corporate Conduct and the OKI Group Code of Conduct, and we work for their thorough implementation through training and other such activities. The group has a strong commitment to pursuing fair recruitment, and building work environments with respect for diversity founded on its vision: “Pride, Passion and Sincerity.” Based on this basic concept, we have also made various efforts at overseas group companies, such as encouraging the acquisition of certifications on human rights and labor, and expanded and enhanced training and systems, meeting the needs of each country or region. Good Labor-Management Relationship through Dialogue Ongoing Support for Development of OKI respects the freedom of association and collective the Next Generation bargaining based on the laws in each country and region, and puts We at OKI were granted the “Act on great importance on building trust between labor and management. Advancement of Measures to Support Raising In Japan, OKI holds general labor-management meetings between Next-Generation Children” certification OKI’s top executives and the labor union leaders, and divisional (nicknamed “Kurumin”) by the Tokyo Labor labor-management meetings, to sincerely exchange opinions and Bureau in 2009 and 2012. During fiscal 2014, information on the business environment and labor issues. efforts were made by the labor union and management to fully inform our employees of various systems, including teleworking, for supporting the development of the next generation on the basis of Initiatives to Promote Diversity “The 4th Action Plan (from 2012 to 2015)”. We at OKI are employing and Our group companies also are supporting development of the cultivating global human resources next generation. And, in July 2014, OKI Software, a company tackling as well as advancing the roles of software development and SI services, gained “Kurumin” women within that setup in order certification. for our diverse workforce to reach its maximum stellar potential while also developing an environment where A scene from the female career seminar Promotion of Work-Life Balance each individual employee can tackle his/her work with a sense of We at OKI established the Work-Life Balance Promotion meaningfulness. Committee, comprised of labor union and management members, to In particular, we are placing weighty emphasis on support for verify the employees’ work hours and leave eligibilities. We have also the success of women in the workplace, holding a seminar on amplified various systems such as the flextime system, HOP work (a supporting the advancement of women, a female career seminar and discretionary labor) system, systems to provide special work conditions a forum on leader development by senior management during fiscal for persons caring for children and nursing the elderly, as well as 2014, all of which were attended by about half of the female “Special Leave for Particular Purposes” which can be used to employees at OKI. Indeed, to deepen the understanding of division participate in volunteer activities, to treat illness and injuries, to nurse heads with regard to advancing women, we also held briefing family members, or to attend children’s school events, to further sessions for that section of management. promote the employees’ work-life balance. In fiscal 2014, the company started the new system for hourlybased leave eligibility for particular purposes, to enable the employees Promoting the Employment of to arrange their schedule more flexibly. Challenged People The OKI Group has been working to recruit challenged people, especially in OKI Workwel, a special purpose subsidiary* of the group, Labor Safety and Health, and Health which promotes telework for the severely disabled. As of April 2015, Improvement Initiatives it provides work at home via telework to 63 challenged people, OKI established “Safety and Health Committees” in each region, including 43 teleworkers utilizing IT. The percentage of challenged with members from management and the labor union. These employees at the group in fiscal 2014 was 2.12 %, exceeding the strengthen the safety and health system, create a labor injuries and defined employment rate of 2.0%. accidents prevention plan, patrol workplaces, provide safety and * Special purpose subsidiary: Company established to provide special considerations health training, etc. The Central Safety and Health Committee shares for the employment of challenged people, as defined in the Act on Employment Promotion etc. of Persons with information on situations and initiatives in each region. OKI’s fiscal Disabilities. 2014 incidence rate of occupational accidents* was 0.11. Employment rates of challenged people Furthermore, the OKI Group promotes a fitness promotion % Employment rate of challenged people activity called “Kenko OKI21” for encouraging the mental and 2.2% physical health of the employees by providing health information 2.17% 2.12% 2.1% through the dedicated Intranet site and company news. In particular, 1.99% mental health is addressed by setting up the “The Mental Health 2.0% 1.94% Mandatory Working Group” an expert committee of the Central Committee of 1.9% employment rate (Fiscal 2013 onward) Safety and Health. This working group promotes the use of a support 1.83% 1.8% tool for self-care, while also boosting support for efforts made by Mandatory employment rate 1.7% specialists including * Incidence rate industrial of occupational doctors accidents: through Number a consultation of casualties counter. due to industrial 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 (Fiscal year) accidents, per million man-hours worked. 18 OKI Group CSR Report 2015 Together with the Stakeholders Social Contribution As a good corporate citizen, OKI will consider and take actions in order to realize the genuine enrichment of society, and will implement social contribution activities that earn the support of the public. We in the OKI Group take an organized stance to promote support of donating, community contributions and employee volunteer work. And, in order to be involved in a wider range of social contribution activities, we are interacting and collaborating with various nonprofit organizations, and enhancing such activities in Japan and overseas. On-going Reconstruction Support for Implementing Distance Workplace Great East Japan Earthquake DisasterTraining for Ten Consecutive Years Affected Areas OKI Workwel, a special purpose subsidiary of the OKI Group, is making good use of its experience in employing disabled people who The OKI Group is engaged in ongoing support activities to help work from home, to start on a trial basis for the first time ever in rebuild areas damaged by the Great East Japan Earthquake. As part Japan in 2004 the practice of distance workplace training for students of its voluntary support activities, the Group continues its activities in attending special support schools. Ten years on, and the training is Shichigahama Town, Miyagi Prefecture, started in fiscal 2011. In still going strong annually, with some 62 students from 26 schools addition, in fiscal 2013 the Group joined “Collective Action for nationwide having taken part (as of June 2015). Recovery from the Great East Japan Earthquake Disaster” organized In the training implemented in July 2014, a third-year student at by the Global Compact Japan Network, and transported employee the Shikamoto Gakuen School in Tokyo carried out computer work volunteers to Watari Town, Miyagi while keeping in touch with the Prefecture, so that they could lend instructor by phone and email. In this their support to the “Watari Green way, as long as students have an Belt Project,” which aims at the internet-linked computer available, they re-growth of the tide-prevention can participate in training at school or forest in the Watari area.In fiscal at home. Moreover, as the instructor is 2104, a total of 19 OKI Group a disabled person working from home employee volunteers participated for OKI Workwel, the students are Activities in Shichigahama Town in both support activities. (farmland improvement) A student participating in workplace further motivated to join in. training at home Support Activities in fiscal 2014 • Volunteer activities for reconstruction support by employees Donating through “The OKI 100 Yen (Shichigahama and Watari Towns, Miyagi) Fund of Love” • Organizing Tohoku product fairs at OKI Warabi Culture Festival (for We in the OKI Group have made various assistance efforts Fukushima and Miyagi Prefectures) through “The OKI 100 Yen Fund of Love”, used to support the actions • Participation in the “Christmas Project to Send Picture Books to of volunteer groups. The participants in the fund include executives Children in the Disaster Area” organized by the Japan Philanthropic and employees of the member companies of the OKI Group (30 Association companies as of April 2015) who agree with the purport the program. • Implemented the “Tohoku Revival Support Event: Eat to Support” in the staff canteen They are asked to donate 100 yen a month. In one of the support projects, run by “Action with Lao Children” (a specified NPO), the task is to improve the education Holding a Company Tour for environment in Laos. And, in Summer Holiday Monozukuri February 2015, with the support of In July 2014, our printer business specialists OKI Data and OKI the 100 Yen Fund, a school library Data Manufacturing and Engineering Service held a company tour for room was opened in the Ponsai summer holiday monozukuri (manufacturing), in which they invited 12 secondary school (2,020 students) Photo of the brand new school local children from schools in Fukushima, aged 7 to 14, and their in the Champasak province of Laos. library room parents, to visit the plant. The aim of the tour was to arouse interest in “monozukuri” among schoolchildren and it was implemented in collaboration with efforts by Fukushima city to promote direct contact “Action with Lao Children” (a specified NPO) VOICE Representative: with companies, skills and care involved in “monozukuri” in Ms.Chanthasone Inthavong Fukushima. In the tour, participants ate at the plant In Laos, up to now we have opened 270 canteen, took in printer school library rooms but, in fact, there are still many production processes in a tour secondary schools without library facilities and many teachers who have never used a library room. In and then tried their hands in a conjunction with the opening of the Ponsai secondary school library “monozukuri” taster, where room, staff from the national library held a seminar for the eight they tightened screws with teachers who will run the library room, teaching them how to manage power tools, changed the toner such a facility. From here on, we will continue to assist the school with in a printer and created their management of the library and provide books to stock the shelves. Participants tightening screws with electric own original calling cards. screwdrivers OKI Group CSR Report 2015 19 Together with the Stakeholders Consideration for the Environment The OKI Group has developed the “Environmental Vision 2020” in 2012 and set the goals for 2020 in four fields: “Realization of low-carbon societies,” “Prevention of pollution,” “Resource circulation,” and “Biodiversity preservation.” In order to achieve these goals, we will implement the PDCA cycle and continue to be engaged in the continuous improvement of environmental performance and the operational system. The OKI Group will proactively respond to the requests from customers and stakeholders while complying with each legal regulation concerning the environment. OKI Group Environmental Vision 2020 OKI Group Environmental Management System 1. Realization of low-carbon societies Maximize energy consumption efficiency in the business OKI Group Top In-house Executives Environmental operations, and reduce energy consumption by 8% per Audit nominal sales (corresponds to 12% reduction per real sales) Committee from fiscal 2012. Contribute to the realization of low-carbon Plan Act societies by continuously providing environmentally friendly Review by third-party examining bodies Group Environmental Review by Executives products and services. Policy 2. Prevention of pollution Group Environmental Check Activity Plan Reduce emission of chemical substances that can adversely affect the health of people and the environment into the Manager Responsible for atmosphere and water system by 8% per nominal sales Environmental Management (corresponds to 15.5% reduction per real sales) from fiscal 2012. 3. Resource circulation Increase the amount of recycling of used products by 25% Plan Check from fiscal 2012. Additionally, minimize the new input Action Plan Monitoring of plan implementation Measurement of compliance status resources through expansion of the recycling of waste materials, reduction of input material during production, and promotion of environmentally-friendly designs. Business Unit / Group Company Check 4. Biodiversity conservation Engage in conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity Do Environmental impact reduction activities through prevention of global warming, prevention of air and through products water pollution caused by chemical substances, expansion of Environmental impact reduction activities recycling processes and minimization of new input resources. through business activities OKI Group Environmental Activity Plan (Fiscal 2014): Targets and Achievements Applicable themes of Achievements in Fiscal 2014 Environmental Activities Targets for Fiscal 2016 Targets for Fiscal 2014 Visions, etc. Results Evaluation Improvement of energy consumption Business Activities Realization of Consumption*1: –4% or more Consumption: –2% or more Consumption: –13% or more low-carbon societies efficiency, planned facility renewals, (vs. FY2012) (vs. FY2012) (vs. FY2012) ○ and re-examination of operations, etc. Emission reduction of hazardous Consumption*2: –4% or more Consumption: –2% or more Consumption: –7% or more Prevention of pollution chemical substances into air and (vs. FY2012) (vs. FY2012) (vs. FY2012) ○ water system Development of 5 or more products Completed developing seven CO2 emission control through Register 5 products satisfying at least “OKI Realization of with lower power consumption by energy-saving products in which low-carbon societies innovation of low electricity50% or more (vs. conventional Eco Products Plus” level (i.e. power five newly-registered products (printers) ○ consuming products conservation effect of 25% or more) products) are included Secure compliance regulations referring to Achieved secure compliance with Products Secure compliance in accordance with the information concerning the revised regulations referring to the information Secure compliance with regulations Prevention of pollution on chemical substances in products the management initiative of new regulations concerning the revised regulations ○ chemical substance survey lists Management procedure document (revised RoHS Directive and Packaging Chemical substance management system Material Directive) Expansion of amount treated under Cross-jurisdictional Waste Treatment 2,400t (subject to the adjustment to the Resource circulation Manufacturer Scheme (promotion of Result of previous FY + 100 t 4,200t applications of expanding approval scopes × proper treatment and recycling) Realization of low-carbon Achieve fiscal 2014 goal: realization of Continuous promotion:realization of societies:Achieved Reduction of the impact on ecosystem low-carbon societies / prevention of Biodiversity conservation services low-carbon societies / prevention of pollution / resource circulation Prevention of pollution: Achieved △ pollution / resource circulation Resource circulation: Not yet achieved (See the document above) (See the details above) Implementation of compliance audit [Purpose] On-site verification of waste treatment No violations found (completed the Expand the audit scope in the Common • Verify the status of compliance with consignees / Implementation of measures follow-up for the purpose of improving regulations (e.g., energyrelated fields) regulations for revised Water Pollution (Prevention) Act management levels • Prevent environmental incidents Compliance audit and training Implementation of training based on Offered seven types of expertise training ○ Implementation of training based on including “Waste Management and Public Implementation of training the effectiveness evaluation (training in-house needs (training for each Cleansing Law” in accordance with high [Purpose] for each regulation, training for regulation, training for nurturing in-house attention Improve the effectiveness of nurturing environmental staff, and environmental staff, and training for Comprehension level (Waste Management environmental management activities training for chemical chemical substances in products, etc.) and Public Cleansing Law) substances in products, etc.) Goal: 90 points→Actual: 93 points *1 Energy consumption (converted in crude oil: kℓ) / consolidated sales (100million yen) *2 Chemical substance emissions (t) / consolidated sales (100million yen) 20 OKI Group CSR Report 2015 Together with the Stakeholders Consideration for the Environment Reducing Environmental Impact  latinum Prize Received in Project P Topics in Business Activities Promoting Proper Disposal of We in the OKI Group are pressing ahead with various energy Industrial Waste in Thailand saving activities in order to contribute to “Realization of low-carbon In August 2014, OKI Precision (Thailand) (OPNT) received the societies” at our all our business bases. Platinum Award, the highest in the project to promote proper Renewed Process Combines Lower Environmental Impact disposal of plant industrial waste and raw garbage inside its and Improved Quality Simultaneously industrial park in Thailand. The OKI Group’s printed circuit specialist OKI Circuit Technology Targeting companies located in three industrial parks in northern, eastern, and central Thailand, this project was established (OTC) renewed its “circuit pattern rendering process”, one of the core by the Ministry of Industry of Thailand with the aim of promoting processes in printed board manufacturing. With conventional appropriate disposal of industrial waste based on the “3R” concept rendering, board material undergoes masking to cover areas not to be (Reduce, Reuse & Recycle). Companies that support the sentiment of exposed, the circuit pattern exposed onto the board, and developed the project and thus participate had their data audited and facilities/ to create a circuit pattern. But, now OTC has introduced a “direct processes inspected by the secretariat of the project. rendering method” using a laser beam to directly render the circuit OPNT enthusiastically participated in the project, undergoing pattern onto the board. This method has greatly reduced the audits over four months, that led to high praise for unrelenting production processes. initiatives, such as reducing In turn, this enables the production of more detailed circuits as the use of rust prevention well as additionally enabling OTC to reduce annual power fluid, cleaning and reusing wastewater from the barrel consumption by 40MWh because three machines have been removed process, and recycling from production and the need for a chemical liquid that was required waste solder using recycling for masking has been eliminated. Thus, massive improvements have equipment, ultimately been made in energy saving and material saving. earning the company the Initiatives to Reduce Environmental Load for Logistics Platinum Prize. OPNT’s director Nishino receiving the award OKI Proserve, a company in charge of OKI’s logistics operations, has promoted a modal shift since a very early stage in order to reduce CO2 emissions during transportation, while creating a data base of transportation information to aggregate the data required by the Responses to Environmental Energy Saving Law. Thanks to the modal shift in fiscal 2014, the Pollution, etc. volume of CO2 emissions was cut beyond that of the previous fiscal [Pollution of Groundwater and Soil] year while, thanks to efforts like the reduction of long-distance The OKI Group installed observation wells at business locations, transporting, the volume of CO2 emissions in our overall transport and is monitoring groundwater. A survey was performed for a land activities was cut to 5,099 t-CO2, a 22% cut in comparison to the transaction in fiscal 2012, which found environmental pollution in the previous fiscal year volume. soil and groundwater of the OKI System Center in Warabi City, Energy Saving Efforts Promoted by Committee on Global Saitama Prefecture. This finding was reported to the government, and Warming Prevention Promotion appropriate measures are currently being taken to prevent the The OKI Group has engaged in a medium and long term energycontaminated soil and water from spreading into other areas and saving plan in order to achieve the goal of the “Realization of groundwater. low-carbon societies” set in the OKI Group Environmental Vision [Environmental Accidents, Claims, etc.] 2020. In order to implement this plan, we have set up “Committee There were no environment-related accidents nor serious large on Global Warming Prevention Promotion,” which is effectively claims made against the OKI Group in fiscal 2014. Whenever such an promoting the group-wide activities for lower power consumption. event occurs, we take action to alleviate the effects, and in accordance This committee has set the concepts of “compliance,” with rules for corrective and preventative actions, we find the causes “standardization,” and “case sharing” as its three pillars. Regarding and take action to prevent recurrence. We also perform the common application with the group, such as mutual verification of appropriate disclosures in accordance with the rules on external the compliance status of each company in order to secure compliance communication. as a group and the sharing of group-wide operations on energysaving activity management as well as monitoring procedures, we are implementing them as common standards throughout the entire Details of the OKI Group’s environmental activities are provided in group. Moreover, we also are developing effective measures and the “OKI Group Environmental Report” and on our website. The “OKI cases in accordance with the features of each business location such Group Environmental Report” certainly is worth reading as it features as plants and offices, leading to the enhanced effects of energydata on various issues, such as special report on examples of our initiatives in “Realization saving activities in each location. of low-carbon societies” that make the most OKI GROUP of our distinctive technologies, the various ENVIRONMENTAL REPORT initiatives we implement to reduce the 2 0 15 environmental impact in products and business activities, our work on material balance and environmental accounting. Website “Environmental Conservation”: http://www.oki.com/en/eco/ The Committee on Global Warming Prevention Promotion (May, 2015) OKI Group CSR Report 2015 21 <For inquiries> CSR Division 1-7-12 Toranomon, Minato-ku, Tokyo 105-8460, Japan http://www.oki.com/
