Global compact participant since 2011/02/04 Communication on progress, March 2015 Implementing UN global compact principles 1. Introduction I am pleased to confirm that the KOPUN & Kopun Ltd., Zagreb, reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. Ethical and environmental considerations are fully integrated into our business model. Treating colleagues and clients as well as environments in which we work with respect, was the core of the business philosophy of the founders of our company. In our second annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We are also committed to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Yours sincerely, Stanko Kopun Managing Director 1|Page 2. About KOPUN i Kopun d.o.o. Consulting company KOPUN & Kopun d.o.o., (Ltd) was established in the year 1990, when the beginnings of private initiative in Croatia. We are a completely private and completely independent company. The consulting activity covers the area of: o Accounting/payroll o Tax consulting o audit o investments, o head hunting, o company and labour law, as well as o introducing of organization, respectively restructuring. KOPUN & Kopun d.o.o. is the only Croatian member firm of Nexia International (leading worldwide network of independent accounting firms, providing clients with national and international audit, accounting, tax and advisory services in a cohesive, personal and customized manner), with its main office in London, including more 24.100 staff from 110 countries. Our associates are recognized professors from the appropriate faculties, engineers (one among them is a member of the International Academy of Productive Mechanical Engineering (CIRP) with its headquarters in Davos); economists; analysts etc. 3. Our approach In February 2011 KOPUN i Kopun d.o.o. signed up for the UN Global Compact program. At that point we could define three major stakeholders, which could guide the direction of our CSR policy – where we wanted to make a difference within the natural context of our business. These are: o People (employees); o Society (locally); o Society (globally). In this connection implementing our initiative has been made in two stages: o implementing initiatives to ensure that all employees understood UNs basic principles and to ensure the willingness to implement sustainable solution throughout the organization; 2|Page o Second stage would hereafter be directed at initiatives outside the Company, i.e. toward society – locally and globally. 4. Contents of CSR policy The first set of CSR initiatives, which made sense in the context of our organization, have been integrating, implementing and promoting socially responsible behavior throughout the organization and, through its policies and practices. Initiatives concerning human(labour rights), environment, fair operating practices, community involvement and development and anti corruption/money laundering have already been addressed. For 2014., we plan to include for the first time the CSR reporting into our annual statements 4.1 Employee/labour standards The company is commited to safety and health working environment. It has been scientifically proven that people who have a friendly and pleasant working environment live longer. Therefore our company made the effort to make Kopun & Kopun the most pleasant working environment possible through our HR department combining employees in teams that work great together. Also investments have been made in 2014. in ergonomic office furniture and IT which further enhanced the working comfort Our company commits to grant each employee the opportunity to gain the knowledge required for her/his work position either through company internal educational program of external channels. 4.2 Anti-corruption/money laundering and terrorism finance act Kopun&Kopun promotes zero tolerance approach to corruption. Anti-corruption policy is a vital component of our firm philosophy and will continue to educate and promote values and attitudes through our partners to resist it. The acts of corruption degrade the society and potentially ruin small enterprises and deprive people of their human rights to health education and security. The firm will continue to make assessments of every partner through act on money laundering and terrorism financing. 3|Page 4.3. The environment Then environmental impact of a smaller business association and our scope for reducing the carbon footprint is smaller in scale than in many other industries. Even so, we find that this is no excuse not to make an effort. We have therefore adopted a green policy in 2010., which is based on: o use of recycled resources of conducting business; o use of the technology that is highly energy efficient; o reducing the water footpring through using non-chemical cleaning products Our main goal remains implementation of „paperless office“ for us and our clients. Due to this goal, during 2013. our company invested in data management software as well as widescreen monitors for our accounting and payroll department in order to reduce printouts in our company as well as within our customers. In 2014. 18% of our customers changed to paperless accounting. Our employees meet annualy in order to find additional ways how to improve our environmental activities. As most of our business is based on accounting services, we see it that out biggest possibility in reducing CO2 emissions is through education of our clients about the use and implementation of „paperless office“ and engaging in activities on environment protection. 4|Page 4.4. The working environment and health of the employees KOPUN & Kopun Ltd. believes that all employees have the right to individual freedom of expression and opinion. This is upheld by regular meetings between management and employee on regular weekly office meetings. We have conducted a work place assessment, due to which we try to improve the satisfaction of our employees. Our goal is to have a high rate of employee satisfaction (with high employee retention rate) and low sickness absence. In having a good working environment, it is very important to have a good health. A bad working environment affects the health of the individual and vice versa – i.e. both have an impact on employee well-being and motivation. Some of the initiatives we have implemented thus aim at promoting and protecting our employee’s physical well-being. The employee rights therefore include home working, ensuring ergonomic work place, ensuring needed working clothing, and annual social activities. We believe that constant dialogue with employees is the best way of securing a good working environmental and preventing stress. Due to this, management is responsible of regularly monitoring employee’s well-being. 5|Page 5. Future initiatives For 2015. we plan to focus further on area of human rights and environment. We are planning to: o actively work on reducing emissions and water and air footpring; o actively work on increasing employees health and wellbeing; o actively inspire our clients to implement CSR initiatives. o implement CSR reporting into financial statements o further educate and strengthen individuals and partners in ethical decision-making Contact Info Kopun i Kopun A: Trg zrtava fasizma 14, 10000 Zagreb, Croatia T: +385/1/4610294 F: +385/1/4610295 E: info@kopun.hr W: www.kopun.hr 6|Page
