The Extra Mile Beyond Logisitics Sustainability Report 2014 ABOUT THIS REPORT We are proud to present our The concept of sustainability has annual Sustainability Report, with time become more familiar outlining our performance for the to our employees across locations calendar year 2014 (January to within the group. In line with the December). GRI G4 Guidelines, we conducted a materiality analysis in order to What’s new? The theme of this report, ‘The Extra • Transitioning from GRI 3.1 identify the most relevant aspects Mile Beyond Logistics’, describes to GRI G4 Guidelines considered critical to Tristar our ambitious sustainability vision by both internal and external • Widening the report and represents our efforts to help stakeholders (please refer to scope and reporting at a integrate sustainability across all page 13 for more information). group level our operations and locations. This report outlines the details • Proactively collecting The Global Reporting Initiative regarding these aspects, as well and integrating external (GRI) G4 Guidelines help us as our management practices. stakeholder feedback identify the key material topics, We have expressed our structure the content of this report commitment to upholding the 10 and provide the narrative for our basic universal principles of the Feedback and suggestions: performance overview. This report United Nations Global Compact is written ‘in accordance’ with We welcome feedback from all (UNGC). Our adherence to the Core option of the GRI G4 our stakeholders. Please contact: the UNGC is part of our firm’s Guidelines. Arthur Los Banos, Corporate commitment to sustainable Our 2014 Sustainability Report Communications Manager on development. The report covers our operations worldwide, arthur@tristar-transport.com addresses our performance broadening the report scope against the principles and serves from the previous years, hence as our annual Communication On providing a wider picture of Progress (COP). Tristar’s operations. The report fully The GRI G4 Content Index and covers UAE, Oman, Kuwait, Qatar, the reference to the UNGC Pakistan and Guam, while Haiti Principles can be found at the and South Sudan are partially end of this report. covered. [G4-18] EY supported Tristar in the development of this report through facilitation of qualitative and quantitative data collection and assistance in the process of defining materiality. EY appreciate Tristar’s leadership commitment towards integrating sustainability into its business strategy and day to day operations. EY wishes Tristar success on their journey for sustainable development in the years to come. 2 | The Extra Mile – Beyond Logistics CONTENTS 02 About this Report 04 GCEO and CSO Statements 06 08 About Us Our Progress 12 Integrating Sustainability 16 Safety Feature 26 30 Measuring our Performance Making a Difference for the Better 36 40 Our Environmental GRI G4 Content Index Approach The Extra Mile – Beyond Logistics | 3 GCEO statement Eugene Mayne Group CEO in the UAE community that starts ØØ What does the title mean: The ØØ How do you think Tristar’s with school children and extends Extra Mile – Beyond Logistics? operations impact the economic to heavy duty drivers who are key and social development in Africa First and foremost we are a stakeholders in driving road safety. and in the rest of the world? responsible company that happens ØØ What are your key goals for 2015? to be in the logistics business. Tristar has a robust responsible Towards this end we are committed business culture in which we actively We will continue our responsible to conducting ourselves and engage with our community business journey by implementing managing our day to day business and sustainable development best practices and benchmarking activities in a socially responsible initiatives. Our areas of work include against best in class companies manner. This means No accidents, education, medical support and across the globe. Key among our No harm to people and No damage water projects for the benefit of initiatives will be to more effectively to the environment. While our local communities in South Sudan monitor and reduce our carbon business efforts are focused on and the Democratic Republic of footprint, conduct road safety growing shareholder value we Congo. In Africa alone we believe awareness training for over 4,000 always keep one eye on the impact that we have positively impacted heavy duty drivers in Kingdom of of our business on the communities the lives of more than 5,000 people Saudi Arabia, implement a social in which we operate and we cannot by providing jobs and stimulating business project in South Sudan do this if we are not prepared to go economic activity in remote areas that would encourage social the extra mile to achieve our nonby building and operating fuel entrepreneurship and, of course, to financial goals. services that enable movement of continue our focus to ensure that our goods and services by road, river safety leadership is visible in each ØØ What inspired Tristar’s and air. and every one of our employees. commitment to sustainable development? ØØ How is Tristar contributing to the Dubai Police Vision 2020? Giving back is in our DNA. Be it a social, environmental or economic The Dubai Police has set a goal to issue we believe, as a successful achieve a zero death rate, due to private business, that we have a role road accidents, by 2020. Our road to play in what happens around safety project “Let’s go home safely” us. The impact of our operations launched in June 2014, is aligned if not handled responsibly could with this and complements the have disastrous consequences. United Nations Global Compact Therefore, what started off a safety (UNGC) Principles 1, 7 and 8. We in operations soon graduated into have partnered with the Roads more complex issues of measuring and Transport Authority (RTA) of and managing the environmental Dubai and the Royal Society for the and economic impact of our Prevention of Accidents (RoSPA) business within our ecosystem. based in the UK to spread awareness 4 | The Extra Mile – Beyond Logistics CSO statement Muhammad Akber CSO ØØ How has Tristar performed in ØØ Can you share Tristar’s long term ØØ What is in store for Tristar now? 2014? commitments/goals/plans/targets? We’ll continue to measure and It has been another successful year Safety remains non-negotiable in reduce our environmental footprint of continual improvement in our our business and we would continue but we believe that footprint triple bottom line. We continued our unwavering commitment to reduction alone is not enough. In to strengthen our sustainability eliminate not just major but even line with our sustainability theme leadership and enhance the value minor accidents and incidents of going the extra milewe shall we deliver to our staff, shareholders, from our operations in line with our work on understanding, measuring suppliers, customers and community vision of Goal Zero. As a logistics and expanding our handprint, i.e. at large. Our commitment to company we are conscious of our net-positive impact of our business sustainability starts with the GCEO footprints and would enhance our and services. Based on the success and runs throughout the group GHG emissions monitoring and story of our “Let’s go home safely” network. The year has also witnessed offsetting methodology. We are also campaign for heavy duty truck greater level of involvement from our exploring the possibility of setting up drivers, we shall extend this to senior employees than previous years in our a tire recycling plant and adopting high school students in UAE to sustainability initiatives. eco-energy solutions like CNG develop safety mindset before they fuel and hybrid vehicles in the UAE apply for their driving license. We ØØ What do you consider being the while solar energy and bio fuel in would work with our local partners main achievements in 2014? our Guam operations. We want our and authorities to extend the road We were able to complete the full people and services make the world safety campaign in Oman and Saudi year without any fatality, major injury a better place and shall support Arabia. We shall establish networks and environmental damage. On the and recognize our environmental with customers, suppliers, authorities, compliance front, we introduced the improvement teams to create new NGOs and like-minded organizations whistle blowing policy and recorded opportunities for sustainability. to collaborate more and go the zero cases of fraudulent or unlawful extra mile on sustainability goals of ØØ What does sustainability mean conduct. common interest. to you? We also won many prestigious I think this subject is still evolving awards for our road safety and and has different meanings for community outreach projects many people. For me sustainability including the Prince Michael is a constant learning curve and International Road Safety Award in journey of continual improvement. It UK, the RoSPA Occupational Health is an ongoing process that requires and Safety Gold Award in UK, the balancing the benefits and demerits Dubai Chamber CSR Label, the of the economic, environmental Arabia CSR Award for Partnership and social consequences of our Project, the Supply Chain and decisions. It means creating an Transport Award (SCATA) under economic system that improves CSR category, and Dubai Quality our quality of life and well-being Appreciation Award for business while simultaneously preserving the excellence. Moreover, we were environment and its resources for certified for ISO 39001-2012 standard future generations. (Road Traffic Safety Management System). The Extra Mile – Beyond Logistics | 5 OUR PROGRESS 2014 Key Achievements Continued our community Received Prince Michael Collected external stakeholder outreach programs such as blood International Road Safety Award feedback on the 2013 donation, clean up campaign in the United Kingdom for our sustainability report and their and public health contribution to road safety in the expectations for the next edition United Arab Emirates Supported the cause of habitat Achieved ISO39001:2012 Reduced energy consumption conservation of endangered certification for UAE operations at Dubai head office species in Guam What’s Next? Engage the local community in South Sudan to initiate Enhance engagement a social enterprise with with stakeholders with long-term sustainable and interactive sessions on safety measurable goals and sustainability Launch ethics compliance online course Develop capabilities to With our entry in KSA market, monitor and consequently work with local authorities control our GHG emissions to improve road safety from each delivery trip that conditions in the Kingdom we make 6 | The Extra Mile – Beyond Logistics Launched a road safety project in collaboration with the Roads and Introduced whistle blowing policy Transport Authority (RTA) of Dubai and hotline service for all our Enhanced fuel monitoring through and the Royal Society for the employees Enterprise Resource Management Prevention of Accidents (RoSPA) (ERM) implementation based in the UK Commissioned waste water Served as Task Group Head of Received Dubai Chamber treatment plant in UAE operations Road Safety sub-group at Dubai CSR Label to reduce our environmental Chamber Sustainability Network footprint Enhance our GHG monitoring Explore renewable and and offsetting clean energy options like methodology and expand CNG fuel, hybrid vehicles, this to our international solar energy and bio fuel network Develop local talent through training and work experience Continue collaboration with local authorities and RoSPA Explore recycling on road safety and expand opportunities in our our awareness project to operations such as used tires high schools The Extra Mile – Beyond Logistics | 7 ABOUT US Beyond logistics Vision It is our mandate to drive our business with values To be a globally recognized liquid rooted in sustainability by ensuring our community logistics company offering superior contributions make a difference in the long-term. We are great believers in sharing knowledge services without compromising our core and empowering our peers to live and practice values and commitment to manage our sustainability in their everyday dealings. business to the highest health, safety and environmental standards. Tristar was established in 1998 and had played an integral part in defining the standards for road transportation in the GCC. Every year, Mission we have implemented best practices learned from our peers worldwide and have supported To develop and retain a qualified government initiatives promoting safety on the road. workforce to offer pre-eminent customer service, grow shareholder value and We are a fully integrated liquid logistics company, respect the communities in which we operating in more than 14 countries (Middle East, conduct our business. Africa, Asia-Pacific and Central America), and have an extensive team of 1,656 employees with Values headquarters in the UAE. We mainly cater to leading petroleum and chemical organizations locally and internationally. Our passion for • Honesty, integrity and fairness in all excellence and safety has allowed us to grow in aspects of our business the region and internationally, too. • Winning and developing customer Our trusted, long-term partnerships with our loyalty by offering prompt, reliable and stakeholders have been fostered and are the key pre-eminent service driver to our success. As a subsidiary of Agility, our • Respecting the rights of our employees, parent company, Tristar complies with the highest providing good and safe working standards of transparency and governance conditions and treating all employees established by Agility in its Code of Ethics and Conduct Policy. As an affiliate of the UNGC since fairly 2011, we advocate the 10 principles in our sphere • Conducting our business in a socially of influence. responsible manner and supporting health, safety and environmental issues, In our third year running of reporting, we have expanded our scope of work by including some consistent with local regulations and as of our international offices. The UAE leads the a good corporate citizen group in road transportation, warehousing and • Developing good business relationship shipping, whereas Guam’s specialty is managing with our suppliers and in so doing, and operating the fuel farm there. Kenya and Pakistan, both established in 2009, are also road seeking to develop and promote our transporters; however Kenya offers warehousing principles in order to maintain longservices as well. Kuwait and Qatar were term relationships with our suppliers established in 2004 and 2005, respectively, • Protecting the investments of our to be road transporters. Qatar also offers shareholders and working towards warehousing and distribution services to their local and international clients. Kuwait’s fleet providing them acceptable returns of over 100 tankers caters to a large contract • Discouraging any untoward payments to distribute fuel across the country. Tristar Oman, while conducting our business founded in 2002, has been a leader in road 8 | The Extra Mile – Beyond Logistics transportation and shipping locally, to hire local employees, as well as Financial Highlights by transporting bulk and packed engage with local communities USD in millions petrochemical products, lubricants, where we operate and conduct Direct economic value generated – crude oil and jet fuels. Finally, business. GCC Operations (revenues) South Sudan and Haiti have made Tristar received the Dubai Quality major strides in contributing to the Appreciation Award (DQA) in 32.9 49.65 69.54 community while providing turnkey 2014 and this reflects our strong fuel supply services to our clients. commitment to service quality. The DQA is a process for recognizing Delivering excellence role model organizations that Payments to governments We operate in a few conflict-heavy excel in the area of leadership, countries to support organizations strategy, planning, human resources, 2.9 1.63 4.53 working to keep the peace. It is our partnership and execution. The job to find solutions to bring fuel to constructive feedback that we people living in difficult-to-reach received from the DQA office is Employee wages and benefits geographical areas. We uphold the helping us to strive for continual highest safety and quality standard improvement in our journey of 9.4 7.13 8.77 for all our stakeholders, contractors excellence. and suppliers by providing an Further feedback was collected outstanding service. We share during our annual customer examples of best practices, transfer Community investments satisfaction survey in 2014, with more knowledge and provide training to than 15 participants. Overall, the our staff, contractors and suppliers. customers agreed that Tristar has a 0.2 0.10 0.11 Over the course of time, our suppliers great reputation and brand image have grown with us. In 2014, a total with high loyalty rates. 45% of our procurement was spent Operating costs on local suppliers. We always strive 15.9 30.40 42.77 Economic value retained 2013 (GCC) 2014 (GCC) 4.5 10.39 13.36 2014 (GCC, Pakistan, Guam) Warehousing, Transportation, Shipping Fuel Supply Shipping HAITI Warehousing, UAE GUAM Transportation QATAR|SAUDI ARABIA KUWAIT|OMAN| PAKISTAN Transportation SOUTH SUDAN| DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF CONGO MAURITIUS Fuel farm service UGANDA|KENYA The Extra Mile – Beyond Logistics | 9 DELIVERING ETHICALLY At Tristar, we give great importance acts of unethical behavior if any, our employees with an outlet to to our Code of Conduct. It defines and ensure that this is applied voice anything unethical they have our commitment to honesty, across all of our operations. Fraud, witnessed or heard of. We actively transparency, equal opportunity corruption and misconduct have practice the 10 UNGC principles and diversity. We use our Code of zero tolerance. The whistle blowing by being a responsible and ethical Conduct to identify and prevent service initiated in 2014 provides business. UNGC Principles Tristar policies and procedures Principle 1: Businesses should support and • Ethics policy respect the protection of internationally Human proclaimed human rights • Equal opportunity policy Rights • Tristar sex exploitation policy Principle 2: Make sure that they are not • Health and Safety policy complicit in human rights abuses Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the • Code of conduct freedom of association and the effective • Recruitment policy recognition of the right to collective bargaining • Equal opportunity policy Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced • Health and Safety policy Labor and compulsory labor • Ethics policy Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labor • Security policy Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in • Stop Work authority respect of employment and occupation • OHSAS 18001 Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges • Environmental policy • Health and Safety policy Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote Environment greater environmental responsibility • Quality policy • ISO 14001 Principle 9: Encourage the development • ISO 39001 and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Principle 10: Businesses should work against • Conflict of interest policy Anti• Anti-corruption policy corruption in all its forms, including extortion corruption and bribery • Whistle blowing policy All staff are expected to complete entertainment, improper payments, are always reviewed and signed the Ethics Online compliance conflicts of interest, respectful off by our Group CEO (GCEO) course which will be launched at workplace, accurate records, and to ensure transparency and the 2015 Leadership Summit. This fraud and abuse. that all departments are readily course will cover the importance available for immediate audits and We have enacted various policies of an ethical culture, how to inspections. During the reporting to ensure our company culture make complaints, safeguarding period we recorded zero incidences prohibits bribery in any form. confidential information and of conflicts of interest, or bribery. Contracts over a certain value intellectual property, gifts and 10 | The Extra Mile – Beyond Logistics OUR GOVERNANCE As a group, we demonstrate good Our Strategy Committee and performance, whereby decisions corporate governance, with the aim Profitability Committee are tasked can be taken and acted upon to lead by example in our business with monitoring and managing of immediately. community. Tristar’s corporate objectives and • Executive Management progress against its targets. In 2014, Committee: The GCEO chairs The GCEO drives the general we established the following new the Executive Management management and controls the committees: Committee every month, which business affairs of the company. As a Board Member he shares the • Business Performance aims to foster alignment among executive role with four others, all Committee: The monthly different businesses and support male and senior executives of Agility, performance review meeting functions. It also serves as a forum where they meet periodically to (MPRM) takes place among our to review the most pressing issues discuss strategy, inspect budgets business leaders and the Finance of the organization. and financial reports, and conduct and Strategy Delivery Office annual audits. (FSDO) analyzes the strategic Group CEO Country Operations Global Operations Corporate Functions 1 2 3 4 5 GM DR Congo GM South Sudan GM Chemicals Financial & GM RT&W for Strategy COO of Fuels Business GM Shipping Chief GM Pakistan Administrative GM Haiti GM Guam GM AFAL Development GM KSA Sustainability Support GCC Office Delivery Office Officer Functions 1 Oversee all Fuel Operations: UN Road Transport Shipping Operations and Warehousing Turnkey, Aviation & Fuel Farms. Strategy & Implementation, Management of operational • Oversee Local • Strategy & Profit & Loss, Management efficiency, quality and Operations Implementation of Ocean & Coastal with COO improvement • Profit & Loss Shipping Operations • Country Profit & • Business 2 Global Business Development Loss Development (except Shipping and Tender • Local Business • Manage All Country Development Preparation) Operations with Chemicals • Manage Country Heads 3 Corporate Strategy, Performance All Country Strategy & Implementation, Operations Profit & Loss, Business Management, Strategic Development, Alignment & Management Report Management of all Chemicals Operations 4 Health, Safety & Environment Fuel Farm Policies & Compliance, corporate • Country Profit & Social Responsibility Strategy & Loss, Local Business Lubricants Implementation, and Internal/ Development, External Communication Manage Strategy & Implementation, All Country Profit & Loss, Business 5 Financial Relationship Operations Development, Management, Finance & Management of Lubricants Administration, Human Resources, Operations IT, Procurement and Legal The Extra Mile – Beyond Logistics | 11 INTEGRATING SUSTAINABILITY Although our Corporate Social planning, we strongly believe and review performance targets Responsibility Steering Committee everyone has a role to play. and redefine our sustainability (CSRSC) assumes the responsibility The committee meets monthly to action plans where required. for our sustainability activities and revisit our sustainability priorities, set Each committee member has clearly defined responsibilities as highlighted in the graph below. Team Leaders of four Environmental Group CEO, Sponsor Improvement Teams Committee members • Approves sustainability-related policies, suggests initiatives, sets • Leads respective teams in targets, monitors performance planning and implementing and provides resources initiatives and reports progress Group HSE Manager GM HSEQ and Sustainability Committee member Chairman of the Committee • Provides technical advice on • Chairs meetings, evaluates safety and environmental efforts progress against plans, provides to benchmark against global direction and has decision standards making authority • Ensures compliance with applicable regulatory requirements, workplace safety, environmental goals, energy conservation, waste management, water use Group HR Manager, reduction and other innovations Comittee member Corporate Communications Manager • Ensures that CSR program is Vice Chairman of the Committee communicated effectively to employees and supports in • Oversees the implementation developing a CSR culture of all projects in the UAE and • Champions human rights and coordinates with the various labor standards implementation operations on their initiatives across the group To help drive sustainability best through innovative solutions. Our the Dubai Chamber and Tristar has practice, our environmental sustainability approach, embedded been awarded the CSR Label, which improvement teams help to spread in our values, is reflected through the provides a diagnostic framework awareness, to monitor usage and leadership, extends throughout the that helps companies to assess their behavior, and to encourage open company, and is duly championed current CSR contribution. It is also dialogue on matters pertaining to by our colleagues on a daily basis. a learning and development tool sustainability. With respect to our that helps companies to define and Our commitment towards integrating sustainability activities, we aim to improve their CSR strategy, policies sustainability into our corporate make a difference by responding and management practices. strategy has been recognized by to social development needs 12 | The Extra Mile – Beyond Logistics Our sustainability priorities As part of our sustainability approach we have identified several priorities that we are looking to focus on: Increasing employee participation Exploring renewable and clean Supporting social business in CSR activities such as blood energy options like CNG fuel enterprises in Africa to solve social donation, Adopt-a-Camp, waste and hybrid vehicles in UAE problems of local community reduction, recycling, energy and solar energy and bio fuel through a financially sustainable conservation, etc. in Guam operation business model Improving road safety conditions Enhancing engagement with Developing local talent through by collaborating with local stakeholders on sustainability training and work experience authorities matters of common interest Supporting basic education Improving our GHG emissions within local communities in our monitoring and offsetting African operations methodology Focusing on what matters During the materiality workshop, our internal and external stakeholders also responded to surveys that helped us to prioritize our stakeholders and select the key material aspects. Further to that, the additional inputs helped us identify our materiality as we defined our strategic priorities. Materiality Workshop G4-18, G4-26 Tristar is dedicated to honest We identify the most important in an open discussion aimed at and transparent business aspects for our business to understanding their expectations operations and highly values stakeholders on an annual basis to and interests pertaining to Tristar. ‘continuous dialogue’ ensure our sustainability approach This initiative has helped us to better with stakeholders such as and reporting are focused on what is structure our reporting process, Al Ghurair Investment who important. and also increased awareness of pioneered Corporate Social sustainability topics across our value Responsibility (CSR) in the This reporting year we have taken a chain. We consider this a great Gulf and share Tristar’s step forward and invited our external achievement that we would like to commitment to the highest stakeholders to provide feedback further develop in the years to come, standards of corporate on the 2013 sustainability report and as sharing knowledge is one of the key governance. materiality assessment. In order to cornerstones of our sustainability efforts. collect the feedback, we hosted a Sameera Fernandes, Head workshop where some of our suppliers, of Corporate Affairs & contractors and clients participated Communications, Al Ghurair Dubai The Extra Mile – Beyond Logistics | 13 G4-24, G4-25, G4-26, G4-27 We acknowledge the wide range of stakeholders across our value chain who are influenced directly or indirectly by our services and operations, and have therefore discussed our engagement with these groups across the report. , Tristar , dialog ue i dr Os NG ve po sit ive ch an ge in Name of stakeholder How we engage Why we engage Impact areas 14 | The Extra Mile – Beyond Logistics G4-19, G4-20, G4-21 We have identified and prioritized our material impact areas as follows: Material aspects Material aspects Material aspects (GRI aspects) (GRI aspects) (GRI aspects) Economic Occupational health Products and performance and safety services Material within Tristar** Material within Tristar** Material within Tristar** All Operations All Operations All Operations Material outside Tristar Material outside Tristar Material outside Tristar Communities, customers, Suppliers, shareholders, Customers, shareholders shareholders, media customers, legal authorities Material aspects Material aspects Material aspects (GRI aspects) (GRI aspects) (GRI aspects) Compliance Training and (Environmental) Transport education Material within Tristar** Material within Tristar** Material within Tristar** All Operations All Operations All Operations Material outside Tristar Material outside Tristar Material outside Tristar Legal authorities, Customers, suppliers, Suppliers, communities media, NGOs communities Material aspects Material aspects Material aspects (GRI aspects) (GRI aspects) (GRI aspects) Market Local presence communities Energy Material within Tristar** Material within Tristar** Material within Tristar** All Operations All Operations All Operations Material outside Tristar Material outside Tristar Material outside Tristar Shareholders, communities, Communities, NGOs Suppliers competitors Material aspects (GRI aspects) Emissions Material within Tristar** All Operations Material outside Tristar Suppliers, shareholders, media ** All operations refer to the scope of work defined for the 2014 Sustainability Report. The Extra Mile – Beyond Logistics | 15 SPECIAL FEATURE Safety First, Last & Always Fuel leakage | Risk of fire15 | Personal Our Response Road accidents | Product leaks or spills | Our Response Vehicles carrying petroleum and chemical products share We follow a robust highways and roads with the general public, which presents program to avoid a great risk. Automotive accidents increase the risk of spills fuel leakages, for Fuel Farm Management and explosions putting life and property in danger. inspection and Vehicle breakdowns | Driver fitness maintenance of Tristar has rigorous policies and a comprehensive road risks | Infrastructural design risks16 our storage tanks, safety management system in place to ensure safety of Road Transportation pipelines and fittings. its transport operation. Our stringent recruitment process Liquid fuel is highly ensures that we hire experienced and competent drivers flammable and when and alertness who are then given exhaustive safety induction trainings not handled safely has before driving. The regular trainings and open dialogue the potential to cause have increased awareness and extend the safety culture damage. All design within the organization. and construction Our Service Lines Our workshop operates with the purpose of ensuring that Key Safety Risks follow applicable our vehicles meet not only local regulatory and customer engineering standards Our Service Lines Key Safety Risks requirements but also many best practices worldwide. Our to prevent leakages vehicles must be fit-for-purpose based on assessment of or accidents. All fuel usage and working condition, maintenance, manufacturer farms are equipped specifications and local regulatory requirements. with necessary firefighting equipment. We maintain a strict policy for our drivers, on minimum and maximum working hours, all monitored through the vehicle GPS tracking system. Collisions6 | Oil spills7 | Risk of severe Our Response A ship-to-ship collision would result in severe structural damage and would cause the spillage of petroleum products, our main transported goods, with the risk of Ship Owning and Chartering direct and indirect negative impact on the environment. weather8 | Cargo handling and stowage9 Severe weather, equipment failure and human error are big risks, too. Tristar believes in upholding the highest safety standard by ensuring all parties are prepared to handle an oil spill | Human error10 | Hazardous materials11 emergency. Tristar organizes every year full scale Tier 2 oil spill exercise where all stakeholders, Oil Spill Response contractor, Port Authorities, Owners and Managers take part. This enables all parties to be familiar on how to work together to handle a major incident. We benefit from our partnership with 5 Oil Majors Our Service Lines Key Safety Risks by co-learning from incidents experienced by all. Our Shipping Safety Day invites the crew from all of our vessels, charterers, Port Authorities, Managers and Owners to share best practice and to reiterate existing knowledge. Tristar invests in a continuous training program for all officers, to ensure that we deliver the highest form of excellence, and have correct and relevant qualifications. 16 | The Extra Mile – Beyond Logistics Health hazards12 | Risk of fire | Our Response Our Response The slips and trips in the warehouse when Aviation fuel is highly inflammable and Commercial Aviation Services moving materials to different places is a can cause a fire or explosion if not large risk. Any product spillage on the floor properly handled or stored. Refueling an can cause physical or health hazards. Tristar aircraft requires extra safety measures to Material handling1 | Warehouse equipment accidents2 | Storage of hazardous materials 3 | warehouses are certified by competent avoid consequential damage to human Runway safety13| Fuel handling risks14 authorities to applicable health and safety lives, property and the environment. Our standards for the storage of dangerous staff are extensively trained by certified materials. The warehouses have safe instructors to carry out their job safely. highlighted walkways with signage to avoid We use protective equipment like ear accidents. It is also mandatory to use Personal muffs and respiratory masks to avoid Protective Equipment (PPE) and to keep our health hazards. space organized and clean. Appropriate Each category and grade of fuel safety signage like safety instructions are Our Service Lines requires its own unique procedure Key Safety Risks displayed throughout the warehouse. for receipt, storage and distribution. Inventory management is done through our Intermingling of fuels can result in a warehouse management system for speed highly dangerous situation for fueling and accuracy. In 2014, we synergized our the aircraft. To counter this Tristar has efforts to co-load the cargo from various very stringent procedure and checks to accounts. The goal was to achieve: ensure the right quality of fuel is going Personal risks 4 | Housekeeping hazards 5 • Fuel savings and reduced carbon footprint into an aircraft. • Better tire mileage leading to longer tire change interval and reduction of maintenance cost of vehicles Fuel storage17 | Vehicle movement18 • Better utilization of vehicle capacity Our Response Turnkey Fuel Supply Operations Further to that, we conduct regular HSE Petrol can pose multiple risks, such sessions with the ground staff to encourage as fires or explosions, environmental knowledge sharing. Our warehouses are damage and negative health | Hazardous Substances19 | Manual eco-friendly; we take advantage of the effect. We take measures such as natural sunlight and wind energy for lighting bonding, no smoking, intrinsically and ventilation. The warehouses have been safe equipment and staff training fitted with a proper pantry, with the required to tackle these risks. It is also true Handling 20 | Slips, trips and falls21 equipment to store and heat food with cool that like our other service lines, Warehousing drinking water and a rest area to relax during any collision can be detrimental breaks. to structures, people and other For service efficiency, we implemented: vehicles, which could lead to exposure to hazardous substances • Staggered Shifts to achieve a higher through accidental spillage or Our Service Lines Key Safety Risks number of deliveries and early departures leaks causing respiratory problems, Our Service Lines Key Safety Risks • An excel based system to track product dermatitis or chemical burns. We weight, vehicle load and capacity have detailed risk assessment, calculation to shorten the time taken to safety audits and safety plan a vehicle load and delivery walkabouts in place through which • An excel based system to achieve we mitigate such risks. multiple tasks in one go to avoid repetition (Report generations, repeated and selected print jobs) The Extra Mile – Beyond Logistics | 17 Road Safety We recognize that the nature of our Country Case Study : Improving Road Safety in Pakistan business requires a detailed focus on strict measures to ensure the safety of our employees, contractors and general public, who can be exposed to the risk of accidents and hazardous material daily. Tristar is committed to the highest Improving Road Safety in Pakistan standard of health and safety as demonstrated by achieving the In Pakistan, our road safety principles and initiatives take priority. global certification of ISO 39001:2012 We initiated a summer and a Ramadan safety campaign. Prior in recognition of our Road Traffic to the holy month of Ramadan, Tristar drivers were advised to be Safety Management System. This ‘safe in the sun’, by drinking water or juice frequently. We also standard outlines a framework to extended this advice to even non-Tristar drivers in a safety briefing, help organizations reduce and discussing fatigue management, Ramadan safety guidelines, eliminate the risk of death and vehicle inspection and mandatory daily rest. This was attended by serious injuries related to road traffic customer representatives and the National Highway and Motorway accidents. Police officials. Tristar has an Integrated Our Mega Emergency Response Drill was attended by many clients Management System that also covers ISO14001, ISO9001 and and partners. We discussed the importance of the drill, our HSSE OHSAS18001. We are also attested Initiatives and the correct protocol for an emergency response. for Safety and Quality Assessment System (SQAS) by the European Safety Day Chemical Industry Country (CEFIC). (Goal Zero, In order to identify and manage No Harm, No Leaks) health and safety risks, data driven management systems can reduce Earth the risk of accidents and improve Hour Staff Emergency safety performance. By having Response & access to and by tracking our data, Staff & Driver Training Fire Safety we are able to introduce or amend Training measures to help improve the system and fine-tune our activities. Our vigorous approach to safety We worked with the National Highway, Motorway Police and the is determined by the results of our Fleet Operators Association of Pakistan for the establishment of performance and management first Road Safety Institute and Driving School in Sindh province by systems in place. We continue to use contributing US$ 5,000. The unveiling ceremony was held in Karachi in our HSE online portal to track near the summer of 2014. Once it is fully operational, it will be mandatory miss, incidents or safety violations. for all private and government entities to ensure that their drivers are We can extract a trend analysis to registered with it. A driver’s licensing authority will also be established foresee any improvements needed at the institute for the purpose of issuing driving licenses to the people and in turn, maintain a record of of Sindh. Drivers will undergo both theoretical and practical exams corrective and preventive measures and only deserving candidates would get licenses. taken. Our safety committee, represented by all departments, also continues to champion occupational health and safety with the leadership of our GCEO in the UAE and the heads of other countries. 18 | The Extra Mile – Beyond Logistics We in the RTA believe in the “My message for this safety day importance of strategic is that we all need to avoid 3C’s partnerships with the private (Carelessness, Compromise and other government and Complacency). We must sectors in Dubai, and in identify unsafe behaviours particular to share the in our operations and take importance of awareness responsibility to initiate actions targeting sections of the that mitigate risks.” community to raise their The training from Tristar Eugene Mayne, Group CEO helped in identifying and level of awareness regarding traffic in the Emirate of addressing traffic safety issues Safety Day also included a field especially in the context of Dubai. During the past years safety exercise with a risk assessment. UAE. It was imparted by well we did not stop supporting Our employees participated in a qualified and highly skilled outreach efforts undertaken walk around their facility, warehouse instructors and was mainly by private companies in and workshop; an inspection concentrated around HeavyDubai, including the latest of vehicles, vessels and fire duty Defensive Driving. It was by Tristar that deserve our extinguishers; and awareness session more of a refresher course thank you in disseminating about facility risk. Safety Day’s spirit is which reinforced do’s and the safety culture to the maintained throughout the year and don’ts’ of driving and the public especially drivers of is a great opportunity for the entire drivers now drive more safely. heavy trucks. We believe team to come together. In addition Frequent training of this type that the existing partnership to that, safety discussions are certainly helps drivers in projects with large transport embedded in our daily activities. At remembering the rules at the companies should continue our daily Tool Box meeting, we share time of crises while driving. and we will support all achievements and shortfalls related campaigns aimed at raising Above all, the Program to individual assignments at work. traffic awareness for drivers. offered a dynamic creative This includes all internal and external Engineer Hussain Al Banna, assignments, safety concerns, risks mentorship and guidance to Director of Traffic Department at and potential danger, best work our drivers, and opportunities the Traffic and Roads Agency practices and more. Our teams for repeat trainings through are highly enthusiastic about this leading traffic safety experts We have empowered every staff initiative and look forward to sharing like RoSPA, RTA and Tristar. with Stop Work authority signed by and learning from each other. Dr. Sangeeta Sharma the GCEO which authorizes them to In order to reduce the exposure Manager CSR, Apparel FZCO say No and Stop any unsafe work. In 2014, we conducted a wide range to carcinogenic substances that of safety awareness campaigns. cause health risks from the asbestos, We demonstrate our appreciation to Safety Day was declared on a fiber typically used on break liners, our employees by issuing certificates March 22 (Shipping Safety Day was we introduced asbestos free brake and awards for those who held on December 15) and was liners, installed in all vehicles in the demonstrated efficient work each conducted in all of our locations fleet in 2014 in the UAE, with the goal quarter and contributed to saving where everyone engaged in open of implementing this initiative across time and resources. dialogue on safety and well-being all Tristar locations. Our drivers enjoy when on and off the job. The theme the opportunity to benefit from the “It is most useful to share ‘Let’s get home safely, every day’ Accident Free Bonus incentive, an knowledge and to keep track has remained as our guiding motto. initiative created to encourage safe of the learnings of others and driving. All drivers receive this bonus to be aware of the dangerous if there were no accidents during products we carry.” the year. The Drivers League System measures the drivers’ performance John Varghese, Driver Mentor, score at every quarter. Tristar Dubai The Extra Mile – Beyond Logistics | 19 Fuel Supply Safety Awareness Initiatives Emergency Response Drill HSSE Training in Haiti Observed as a ‘timely evacuation and The training focused on environmental headcount’ with participation of: protection and UN Regulations such as spill, waste handling, disposal, • Office staff pollution and soil contamination. Our • Warehouse staff GCEO, Eugene Mayne, commended • Workshop staff the training and urged the Haiti Team Also observed a mock road transport to “sustain training and development emergency drill to see effectiveness of our initiatives”. ERP system. Cleaning up Hazardous Hydrocarbon Spills The Oil Barons demonstrated a solution, Peat Sorb, a lightweight non-biodegradable natural organic absorbent made from 100% Canadian Sphagnum. It absorbs the hydrocarbons with minimal risk to the environment. Aviation Refresher in DRC The two-day Aviation Refresher Training focused on aviation field operations and product quality control. We partnered with Hansa Consult, founded in 1979 to provide airports, tank farm operators and oil companies with safe and economic fuel infrastructure. First Aid in South Sudan Joint Inspection Group Aviation Training Our first aid training covered ABCs in Haiti of life, first aid, CPR, bleeding The Training is a mandatory requirement set by measures, fracture responses, the aviation sector to keep up with the latest head injuries, and treatments. trends, policies and technologies. Effective Emergency Response in South Sudan The emergency-readiness of Tristar South Sudan was tested when a third-party aircraft operating for an international organization crashed at the Bentiu Rubkuna Airport and skidded near the fence of the Tristar depot. Our staff responded within 30 minutes with fire extinguishers and other emergency equipment to contain the situation and mitigate consequences of an incident. Lost Time Injury Occupational disease Near miss reported incidents 0 0 4 3 126 179 2013 2014 UAE 2013 2014 2013 2014 20 | The Extra Mile – Beyond Logistics Award-winning Campaign We continue to ensure that safety is With this valuable insight, RoSPA our topmost priority by sharing our designed and developed a customized experiences and international best training program which was then practice with our peers across Tristar translated in multiple languages to be and in our wider circles in the region. understood by drivers. Our partnership with the Roads and Tristar managers and operations Transport Authority (RTA) in the UAE staff participated in the “Train the and the UK-based Royal Society for Trainer Course” conducted by the Prevention of Accident (RoSPA) RoSPA at the midyear mark. Shortly after, the road safety awareness “Hearty congratulations to you was initiated with the purpose of campaign workshop was publicly and TRISTAR team on winning implementing a road safety project entitled “Let us go home safely” in launched at the RTA Bus Depot in coveted Prince Michael award the UAE. This project targets heavy Al Aweer, Dubai, UAE. Heavy-duty for 2014. Being recipient of this vehicle drivers. Drivers who operate drivers and transport providers were award last year, we in Shell these vehicles are highly vulnerable offered comprehensive training on very much recognize immense on roads and are at risk of dangerous accident free driving. The campaign value this has in the Road Safety accidents that could potentially was extended to our external arena. Your team richly deserves cause multiple fatalities, injuries, fires stakeholders and associates. In total the award. As a team, you and environmental damage. we trained more than 500 heavy vehicle drivers at no cost to attend have not only accepted the To further understand the cause of the workshops. Additionally, Tristar challenge posed by Road Safety accidents, a survey was distributed spoke about road safety at Best FDG team of Shell but, have now among commercial heavy-duty Practice Seminar organized by the proven you can do better.” drivers from diverse backgrounds. Centre for Responsible Business of Drivers had up to 35 years’ Ashok Kulkarni, Downstream Dubai Chamber of Commerce, truly experience, with the average being representing Tristar’s safety values. Road Safety Manager East and 10.5 years. They ranged in age from Africa Shell Markets 24-53, with an average of 35.4 years of age. Some highlights of the results: • Only 34% of our drivers believed accidents happen due to human Awards won error, which otherwise statistically Arabia CSR Network Prince Michael International is the most common reason for awarded Tristar under Road Safety Award awarded accidents the Partnership Project by His Royal Highness Prince • Almost a quarter of the drivers Category of the 7th Michael of Kent (Patron of believed the accidents were not cycle of the Arabia CSR the Commission for Global preventable and an act of God Awards 2014 Road Safety) • 35% of our drivers had been in an Supply Chain and Transport Award (SCATA) under the CSR accident category Our The UN Millennium Development campaign Dubai Police’s Vision for Road Safety: Goals 6, 7 & 8: is aligned To reduce road deaths to zero by 2020 6: Combat HIV/AIDS, Malaria and Other with: Diseases 7: E  nsure Environmental Sustainability The UN Decade of Action for Road Safety 20112020: 8: G lobal Partnership for Development The Decade of Action has the official goal of Note: Global road death and injury are ’stabilizing and then reducing’ global road traffic considered a major public health problem fatalities by 2020 with a broad range of social and economic consequences which, if unaddressed, this may • A landmark resolution by the UN General Assembly affect the sustainable development of many • Co-sponsored by 100 countries countries. The Extra Mile – Beyond Logistics | 21 Our Shipping Operations Our safety initiatives also extend Tristar Shipping Safety Day to the shipping arm of our business where we are proactive in communicating best practice and learning from incidents. In 2014, we added Tristar Sariyah, our seventh vessel under the Tristar flag. At Tristar, we own ships and charter them, offer offshore bunkering, and provide inland and coastal water transport services to our clients. We adhere to strict policies and guidelines when delivering our services. We operate double hulled tankers and barges that carry clean petroleum products such as marine lubricants, as well as marine fuels for bunkering activities of oil majors. Our vessels operate on We began operations in Fujairah in 2009 and our first Tristar the basis of long-term charters with Shipping Safety Day was held on December 15, 2014, with much major oil companies. enthusiasm. We had the support of Fujairah Port Authority officials and the participation of all crew from the Fujairah-based vessels. Tristar’s performance is Ship managers, representatives from our charterers, Fender & Spill measured by their excellent Response Services (FSRS), the oil spill response contractor and service to their clients, Exxon members of the port authority all took part in the Safety Day. The Mobil, Shell, Total and Castrol. event was conducted with the theme “Let’s go home safely, Our industry has unforgiving every day”, a topic of concern for all the crew and their families, and rigid laws, policies and considering the risky jobs conducted by the crew on a daily basis. rules to which we must abide by. Tristar’s relationships with Shipping Safety Day brought together different parties to their clients are a strong encourage an interactive dialogue concerning safety topics like indication on how much attitude, specific high-risk operations, controls and procedures. they have grown and how We emphasized the health, safety and environmental well they perform. Tristar and responsibility of all those participating. The owners’ and charterers’ the Port of Fujairah began commitment was demonstrated through the participation and business in 2009. results of the discussions. The general consensus: Safety always Captain Tamer Masoud, Harbor comes first. Master, Port of Fujairah, UAE 22 | The Extra Mile – Beyond Logistics The annual Oil Spill Drill, hosted any crisis on their behalf and for at the Port of Fujairah (UAE), was reacting in a timely manner in all another successful event, giving difficult situations. A crisis could be the crew a point of reference in an oil spill or a fire, for example. their day-to-day operations. Tristar Tristar measures their competence captains and crew from our vessels, by conducting an annual fullthe port authority, the marine scale exercise. In 2014, we had no representatives, the coast guard and incidents of this type. the Environmental Agency all came We distributed a survey among our “The drills have been extremely together to work as a team. In this shipping stakeholders, of which beneficial and have helped my exercise, all the unknown kinks in the we extracted overall satisfactory colleagues and myself to work process are ironed out. results out of eight participants. The more effectively as a team. In “Tristar’s initiatives, such as the Oil majority of the respondents were addition to that, I have enjoyed Spill Drill have increased awareness satisfied with all aspects of Tristar the computer programming and encouraged teamwork and and its shipping business line. trainings hosted by Tristar.” time management across the board Our health and safety standards T.C.D. Kumara in case of an oil spill,” said Captain follow the same framework that is Chief Officer (deck), Sri Lanka Masoud. Safety at sea is the number applied to our other service lines. one issue for all concerned. The We carry out compulsory inspections largest challenge when having to twice a year. The inspections follows react to an oil spill is the deployment the Oil Companies International of the recovery equipment, to Marine Forum (OCIMF), Ship contain the damage. The average Inspection Report Program (SIRE) reaction time measured for the past guidelines and processes and three exercises was two hours, and are expected to meet the clients’ although this is quite quick, it does standards. Different clients have not constitute a guarantee of no their own sets of standards, so “With the responsibility of the harm to the environment as a result we ensure the highest level of safety of the engine, the drill of a spill. quality for our clients by tracking and the training have been We started the shipping division our improvements. Similar to our vital to our day-to-day work. of Tristar with our first two vessels land-based staff, we also hold Tool It is reassuring to know that in in 2004 for delivering fuel cargos Box meetings that help our teams any given situation, the team at load and discharge ports. Our to learn from incidents that may will come together to achieve diverse fleet comprises ocean and occur. We believe in the ‘Train the the best possible outcome.” coastal vessels as well as river barges Trainer’ approach and we share vital for transportation of fuel through information with our captains and Tibuang Martin waterways. We provide safe solutions chief officers. Chief Engineer, Indonesia to our clients, who place their trust in us to adhere to the marine laws and to protect the environment. To serve the customers in some African countries where road transport is very difficult and risky, Tristar developed water transport services and built double hull barges and tugs, all meeting international regulations. Tristar has selected qualified ship management companies that have the proven capability of managing The Extra Mile – Beyond Logistics | 23 Shipping Safety Records Contact LTI 2014 2013 2014 2013 2 7 1 0 Near Miss Fatalities Spill overboard 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 220 171 0 0 0 0 Tristar’s HSE Group began to measure risks more closely in 2014. There was an increased effort to monitor and record near misses. More number of near misses were identified during 2014 than 2013. By giving it more attention, we are more conscious to prevent a mistake from happening. 24 | The Extra Mile – Beyond Logistics Spill contained on board 2014 2013 0 1 Fire & Explosion 2014 2013 0 0 Number of First aid cases Inspections 2014 2013 2014 2013 1 1 12 6 The Extra Mile – Beyond Logistics | 25 MEASURING OUR PERFORMANCE Our Employees has always been education and In line with our effort to drive sharing knowledge. We have excellence through collaboration, It is through role-play, training, open marked our employees’ professional the third annual Leadership Summit dialogue, group dynamics and development as a priority and have will be in 2015 with the theme set leadership programs that enhance many schemes in place to ensure to be ‘Innovation Premium’ where career development at Tristar. The everyone benefits from it. we will strategically brainstorm to foundation of our drive to excellence optimize our stance in the company and explore how we could all Whistle Blowing grow together. The goal will be to double our revenues by 2017, by creating new streams of business Do you have a concern and planning an expansion of our existing activities. We maintain or issue to share our high standards by committing with Management? to running our initiatives with the utmost integrity and providing our colleagues with opportunities and facilities to be comfortable at work. Call In Touch® For the past three years running, A Confidential and Anonymous Way to Communicate our management has benefitted 1 Dial Toll-Free 8000-3570-4069 24 hours a day 7 days per week. from a scorecard program that Since 2 Follow theintroduction its ina message. instructions for leaving 2014, the whistle Write down blowing number you service “Intouch”, the case keeps motivation high across the are assigned. operated by an independent external party, has received a spectrum. Additionally, we expect 3 Aatwritten positive transcript of your call will be sent to the appropriate management staff response among our peers. The service allows employees your company. to release redesigned job roles with to Yourbring workplace call can be anonymous. Leaveconcerns, your name andastelephone well as anyif you number fraudulent, unethical corresponding Key Performance 4 prefer someone from management at your company to contact you directly. or unlawful conduct, to the attention of the higher management. Indicators (KPI) by year-end 2015. To receive a response from management, call back after five business days and 5 Although provide yourwe have had no cases to date, an outlet to voice case number. We have an ongoing goal to recruit concerns You may also contact has improved In Touch by: 1) Sending an email to: Tristar@GetInTouch.com our work environment by enhancing more female staff to join our teams transparency 2) Submitting your issue and enforcing Tristar’s values. or concern via the web: * Visit www.intouchwebsite.com/tristar and enter the passcode “2004” to work towards achieving a gender Unless you indicate otherwise, your name and email address will be removed from the message balance in our workplace. In 2014, before it is sent to company management. we increased our number to eight Use In Touch to confidentially report: female staff across the Group, with “ • IViolations encourage each and Business Ethics Policy of the Anti-Corruption “I have learned about seven based in Dubai. • one Improper of you to actively Accounting, Accounting Controls or Auditing this initiative through the • Bribery • use this Conflicts facility, of Interest newsletter, and posters We are great believers in learning if the situation • Illegal Activities demands it which highlighted the by action. Our training sessions and • Theft or Fraud toolbox meetings have empowered • and without Discrimination, the Workplace Harassment, any fear ofViolence importance of it and • Safety, Health or Environmental Issues our employees to take charge retribution.” encouraged to use it if the of their knowledge and to apply situation arises.” it to any given situation. We also Eugene Mayne Group CEO Mukesh Sharma place a heavy emphasis on good Assistant Manager, Fuels health. In 2014, the Wellness Club was launched in the UAE as a new initiative that encourages healthy eating and exercise for our wellThe Weight Loss Program was very beneficial for me. I lost 6.1 being. Part of this initiative includes a kilogram and was recognized for it at our Annual Party. The daily 5-minute stretch break and the program provided me with structure and encourages healthy weight loss program. habits. Suhail Dalvi Documentation Officer, Tristar Dubai 26 | The Extra Mile – Beyond Logistics In 2014, we focused our efforts trickle down through the business, on a range of activities across all encouraging and creating a happy countries of operations. Our intranet working environment. For example, website, Tristar Planet, is actively in 2014, Assistant IT Manager, Jayesh used by our teams in the UAE and Menon conducted a training session we plan to extend this to all entities on SMART applications at the Labor by the end of 2015. Integrating our Accommodation in Jebel Ali in policies and procedures, newsletters, the UAE, in order to share how we downloads, photo library and other can pay phone bills and check “Participation in Safety Tristar-related information on one traffic fines through a smart phone Day is special to us, as we platform is an efficient way to share application. Shortly afterwards, our are recognized for our knowledge. We also have regular Communications Manager, Arthur professionalism, know-how on initiatives that run in all of our offices, Los Banos, provided a short lesson on the job and a confirmation of across borders, such as Earth Hour conversational English. how well we are doing in our and World Environment Day. We Our structured training programs careers.” are aiming to further enhance CSR have allowed Tristar’s employees awareness by launching the Global Muthusamy Servai Arumugham, willing to learn more, as has been CSR week starting from 2015. Light Duty Driver, Tristar Dubai consistently demonstrated through We are committed to ensuring regular feedback, through surveys our staff are able to maintain a and verbally through conversations fair work-life balance through with peers and managers. positive initiatives, such as providing transport facilities from Sharjah and Tristar Group Workforce Overview 2014 other locations, as well as providing out-of-office social and sporting Managerial Office Support Field events and activities, such as table Country Staff Staff Staff + Crew Staff Total tennis, cricket matches, Toastmasters club and yoga classes. UAE + 19 103 61 449 632 crew Our Annual Safety Day and quarterly safety meetings are important Kuwait 2 14 2 67 85 events for all involved. In addition to knowledge sharing and open Oman + dialogue, the Stop Work authority 2 8 13 79 102 crew reiterates our commitment to Goal Zero. 0 0 20 0 20 Mauritius We have made ‘Goal Zero’ our slogan for avoiding accidents and 1 1 2 10 14 Qatar returning home safely to our families. The emphasis placed on well-being and family has truly motivated our Kenya 6 17 3 56 82 teams to be effective in their work. This is also the case for our shipping Guam 5 8 25 6 44 employees, who also participate in Safety Day and have taken multiple 10 9 14 219 252 training courses. The highlight for the Pakistan second year running was the Oil Spill South Drill, bringing together the team, 3 47 35 157 242 sudan the port authority and other parties at the port (please refer to the safety 9 12 2 15 38 Congo section for further information). Additionally, an older program, 3 6 3 2 14 known as Toastmasters also proves Uganda to be a tool of empowerment, which 5 18 13 68 104 improves public speaking skills CAR and boosts confidence. These skills Haiti 8 4 4 11 27 The Extra Mile – Beyond Logistics | 27 This system fosters and rewards Local recruitment in 2015 has been organization. Our diverse workforce noteworthy performances across planned to be more rigorous in functions together, bridging all the company by aligning the Oman, due to the fall in numbers. cultures, languages, attitudes and objectives of our colleagues different working styles, all for a with the company’s vision. It also Diversity common goal. motivates our teams to perform at We pride ourselves on being an their best, knowing that there are equal opportunity, international defined incentives in place for high achievement, such as significant bonuses. Nationalization Ensuring we provide work to our local communities is of vital importance to us. A challenge faced in the UAE is finding local talent that is interested in the job opportunities we offer. Nevertheless, we will continue striving towards hiring more Emirati Nationals in the coming years. Tristar Diversity Overview 2014 South Qatar Kuwait Oman Sudan Dubai India 10 Bangladesh 11 Egyptian 5 Bangladesh 6 Afghanistan 3 Nepal 2 Egypt 3 France 1 India 91 Bangladesh 35 Sri Lanka 2 India 54 Pakistan 3 Nepal 2 Canada 1 Kuwait 1 Palestainian 1 Pakistan 2 Comoro Islands 1 Nepal 4 Central African South Sudan 129 UAE 3 Sri Lanka 12 Republic 34 Ethiopia 1 Egypt 1 Tanzanian 44 Kenya 9 Philippines 14 Tanzania 1 India 392 Uganda 1 Indonesia 1 Nepal 17 Oman 2 Pakistan 147 Uganda HAITI Pakistan Palestine 1 Sri Lanka 13 India 12 India 27 | 252 Ukrane 1 South Sudan 1 Pakistan Guam CAR DRC Philippines 5 India 22 Mauritius India 1 Central African India 29 Kenya FSM 3 Republic 79 Nepal 2 Bangladesh 11 PALAU 1 UK 1 Pakistan 1 India 7 India | 9 USA 34 Kenya 2 Kenya 6 Pakistan 2 Kenya | 73 28 | The Extra Mile – Beyond Logistics Training Hours in UAE Office Work staff force 2014 122 Number of employees 470 2013 23 trained 409 2014 1,411 Total training 10,322 2013 867 hours 8,272 2014 11 Training hours 22 2013 10 average 20 Training Hours in Oman Office Work staff force 2014 15 Number of employees 36 2013 10 trained 8 2014 156 Total training 2,124 2013 83 hours 476 2014 10 Training hours 59 2013 8 average 58 Workforce include staff not working in the office such as drivers, workshop employees and crew members The Extra Mile – Beyond Logistics | 29 MAKING A DIFFERENCE FOR THE BETTER Giving back to our community is We are looking to strengthen our embedded in our social fabric. engagement with local communities We the missionaries of This habit was born with the across all countries of operations. charity, sisters of Mother establishment of our business, In Africa, we are looking to support Teresa of Calcutta, including the vision to conduct social business investment in order to ‘Don de Marie’ seat in our business responsibly and address social problems often faced 15 Rue Industrial Limite, with integrity. Subsequently, our by local communities. A socially acknowledge for having business plan has consistently aware business is one that strives received from your been developed to account for to solve social or environmental company a gift of a Tank contributions under our pillars of problems through implementation Capacity of 5000 Litres for social, economic and environmental of a financially sustainable the use of our poor people, sustainability. As a result, our global business model. through this we would CSR activities have encouraged our Certain geographical areas like to express our hearty employees to participate, to donate where we operate, such as South gratitudes to you. Accept, their time and to work together as Sudan and Democratic Republic please our humble and a team through initiatives in the of Congo (DRC), face unstable profound sentiments in the areas of education, humanitarian political situations and extremely name of our poor people assistance and environmental high levels of poverty. As part of Missionaries of Charity, conservation. our business approach, we strive Kinshasa, Democratic Republic to engage with local communities of the Congo In your opinion, what is the and foster a relationship of trust and difference between corporate collaboration. This is demonstrated social responsibility and by several initiatives that enable us sustainability? to achieve support from the local “Sustainability for us at Tristar is to communities. maintain a harmonious balance In the DRC, we donated a water between human needs and tank to the Mother Teresa Center the earth’s natural resources. in Kinshasa. The tank was built on CSR is about aligning business a 6-foot high platform, allowing with universal values on human for an efficient flow of 5,000 liters rights, labor, environment and of water, which now serves as the anti-corruption.” water source for cleaning, washing Eugene Mayne, GCEO and laundry for more than 100 people. Orphans, support staff and the elderly will also benefit from this In order to fully understand the initiative at the center. needs of our internal and external stakeholders, we conducted a Water Tank Donation in DRC society survey for the second year to receive constructive feedback. The participants included our suppliers, clients, NGOs, the media and our corporate friends. The general consensus was that Tristar is actively involved in community initiatives in its main bases. 30 | The Extra Mile – Beyond Logistics Our Activities in Haiti In Haiti we supply Diesel, Jet Fuel, Gasoline, Lubricants and Kerosene to peace keeping international organization with a team of 105 local Haitians and 26 expatriates. We have marked our presence in areas such as Gonaives where we distributed backpacks and funded Haiti Christmas activities. We will also distribute waters bags in Kenscoff which is located in a remote area, approximately 10 kilometers away from Port Au Prince, at an altitude of 1,500 meters and with a population of around 52,000 living across the mountain without sufficient water resources. Over 100 families are required to walk four hours to School Bag Distribution Christmas Gifts to Haitians collect water, regularly, without proper containers to carry the water back home. We plan to distribute a large number of water bags to each family in partnership with a non-governmental organization, OAPA and a team of Catholic Sisters, respectively, to help facilitate the task. Bi-annually, we host training on Health, Safety and Environment for Tristar Haiti launched its biggest CSR Tristar Haiti contributed US $2,400 to all contracted and non-contracted project so far with the distribution the Religious Sisters of the Center St. stakeholders. The training focused of backpacks to school children Joseph in Port-Au-Prince to fund two on safety issues and risk and how to in late 2013. The initiative saw the activities during the 2014 Christmas be more aware and preventative distribution of 1000 pieces by the season. About 170 poor families from of any given situation. The training middle of 2014. Gonaives received food donations, program was concluded with a and a Christmas meal was prepared The first distribution was held in and served to 630 students and 20 ‘Fire drill exercise’. November 2013 on the premises of teachers of the center’s school. Our key challenges include a strong the NGO, Development for Freedom political crisis, the threat to the lives International (DFI). This small note is to say, of employees on site, the possession we are so grateful for your of weapons in the general public, personal presence today in and the lack of access to remote On behalf of DFI, I would just our midst as we celebrated locations for help in case of any like to say thank you from for the mothers and children vehicle breakdown. the bottom of our hearts the feast of Christmas. We for the 100 backpacks you deeply appreciate your donated to our students support to our program of Ecole D’Agape and the and say a big thank you handicapped children. on behalf of all the Sisters, There were such bright children and mothers A BIG smiles on each of their faces THANK YOU TO TRISTAR. Your when they received the support has helped us to backpacks and they were serve 170 families in Haiti for so happy that now they Christmas 2014. have a sturdy bag to carry Sister Renee & the Sisters, all their books in. Center St. Joseph, Esther Ki, DFI founder Port-Au-Prince, Haiti The Extra Mile – Beyond Logistics | 31 Our Global Activities Adopt A School in Guam Tristar Guam staff volunteered to assist in renovating the Benavente Middle School for the new school year. Moreover, Tristar Guam staff volunteered to feed the homeless through the local non-profit organization, Kamalen Karidat, an ongoing program in its 12th year of operations. Blood Donation in UAE Our Annual Blood Donation in the UAE, a successful initiative since 2011, has attracted 47 volunteers, of which 38 donated blood for the World Health Organization “Safe blood for saving mothers” campaign. This blood donation drive increased awareness about the need for timely access to safe blood and blood products in all countries as part of a comprehensive approach to preventing maternal deaths. 32 | The Extra Mile – Beyond Logistics Arc Children’s Centre Donation Tristar donated US $4,990 to the Singapore-based Arc Children’s Arc Children’s Centre is truly grateful for your generous donation Centre, which cares for nearly 90 in support of children with cancer and their siblings, Tristar’s children, aged 2 to 14. donation will benefit the children battling cancer, their siblings and parents in need of support through this painful journey. Geraldine Lee, Co-Founder & Centre Manager Supporting Prince Albert II of Monaco Tristar has supported various sustainability initiatives, including donating US $10,000 to the Prince Albert II of Monaco Foundation, which was established to protect the environment and to promote sustainable development worldwide. The foundation supports initiatives of public and private organizations in the fields of research, technological innovation and social awareness. The Extra Mile – Beyond Logistics | 33 Bore well Donation in South Sudan In 2014, South Sudan received a hand-powered bore well from Tristar at the internally displaced people (IDP) camp in Nimule. By increasing the number of bore wells to five, water was provided to 1,110 families and saved many from having to endure the 12km walk to fetch clean drinking water. Coastal Clean up in Guam In Guam, in solidarity with the islandwide coastal clean up operations, in 2014 we donated trash bags, cotton gloves and 5-gallon water bottles, and our staff volunteered their precious time to support a great cause. 34 | The Extra Mile – Beyond Logistics Earth Hour 2014 Tristar Head Office and several locations commemorated Earth Hour on March 29. Some best practices to reduce electricity consumption were shared in the gatherings. Earth Hour is a worldwide movement organized by the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF). Individuals, communities, Haiti Kenya households and businesses are encouraged to turn off their nonessential lights for one hour in the evening on the last Saturday of March every year. Pakistan World Environment Day Several Tristar locations celebrated World Environment Day on June 5 with the theme ‘Raise your voice not the sea level.’ It was 20 years ago when the first Global Conference on the Sustainable Development of Small Island States (SIDS) took place in Barbados. On that occasion, the South Sudan Uganda world took notice as small island developing nations made their voices heard. The world’s small island nations, which are collectively home to more than 63 million people, are renowned as prized destinations: places of outstanding natural beauty, vibrant culture and music UAE Qatar appreciated around the globe. While small in total, the land size of small island nations does not reflect their importance as stewards of nature’s wealth on land and sea. They play an important role in protecting the oceans and many are biodiversity hotspots, containing some of the richest reservoirs of plants and animals on the planet. Oman DRC The Extra Mile – Beyond Logistics | 35 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL APPROACH Bird Protection in Guam our support to this cause by • Monthly safety walk was carried maintaining 9.8 acres of land, out to notice any dangers Moorhen a prominent habitat for the detrimental to the moorhen Habitat moorhens in our terminal. Following habitation Preservation steps were undertaken to maintain • The access way to the moorhen The United States the habitat for Moorhens: habitat zone was cleared on a Environmental • Overgrown vegetation was monthly basis Protection removed periodically • In 2014, we pumped 20,000 Agency (USEPA) gallons of fresh water to • Vegetation along the perimeter recognised the need to provide the pond for maintaining was monitored on a monthly a habitable environment for appropriate water level basis to ensure that the length the Moorhens, an endangered in the habitat of the moorhens of the vegetation does grow species in Guam. We continued above shoulder height In line with our commitment towards limiting our impact on Energy Saving in South Sudan the environment, we have taken great strides by introducing and continuing innovative initiatives while raising awareness. Change is a by-product of behavior and this must be well established from within the company. In the UAE, our environmental In 2014, we achieved a reduction in fuel consumption when using management continues to our new generators, a major project with targets to reduce burning be led by our Environmental fuel, to have less maintenance, to encourage less environmental Improvement Teams; pollution and to be associated with financial benefit of US $285,000 for the initial year and US $300,000 per year thereafter. Oil Barons To reduce our fuel consumption, we launched a few pilot projects. We installed power inverters, single-phase battery powered systems Power Rangers and a LED lighting system in two of our sites. We also implemented two water related projects, one for Water Camels purification and one for sanitation. The water and sanitation project provides ground water supply to Mejigo IDP Camp in Nimule area Recyclers near border of South Sudan to Uganda. Tristar has fully covered the bore well preparation and pump provision. Our teams are our agentsWe aim to convert one site from using the conventional generator of-change and help raise awareness among their peers, lighting powered systems to low power LED lighting. In addition, the ensuring proper and continuous water purification system will be installed in the head office. It will implementation of our initiatives. provide water with a standard-specification equivalent to potable water for the head office, all accommodations and the workshop to improve hygiene. 36 | The Extra Mile – Beyond Logistics Energy Electricty Consumption at GHG emissions There are two major sources of Tristar HQ We currently monitor our GHG energy that we consume, first is 900 emissions in the UAE, and marked fuel for operating our fleets and 800 our carbon footprint at 21,087 tCO2. second is electricity to run our offices 700 Direct GHG emissions (Scope 1 as and warehouses. The majority of 600 per GHG Protocol) were 3,285 tCO2 the electricity consumption in our 500 which has been calculated from offices and warehouses is consumed 400 the total kilometers run by vehicles for lighting and HVAC (heating, 300 owned by Tristar. ventilation, and air conditioning) 200 Indirect emissions (Scope 2 as per systems. In most of our offices 100 GHG Protocol) stood at 12,580 electricity consumption is monitored 0 tCO2 that includes emissions from monthly and cross checked with 2012 2013 2014 electricity consumption. electricity bills. We also continually Electricity consumption in MWh strive to implement initiatives to Other indirect emissions were reduce our electricity consumption. 5,223 tCO2, which included Our fuel consumption stood at Total electricity consumed in the emissions from waste disposal and 7,650 Kiloliters. We have undertaken year 2014 for our operations is 2,355 water consumption. several measures to reduce fuel MWh (excluding Kuwait). Some of consumption, some of which We are looking into the GHG our key energy efficiency measures include: monitoring and offsetting approach include: by exploring further options in the • Minimizing the use of diesel based Placed motion sensors countries where Tristar has a presence. generators in South Sudan. for lighting at selected In order to increase the scope of places in Dubai head • Exploring the possibility of emissions reporting, we developed office to conserve employing Small Fuel Station an application utilizing the Oracle EBS energy System. This system is capable system to track GHG emissions and of monitoring and recording generate monthly reports for each Our team in Guam fuel consumption for up to entity, as well as the overall Group. This has been particularly 2000 vehicles and is expected application shall be utilized to report proactive in 2014. One to be more efficient than our GHG emissions from our operations hundred LED lights were conventional fuel system. outside UAE as well in 2015. installed in our office • We are in the advance stages of building, replacing the feasibility study to convert part Waste conventional lights of our fleet from oil to CNG; this Road transportation represents a We installed would not only reduce diesel large part of our business. Therefore, programmable consumption in coming years but tire management and safe tire temperature controls for would also lead to reduced GHG disposal is a mandatory requirement. all air-conditioning units emissions. For disposal in the UAE, we currently in the UAE • We also aim to introduce solar send tires to a local scrap tire supplier; During non-office energy and bio-fuel in Guam however, our goal is to set up an hours, the units are in 2015. internal tire recycling facility by the kept at a minimum Comparison of Fuel consumption end of 2015. In 2014, we disposed 1,384 to avoid a fresh start for UAE operation excluding tires in the UAE, 22 more than 2013 up every morning, shipping which is due to increased operation which consumes more and business. To further educate 4,000 electricity. our employees, we organized a tire management workshop, conducted Installed LED lights on 3,000 by an external organization, which top of the Dubai head was attended by drivers and office building workshop team members. 2,000 These energy efficiency measures We continued working with the helped us save 32.2 MWh of Emirates Environmental Group (EEG) in 1,000 total electricity even when the 2014. They collect our recycled paper, occupancy of the UAE headquarters plastic and glass waste, can/tin increased from last year. 0 waste, e-waste and old battery and 2012 2013 2014 mobile phone disposal. As a part of Fuel Consumption in KL EEG’s initiative, we also launched an aluminum can recycling campaign. The Extra Mile – Beyond Logistics | 37 In the reporting year of Shipping a drill exercise was conducted in collaboration with the port authority, vessels, marine authority, coast guards and the environmental agency. The overall application of this exercise proved to be very beneficial to those taking part and has enhanced our readiness in mitigating any future oil spill By the end of the campaign, we emergency situations. were able to collect around 5 kg of can waste. We successfully disposed of e-waste through a municipalityWater certified agency to ensure e-waste In 2014 we consumed total of 20,000 is disposed of in an environmentally Kiloliters of water across locations. friendly way. We kept one bin for We are aware of the importance of collecting batteries and unusable the natural resources specially water. mobile phones and collected a good We implemented several initiatives amount for recycling. In 2015, we will for reducing water consumption. Paper be disposing these materials through In Guam, our awareness program In 2014 the total quantity of paper the EEG. launched an innovative project for consumed across various locations collecting rainwater. When it rains, was 3,200 Kg. In the UAE, we set Waste Oil the water inside the terminal is ourselves the goal to collect 100 Main source of waste oil for us is the processed in the oil-water separator. kg of paper for recycling. We used oil from our vehicles. Waste The collected oil is stored in the slope identified that a large amount oil is disposed very carefully as it tank, while the clean water is pooled of paper was being disposed in is classified as hazardous waste in a basin. The water is pumped the waste general collection, a in UAE. It is supplied to a municipality back into the water storage tank discovery only made in 2014, thus approved company for recycling. using a suction pump from the basin the higher paper consumption in In 2014 we collected and sent 48,400 and is subsequently used to clean 2013. Quick and decisive measures liters of waste oil for recycling. the tank and the pipeline while the were taken to sort and separate the rest of the water is stored in the event waste more conscientiously, and In the UAE, we collected used oil of an emergency. as a result, an additional 420 kg filters and fuel filters in a bin located was collected, well exceeding the northwest corner of our yard. A Graph below represents our year100 kg that had been set for paper challenge was presented when on-year performance of water recycling. Going forward, we plan it was discovered that a bin was consumption for UAE, which shows to reduce the use of paper even collecting water, making it prone that we have been successful in further through usage of electronic to oil leakage. The Oil Baron team driving water efficiency through forms, email and more. The focused implemented a closing mechanism these years. efforts of the reducedthe use of for the disposal bin, solving the Comparison of water paper consumption was reduced problem. consumption in UAE by a total of 6.1%. Oil spills Comparision of paper consumption in UAE During this reporting period, when looking at Road Transportation we 2500 haven’t faced any major spills at group level and we only had three 2000 small spill incidents with total volume 2012 27,278 1500 of 850 liters. This achievement Kiloliters was accomplished by rigorous driver-training, GPS tracking, strict 1000 8,900 monitoring of our maintenance 2013 Kiloliters 500 system. Moreover, we conducted additional training sessions on 7,334 0 rollover prevention. 2014 Kiloliters 2012 2013 2014 Paper consumption in Kg 38 | The Extra Mile – Beyond Logistics Table of Abbreviations CEFIC European Chemical Industry Council HSE Health, Safety and Environment CEO Chief Executive Officer HVAC Heating, Ventilation and Air CNG Compressed Natural Gas Conditioning CO 2 Carbon Dioxide IDP Internationally Displaced People COO Chief Operating Officer International Organization for ISO Standardization COP Communication on Progress KPI Key Performance Indicator CSO Chief Sustainability Officer Kwh Kilowatt hour CSR Corporate Social Responsibility MPRM Monthly Performance Review Meeting CSRSC Corporate Social Responsibility Steering Committee NGO Non-Governmental Organization DFI Development for Freedom International OCIMF Oil Companies International Marine Forum DQA Dubai Quality Awards OHSAS Occupational Health and Safety EBS E-Business Suite Management System EEG Emirates Environmental Group PPE Personal Protective Equipment ERM Enterprise Resource Management RoSPA Royal Society for Prevention of FSDO Finance and Strategy Delivery Office Accidents FSRS Fender & Spill Response Services RTA Roads and Transport Authority GCC Gulf Cooperation Council SCATA Supply Chain and Transport Awards GCEO Group Chief Executive Officer SDO Strategy Delivery Office GHG Greenhouse Gas SIRE Ship Inspection Report Program GM General Manager SQAS Safety and Quality Assessment System GPS Global Positioning System UNGC United Nations Global Compact GRI Global Reporting Initiative USEPA United States Environmental Protection HR Human Resources Agency 1, 2 http://catalog.blr.com/samples/15400200/product%20sample.pdf 3 http://www.aalhysterforklifts.com.au/index.php/about/blog-post/warehouse_safety_principles_6_key_guidelines_to_keep_your_ workplace_safe 4, 5 http://catalog.blr.com/samples/15400200/product%20sample.pdf 6, 7, 8, 9 https://www.glc.org/oiltransport/files/14-09-26-IssueBrief3-Discussion-Draft.pdf 10 http://www.agcs.allianz.com/assets/PDFs/Reports/Shipping-Review-2014.pdf 11 http://www.hsa.ie/eng/Your_Industry/Docks/Hazards_in_Ports_and_Docks/Common_Hazards/#sthash.WUciFQDr.dpuf 12 http://www.cdc.gov/niosh/docs/84-106/ 13 https://www.iata.org/whatwedo/safety/Pages/index.aspx 14 http://www.hatchmott.com/sites/dev.hatchmott.com/files/brochures/Aviation_Fueling_09_w.pdf 15 http://www.hse.gov.uk/fireandexplosion/petroleum.htm 16 http://www.hse.gov.uk/fireandexplosion/design-manufacture-storage-containers.htm 17, 18, 19, 20, 21 http://www.hsa.ie/eng/Your_Industry/Petrol_Stations/ 22 A  sbestos is a naturally occurring mineral that once was lauded for its versatility, recognized for its heat resistance, tensile strength and insulating properties, and used for everything from fire-proof vests to home and commercial construction. It was woven into fabric, and mixed with cement. http://www.asbestos.com/asbestos/ The Extra Mile – Beyond Logistics | 39 GRI G4 Content Index General Standard Disclosures General Page Number / Direct Answer External Assurance UNGC Standard Principles Disclosures Strategy and analysis G4-1 4-5 No Organizational profile G4-3 Front Cover No G4-4 8 No G4-5 Dubai No G4-6 9 No G4-7 Tristar is a subsidiary of Agility. Agility is No publicly listed in the Kuwait and Dubai stock exchange. G4-8 9 No G4-9 8-9 No G4-10 27 29 No 6 G4-11 N/A Collective bargaining agreements No 1, 3 are not currently permitted in the UAE. G4-12 9 No G4-13 No changes No G4-14 16 17, 34 36 No 7 G4-15 10 No G4-16 12 No 40 | The Extra Mile – Beyond Logistics General Standard Disclosures General Page Number / Direct Answer External Assurance UNGC Standard Principles Disclosures Identified material aspects and boundaries G4-17 This report covers Tristar’s operations and activities only. No Tristar is a private organization and no other entities fall under its scope. In this report, we focus on Economic Performance in relation to sustainability. G4-18 2, 13 No G4-19 15 No G4-20 15 No G4-21 15 No G4-22 No restatements made. No G4-23 This report reflects an expanded scope of facilities from No that reported in the 2013 Tristar Sustainability Report. Stakeholder engagement G4-24 14 No G4-25 14 No G4-26 13 14 No G4-27 14 No Report profile G4-28 2 No G4-29 2013 No G4-30 Annual No G4-31 2 No G4-32 2 No G4-33 External assurance was not opted for this year’s report. An assurance process will be put in place for our future sustainability reports. Governance G4-34 11 No Ethics and integrity G4-56 10 No 10 The Extra Mile – Beyond Logistics | 41 Specific Standard Disclosures DMA and Page Number / Identified Reason(s) for Explanation External UNGC Indicators Direct Answer Omission(s) Omission(s) for Omission(s) Assurance Principles Economic Economic performance G4-DMA 9 No G4-EC1 9 No Market presence G4-DMA 9, 28 No G4-EC6 28 No 6 Environmental Materials G4-DMA 36 38 No G4-EN1 38 No Energy G4-DMA 37 No G4-EN3 37 No 7, 8 Biodiversity G4-DMA 36 No G4-EN13 36 No Emissions G4-DMA 36 38 No G4-EN15 37 No G4-EN16 37 No 7, 8, 9 Products and Services G4-DMA 36 38 No G4-EN27 36 38 No Compliance G4-DMA 36 38 No G4-EN29 No such fines No 8 Transport G4-DMA 37 No G4-EN30 37 No 8 42 | The Extra Mile – Beyond Logistics Specific Standard Disclosures DMA and Page Number / Identified Reason(s) for Explanation External UNGC Indicators Direct Answer Omission(s) Omission(s) for Omission(s) Assurance Principles Social LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK Occupational Health and Safety G4-DMA 16 17 No G4-LA6 20 No 1 Training and Education G4-DMA 29 No G4-LA9 29 No Human rights Non-Discrimination G4-DMA 10 No HR3 None No 1, 2, 6 Child Labor G4-DMA 10 HR5 We do not employ No 5 anyone below 18 years old. Forced or Compulsory Labor G4-DMA 10, GRI Index No G4-HR6 We have instituted a No 1, 2, 4 zero tolerance policy regarding the conduct of our employees and business associates that support or engage in sexual exploitation and/ or sexual abuse. It is the responsibility of all Tristar personnel to create and maintain a working environment that fosters a culture of equality among employees at all levels of the company as detailed in our business ethics policy. More information on page 10. Society Local Communities G4-DMA 30 33 No G4-SO1 30 33 No 1 The Extra Mile – Beyond Logistics | 43 Address Jebel Ali Industrial Area No. 2 PO Box 51328 Dubai, UAE Phone + 9714 8997900 Fax + 9714 8841589 Email info@tristar-group.co
