Communication on Progress May 2015 Neas Energy A/S Skelagervej 1 9000 Aalborg CVR/VAT.: 20293195 Contents Introduction 3 Business model drives corporate responsibility 4 Neas Energy’s core business model 4 General scope for CSR policy 6 Defining our policy on GC 6 Internal focus areas 6 External focus areas 8 Progress 10 Increase in volumetric revenue secures functioning of market mechanisms 10 New initiatives supporting carbon pricing 10 New collaborations with scientific institutions 11 Account on energy consumption 15 Figures & origination 15 Statement and signatory 16 Introduction Neas Energy is an independent energy asset management company that provides physical and financial optimization of renewable and conventional energy assets operating on energy markets in Europe. Based on more than 15 years of experience from liberal energy markets Neas Energy today has activities in all major energy markets in Europe. Our company headquarters are located in Aalborg, Denmark with offices in London, Hamburg and Stockholm. Neas Energy has been a member of the UN Global Compact since 2009. Markets New markets Stockholm Aalborg (HQ) Hamburg London 3 Business model drives corporate responsibility At Neas Energy we give high priority to improving the group’s impact on social and environmental conditions. The group’s CSR policy (Corporate Social Responsibility) is based on the UN Global Compact’s 10 principles for corporate social and environmental responsibility. Neas Energy’s CSR policy has been approved by the Board of Directors and includes the entire group. Neas Energy’s core business model Neas Energy is an independent trading and management company and the group does not own any production facilities or distribution grids. Neas Energy has been operating on liberal energy markets for 15 years and has longstanding knowledge about the European energy markets. The company has invested in development of IT-systems for production management and optimization services for power generation in order to increase profit potential for its customers’ energy generation. Neas Energy’s services are essential to ensure sustainable investments in sustainable and intelligent power generation. 4 Core business model The company’s business model is developed on the basis of the underlying markets (the European energy markets), which are undergoing fundamental changes away from fossil fuels towards renewable and sustainable energy generation. These changes make commercial conditions highly complex and requires intelligent and dynamic services from asset managers/operators, which are important in terms of ensuring new investment and making renewables competitive on liberal energy markets. Neas Energy’s services helps form the basis for more renewable energy and it helps build a sustainable basis for the low-carbon economy shaping the future energy market and renewable supply. Gas CHP Power optimisation 24/7 Supply Systems Gas optimisation Assets 24/7 optimisation Wind power Risk Hedging Management Solar power Hydropower 5 General scope for CSR policy The company’s head office is located in Aalproper treatment of all employees and to borg, Denmark. All employees are employed guaranteeing flexible working conditions that under Danish labour legislation prescribing ensure a balance between work life and perexcessive labour rights and anti-discrimisonal life. Neas Energy is focused on recruiting nation and anti-corruption laws all issues managers and employees who support the of little prevalence in Denmark. Operating company’s values in respect of competence strictly as a trading and management comaccumulation and innovation throughout the pany with no energy production facilities organisation. and only limited energy consumption our most comprehensive efforts in the support Diversity of the GC are made through our business At Neas Energy we view our continuous activities within renewable energy. In terms of growth in cultural and national diversity extraordinary CSR efforts the group company and different backgrounds as a strength and NE Climate, which operates within the UN source of creativity. Neas Energy does not Clean Development Mechanism (CDM), has discriminate on the basis of sex, race, colour, engaged in a number of CSR projects. For religion or faith, political opinion, sexual these activities we have implemented a code orientation, national, social or ethnic origin, of conduct with guidelines for establishing age or disability. Neas Energy aims to ensure knowledge on matters of human rights, labour that there is no discrimination in connection rights and anti-corruption. with recruitment, dismissal, transfer, promotion, remuneration, working conditions or training. All decisions relating to recruitment, Defining our policy on GC promotion, dismissal, remuneration and other For Neas Energy the group’s CSR policy is our working conditions are based on relevant and specific interpretation of the UN Global Comobjective criteria. Diversity is an important pact’s 10 principles for social and environmental and necessary characteristic of Neas Energy, responsibility within internal as well as external which enables the company to function focus areas. The general policy is similar to the under a variety of changeable conditions and CSR policy presented in the latest COP with workplace diversity at all levels is encouraged. the exception of the origination of renewable Discrimination is seen as an unacceptable power and offset of carbon emissions as their social principle and a barrier to the company’s nature means that they vary from year to year. business development. In general, Neas Energy will continue to pursue consistency in our policy making within CSR. Gender equality The following accounts for Neas Energy’s policy for gender equality and include targets Internal focus areas on female representation on management Neas Energy offers all employees attractive level, executive group and on the Board of opportunities for professional and personal Directors with a horizon up to 2016 and a development. We are committed to ensuring strategy to achieve the targets implemented. 6 The targets has been set and approved by Neas Health Energy’s Board of Directors. Neas Energy aims to help promote the general health of its employees. This is to be achieved Neas Energy’s corporate strategy targets a by improving health conditions for employees female representation (the under-represented in terms of a good working environment and gender in Neas Energy) of at least 40 % in all initiatives aimed at promoting a healthier management functions and corporate superlifestyle and greater well-being among the comvisory functions – this include: pany’s employees. Good health is essential for our employees’ well-being, not only at work but • The board of directors also during free time. Employees working shifts • The executive group at Neas Energy are offered a health check-up in • Managers (heads of departments) recognition of their special working conditions. In addition to this all fulltime employees in During 2014 the board comprised two female Denmark are offered immediate physiotherapy members out of a total of seven board memif needed and ergonomic guidance at the work bers one staff-elected member and one station in order to avoid injuries. externally appointed member. The executive group in 2014 comprised three males and a A number of exercise options are available at female CFO. On the management level the the workplace and outside, and the company female representation was 4 out of 14. encourages its employees to participate in events that combine social interaction and In order to achieve a higher degree of gender exercise such as mountain biking, relay race equality, the following objectives have been etc. The company’s headquarters in Aalborg employed by the Board of Directors and are to have an award-winning canteen with full-time be achieved by 2016: kitchen staff who put together a menu and buffet according to healthy diet principles and • For the executive group and managers, featuring a wide selection and variation, making female representation is to be a minimum it possible for employees to eat healthy at work. of 40 % Knowledge • For the Board of Directors, female repNeas Energy is a knowledge-based company resentation among the members elected with specialists employing key positions, why by the general assembly is to be a miniattracting and retaining capable employees has mum of 40 % very high priority. We therefore want to actively accumulate and maintain knowledge resources To achieve the above targets, Neas Energy among company employees by stimulating a commits to eliminate any differences in knowledge-based working environment, dediremuneration between men and women cation to a high degree of professionalism and carrying out the same type of work, or similar skills development. work to provide for equal opportunities and focus solely on individual capabilities and Neas Energy will contribute to each employee’s performance. career development, and talented employees will regularly be coached to ensure job satisThe day-to-day responsibility for equal treatfaction and adequate challenges. Our extensive ment of employees and fair and equal terms innovation activities are also actively used in for recruitment lies with Neas Energy’s HR the development of talented employees and the department. The policy for gender equality is company aims to nurture interdisciplinary coopcommunicated to all heads of departments for eration and expand collaboration with scientific corporate commitment in all managerial levels. institutions and relevant interest organisations. 7 In addition to the above initiatives Neas energy sector Neas Energy in 2014 particiEnergy has started a graduate program during pated in selected initiatives on invitation from the 2014 reporting period. The purpose of the trade organizations and politicians to debate program is to give talented graduates a comnew market designs and prepare proposals prehensive knowledge of Neas Energy and the for politicians and public servants on energy European energy markets. This supports the regulation – including: goal of attracting capable personal and accumulating knowledge resources. • Market design 2.0 Preparing a proposals for updates to the Climate Danish electricity market design. OrganNeas Energy’s total consumption of energy ized by Danish TSO Energinet.dk is CO2 neutral. This year (2014) the group’s consumption of power is certified wind power • MiFID/REMIR/EMIR from Danish wind turbines, and carbon Participating in stakeholder meetings emissions directly attributed to the group’s with regulators to debate the impleproperty are neutralised through cancellamentation of new legislation on energy tion of approved CO2 credits. This year CER trading. Organized by Danish energy credits from CDM project “Community-Based trade organization Dansk Energi Renewable Energy Development in the Northern Areas and Chitral (NAC), Pakistan”. In our Knowledge and innovation facility management we are constantly striving Neas Energy continuously work to contribute to limit our energy consumption through to scientific knowledge development and energy savings and improvement of energy competence accumulation within the field of efficiency. See consumption figures below. energy and create understanding of the energy markets. This is of high importance since the organisation and regulation of energy markets, External focus areas energy supply and energy infrastructure are Customer relations closely connected to science and political To Neas Energy long-term and mutually decisions. Neas Energy will actively work to profitable customer relations are of high develop the ‘energy of the future’ through importance. Customers must be treated with cooperation with educational and research respect in all situations – and with respect for institutions and the political system. the individual customer’s situation and needs. We want to offer existing as well as potential Anti-corruption customers the best possible services and we Neas Energy’s climate project development will exercise good business ethics in connecactivities under CDM will continue to be tion with consultancy and customer relations expanded and will focus on development in in general. All customer groups must be guarLDCs (Least Developed Countries), where anteed easy access to Neas Energy’s services. corruption can also be a real problem. In line We aim to achieve a high degree of customer with the principles of the UN Global Compact, satisfaction at a permanent basis. no Neas Energy employee may give or receive unjustified benefits to/from Danish or foreign Development of market and society public or private sector employees. Neas As the physical energy supply mix is changing Energy will follow and enforce Danish legislawith the inflow of renewables the commercial tion in accordance with the European Council environment in energy markets also change corruption convention and OECD convention and new mechanisms for sustainable balancon combating bribery in international busiing and trading of energy must be established. ness transactions. Along with stakeholders from the entire 8 9 Progress During the last reporting period (2014) Neas sustainable energy supply. This change calls Energy has paid special attention to increasing for services that can handle the balancing of capacity of production under management. production/consumption, which becomes In the period capacity under management very complex as the output from ‘unconhas increased from 4,307 MW in 2013 to 6,680 trollable’ energy sources increases. These MW in 2014. This increase has primarily been services are essential for Independent Power made within the field of renewable energy in Producers (IPP’s) as they do not have the softGermany. Neas Energy has 5,020 MW capacity ware nor trading possibilities to handle their from renewable energy under management imbalances. Neas Energy’s business model is in Denmark, Sweden and Germany and the therefore designed to handle these imbalance. UK, and with the considerable increase on In 2014 Neas Energy increased its volumetric the German market this is now the biggest revenue making it possible to handle even market for renewable energy for Neas Energy. more market volume, which helps the market Neas Energy manages power from both small mechanisms function as it provides the and large scale generators, and the services needed flexibility to markets across Europe Neas Energy provides are essential to these to making it possible to utilise a larger amount of secure financing from banks. Consequently, the available renewable energy. Neas Energy’s work help create the foundation of a sustainable investment for renewables. To meet this need of flexibility Neas Energy in Also, Balance Responsible Party services 2014 continued to invest strongly in strengthprovided by Neas Energy are mandatory ening software solutions, the trading team requirements from TSO’s for generators operand management of our clients exposure in ating on liberal market terms and has become flexibility markets across Europe. This will increasingly important as the influx from help our clients obtain new value and with the ‘uncontrollable’ renewables makes balancing flexibility we provide, we will be able to help of production/consumption highly complex. the Transmission Systems Operators manage production consumption balances. Combined with a better energy infrastructure throughout Increase in volumetric revenue Europe we will ideally be able to transport secures functioning of market low cost renewable power to high price areas mechanisms increasing the integration of renewable energy The liberalization of power and gas markets in the pan-European energy supply. will continue to spread across Europe within EU-member countries. The EU relies on liberal energy markets to ensure globally competitive New initiatives supporting carbon energy prices. pricing In addition to the increase in volumetric In 2014 the input of renewable energy revenue Neas Energy stated its support for increased continuing to change the European the Private Sector Forum for Carbon Pricing energy market towards a larger amount of founded by the World Bank and UN, which ‘unstable’ power production. This is in line was most recently held in New York, Septemwith the political targets on increasing producber 2014. In addition to this Neas Energy has tion from renewable energy sources to secure become an official signatory to UN’s Caring 10 for Climate. This is the world’s largest volunenergy system design is critical for intelligent tary business and climate initiative aimed at design of future energy systems and markets as advancing the role of businesses addressing it will help power a clean world in the future. climate change. Here Neas Energy has become a Carbon Pricing Champion, which means that Within the last report period we have strengthNeas Energy supports carbon pricing as an ened our collaboration with universities and effective way to encourage low-carbon growth other scientific institutions to contribute to and lower greenhouse gas emissions. As an knowledge building and exchange of inforadditional initiative to this Neas Energy also mation and knowledge within contemporary supported the Business Leadership Criteria on energy market design. At Neas Energy the Carbon Pricing, which was promoted by the UN work force comprises 10 % student assistants in Financial Times and The New York Times for and interns working throughout the organithe summit in New York. The criteria comprise sation. By letting students gaining experience three dimensions: integrating carbon pricing from real life work and being part of the daily into long-term strategies and investment work life we believe that the students will to a decisions, responsible policy advocacy, and larger degree be able to apply their scientific communication on progress. Read more about knowledge at Neas Energy and develop new Carbon Pricing Champions and the Business scientific results in their studies. By the end of Leadership Criteria here: www.caringforclithe year 2014 the efforts to strengthening colmate.org/carbonpricing/champions laborations with scientific institutions resulted in the start-up of a business PhD in cooperaThese new initiatives are a clear statement on tion with Aalborg University, Denmark. how Neas Energy considers it of high importance to put a price on carbon as it is believed For us the access to cutting edge scientific to be a necessary and effective measure to research contributes important perspectives tackle the climate change challenge. We and data on our markets and company busibelieve that a consistent economic signal can ness model. For students, researchers and help shift investments towards clean energy, other scientific personnel the access to real life and by joining these initiatives we encourage case studies and data is important for empiric other businesses and Governments to support quality and potential commercial utilization carbon pricing as well. of research. Consequently, this cooperation is mutually beneficial and of great importance for the future development of the energy markets. New collaborations with scientific institutions Since the 2014 COP we have entered into a We believe that development of high quality number of new scientific collaborations as scientific research on energy markets and displayed in the summary below: 11 Submitted and defended in 2014: Daniil Plotnikov Thesis title: “Customizing product portfolio for the German market” Field of study: MSc. Sustainable Energy Planning and Management, AAU Dennis Lind-Bruhn Thesis title: “Estimation of the volume risk in the wind power market” Field of study: MSc. Finance & Econometrics, AU Rune Hjorth Nielsen & Jannick Severin Johanson Thesis Title: “Gas storage: Trading strategy and valuation” Field of study: MSc. Finance, AU Anca Pircalabu, Rikke Vilstrup, Thomas Hvolby Thesis Title: “Monte Carlo simulation of volumetric risk associated with wind turbines” Field of study: MSc. Mathematics-Economics, AAU Björn Lämmerzahl Thesis title: “Agent-Based Modelling for policy analysis and scenario development. The case of RES-E.” Field of study: MSc. Innovation, Knowledge and Economic Dynamics, AAU Line Bygum Bay-Jensen & Rikke Skak Harboe Thesis Title: “Challenges for Neas Energy – A case study of the challenges that Neas Energy faces regarding global employees and how the strategy on diversity management can help manage these” Field of study: MSc. Culture, Communication and Globalisation, AAU Still in progress Spring 2015: Andreas Juul & Christian Bjerre Hammild Working title: “Implementing Project Portfolio Management A Case study at Neas Energy” Field of study: MSc. IT-management, AAU Inke Alexandra Wenzel Working title: “Neas Energy’s Marketing Approach in Germany and the UK: Country-of-Origin Marketing in the Energy Sector” Field of study: M.A. English and Business Communication, AAU Eszter Tamas Thesis title: Ebbs and tides within an organization – Multileveled communication at Neas Energy A/S. Field of study: M.A. Culture, Communication and Globalisation, AAU 12 Commerce PhD. Anca Pircalabu, Quantitative Analyst, has been approved for an industrial PhD-project by Innovation Fund Denmark. The project is a 3-year collaboration between Neas Energy’s Quantitative Analytics team and Department of Mathematical Sciences at Aalborg University and is entitled “Managing volumetric risk in renewable energy markets” Collaborations Professor Olav Geil Math, AAU: Formulation of project proposals for the 2nd semester Mat-Econ, AAU, spring semester 2015. All 2nd semester Mat-Econ students are to make a project based on a case from Neas Energy (still in progress). External Membership of Study Board Thomas Aalund Fredholm, Head of Risk Management and Quantitative Analytics, is an external member of the Study Board for Mathematics, Physics and Nanotechnology. The purpose of this is to secure a high quality and relevance of the educations under the study board and come with suggestions for improvements. Research and development projects Neas Energy participates in a number of externally funded research and development projects. One of the main purposes of the R&D projects is to analyze and/or demonstrate how new solutions/ technologies can provide grid balancing services. Consequently, these projects help develop the future of Europe’s energy markets. Research and development projects for the 2014 reporting period are displayed in the summary below: 13 Smart Grid Ready VPP Controller for Heat Pumps (READY) Project period: 5-2012 to 11-2014 Partners: Neas Energy (PM), Aalborg University, Aarhus University, Neogrid, PlanEnergi, EA Energianalyse Subsidy program: ForskEL Technology: Individual heat pumps TotalFlex Project period: 1-2012 to 7-2015 Partners: Neogrid Technologies (PM), Aalborg University, Copenhagen Businss School, Nyfors, Neas Energy, Conscius, Zense Technology Subsidy program: ForskEL Technology: Electrical appliances in households Power-to-Gas via Biological Catalysis – phase 2 (P2G-BioCat 2) Project period: 2-2014 to 12-2015 Partners: Electrochaea (PM), Hydrogenics, Audi, HMN Gashandel, SVC Avedøre, Neas Energy, Energinet.dk, Insero Business Services Subsidy program: ForskEL Technology: Alkaline electrolysis and biological methanation MegaBalance Project period: 12-2014 to 12-2015 Partners: Neas Energy (PM), H2Logic, Siemens, EnergiMidt Infrastruktur A/S, Ringkøbing Fjernvarmeværk a.m.b.a. Subsidy program: ForskEL FlexGas – Electric heater in domestic gas boiler for flexible energy consumption Project period: 7-2014 to 11-2016 Partners: Dansk Gasteknisk Center (PM), Insero Energy, Neas Energy, Neogrid, METRO THERM Subsidy program: EUDP Technology: Electric heaters Power2Hydrogen Project period: 2-2015 to 11-2017 Partners: Air liquide (PM), CEMTEC, Neas Energy, EMD, Aalborg University – Department of Development and Planning, Aalborg University – Department of Energy Technology Subsidy program: ForskEL Technology: PEM electrolysis 14 Account on energy consumption Neas Energy is a pure trading company witheach other with more IT equipment giving off out energy intensive production facilities. heat, which reduces the need for additional Nevertheless, we still want to prepare climate space heating. accounts for the group’s energy consumption at our headquarters in Aalborg. We will use This year Neas Energy choses to buy wind power the physical volume, i.e. the consumption from Danish wind turbines with Guarantees of of power and district heating, in the climate Origin to match equal to the group’s electricity accounts for 2014. To be able to continue to consumption in 2014. Renewable power (hydro) state our climate impact in a cost-efficient has a significantly lower emission factor than manner and reduce emissions, we restrict our the emission factor of 558g CO2/kWh for the climate accounts to the consumption of electraditional Danish electricity mix. tricity and heating. In case a best practice is established or a standard for climate accountWith respect to the consumption of heating, ing Neas Energy will implement this in our we are favoured by the location in Aalborg annual reporting. In 2014 the consumption where district heating is produced at Nordjylfigures for Neas Energy were: landsværket, Reno Nord and Aalborg Portland. The production of district heating at the latter Figures & origination is CO2 neutral. According to recent informa2013 2014 tion, the production of district heating at Reno Heating 6,814m3 5,611m3 Nord and Nordjyllandsværket emits 3.7 kg of Electricity 546,990 kWh 596,111 kWh CO2/m3 district heating. Again in 2014 there was an increase in elecThe consumption of district heating in 2014 tricity consumption, which is caused by an is offset with Certified Emission Reduction increase in the number of employees from 192 credits (CERs) from the Clean Development to 227 (ultimo 2014). The decrease in heating Mechanism (CDM) project “Communiwe expect is due to a milder winter period. ty-Based Renewable Energy Development In addition to the mild winter the increase in in the Northern Areas and Chitral (NAC), number of employees is also expected to have Pakistan”. The project is managed by the World an impact in the decreased heating consumpbank for Danish Carbon Fund in which Neas tion since the increased number of employees Energy is a member with other Danish indusmeans that work stations are placed closer to try leaders. 15 Statement and signatory “ “At Neas Energy we believe that our business and corporate responsibility are mutual supplements with added value for our clients and our group. Our core business model is directly consistent with the continued expansion of renewable energy and intelligent low-carbon energy system. As an international and pan-European asset management company we are dependent on international knowledge, social diversity and cultural understanding to expand our business activities. For us the UN Global Compact serve as guidelines for our practical interpretation of what we like to refer to as business driven CSR. We are proud to continue our support the UN Global Compact” The Group CEO Mr. Bo Lynge Rydahl is the official signatory for Neas Energy’s Communication on Progress Bo Lynge Rydahl 16 Contact For further information please contact Neas Energy Communications. Rasmus Buhl Møller Head of Corporate Communications E-mail: rbm@neasenergy.com Phone: +45 99 39 58 04 Mobile: + 45 41 31 78 15 Maria Lundsgaard International Communications Specialist E-mail: mal@neasenergy.com Phone: +45 99 39 58 10 Mobile: +45 40 30 26 23
