Sustainable Tomorrow. Sustainable Journey. Sustainability Report 2014-2015 2 3 Contents CEO statement 06 This is Petrochemical Industries Company (PIC) 09 Working for a better tomorrow 17 Building a stronger business. Diversifying Kuwait’s economy. 33 Empowering people. Strengthening communities. 41 Minimizing our impact. Protecting our planet. 53 About this report 67 UNGC Communication on Progress 71 GRI index 79 4 5 CEO statement Welcome to our third sustainability report, which describes Although I am pleased with the our continued commitment and progress toward achieving progress we’ve made, there still is cleaner, safer, and more efficient operations and positively work to be done to meet our 2017 impacting lives in Kuwait and the region. I believe you will PIC Sustainability Goals. In particular, see that sustainability touches every aspect of our business, we need to engage fully with suppliers from the way we operate, to the way we collaborate across and other stakeholders to build a our global supply chain, to the way we inspire change through shared understanding of priorities. We the enthusiasm and dedication of our employees. The report also need to share best practices with also demonstrates our commitment to transparency, which our peers in the industry to ensure is fundamental to responsible business practice and to open that benefits spread throughout dialogue with our stakeholders. the region. And, as we have done since we first launched the goals, Sustainability is integral to our I invite you to take a look inside teams across PIC must continue corporate values and critical these pages to see where we’ve their dedicated efforts to achieve our to our emergence as a global made important strides against our objectives. This is truly a companypetrochemicals company. In 2013, we 2017 PIC Sustainability Goals, as wide effort. I am confident we have launched our 2017 PIC Sustainability well as other sustainability efforts built a solid foundation and are in a Goals, with a clear commitment to and our commitments under the strong position to make the necessary “a Sustainable Tomorrow.” Detailed United Nations Global Compact. progress in the coming years. analysis produced a roadmap with Thanks to the efforts of managers nine goals across the economic, and employees across the Company, Our desire to deliver greater value social and environmental dimensions we can report progress against all to PIC, the citizens of Kuwait and all of sustainability. These goals have of our specific objectives for 2014stakeholders inspires us to greater proved to be a valuable guide in 15. These are important measures levels of accomplishment. As we look helping PIC enhance the efficiency that keep us moving forward. For ahead, our focus will be to explore of our own operations while helping instance, we were able to use the new opportunities to integrate our address the wider needs of Kuwait turnaround period this year to sustainability principles across our and the region. Making progress on implement several projects that operations and strategies. We will these goals has helped us achieve have achieved step changes in our achieve our aspirations through the greater operational excellence and energy and water efficiency. We also dedication of our people, through responsible corporate citizenship. significantly improved the efficiency of operational excellence and through our headquarters after implementing an unwavering commitment to Early in the process, we recognized almost a dozen separate initiatives sustainability. By doing this, we will that our employees are central to during the year. build not only a healthier and stronger the success of our sustainability business, but contribute to a healthier initiatives. A wide-reaching training I also am particularly proud of two and stronger Kuwait. program has helped employees to other items in this report – the understand that sustainability affects integration of sustainability objectives everything we do, from operating in our Enterprise Risk Management Sustainability is fundamental to safely and efficiently to treating mitigation framework, and the people with respect. Already, 80 development of our Human Rights everything we do and is more than percent of employees have received statement. These activities show training, which is important in building how our sustainability commitment merely a collection of operational the culture we need to ensure that extends beyond our facilities and is sustainability is fully integrated into fundamental to everything we do in Asaad Ahmad Al-Saad improvements. our strategies and operations. our business and in the wider world. Chief Executive Officer 6 7 This is Petrochemical Industries Company (PIC) 9 Our vision We aspire to be both a recognized global petrochemical player and admired by our stakeholders, leveraging Kuwait national resources in value-added partnerships to drive growth. Our mission Our values PIC, as a subsidiary of Kuwait • Integrity: We will act with • Commitment to HSSE and Petroleum Corporation, shall openness, trust, respect, Society: We are committed to achieve a position of leadership with fairness, transparency, honesty, environmental protection, safety, We are the petrochemical PIC is an industry leader throughout Our products are the downstream extension into highreliability, high ethical standards, security, and healthy workplaces, arm of Kuwait, leveraging our the Middle East and a growing value petrochemical businesses professionalism and accountability. as well as corporate social national resources to deliver player in the chemical industry essential building blocks while ensuring integration with KPC responsibility in Kuwait and host high-quality products to the worldwide. Delivering on our mission for countless items activities both domestically and • Excellence: We operate with communities. world. We seek to add value to maximize the value of Kuwaiti internationally by: attention to high performance, to all our stakeholders. hydrocarbon resources, 70 percent found at home and in the operational excellence, continuous • Corporate Thinking: We share of our production is at home. The • Maximizing value-addition of improvement, high-quality products a concern for KPC’s interests workplace, and used main chemical products we produce Kuwait hydrocarbons resources. and services and customer focus. and issues, striving for alignment Petrochemical Industries Company are fertilizers, olefins and aromatics. throughout daily life. with enterprise-wide goals versus (PIC) is a manufacturer and We also participate in several • Advancing our organizational • Flexibility: We are attuned to business segment objectives. marketer of chemicals, and is national and international joint performance through people market conditions, demonstrating the petrochemical arm of Kuwait ventures, which diversify our product and safety of a wide range of empowerment and infusing innovation, responsiveness and Petroleum Corporation (KPC). offerings and enable expansion into consumer products. The industry best practices. willingness to change. Established in 1963 by Amiri global markets. possibilities are without limit. decree and headquartered in • Creating a challenging and • Motivation: We seek to develop Kuwait, PIC was the first chemical Our products are the essential For more information on who we are, fulfilling environment that will a collaborative workplace, where complex in the region, representing building blocks for countless items visit www.pic.com.kw. support skills and capabilities teamwork and loyalty are driven by a significant step in diversifying found at home and in the workplace, development. a high-performance culture. Kuwait’s economy. We have always and used throughout daily life. As stood for progress and possibilities, such, we consistently aim to improve • Collaborating closely with our • P artnership: We develop longand today with world-scale the quality of life around the world, partners toward a sustained and term, value-adding relationships manufacturing facilities around the whether through increasing crop diversified global growth. that support growth and enhance world, we look forward to a future yields, enabling energy savings or operational excellence. of growth in Kuwait and abroad. increasing the durability, comfort • Fostering the national economy. 10 11 Governance Our value chain PIC is governed by a board of The CEO leads a top management are supported by PIC’s corporate seven directors, all of whom are team whose members are functional departments. non-executive except for the CEO. responsible for PIC’s three The board’s main purpose is to strategic business units, Olefins, Our business structure is ensure that the Company fulfills its Fertilizers and Aromatics, and for summarized in the organizational commitments to all stakeholders. Administration and Finance. They chart below: Board of Directors Petrochemical products are made from hydrocarbon feedstocks through numerous 1 processes and transformations. Historically, we have used natural gas as a feedstock, which is supplied by Kuwait National Petroleum Company Muhammad Al-Farhood Chairman (KNPC). However, PIC is actively exploring other feedstock options, including the use of liquid ‣ feedstocks. ‣ Mazen Al-Sardi Asaad Ahmad Al-Saad Ahmad Habeeb Vice Chairman of the Board Chief Executive Officer Board Member Ahmad Al-Jimaz Nasser Al-Shammaa Nawal Al-Fuzaia We manufacture primary building blocks, which in turn are converted into a wide array of chemical products known as intermediates. We are committed to quality, 2 Board Member Board Member Board Member ‣ safety, operational excellence and sustainability throughout our operations. CEO ‣ Third parties transport our products by 3 land and sea. Proper handling of these Legal Six Sigma Administration & Finance products is critical to avoid harm to ‣ people’s health or to the environment. Finance As such, we place great focus on proper Human Resource ERM product handling and demand that transport providers adhere to stringent ‣ requirements. Service & Information Communication Communication ‣ and Technology 4 Fertilizers Aromatics Olefins Third parties process our products into Business Analysis Business Analysis Business Analysis plastics and resins before being molded Marketing & Planning Marketing Marketing into the final consumer products. & Planning & Planning Business Corporate Business Corporate Manufacturing Development Engineering & HSE Development Planning GPIC KARO TKCS PP MEGLOBAL Equate TKOC 12 13 Key facts Awards and recognition Operations in  olden Award for outstanding performance in Health, G Safety & Environment from Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents (RoSPA) Bronze Award for Professional Management of Road of experience in Hazards from Royal Society for the Prevention of the chemical industry Employees other countries Accidents (RoSPA) First Runner Up in Partnership Project category from Arabia Corporate Social Responsibility Awards PRODUCTS primary S  econd Runner Up in Large-sized enterprise category Ammonia Urea from Arabia Corporate Social Responsibility Awards 86% Polypropylene Polypropylene Ethylene glycol 70% Finalist in Platts 2014 Global Energy Awards – Corporate Social Responsibility category joint ventures Paraxylene Benzene Styrene Methanol Monoethylene glycol (MEG) of joint venture products of the employees Diethylene glycol (DEG) Polypropylene terephthalate (PET) are produced in Kuwait are Kuwaiti Our joint ventures Certifications International investments Local investments · OHSAS 18001 ISO 27001 Health and safety management system Information security management system 33% 42.5% ISO 50001 ISO 17025 Energy management system Laboratory quality ISO 9001 ISO 22000 42.5% Quality management system Food safety management system 50% ISO 14001 14001 40% Environmental management system Responsible Care (RC) 10% 50% 57.5% 100% 14 15 Working for a better tomorrow 16 17 The sustainability intensive processes. Sustainability is therefore a priority for our industry, and necessary to create a better tomorrow for our region. PIC HAS PLAYED A LEADING ROLE IN ENSURING THAT challenges we face The role we can play Our industry will play a crucial role in addressing these challenges across the three pillars of sustainability – economic, environmental and social. The THE INDUSTRY IN OUR REGION RECOGNIZES THAT benefits of our products can be seen in sectors ranging from consumer SUSTAINABILITY IS THE ONLY products to medical equipment to agriculture and transportation. For example, fertilizers can increase food supplies. Chemical solutions can WAY TO ENSURE CONTINUED Our sustainability strategy responds to the increase safe water availability. Items made with aromatics, such as key challenges facing our world, seizing lightweight plastic components, help to save energy in a wide range of SUCCESS AND PROSPERITY the opportunities, mitigating the risks and applications, such as automobiles and trucks. These energy-saving solutions FOR FUTURE GENERATIONS. balancing the needs of stakeholders. have a positive impact on the environment. The world faces severe tests, which ge The petrochemical industry also contributes to the prosperity of our region an wa ch te the petrochemical industry globally at e r by attracting foreign investments, creating employment opportunities and locally is helping to overcome. cli m and supporting economic diversification. This coupled with employee The global population is estimated to development and social investments in our communities all contribute to the approach nine billion in 2050, which welfare of society. will put tremendous strains on the planet’s resources. Sustainability PIC has played a leading role in ensuring that the industry in our region populati asks of us to live responsibly within recognizes that sustainability is the only way to ensure continued success the planet’s resources. Therefore, and prosperity for future generations. We are a founding member of the food we must find a way to meet the on Gulf Petrochemicals and Chemicals Association (GPCA), reflecting our needs of an expanding population inc commitment to partnership. GPCA is a forum for discussion and exchange rea by providing sufficient food and safe, se of ideas, and champions several flagship initiatives. Through GPCA we secure and affordable energy, water share best practices, inspire and learn from our peer companies to drive the and other resources. At the same sustainability agenda. Priorities include: energy time, we must address critical issues such as limiting greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and protecting the Continuously improving the Reducing carbon and water Creating sustainable natural world. efficiency of energy and water footprints employment use in industry processes Climate change and water scarcity are global challenges that are SUSTAINABILITY ASKS OF US contribute to climate change, and especially significant for our is particularly important for Kuwait. region. Experts estimate that the TO LIVE RESPONSIBLY WITHIN The country’s energy efficiency, consequences of climate change THE PLANET’S RESOURCES. measured by GDP per unit of energy will be acute in the Arab Gulf region, consumption, is lower than in most which will experience less rainfall, industrialized countries. Per capita rising sea levels and more recordenergy consumption and emissions breaking temperatures. In fact, region(2), and the growth of demand of carbon dioxide are among the average temperatures could rise by for water is outstripping supply. highest in the world(3). 3oC by 2050(1). Desalination is a vital means of supplementing and protecting The threats to energy security and Water scarcity will become freshwater resources, but rising sea water availability are serious risks increasingly serious as a result of levels threaten desalination plants for the region’s economy and also climate change. Kuwait is already and increase freshwater salinity. for our industry. Petrochemical one of the world’s most waterproduction depends heavily on the (1) http://www.worldbank.org/en/news/feature/2012/12/05/facing-up-to-the-threat-of-climate-change-in-the-arab-world stressed countries, along with Using energy more efficiently is key oil and gas sector for feedstocks (2) http://www.wri.org/resources/maps/aqueduct-country-and-river-basin-rankings Bahrain, Qatar and others in the to reducing the GHG emissions that and raw materials, and uses water(3) http://data.worldbank.org/indicator/ 18 19 Our sustainability strategy Our parent company, KPC, is the environment (see the box). KPC’s PIC’s sustainability strategy has been developed in this context, building on a WE STRIVE TO SHAPE A committed to being the most sustainability policy states that the long commitment to promoting safe, efficient and ethical business practices, sustainable national oil company in company will apply sustainability being socially responsible, and managing our environmental impacts. We SUSTAINABLE TOMORROW the region, managing the country’s thinking throughout its business recognize that we operate in a regional and global ecosystem, which is THROUGH AN UNWAVERING natural resources profitably for the activities, including interactions with essential for our success, and that we share responsibility for sustaining that benefit of society, the economy and partners, customers and suppliers. ecosystem. As a signatory to the UN Global Compact (UNGC) we also aim to COMMITMENT TO QUALITY, follow the 10 UNGC Principles (see page 71). OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE We strive to shape a sustainable tomorrow through an unwavering AND SUSTAINABILITY. KPC sustainability commitments commitment to quality, operational excellence and sustainability. Our strategy calls for leading business practices that create a stronger company while benefitting future generations and leaving a smaller environmental footprint. • This can be achieved when sustainability becomes integrated into everything we do, as part of day-to-day activities and part of the mindset for everyone throughout the Company. It is the responsibility of all departments and all • employees. Following the triple bottom line approach, we have integrated economic, • social and environmental elements of our vision and mission into our sustainability strategy: • Profit PEOPLE PLANET • • • In the economic sphere, we In the social sphere, we In the environmental sphere, • aim to operate profitably, will support and advance we will help preserve the adding value to Kuwaiti opportunities for Kuwaiti environment by infusing • hydrocarbon resources and society by empowering people industry best practices and fostering the national economy through skills and capability collaborating with partners development to ensure our sustained and diversified global growth has a minimal footprint ADD VALUE EMPOWER PEOPLE PRESERVATION 20 21 Implementing our strategy 2017 PIC Sustainability Goals Strategy sets the broad Our approach is to define broad clear responsibilities and adequate In 2012, PIC conducted a risk three reflect our commitment to path for our sustainability goals for the most material aspects resources to achieve the goals. assessment and a detailed analysis responsible corporate citizenship. journey, but achieving the affecting PIC, translate these into These plans affect all aspects of of the most material topics affecting Achieving these goals will lead to strategy requires rigorous measurable targets, and to create our Company, from operations to the Company. The key sustainability safer, more efficient and productive management based on clear annual and longer-term specific, procurement to information systems elements identified were resource operations, minimize our impact policies, sound goals and measurable, achievable, realistic and more. efficiency, environmental protection, on the planet, develop current and relevant targets. and time-bound (SMART) plans with asset integrity, health, safety and future leaders in sustainability, and talent development. To responsibly improve the lives of people for address these elements, we generations. launched ambitious five-year goals, the 2017 PIC Sustainability Goals. Six of these goals are concerned Areas involved in sustainability initiative with internal operations, while Marketing and Top management Legal Finance communications Minimize Mi i i PProcess Safety Incidents PRO TE CT NG Technical Internal audit VI RONMENT services HEAL NVI Minimize Recordable TH YL Minimize Mi i i EE Injury Rate for Employees I Spills and Contractors CHAMPION TH SUSTAINABILITY HUMAN Operations EV RESOURCE D S EL ER OP AD FUTURE LE Reduce Energy Supply chain Reduce Greenhouse Information Enterprise risk Intensity and Gas Emissions technology management (ERM) procurement Reduce Water Intensity 22 23 Specific targets Sustainability governance To continue leading the way Effective governance supports and develop their understanding of WE HAVE DEFINED THE ROLES on sustainability and maturing Area 2017 Targets our commitments, defines best practices applicable to PIC’s on our journey, we finalized expectations and responsibilities, business. AND RESPONSIBILITIES Operational excellence quantitative targets for each of and ensures that progress AND ESTABLISHED THE the operational excellence goals Safety No more than 0.13 recordable injuries continues toward our goals. The The corporate Engineering, Health, in 2014, focusing attention on our per 200,000 man-hours of work governance structure formalizes Safety and Environment department PROCEDURES NECESSARY specific sustainability aspirations. the sustainability decision-making (ENGHSE) has day-to-day TO ENSURE THAT DECISIONS As in all aspects of our business, Process safety No more than 0.1 process safety authority and ensures accountability. responsibility for monitoring and successful management is based on incidents per 200,000 man-hours of work We have defined the roles and reporting performance, supported ARE BASED ON ACHIEVING measurement of performance and responsibilities and established by the Project Management Office a standard against which to assess Spills No more than one spill to the the procedures necessary to (PMO). Individual departments SUSTAINABILITY EXCELLENCE progress. We regularly review environment each year ensure that decisions are based on are responsible for implementing IN ALL OUR ACTIVITIES. performance against these targets achieving sustainability excellence plans in their area, and for finding to ensure that we take appropriate Climate change Reduce PIC GHG emissions intensity in all of our activities. As a result, solutions to specific challenges and timely action as necessary. by 14% compared to 2012-13 baseline PIC’s sustainability performance they face. Sustainability champions (2.43 t CO2e/MT of Ammonia) is effectively managed, closely in each department help to drive monitored and appropriately progress and share good practices Energy efficiency Reduce PIC energy intensity by 6% reported. throughout the organization. compared to 2012-13 baseline (51.72 GJ/MT of Ammonia) With regard to our joint ventures Performance management supports Water (JVs), PIC has representation at progress toward targets. Our Reduce PIC water intensity by 25% compared to 2012-13 baseline the board level of the JVs but balanced scorecard system includes (4.8m3/MT of Ammonia) no operational control over the sustainability targets and goals each management of the companies. Our year and sustainability performance Responsible corporate citizenship aim is to share best practices and is integrated in the department encourage our partners to follow managers’ compensation scheme. Environment Work with NGO partners and PIC’s leadership in sustainability. Compensation is based on collaborate with leaders in the field to performance against the plans, support resource conservation and To manage our material topics, ensuring effective motivation and improve life for future generations PIC has set up a Sustainability participation. Committee, chaired by the CEO, Healthy living Empower employees and their families to lead healthier lives and work with responsible for overseeing the Sustainability is also considered in NGO partners to help people in our Company’s sustainability agenda. our approach to risks, and in 2014 society lead long and healthy lives The committee reports regularly it was integrated into our Enterprise to the board. The deputy CEOs Risk Management system. As a Future leaders Invest in future leaders to help create and managers of all relevant result, sustainability-related risks a lasting sustainability legacy, and departments are committee have been identified and assigned work with NGO partners to advance to relevant departments. Each members. They set sustainabilitysustainability culture in our youth related policies and performance department is responsible for standards. The committee meets implementing mitigation measures monthly to monitor progress to minimize or prevent the identified and to ensure that sustainability risk. (See also page 36.) continues to be embedded in the mindsets of our people. Meetings also enable members to build awareness of sustainability issues 24 25 Continual improvement Key achievements We appreciate that sustainability toward our 2017 objective to be at to which we have already integrated is not achieved overnight, or even the Leading level. sustainability in our strategy and all on a five-year horizon. It is a matter key departments of the Company. Focus area What we said What we did Status What is next of continued development and Adopting our nine 2017 PIC we will do improvement. Sustainability Goals, associated with specific targets and a roadmap Economic Develop and 1. The procurement 1. Roll out the In 2012, following our initial steps defining 24 specific steps along implement a policy is developed sustainable on the path to sustainability, we the way, was a significant advance. sustainable and staff have been procurement commissioned an independent Demonstrating progress on several procurement trained. policy and map policy. the full value chain analysis of where we stood. The of these steps resulted in PIC 2. In addition, of PIC. conclusion was that we were at the reaching the Developing level in the workshops with Basic level of sustainability maturity, sustainability maturity hierarchy in the suppliers and 2. Bring cooperation the first in a five-step progression 2014. This level recognizes the extent vendors have been with vendors to organized. the next level by identifying sustainability opportunities. 2012 state Current state Future state Our people Develop human The human rights Share expertise on Goals and objectives and rights policy and position statement has human rights with Marketing and communities diversity. been prepared, after industry peers at communications Strategic direction which it was approved national, regional and Transactions Risk management by management. international events. Information technology Internal audit The statement was communicated Supply chain Human resources internally and relevant and procurement staff were trained. Finance Regulatory and compliance Our people Integrate 80% of relevant staff Identify suitable Facilities management Internal management metrics and sustainability have received the methods for annual communities into recruitment, sustainability capability engagement with PIC training and training development employees. Product development Non-Financial reporting development. program. Tax Governance Climate change initiatives Opportunity assessment portfolio Third-party Our Assess and PIC has established PIC will monitor Operations improve baselines for GHG the progress made verification environmental GHG accounting Average dimension scores impact sustainabilityemissions and energy against the targets and reporting 3.50 related actions in and water usage. In and assess further 3 operations. addition, we have set opportunities for the ambitious targets for reduction of GHG 2.50 2017. emissions and water 2 and energy use. 1.50 We will continue to raise our level of sustainability 1 maturity through the ongoing implementation of our 0.50 sustainability strategy, building on further engagement 0 requires further work achieved on track with stakeholders. 2012 state Current state Future state 26 27 Key achievements Stakeholder dialogue Maintaining the trust of our Focus area What we said What we did Status What is next stakeholders and remaining we will do accountable to them is part of our KPC corporate values. We continued Employees Employees to dialogue and collaborate with Industry Our Enhance the 1. In order to apply 1. O btain LEED associations sustainability for the LEED certification. our stakeholders throughout 2014 environmental performance Gold certification across many different channels. impact of PIC’s office we have 2. E stablish specific Through these engagements, we buildings and implemented all energy reduction clearly identified common themes Local government and equipment. recommendations targets for the of mutual interests. We aim to take JV partners environmental authority from the LEED offices. these into account and balance audit. the diverse attitudes and concerns 2. Impact of with our commitments and strategy. implemented Dialogue with stakeholders also activities is under allows PIC to explain our approach a monitoring and the efforts we undertake to NGOs Customers period. mitigate any negative impact, while helping the Company improve its Control and Establish a 1. T  he stakeholder 1. Leverage the economic, environmental and social assurance stakeholder engagement release of PIC’s engagement process has sustainability performance. process. been piloted and report to engage Local Contractors updated based with stakeholders Whether locally or internationally, the communities and suppliers on the feedback on sustainability method and channel of engagement we received. initiatives. are tailored to the circumstances of Media Labor each stakeholder group. We primarily unions 2. D  eveloping a 2. Identify and strategy for engage with engage our stakeholders through: engaging with additional the governmental external bodies and stakeholder regulatory groups. authorities. Satisfaction surveys Conferences and Feedback loops Meetings requires further work achieved on track For staff and employees, exhibitions Whether through direct PIC holds a series of conducted on regular PIC participates in local, meetings, electronic meetings year-round with basis to gauge the views regional and international communications or our all of its stakeholders; of the stakeholders on the events to learn and share internal online systems, for example, townhall Company’s efforts and expertise on emerging PIC constantly requests meetings for employees, activities, and provide practices within the feedback from all of its one-on-one meetings with relevant updates to senior industry. These events stakeholders to improve its governmental authorities, management accordingly. provide PIC with the processes and operations. general meetings with opportunity to engage with suppliers and top its peers, suppliers and management meetings customers. with joint ventures. 28 29 Through conversations across the different channels, we identified themes of importance for each stakeholder: Materiality Despite our ongoing efforts to In 2013, a comprehensive survey was business is impacted by these issues. use is energy consumption as Stakeholder Interests and concerns maintain a dialogue with our undertaken to capture the concerns The complete list of material items feedstock and fuel, while indirect stakeholders, we recognize the need of 21 key internal stakeholders from was further analyzed in terms of PIC’s energy is electricity consumption. KPC • Financial sustainability for PIC to have a more proactive different functions with regard to strategic objectives and presented • Corporate governance approach in engaging with the various sustainability issues potentially to the Sustainability Committee for •  ater consumption: sources and W KPC different stakeholder groups on affecting PIC. In parallel, interviews consideration. quantity of water used, and any Employees Employees • Professional development sustainability-related topics. In 2013, with external stakeholders were practices to recycle or reuse water • Employees y ons Long-term job security we established the sustainability performed to identify their views and This process resulted in a reviewed in operations. mployees mployees KPC • Health and safety stakeholder engagement guidelines, expectations vis-à-vis sustainability. mapping of the topics potentially • Employees • EmployeesEmployees Employees Employees Employees Employees Resolving complaint mechanism and our efforts in the past year were Combining outcomes from both affecting PIC against concerns of  ccupational health and safety: O Employees focused on further strengthening groups of stakeholders, the issues stakeholders. The most material topics fatalities, rates of injury, lost days environmental authority• Contribution to Kuwaiti economy Local government and Local government the process and feedback loop. were mapped into low, medium and are those of highest concern on both and absenteeism, workforce Local government and and KPC environmental • Compliance with laws and This is important to support our high categories on a materiality matrix. axes (see graph below): education and training, risk control Local environmental government authority authority and regulations Local government and environmental authority Employees Employees Company in having a clear and These issues were reported upon in particularly transparency, energy and programs for employees and Local governmentenvironmental Industry and authority Local government and associations environmental authority environmental authority consistent message with regard the second PIC sustainability report water consumptions, health and safety, communities near operational Customers • Product and price to the image it wishes to project, (2013-14). and emissions and spills. centers. Customers • Distribution and service including PIC’s role in meeting the • Safety and security of products national goals for Kuwait. Therefore, This year, we have updated our •  ransparency: a disclosure T • P  rocess safety: number of Customers Customers Customers • Rauthority Local government and environmental esponsible operations and with the support of the Corporate materiality matrix based on targeted of our economic, social and process safety events by business Customers Customers KPC sustainability Planning Department, PIC has sustainability dialogues with our environmental activities and their activity. Employees Employees established a strategy focusing on internal and external stakeholders, impacts in a clear and balanced • Industry Contractors associations and Contractors Timely payments engagement with key stakeholder reputation research on PIC, benchmark way. • E  missions and spills: greenhouse • and suppliers suppliers Long-term partnerships groups, primarily the governmental results within our sector, and internal gases and other releases to the Contractors Contractors and suppliers Customers authorities and regulatory bodies. enterprise risk analysis. The evaluation • E  nergy consumption: direct and environment that are considered to • Contractors Media and suppliers Contractors Labor unions Labor and suppliers unions Contractors Employee rights The strategy will be implemented in focused primarily on how PIC’s indirect energy uses. Direct energy be pollutants. • and suppliers Local government and JV partners and suppliers Democratic management environmental authority the coming years, and we shall report bor ions Labor • Transparency on its impact in future reports. unions Labor unions cal Media KPC Contractors • Transparency and disclosure material • unities and suppliers Industry Responsible Employeesoperations and Employees 10 NGOs associations sustainabilityCustomers 18 1 Economic performance 2 Indirect economic impact 3 Energy Media Labor 4 Water 5 Biodiversity 6 Climate change 7 Environmental 6 unions compliance 8 Products and services 9 Employment Local communities • Support for community 4 importance to stakeholders 10 Occupational health and safety 11 Training and education • Job creation Local government and 9 8 2 12 Diversity & equal opportunity 13 Non-discrimination • JV partners 14 Freedom of association and collective bargaining 15 Human Local environmental impacts environmental authority 5 Local 16 3 rights 16 Local communities 17 Corruption 18 Asset integrity Contractors 17 communities and suppliers and process safety 19 Product and service labeling • 15 1 NGOs Impact on environment and 11 KPC communities • Media Labor unions Support for local causes Employees Employees 14 More information about how we Industry Customers NGOs associations work to build a better tomorrow by JV partners • Corporate governance 13 19 managing these material topics is • Profit distribution 12 provided in the following sections. • Information sharing We aim to highlight our performance not material • Local government and 7 JV partners Cooperationenvironmental and mutual authoritybenefit in a balanced and fair manner, also Local Contractors communities and suppliers discussing the challenges we face to Industry • Responsible operations not material importance to PIC material achieve our desired results. associations and sustainability • Leading KPC Media Labor Employees unions business practices Employees Industry Customers NGOs 30 associations 31 Building a stronger business. Diversifying Kuwait’s economy. 32 33 Developing the Company 2014-15 Highlights and the economy Revenues Profits Savings Investments The petrochemical industry in our region plays an important part not only in generating economic value but also in diversifying the region’s economy. Oil is still a major part of the regional economy and oil exports US$1.09 Billion US$595 Million US$20 Million provide the bulk of national income Initiated several major for Kuwait and other countries. Savings from 53 investments at home However, the petrochemical sector Six Sigma projects and abroad has grown substantially and Kuwait is one of the regional leaders in PIC makes an important contribution Our business has a direct economic for all of our stakeholders, based on petrochemicals. to the national and regional impact from the jobs we create and operating as a profitable, responsible economy. We create prosperity for investments we make. We also have business. (See our annual report for The fertilizer industry plays a major employees, suppliers, customers and indirect impacts through our supply full financial data.) role in the national economy. In communities through our projects chain and the use of our products. addition to providing urea for and the investments we make. In each case, we aim to create value farmers to produce food, it helps to maximize Kuwait’s hydrocarbon resources by adding value to the natural gas used as a feedstock. PIC is a major player – our factories Sharing value produce nine percent of Gulf fertilizer output. consumer products, such as fibers, THE COMPANY IS MOVING paints, plastics, detergents, textiles, Our leadership role cosmetics and medicines. FORWARD WITH NUMEROUS Through international investments STRATEGIC PROJECTS, INSIDE and joint ventures, PIC has created PIC is a leader in ethylene glycol a geographically diverse business manufacturing and marketing, AND OUTSIDE KUWAIT. WE Revenue received: that extends well beyond Kuwait’s producing three million tons a year. ARE MAKING MANY NEW borders. Our ambition is to reach Through our partnerships, we are US$1.09 billion 15 million tonnes of production by the world’s second largest company (KWD 328 million) VALUE-ADDED INVESTMENTS, 2025, creating revenues of US$20 in ethylene glycol marketing and we Operating and other costs: Economic value retained: billion (KWD 6 billion). continue to develop at home and ESPECIALLY IN OLEFINS. US$495 million US$595 million abroad. (KWD 149.1 million) (KWD 178.9 million) The Company is moving forward with numerous strategic projects, Our strategy in olefins is to become (MOU) with the Indian Oil & Gas PIC economic performance for 2014-15 inside and outside Kuwait. We are one of the leading international Authority for a major share in two making many new value-added petrochemical companies by petrochemical projects in India, and investments, especially in olefins, finding new local and international another MOU with the Bahraini Oil As PIC has evolved over the past significance for the Kuwaiti economy. magazine in the top 20 most which include ethylene, propylene expansion opportunities, and & Gas Holding Company to build 50 years from a local company to The success and importance of the influential personalities in the refining and butadiene, and are a major by entering the specialized an aromatics factory in Bahrain. We an international leader, we have Company is reflected in our CEO and petrochemical industry in the part of the petrochemical industry. petrochemical sector. also explored a potential role in an welcomed the responsibilities Mr. Asaad Ahmad Al-Saad being Middle East. These intermediates are involved In 2014-15, we signed a integrated refining and petrochemical associated with our growing named by Refining & Petrochemicals in the manufacture of many basic Memorandum of Understanding plant in China and petrochemical 34 35 for up to three years, and boosts the efficiency of the equipment. This Providing economic opportunities allows increased production and fewer non-scheduled shutdowns, and further minimizes environmental impacts. Sustainability risks and Grades and numbers of national and opportunities international employees As a leader in sustainability, PIC As a leading employer in Kuwait, has incorporated economic, social PIC contributes to Kuwait’s efforts Labor senior and environmental aspects into our to build a more skilled Kuwaiti enterprise risk matrix. Relevant risks workforce. We provide jobs for local 63 21 are included in our risk catalogue, people and business opportunities which classifies and prioritizes all for local suppliers. In 2014-15, 85.6 risks to the business. percent of our employees were Kuwaitis, meeting the 2030 target All departments are required set by the Kuwait Government and to reassess their relevant risks our parent company, KPC. All of our 246 184 each year. The Enterprise Risk top managers, managers and team Management team analyzes those leaders are Kuwaiti citizens. that are identified and categorizes Managers and TOP them according to severity. We define team leaders MANAGEMENT appropriate risk management and 0 0 mitigation strategies for each risk. investment opportunities with major Applying Six Sigma techniques international companies in the USA. and tools for process and quality  he very high sustainability risks we T Supporting local suppliers also With the South Korean Company improvement has improved efficiency have considered include: makes a valuable contribution to SK, we are investigating a possible throughout the organization. In 2014the national economy, as well as partnership to produce propylene 15, we have carried out 53 projects • Reputational provides PIC with supply security. 64 5 and similar products. These are that have created total savings of In 2014-15, our material purchases in addition to the Olefins III and US$20 million (KWD 6 million). • Market position totaled US$47 million (KWD 14.1 Aromatics II plants in Kuwait. The million), almost 75 percent of which pre-feasibility studies for the refining/ The periodic turnaround of the • Volatility in the feedstock price was from suppliers in the country of International employees National employees petrochemical integrated complex fertilizer plants is an opportunity to operation. are underway and will be completed undertake major capital improvement •  ealth, safety and environment H in financial year 2015-16. projects, as well as routine non-compliance maintenance. The turnaround took Improving productivity place over seven weeks at the end The risk assessment at the end Summary of material purchases during 2014-15 We constantly strive to create of 2014, with an overall budget of of 2014-15 considered that the additional value by improving US$107 million (KWD 32.2 million). likelihood and/or severity of several Suppliers Number of Amount in million US$ Percentage of productivity. Since 2007, we have The maintenance operational of these risks have been reduced purchase orders (equivalent in million payments applied Six Sigma methodology element was US$28.9 million (KWD due to the various sustainability (POs) KWD) to achieve comprehensive and 8.7 million) and there was a capital projects and initiatives implemented continual improvement in our plants budget of US$78.1 million throughout the Company. Local suppliers 1,573 35.16 (10.57) 74.8 and the way we work. More and (KWD 23.5 million). This significant more employees have been trained investment is critical to achieving This result demonstrates how Foreign suppliers 605 11.84 (3.54) 25.2 in the Six Sigma methodology. In ever-increasing levels of operational sustainability extends beyond 2014-15, 12 employees received excellence. Activities implemented impacting our communities and Total 2,178 47 (14.1) 100 Green Belt certification and 10 were during the turnaround ensure the environment to ensuring healthy certified as Black Belts. continuation of the plants’ operations business continuity. 36 37 Caring for customers Our sustainability leadership Our ambition is to apply the policy THIS YEAR, WE INTEGRATED PIC provides customers with The results of our frequent customer extends to the supply chain. We to all of our purchases, and require essential building blocks for their end satisfaction surveys reflect our want suppliers to follow practices in procurement staff not only to OUR SUSTAINABLE products. Fundamentally, we want customers’ recognition that PIC keeps line with our sustainability policies. incorporate sustainable criteria PROCUREMENT POLICY IN ALL our products to meet customers’ its commitments nine times out of 10. Since oil and chemical suppliers in evaluating product and service needs safely and effectively. We The surveys identified opportunities to are a priority for our Company, options, but also to support suppliers OIL AND CHEMICAL SUPPLIER are committed to ensuring that the improve our services, for example: we decided to engage them in their sustainable development. products and services we provide AGREEMENTS. first. This year, we integrated our By playing a part in extending are of the highest quality, meeting •  roviding them with more flexible P sustainable procurement policy sustainability throughout the local and international standards, payment terms; in all oil and chemical supplier economy, we promote sustainable and we aim to ensure the safe agreements. The policy also drives awareness among local suppliers use of products once they leave • A  ccommodating their requests in continuous improvement by requiring and contractors, and support them our sites. As a Responsible Care® contract negotiations and updating benchmarking of procurement with training and advice to help them certified company, our commitment them on changes in our Terms and performance to identify areas for follow best practices. to safely handle our products Conditions; improvement. In 2014 we introduced through manufacture and distribution a new requirement for sustainability extends, to ultimate reuse, recycle • Improving invoice and document factors to account for 10 percent of and disposal. accuracy and settling claims the score in supplier assessments. promptly. 38 39 Empowering people. Strengthening communities. 40 41 2014-15 Highlights Building a vibrant workforce 98% of the workforce 80% of our junior and We aim to build a talented and engaged workforce, offering good conditions in safe workplaces to received antisenior staff trained on recruit the best and brightest minds, corruption training sustainability and developing people to make the most of their talents. Employee benefits include annual leave entitlement, social security, medical insurance and inflation adjustments. Wages are almost twice the minimum wage at entry level in the public sector in Kuwait and we provide a motivational increment for Kuwaiti employees. Developed a new Continued to sponsor the PIC helps employees nearing the Launched a new human rights INJAZ Al-Arab Regional end of their careers by providing scientific research position statement competition for Young Entrepreneurs pre-retirement training and secondary school Competition assistance in transitioning to their students new life. The Company contributes to pension plans for Kuwaiti employees and other residents in the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) Responsible citizenship is a vital aspect of sustainability countries. Pension payments to the leadership. Therefore, we aim to provide safe, healthy retirement fund are based on salaries workplaces and contribute to the wellbeing of our and length of service (see table 01). communities. PIC strives to create a diverse, By developing people, encouraging Table 01: Retirement benefit plans for PIC employees engaged and productive workforce healthy lifestyles and by investing and support the communities where in our communities, we will build a Length of Kuwaitis Other GCC residents employees live and work. We will better tomorrow; a future marked employment get there by creating a safe and by employee and community healthy workplace that fosters engagement and sustained Up to 5 years Yearly payment equivalent to 30 days Yearly payment equivalent to 15 days of of salary salary personal growth and opportunity, company success. and by meeting our 2017 More than 5 years Yearly payment equivalent to 45 days Yearly payment equivalent to 30 days of responsible corporate citizenship of salary salary goals. 42 43 Developing employees to Table 02: Our training commitment in 2014-15 fulfill their potential We provide a variety of training Employment level Staff Hours of and development opportunities. trained training Employees benefit by improving their knowledge, skills and abilities so that Labor (up to grade 14) 309 10,197 they can reach their full potential, while PIC benefits from having a Senior (grade 15-17) 205 6,765 more effective workforce. Management and team leaders 64 2,112 Training and development (grade 18-20) opportunities are provided based on individual needs identified during Top management 5 165 annual performance reviews, and on the needs of the Company. Performance reviews help PIC maintain the high standards required to achieve our objectives. All staff received performance reviews in Building sustainability awareness and capability 2014-15, except 15 employees due to illness or secondments. In order to maintain sustainability leadership, it is essential that we develop a culture throughout the Company that recognizes Programs cover technical and the importance of social and environmental responsibility. Building engagement and · Increase transparency of the covered the business’s major professional skills, as well as Everyone must understand that sustainable success requires a employee satisfaction reward and recognition process targets for the year and the progress managerial and leadership aspects, sustainability mindset. We believe an engaged, satisfied already achieved in the first quarter. anti-corruption and sustainability. workforce is more fulfilled and more The implementation of activities Furthermore, the annual appraisal They are delivered through internal We have developed a long-term sustainability capability productive. Therefore, we seek to build from the action plan started in process has been amended to include workshops and e-learning modules. development roadmap to achieve our goal of embedding good communications with employees 2014-15. The CEO led a workshop three meetings per year between the In 2014-15 we provided more than sustainability in everything we do. The goal is for all employees to ensure mutual understanding and committed to further improving employees and their direct managers. 19,000 hours training across all to understand sustainability, PIC’s role in sustainable employee involvement. employee satisfaction, during During these meetings, employees’ employment levels at PIC, equivalent development in Kuwait and in the region, and their own role in which he discussed plans with the progress against the yearly objectives to approximately 33 hours per continuing to meet PIC’s objectives. The roadmap is based on Following the outcomes of the Deputy CEOs, managers and team is discussed, and management employee (see table 02). a new sustainability competency program that aims to increase Employee Engagement Survey that leaders. Top management has also support is provided as needed. understanding of sustainability and ensure that employees was implemented in February 2014, held several town hall meetings can implement sustainability initiatives in their professional and the Human Resources department has during which employees interact Employees may also interact personal lives. developed an action plan to address directly to discuss performance and more formally with the Company the areas of concern and increase overall Company plans. In particular, through the PIC workers’ union. The In 2014-15, we conducted a series of workshops and online employee satisfaction results. The meetings with all employees over two union, part of the national oil and training modules for our senior and junior staff covering general focus areas of the action plan are: days at the plants and headquarters petrochemical union, is recognized concepts of sustainability. We achieved coverage of 80 percent stressed the desire for dialogue. as the official union for the sector in of employees by the end of March 2015. This exceeded our · Increase communications between The slogan “We Want to Hear You” Kuwait, and has worked to improve target communicated in the 2013-2014 Sustainability Report to management and employees captured top management’s intent. conditions for workers for almost train 70 percent of PIC employees within the year. Follow-up meetings sustained this 50 years. We encourage employees · Improve the employees’ annual theme. For example, the Deputy CEO to join, and at the end of 2014-15, appraisal process to provide for Fertilizers met with employees 96 percent of PIC employees were constructive feedback in August 2014. The discussion members. 44 45 Seeing diversity as a strength Table 03: number of employees at each employee level Encouraging ethical behavior A diverse workforce creates a PIC shares with all companies in valuable blend of skills, experiences, MEN WOMEN the KPC group a common Code cultures and styles. We provide a of Conduct (“the Code”), which is working environment known for equal developed by representatives from opportunity, regardless of gender, each company. The Code requires age, race or other demographic all employees to uphold the highest 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 characteristics. In particular, we are standards of integrity and personal proud to offer the same opportunities 302 321 281 27 31 28 conduct in all matters involving PIC, to women as to men, but recognize including interactions with colleagues, that the proportion of women in our vendors, customers, contractors, Company remains relatively low (see government agencies and the public. table 03). In the coming years, we Sections of the Code deal with will actively increase our recruitment 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 respect, ethics and confidentiality, of qualified women for a diversity of and cover social and environmental 170 182 187 16 15 18 roles at PIC. topics and human rights. Furthermore, in line with our gender The Code also addresses topics equality policy, men and women such as respect for religious beliefs, receive the same basic salaries 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 fair treatment and freedom of relevant to their position. However, expression. We understand that as per Kuwait Labor Law, married 58 56 61 3 3 3 business excellence is based on male employees are eligible for extra respect for the dignity, rights and benefits, such as child and housing ambitions of everyone, and this is allowances, which are not provided intrinsic to our corporate values to married women. This legal 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 and our support for the UN Global requirement results in small variances Compact (UNGC). UNGC. The human rights statement child and enforced labor, freedom in women’s wages compared to men. 5 5 5 1 0 0 has been approved by management of association and the right to Training sessions explain the and communicated internally. engage in collective bargaining Code for new employees. Training or refreshers on anti-corruption The human rights statement · Communities: respecting are mandatory each year for all emphasizes our support of cultures, customs and values; 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 employees. In 2014-15, 98 percent international standards; national positively influencing the 535 564 534 47 49 49 of our workforce received antiand international laws, including the communities where we operate; corruption training. principles in the Universal Declaration and promoting human rights of Human Rights; United Nations by improving economic, Respecting human rights Guiding Principles on Business environmental and social Average women’s wages as % of men’s in 2014 We support the protection of and Human Rights; and relevant conditions internationally recognized human conventions and standards of the rights in our sphere of influence, and International Labor Organization. · Suppliers: establishing and we are committed to developing an maintaining procedures to 93 97 99 organizational culture that seeks to This commitment is embedded in evaluate and select major avoid complicity in human rights our human rights and social policies, suppliers and contractors, based abuses. In 2014-15, we developed internal risk assessment processes on global rights conventions and a human rights position statement and guidelines. It covers: social policies to reflect our commitment and Labor Senior Managers and demonstrate progress in achieving · Employees: including nonteam leaders the human rights principles of the discrimination, prohibition of 46 47 All our contracts and significant investment agreements require In parallel with releasing our human rights position statement, WE SUPPORT THE PROTECTION OF INTERNATIONALLY Creating a healthy and safe workplace compliance with Kuwaiti labor law a focused workshop was conducted and the human rights requirements with relevant staff to improve their RECOGNIZED HUMAN RIGHTS Kuwait recognizes. Our contract awareness and understanding of the IN OUR SPHERE OF INFLUENCE, supervisors are responsible for issues, and enable them to integrate monitoring the performance of the commitments made in the AND WE ARE COMMITTED contractors, including their treatment statement in their daily job activities. TO DEVELOPING AN of workers. This is particularly This initiative reinforces our values, important in relation to our and will make respect of human ORGANIZATIONAL CULTURE temporary labor force, most of which rights integral to PIC’s work. THAT SEEKS TO AVOID is outsourced to contractors. COMPLICITY IN HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSES. Our human rights commitments · To develop an organizational culture that supports internationally recognized human rights, and to avoid complicity in human rights abuses. · To improve our human rights performance by investing in training employees to think and act globally toward social, environmental, health and economic issues. · To give equal rights and opportunities for males and females. · To seek an open dialogue with stakeholders, and participate in community engagement activities. · To ensure the provision of security is consistent with international Maintaining the highest standards on “You & Cholesterol.” A doctor A WORKPLACE CANNOT standards of best practice and the laws of the countries in which of health and safety is part of our explained the causes, negative BE PRODUCTIVE OR SAFE we operate, using security services only where necessary, and approach to operational excellence impacts and protection against requiring the use of force only when necessary and proportionate as well as a commitment to and treatment of high cholesterol, WITHOUT A HEALTHY to the threat. employee, customer and contractor highlighting the importance of WORKFORCE. well-being. A workplace cannot be lifestyle, daily exercise, and eating productive or safe without a healthy fruit and vegetables. workforce. PIC’s Bubyan Club also supports Our regular communications to employee well-being by providing employees include articles and opportunities for recreation and events about healthy diets, heart exercise. Employees can come health and the significance of together in the Club with their physical activity. For example, families and guests for recreation and medical sessions at the head office fitness activities and classes. and the plants in 2014 focused 48 49 Contributing to communities A safe workplace reporting to KPC. We also aim to OUR 2017 PIC SUSTAINABILITY As a leader in responsible business, We recognize that minimizing transparently report our safety PIC supports the communities GOALS INCLUDE TWO HEALTH accidents and injuries requires a performance to the public according where we operate in many ways, strong culture of safety awareness. to the OHSAS and Responsible AND SAFETY TARGETS: THE in addition to providing jobs and Establishing this culture begins with Care® guidelines, for example supporting services and industries. RECORDABLE INJURY RATE PIC’s CEO who chairs the Safety, through this report. We aim to create mutual benefits Health and Environment Executive AND PROCESS SAFETY by establishing good relationships Committee (SHEEC). This committee We monitor process safety with our communities, and providing INCIDENTS. is responsible for setting policies in performance using leading indicators employees with opportunities to be these areas, monitoring performance such as the results of inspections involved locally. and directing action to maintain and tests of equipment, as well as process safety incident during the performance and close gaps where lagging indicators of incidents such year. Also, it is with great sadness Employees enthusiastically support needed. Our 2017 PIC Sustainability as industrial non-disability injury that we report a fatality during the projects such as helping in schools, Goals include two health and safety (INDI) and industrial disabling injury turnaround activities. The accident environmental projects and targets: the recordable injury rate and (IDI). The data is analyzed to identify was thoroughly investigated by an sponsored events. For example, process safety incidents. causes and actions required to international independent team and a PIC delegation expressed their achieve continual improvement. corrective actions are being put in social concern through a visit to the Our policy requires an integrated place to prevent a similar occurrence. Ahmadi hospital on the occasion management system compatible In 2014-15, we didn’t record any This was the first fatality at PIC since of Eid to exchange congratulations with international standards such occupational disease among our 2011. These incidents resulted in a and convey best wishes for patients’ as OHSAS 18001 and Responsible employees, and we achieved our recordable injury rate of 0.079. quick recoveries. Care® certification. The management health and safety targets (see table in the Six Sigma methodology and and support for Kuwait through systems include measurable targets 04). There was one incident involving Our community efforts are aligned other management practices to help sponsorship of the Kuwait Disabled and monthly internal and external a restricted work type injury and one to the external goals in our improve the hospital’s effectiveness. Club. We supported the Club in the sustainability strategy, targeting PIC also sponsored the 6th Friends International Athletics Championship Table 04: PIC health and safety performance against targets healthy living and developing of Hearts Marathon, which was held in the United Arab Emirates leaders. organized by the hospital under in 2014. The Club’s team collected Target 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 the patronage and presence of the 42 gold, silver and bronze medals Promoting health Minister of Health, Dr. Ali Al-Obeidi. and set new records that qualified No more than 0.13 We support the nation’s health by team members for the 2015 World 0 0 0.079 recordable injuries working with a leading hospital and We also conduct health awareness Athletics Championship. per 200,000 promoting health awareness, which campaigns, which aim to increase man-hours of work can prevent illness and avoid the healthy food choices among children Developing leaders need for hospital treatment. and instill healthy lifestyles at an early We understand the value of good age. leadership for our country and all A major initiative is the cooperation walks of life in Kuwait. To achieve No more than 0.1 agreement with the Chest Diseases Recognizing the importance of our goal of developing future leaders, process safety incidents per 200,000 0 0 0.039 hospital in Kuwait. Our commitment sport in a healthy lifestyle, PIC we support activities with schools, man-hours of work includes training hospital employees demonstrates social responsibility universities and other institutions. 50 51 IN 2014 WE LAUNCHED A SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH COMPETITION FOR SECONDARY SCHOOL STUDENTS, PROVIDING AN OPPORTUNITY FOR THEM TO DEVELOP THEIR TALENTS AND SKILLS AND GENERATE EXCITEMENT ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY AND BECOMING THE NEXT GENERATION OF THE COUNTRY’S ENGINEERS. One of our annual traditions is to Recognizing that entrepreneurship Kuwait’s youth. The focus this year honor the outstanding students is vital for the country’s future, is targeting small projects that among employees’ children. The we support tomorrow’s business use petrochemical by-products. CEO and other senior managers leaders by sponsoring the Al-Mubader’s co-sponsors were attend a ceremony recognizing the INJAZ Al-Arab Regional Young EQUATE Petrochemicals and The hard work and achievements of the Entrepreneurs Competition and Dow Chemical Company. young people who are the backbone the Al-Mubader national project. of the country’s future. The INJAZ competition celebrated its 10th anniversary in 2014, and Developing young people’s science during its first decade almost two and business skills is vital for our million students from 14 nations country’s future and we actively participated. The competition help to develop students in both of encourages young entrepreneurs to these areas. In 2014 we launched a embrace innovation and risk-taking, scientific research competition for and develop their business skills. secondary school students, providing They spend six months working with an opportunity for them to develop corporate mentors to establish (and their talents and skills and generate eventually liquidate) a real business. excitement about sustainability Each student enterprise presents its and becoming the next generation business venture to a panel of judges of the country’s engineers. The and the audience at the final event. competition was run in cooperation with the Faculty of Engineering at PIC was also one of three exclusive Kuwait University and the topic sponsors of the Al-Mubader was “Waste Management for Better national project, an initiative to Environment.” develop business leadership among 52 Minimizing our impact. Protecting our planet. 53 2014-15 Highlights We have continued to make progress toward our 2017 PIC Sustainability Goals and voluntary targets, reducing our impacts and contributing to improving the environment in Kuwait. Operational KPIs against base year 2012-13(1) Energy intensity: GHG emissions Water use intensity: increased by intensity: decreased by decreased by A healthy environment is essential operations and products. Using OUR ULTIMATE GOAL IS for prosperity, yet human activity these resources efficiently benefits and its impact on the environment our nation, our Company and our SIMPLE: CREATING A BETTER is threatening the planet’s ability stakeholders. TOMORROW FOR KUWAIT AND to sustain the growing population. Depletion of natural capital and the Furthermore, PIC’s operations can OUR WORLD effects of climate change will present affect the environment through dire environmental challenges to emissions to air, land and water. We our region during this century that have set tangible reduction targets scientists believe could impact the for the most material impacts: quality of life. Already, scarce water greenhouse gas emissions, energy resources are under increasing use and water consumption in Sustainability Goals, which we will pressure and the biodiversity of our our operations. We have shown achieve by focusing on operational Decrease in waste region is threatened. These changes leadership in taking actions to excellence, embracing opportunities water discharge could have serious social and improve our environmental impacts to innovate and developing Spills in economic consequences. in accordance with the principles environmental awareness throughout year-on-year of the UN Global Compact and the Kuwait. PIC management is closely PIC depends on the availability chemical industry’s Responsible monitoring our environmental of non-renewable resources for Care® initiative. We are further performance against established both feedstock and energy. In committed to working with other targets and taking action to ensure this context, we are concerned leaders in the field to improve the we meet these targets. about the efficient use of precious environment in Kuwait. hydrocarbon resources, and accept Our ultimate goal is simple: creating our responsibility in managing Our environmental efforts are a better tomorrow for Kuwait and our (1) Due to turnaround activities, the normalized data is higher than it would otherwise be under normal business conditions. the environmental impacts of our centered on our 2017 PIC world. 54 55 From compliance to Managing our impacts responsibility PIC began the sustainability journey We continue to conduct studies and maintenance activities, which also when we recognized the need to implement initiatives to improve lead to GHG emissions. Therefore, move from passive compliance with the environmental performance the normalized data per tonne of laws and regulations to leading the 1 of our operations. Investing in ammonia production is higher than industry in our region in developing a Historical reaction environmental protection helps our it would otherwise be under normal more responsible business. Defining business as well as protects natural business conditions. our 2017 PIC Sustainability Goals resources because it improves the Passive measures to: represented a move from passive efficiency of our plants and lowers • Respond to external requirements response to a voluntary, proactive • Abide by laws and regulations costs. These costs, therefore, create approach to global citizenship. We • Address stakeholders’ questions benefits for the Company and all recognize that there is much more • Compete with regional peers of our stakeholders. Environmental to do as we continue the transition spending in 2014-15 amounted toward creating sustainable value for to US$781,445 (KWD 235,000) all stakeholders, and assisting others compared to US$721,589 (KWD to follow a similar journey. 2 217,000) in 2013-14. Transitional phase In addition to action to improving our operations, we work with others Proactive citizenship by: in Kuwait to protect the country’s • Recognizing our environmental and environment and help habitats to social responsibilities recover. This activity is included in • Setting long-term sustainability strategy • Engaging all PIC departments in the end of this chapter. sustainability initiatives • Collaborating with external partners In the following sections, we present our environmental data for the fiscal year 2014-15, and in comparison with the previous two years’ data. 3 It is important to note here that Working for a better we had a planned turnaround (a tomorrow periodic shutdown of plants) during November and December 2014, Responsibly creating a future-proof which impacts our intensity figures. business by: There is no production during the • Embracing technological innovation turnaround period, while energy • Driving growth based on efficient and water are still used for the use of resources • Integrating sustainability into everything we do • Sharing knowledge and working with peers to spread awareness 56 57 strategy, the committee initiates again in the coming years when full specific projects and carries out production resumes. energy awareness trainings as a means of meeting annual objectives. As part of our continued efforts Following a detailed energy audit in to further decrease our energy 2013-14 and better monitoring of our consumption, this year we installed consumption, we were able this year a boiler feed water (BFW) preheater to define an energy reduction target in the Ammonia III steam system. for 2017 against base year 2012. We plan to install a BFW preheater in the Ammonia II steam system, In 2014-15, the total energy and a process gas preheater in consumption of our operations the Ammonia II convection section decreased compared to the previous during the 2017 turnaround. These two years, though energy intensity projects will enhance PIC’s energy increased due to the turnaround. We efficiency. expect this increase to be temporary, and our energy intensity to decrease Total direct energy consumption 33.000 GJ 000s 32.000 Energy use 31.000 30.000 29.000 In our plants 28.000 Manufacturing urea and ammonia 27.000 is energy-intensive, using natural Energy Intensity Target 26.000 Reduce PIC energy intensity by 6% gas for process and fuel as direct 25.000 compared to 2012-13 baseline energy sources, as well as electricity (51.72 GJ/MT of Ammonia) 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 in unit operations (indirect energy). Reducing the energy intensity [gigajoules (GJ) consumed per tonne of ammonia produced] of our operations is a major measure Energy consumption, energy intensity and ammonia production to lower our environmental impact and improve our progress toward Indicator 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 protecting natural resources. Though Total direct energy consumption (GJ 000s) 31.097 32.307 27.618 we use diesel in our plants (for example, for back-up generators), Energy intensity From process gas 13.728 14.354 11.938 consumption is not material 55 GJ/MT ammonia compared to natural gas. Therefore, 53 17.369 17.953 15.680 From fuel gas diesel consumption is not included in 51 our energy usage calculations. 49 Energy intensity (GJ/MT ammonia) 51.72 48.98 52.4 47 Consequently, an energy optimization 45 Indirect energy consumption in operations committee has been operating since 282,351 329,326 292,559 43 (MWh) 2002, responsible for continually 41 improving our energy consumption. 39 Ammonia production (MT) 599,045 659,790 547,105 Based on an energy management 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 58 59 In our headquarters Water use Electricity used in our headquarters’ reducing electricity consumption in offices contributes to our indirect offices by an average of 10 percent. Kuwait faces serious water scarcity energy consumption, though it is These projects were based on due to high per capita consumption Water Intensity Target relatively small compared to our the findings of a building audit for by international standards and Reduce PIC water intensity by 25% plants’ energy use. As part of our the LEED building sustainability increasing demand due to the growing compared to 2012-13 baseline commitment to conserve energy standard. Completion of the projects population and need for irrigation. It (4.8m3/MT of Ammonia) throughout the Company, we have will enable us to apply for Gold is therefore especially important that carried out several projects in our certification under the LEED scheme PIC increase the efficiency with which headquarters during the year, which in coming years. we use the substantial volumes of we estimate will support PIC in water required by our processes. The water we use comes from municipal sources, and every liter we save is an Indirect energy consumption in head office extra liter for domestic or other uses. 42.000 KWh Our 2017 target is to reduce the water 40.000 38.000 intensity of production (cubic meters Water use intensity per tonne of ammonia produced) by 6 m3/MT ammonia 36.000 34.000 25 percent compared to 2012-13. 32.000 4.5 30.000 In 2014-15, we achieved usage 28.000 intensity of 4.3 cubic meters per 3 26.000 tonne of ammonia produced, a 10.54 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 percent reduction compared to the 1.5 base year 2012-13. This reduction is mainly due to 400 cubic meters of 0 Energy saving projects implemented in our headquarters water being continuously recycled 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 within our processes, and the reuse Projects implemented Description of water from the hydrolyser unit for Solar reflective paint on the roof The roof of the headquarters was coated with special irrigation, which accounts for almost paint that not only reflects the sun’s heat but also one-third of PIC’s water demand. benefits the environment because less energy is needed to cool down building interiors. Our water intensity figures presented in the chart do not account for Dual set point for HVAC system Dual set point for HVAC system was implemented to consumption in our headquarters, better control internal temperatures in occupied and as this is considered insignificant non-occupied locations. This will significantly reduce compared to our plants’ water usage. energy consumption of cooling system. However, as part of our efforts to reduce our water consumption Variable frequency drive (VFD) for air handling unit (AHU) VFD controllers have been installed for AHUs. VFDs can throughout the Company, we have save up to 30 percent of energy consumption. implemented this year a rain water harvesting project in our headquarters, Lighting control Daylight and motion sensors were installed throughout which we estimate will save an the headquarters. These sensors control the switching of average of 20 percent of our offices’ the lights. water consumption. This project Solar heater Solar water heaters replaced electric water heaters to will also enable us to apply for Gold reduce the headquarters’ electricity consumption and certification under the LEED scheme. GHG emissions. 60 61 Greenhouse gas Spills emissions Carbon dioxide (CO2) is the main Our absolute GHG emissions in Our operations can result in products GHG, and our most substantial 2014-15 were 18.2 percent lower or other hazardous materials contribution to climate change. CO2 than 2012-13, while our GHG released to the environment through Spills Target emissions are associated with fuel emissions intensity decreased accidental spills. Our utmost No more than one spill to the environment each year. gas consumption, flaring, CO2 venting by 10.43 percent, representing responsibility is in managing safe and losses from the ammonia plants. creditable performance in managing operations and product handling; Emissions of methane (CH4) and our impact on climate change therefore, we aim to prevent nitrous oxide (N2O) are also important given the turnaround in November/ accidental spills and address this globally, but less significant in our December 2014. through a target integrated into our operations. Our goal is to reduce 2017 PIC Sustainability Goals. the GHG intensity of our production (tonnes of CO2 equivalent emitted By focusing on technical integrity per tonne of ammonia produced), so throughout 2014-15, we maintained that every tonne we produce has less our record of not having any Greenhouse Gas Emissions impact on climate change. Intensity Target significant spill to the environment Reduce PIC GHG emissions by 14% and meeting our target. We also did In pursuit of meeting our 2017 target, compared to 2012-13 baseline not receive any complaints from we are reducing GHG emissions by (2.43 t CO2e/MT of Ammonia) neighboring communities regarding using energy more efficiently, reducing any negative impacts of our flaring and exploring the use of less operations. carbon-intensive fuels. We measure our direct GHG emissions (scope 1) from our direct energy consumption, including GHG emissions intensity diesel consumption, flaring, fugitive 3 t CO2e/MT ammonia emissions, and CO2 venting and 2.5 losses in the ammonia plants. We also 2 calculate our indirect GHG emissions 1.5 (scope 2) associated with electricity 1 consumption using the International 0.5 Energy Agency (IEA) grid emission 0 factor for Kuwait. 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 Direct and indirect GHG emissions 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 Scope 1 emissions (t CO2e) 1,241,232 1,029,332 895,172 Scope 2 emissions (t CO2e) 216,608 277,316 297,393 Total GHG emissions (t CO2e) 1,457,840 1,306,648 1,192,565 62 63 Other emissions to air, water and soil Spreading environmental action Emissions to air, water and soil are We aim to manage all emissions in our industry. Our performance Protecting the environment extends One of our most significant activities inherent in our production, and we effectively, complying with local in 2014-15 is presented in the beyond our plant operations. Just as is supporting the Kuwait Green Wall acknowledge that by discharging regulations and striving to reduce accompanying chart. The volume of the environment is a priority in our project – a 10-year project started effluents or creating waste we place our impacts wherever possible. This hazardous waste generated this year operations, it is also a key element of in 2013 to plant 315,000 acacia a burden on the environment. Air includes minimizing the chemical was higher than the previous years our corporate citizenship activities. trees around the country’s 420km pollution can cause unpleasant odors emissions of ammonia and urea, due to the turnaround. We help to protect the natural world border. The trees will help to preserve and contribute to poor air quality which are an ever-present danger in Kuwait through conservation of biodiversity and improve air quality, that is a health concern. Effluent biodiversity, restitution of habitats and the campaign is also raising discharged into the sea is a potential damaged by human activity and by environmental awareness among the threat to the multitude of fish in our spreading environmental awareness. population. PIC employees volunteer waters, while all waste uses precious to plant trees and we invite students resources and hazardous waste Non-hazardous waste Sound information is essential, and charities to add to the efforts. presents specific dangers. 460 and as a subsidiary of KPC, we are We also supported the Green Camp, tonnes covered by an agreement with the an educational center for campers 450 Kuwaiti Environmental Protection which uses solar energy and aims Hazardous waste Authority (EPA), signed in 2014. The to spread a culture of environmental 400 440 Memorandum of Understanding protection. tonnes (MOU) relates to the exchange of 300 430 data between institutions and the EPA. It confirms KPC’s commitment 200 420 to protecting the environment by creating a state-of the-art 100 410 environmental database. 0 400 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 Recycled Non-recycled Emissions to air Emissions to water Total effluent discharged 2000 tonnes 395 m3/MT ammonia 1500 390 385 1000 380 375 500 370 365 0 360 Sulfur dioxide Nitrous oxide Carbon Ammonia Urea 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 monoxide 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 64 65 About this report 66 67 This is PIC’s third sustainability report. Being transparent and Data collection and reliability While we work closely with credible informative, its aim is to meet the requirements and interests Information for this report was international partners to ensure of all our stakeholders in assessing PIC’s ability to drive growth collected through an internal Excel®global standards in sustainability sustainably in the short, medium and long term. based system that was developed reporting, we do not yet seek to meet specific data collection external assurance. requirements, ensure accountability Reporting principles and maintain integrity. GRI indicators UNGC Communication on This sustainability report covers the related to material aspects were Progress performance of PIC from 1 April assigned to teams consisting of Our commitments and progress in 2014 up to, and including, 31 March a data provider, a verifier and an embracing the United Nations Global 2015. It describes our sustainability owner. This structure is to ensure that Compact (UNGC) principles have initiatives from an environmental, various data points are challenged, been incorporated in this report as a social and economic perspective. reviewed and confirmed by subject Communication on Progress (COP) matter experts. The team responsible on page 71. This report has been prepared for collecting the data tracked their in accordance with the Global respective indicators throughout the Feedback Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 year. PIC values open and honest Sustainability Reporting Guidelines dialogue with its stakeholders, and and the Oil and Gas Sector In compliance with the GRI invites readers to email comments, Supplement (core level). principles, PIC aims to provide timely reactions and views regarding this The GRI content index is available and complete data. Therefore, the sustainability report to on page 79. report discloses both successes and sustainability@pic.com.kw. challenges for the different material The content and quality criteria aspects. This supports the company Feedback will help PIC in its provided by the GRI Guidelines, in maintaining report quality, continuous efforts to meet all of such as sustainability context, building trust and credibility with its stakeholders’ requirements and stakeholder inclusiveness, materiality, stakeholders. interests. completeness, balance, comparability, accuracy and reliability, are integral to We confirm the accuracy of the the PIC reporting process. safety and economic data presented in the report. The accuracy of Scope and boundary environmental data depends on The content of the report is based the method of measurement, the on the material aspects for both our In line with the GRI G4 Boundary and the company’s production calculation procedure, emission company and our stakeholders (see Protocol, “where the impacts activities in the Shuaiba Industrial factors used and whether estimates page 31), and is directly linked to our occur,” the reporting boundary Area. Data on joint ventures, have been used. For some sustainability strategy and our 2017 was determined based on where contractors, suppliers and clients parameters, the sampling method PIC Sustainability Goals and targets. impacts related to a material are not included unless specifically and frequency, such as for chemical The report includes both qualitative aspect occur. Therefore, this mentioned. During the reporting oxygen demand (COD), can also descriptions and quantitative metrics report includes PIC’s operations period, there have been no affect accuracy. Therefore, there is to highlight policies, initiatives and in the State of Kuwait, specifically significant changes to the size, an inherent uncertainty in this data performance. in the head office in Sabahiya structure or ownership of PIC. set. 68 69 UNGC Communication On Progress 70 71 CEO’s statement of support Human rights principles Principle 1: and enforced labor, freedom of recognized human rights, and Businesses should support association and the right to engage avoiding complicity in human rights and respect the protection of in collective bargaining abuses internationally proclaimed human rights. · Communities: respecting cultures, · Improving our human rights customs and values; positively performance by investing in training Principle 2: influencing the communities where employees to think and act globally Businesses should make sure they we operate; and promoting human toward social, environmental, are not complicit in human rights rights by improving economic, health and economic issues abuses. environmental and social conditions · Giving equal rights and Assessment, policy and goals opportunities for males and We recognize the importance of · Suppliers: establishing and females protecting human rights for society maintaining procedures to evaluate and the benefits for business. We and select major suppliers and · Seeking an open dialogue with support internationally recognized contractors, based on global rights stakeholders, and participating in human rights and we are committed conventions and social policies community engagement activities to developing an organizational culture that seeks to avoid complicity All of our contracts and significant · Ensuring that the provision in human rights abuses. investment agreements require of security is consistent with compliance with Kuwaiti labor law and international standards of best Our Human Rights Position the human rights requirements Kuwait practice and the laws of the statement has been approved by recognizes. countries in which we operate, These pages summarize the transparency and communication Despite these accomplishments, management and communicated using security services only where information in our sustainability with stakeholders, which are also I recognize the need to continue internally. It emphasizes our support Implementation necessary, and requiring the use report and represent the formal central to the Global Compact. making progress in the coming for international standards; national In 2014-15, we introduced the Human of force only when necessary and Communication on Progress (COP) years, and the benefits a sustainable and international laws, including the Rights Position statement referred to proportionate to the threat under the UN Global Compact Integration of sustainability business model will bring to PIC, as principles in the Universal Declaration above. To reinforce the commitments (UNGC) for the year from 1 April within PIC has continued to well as to all of our stakeholders. of Human Rights; United Nations and make them integral to PIC’s work, In pursuing these aims, we will also 2014 to 31 March 2015. In signing advance in 2014-15, following Guiding Principles on Business we conducted a focused workshop share the expertise we develop on this communication, I am reaffirming the strategy approved in 2012. and Human Rights; and relevant with relevant staff. The workshop human rights with industry peers in PIC’s commitment to the 10 In particular, we built on the conventions and standards of the improved employees’ awareness national, regional and international principles of the UNGC and my 2017 PIC Sustainability Goals by International Labor Organization. and understanding of the issues, forums. determination to continue making identifying quantitative targets and enables them to integrate the progress on sustainability. for all of the operational goals. This commitment is embedded in commitments in their daily job activities. We also integrated sustainability our human rights and social policies, The COP describes briefly how objectives in our Enterprise Risk internal risk assessment processes We are continuing to implement the we are continually integrating the Management mitigation framework, Asaad Ahmad Al-Saad and guidelines, and our Code of commitments in our human rights principles in our business strategy, and developed a Human Rights Chief Executive Officer Conduct. It covers: statement: culture and daily operations. Our Position statement setting out our sustainability report provides full commitments to this vital element of · Employees: including non· Developing an organizational details and is an example of our the UNGC. discrimination, prohibition of child culture that supports internationally 72 73 Labor principles Principle 3: Good communication with and Responsible Care® certification. Businesses should uphold the employees is also essential to ensure The management systems freedom of association and the mutual understanding and employee include monitoring process safety effective recognition of the right to involvement. Top management holds performance using leading as well collective bargaining. several town hall meetings, during as lagging indicators, measurable which employees interact directly to targets and monthly reporting. We Principle 4: discuss performance and Company also aim to transparently report our Businesses should uphold the plans. We have also amended safety performance to the public elimination of all forms of forced the annual appraisal process to according to the OHSAS and and compulsory labor. include three meetings per year Responsible Care® guidelines, for between employees and their example through our sustainability Principle 5: direct managers, during which they report. Businesses should uphold the discuss progress and identify any effective abolition of child labor. management support needed. We can guarantee that there are zero incidents of child labor Principle 6: For more formal engagement, we or forced labor within the PIC Businesses should uphold the encourage employees to join the PIC workforce. We are also actively elimination of discrimination workers’ union, and 96 percent of advocating the same principles to in respect of employment and PIC employees were union members our suppliers, customers and other occupation. at the end of 2014-15. This does stakeholders to ensure that we are not include our temporary labor driving the dialogue toward positive Assessment, policy and goals force, most of whom are outsourced action. We understand that business to contractors. Their welfare is a excellence is based on respect for concern for our contract supervisors, the dignity, rights and ambitions of who are responsible for monitoring everyone, the highest standards of the performance of contractors, health and safety, and a commitment including their treatment of workers. to employee, customer and contractor well-being. This is intrinsic · Freedom of association and the right · Process safety: no more than We are proud to offer the same to our corporate values and our to engage in collective bargaining 0.1 process safety incidents per opportunities to women as to men, support for the UNGC. 200,000 man-hours of work and the same basic salaries relevant · The prohibition of child and enforced to their position (although Kuwait The PIC Code of Conduct (“the Code”) labor · Health: empower employees and Labor Law provides extra benefits requires all employees to uphold the their families to lead healthier lives for married male employees). We highest standards of integrity and · Non-discrimination, including equal and work with non-governmental recognize that the proportion of personal conduct in all matters involving rights and opportunities for males organization (NGO) partners to women in our Company remains PIC. Sections of the Code cover respect and females help people in our society lead relatively low and we plan to for religious beliefs, fair treatment and long and healthy lives increase our recruitment of qualified freedom of expression. Our Human Our 2017 PIC Sustainability Goals in women for a diversity of roles. Rights Position statement builds on this area are: Implementation this fundamental position with specific To ensure that everyone fully Our health and safety policy requires support for relevant conventions and · Safety: no more than 0.13 understands our Code of Conduct, an integrated management system standards of the International Labor recordable injuries per 200,000 we provide training sessions for all compatible with international Organization, including: man-hours of work new employees. standards such as OHSAS 18001 74 75 Environmental principles Principle 7: Businesses should support PIC intensity figures 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. GHG emissions intensity 2.43 1.98 2.18 (t CO2e/MT ammonia) Principle 8: Energy intensity (GJ/MT ammonia) 51.72 48.98 52.4 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater Water use intensity environmental responsibility. 4.8 3.7 4.29 ( m3/MT ammonia) Principle 9: Waste (tonnes) 675 592 775 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Assessment, policy and goals Management system in 2014. of workshops and online training Normalized performance (shown A healthy environment is essential We aim for continual improvement modules covering general concepts of in the table) was affected by a for prosperity, yet depletion of and operational excellence through sustainability and reaching 80 percent turnaround during which there was natural capital and climate change our integrated management of junior and senior employees. no production and significantly higher mean that our region is facing system, which is compatible Externally, PIC also organizes volumes of waste. Comparison with environmental challenges, such with international standards many events to spread awareness 2012-13 is more relevant, as there as water scarcity and threats to such as ISO 14001. Progress is and develop an environmentally was also a turnaround in that year. biodiversity, which could pose also driven by our approach to concerned culture in Kuwait. serious social and economic performance management. The consequences. balanced scorecard system and the Specific initiatives in 2014-15 department managers’ compensation include: Our operations can affect the scheme include sustainability targets environment through emissions to · Energy use: reduce PIC energy measurable targets, and create and goals to ensure that each · An overall analysis throughout the air, land and water, and accidental intensity by 6% compared to 2012plans with clear responsibilities department implements actions plants to identify energy-efficiency spills. PIC has shown leadership by 13 baseline. and adequate resources to achieve necessary to meet our corporate opportunities committing to a better tomorrow, the goals. Our Sustainability goals. and taking action to improve our · Water consumption in our Committee, chaired by the CEO · Installing a boiler feed water environmental impacts in accordance operations: reduce PIC water and reporting regularly to the Achieving our objectives also requires preheater in the ammonia III steam with the principles of the UNGC and intensity by 25% compared to board, is responsible for overseeing a culture throughout the Company superheater and boiler to reduce the chemical industry’s Responsible 2012-13 baseline. the Company’s sustainability that recognizes the importance of energy consumption Care® initiative. We have set tangible agenda. The corporate Engineering, environmental responsibility and 2017 targets for the most material · Spills: no more than one spill to the Health, Safety and Environment develops a sustainability mindset. · A Six sigma project to reduce impacts: environment each year. department has day-to-day Our goal is for all employees to natural gas consumption responsibility for monitoring understand sustainability, PIC’s role · Greenhouse gas emissions: Implementation and reporting performance. in sustainable development in Kuwait · 11 projects at PIC headquarters reduce PIC GHG emissions Our approach is to define broad Sustainability is also considered and in the region, and their own role in to enhance its sustainability intensity by 14% compared to goals for the most material aspects in our approach to risks, and was continuing to meet PIC’s objectives. performance and prepare for 2012-13 baseline. affecting PIC, translate these into integrated in our Enterprise Risk In 2014-15, we conducted a series LEED certification 76 77 Anti‐corruption principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Assessment, policy and goals We recognize that all forms of corruption are corrosive on the fabric of society and represent a major hindrance to sustainable development. Corruption impedes economic growth, distorts competition and carries serious legal and reputational risks for businesses. We therefore fully support the 10th principle of the UNGC. Our Code of Conduct makes clear that we will not tolerate any form of bribery or corruption. As part of our commitment to ethical business conduct, the Code sets out requirements under these key topics: · Business ethics · Conflict of interest · Bribery and corruption · Gifts and entertainment · Outside employment · Fraud and theft Implementation We reinforce our zero tolerance for corruption with training or refresher courses each year. They are mandatory for all employees and 98 percent of our workforce received anti-corruption training in 2014-15. 78 GRI Index 79 GRI Description Level of Reason for Page indicator disclosure omission number GRI Index G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period relating to size, structure or ownership, or its supply chain (including changes in location, operations, facilities, 68 capital information and supplier information) G4-14 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary 68 approach or principle is addressed by the organization STANDARD GENERAL DISCLOSURES G4-15 Externally developed economic, environmental, and 21, 50, 72 social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses GRI Description Level of Reason for Page indicator disclosure omission number G4-16 Memberships in associations (such as industry 19 associations) Strategy and analysis Identified material aspects and boundaries G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of 07 the organization G4-17 Operational structure of the organization, including 12, 14 main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries G4-2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities 18, 31 and joint ventures (List all entities in the consolidated financial statements) Organizational profile G4-18 Process for defining report content and the Aspect 68 G4-3 Name of the organization 09 Boundaries and explain how the Reporting Principles have been implemented G4-4 Primary brands, products and/or services 10, 14 G4-19 List all the material Aspects identified 31 G4-5 Location of organization’s headquarters 10, 68 G4-20 The Aspect Boundary within the organization: 68 G4-6 Number of countries where the organization operates, 14 and names of countries with either major operations · Whether the Aspect is material within the organization or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report · The list of entities included in G4-17 for which the Aspect is or is not material G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form 10 · Specific limitation regarding the Aspect Boundary G4-8 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, Confidential within the organization sectors served and types of customers/beneficiaries) information G4-21 The Aspect Boundary outside the organization: 68 G4-9 Scale of the reporting organization 14 · Whether the Aspect is material outside the organization G4-10 Total workforce by employment type, gender, 46 employment contract and region · The list of entities for which the Aspect is material, relate to geographical location G4-11 Percentage of employees covered by collective 44 bargaining agreements · Specific limitation regarding the Aspect Boundary outside the organization G4-12 Describe the organization’s supply chain 13 (including product or service providers, engaged G4-22 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements Not suppliers in total number, type, and location, applicable payments made to suppliers) G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods Not in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries applicable 80 81 Specific standard disclosures GRI Description Level of Reason for Page GRI Description Level of Page indicator disclosure omission number indicator disclosure number Stakeholder engagement G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including 34 revenues, operating costs, employee wages and benefits, payments G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the 29 to providers of capital, payments to government (by country) and organization community investments; EVG&D separately at country, regional or market level G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders 29 with whom to engage G4-EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change G4-26 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including 29 frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder G4-EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined-benefit plan obligations 43, 46 group G4-EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have been raised 30 through stakeholder engagement, and how the G4-EC5 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local 43 organization has responded to those key topics and minimum wage at significant locations of operation concerns, including through its reporting; report the stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics G4-EC6 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management 37 and concerns hired from the local community at significant locations of operation Report profile G4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported G4-28 Reporting period 68 G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of 37 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report 31 impacts G4-30 Reporting cycle 69 G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations of 37 operation G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its 69 contents Environmental G4-32 Table identifying the location of the Standard 80 G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume Disclosures in the report G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials G4-33 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking 69 external assurance for the report G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization 59 Governance G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside of the organization G4-34 Governance structure of the organization 12, 25 G4-EN5 Energy intensity 58 (including report the committees responsible for decision-making on economic, environmental and G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption 59, 60 social impacts) G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirement of products and services Ethics and integrity G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 61 G4-56 Internally developed statements of mission or 11, 21, 26, values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to 27, 28 G4-EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation 82 83 GRI Description Level of Page GRI Description Level of Page indicator disclosure number indicator disclosure number G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused 61 G4-EN28 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category G4-EN11 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside G4-EN29 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of nonprotected areas monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations G4-EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high G4-EN30 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and biodiversity value outside protected areas other goods and materials for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce G4-EN13 Habitats protected or restored G4-EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by 57 G4-EN14 Total number of IUCN red list species and national conservation list type species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using 38 environmental criteria G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) 62 G4-EN33 Significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts in G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) 62 the supply chain and actions taken G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) G4-EN34 Number of grievances about environmental impacts filed, 63 addressed and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity 62 Social G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 62 G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender and region G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone depleting substances (ODS) G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided G4-EN21 NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions 64 to temporary or part-time employees, by significant locations of operation G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination 64 G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 64 G4-LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, including G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills 63 whether these are specified in collective agreements G4-EN25 Weight of transported, imported, exported or treated waste deemed G4-LA5 Perecentage of total workforce represented in formal joint hazardous under the terms of the Basel convention annex I,II,III and management-worker health and safety committees that help VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs G4-EN26 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days 50 water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the and absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, by organization’s discharges of water and runoff region and by gender G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products G4-LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their and services occupation 84 85 GRI Description Level of Page GRI Description Level of Page indicator disclosure number indicator disclosure number G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade G4-PR7 Total number of incidents of non compliance with regulations and unions voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion and sponsorship by type of outcomes G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by 45 employee category G4-PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support 43 the continued employability of employees and assist them in G4-PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non compliance with laws managing career endings and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career 45 development reviews, by gender and by employee category G4-HR1 Total number and percentage of significant investment agreements 48 and contracts that include human rights clauses or that underwent G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees 46 human rights screening per employee category, according to gender, age group, minority group membership and other indicators of diversity G4-HR2 Total hours of employee training on human rights policies or 48 procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor operations, including the percentage of employees trained practices criteria G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions G4-LA15 Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor practices taken in the supply chain and actions taken G4-HR4 Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise G4-LA16 Number of grievances about labor practices filed, addressed and freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated or resolved through formal grievance mechanisms at significant risk, and measures taken to support these rights G4-PR1 Percentage of significant product and service categories for which G4-HR5 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for health and safety impacts are assessed for improvement incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor G4-PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts of G4-HR6 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for products and services during their lifecycle, by type of outcomes incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor G4-PR3 Type of product and service information required by the organization’s procedures for product and service information G4-HR7 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s and labeling and percentage of significant product and service human rights policies or procedures that are relevant to operations categories subject to such information requirements G4-HR8 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous G4-PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and peoples and actions taken voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes G4-HR9 Total number and percentage of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 39 G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights G4-PR6 Sale of banned or disputed products criteria 86 87 GRI Description Level of Page indicator disclosure number G4-HR11 Significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts in the supply chain and actions taken G4-HR12 Number of grievances about human rights impacts filed, addressed and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms G4-SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments and development programs G4-SO2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities G4-SO3 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption and the significant risks identified G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and 47 procedures G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken G4-SO6 Total value of political contributions by country and recipient/benefeciary G4-SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, antitrust and monopoly practices and their outcomes G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of nonmonetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations G4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for impacts on society G4-SO10 Significant actual and potential negative impacts on society in the supply chain and actions taken G4-SO11 Number of grievances about impacts on society filed, addressed and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms 88 89
