Building value for the longer term Aberdeen Asset Management: Corporate Responsibility Report for the 12 months to 30 September 2014 Contents Introduction 3 What we believe in: now and in the future 5 Our client focus 6 Investing in our people 8 Investing responsibly 12 Engaging with other external stakeholders 14 Managing our environmental footprint 16 UN Global Compact 18 GRI Assessment 19 About Aberdeen Asset Management Aberdeen Asset Management is a global asset manager with a broad range of investment capabilities. We are based in 27 countries with 33 offices, over 600 investment professionals and around 2,700 staff. Our assets under management were £324.4 billion as at 30 September 2014. As a pure asset manager, without the distractions of other financial services activities, we are able to concentrate all our resources on our core investment management business. Our investment processes strive to be simple and clear and we aim to seek out investments that display those qualities too. Finally, we focus on taking a long term view of our investments. 2 Aberdeen Asset Management Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 Introduction The requirement to demonstrate that we act our employee training and development programmes and undertaken further Board training on our material responsibly has never been greater and we are corporate responsibility issues. very aware of this. We need to show we act in In terms of our investments, we have further developed the best interests of our shareholders, clients, the way we integrate material environmental, social employees and wider stakeholders and build and governance (ESG) considerations in our investment value for these groups, over the longer term. processes. We adopt a risk-based approach, assessing each 2014 has been a year of change and growth for the investment on an individual basis. Group. In March, we completed the acquisition of Scottish From a corporate perspective, we have worked to embed Widows Investment Partnership (SWIP) which resulted in corporate responsibility more deeply across all functions significant growth in Assets under Management (AuM), of the business. We have also been an active member of additions of new and complementary strategies to our the UN Global Compact and Principles for Responsible product range and an increase in employee numbers, Investment (PRI) and have expanded the engagements we especially in the UK. As with any material acquisition, the undertake with our stakeholders. transition and integration phase will take time but we continue to focus on what matters to us as a business In terms of philanthropy, I am pleased to say the Aberdeen our clients, our people, our investments as well as our Charitable Foundation has grown significantly, with all other external stakeholders. We remain focused on what our offices now involved in charitable giving and providing we do best asset management. Aberdeen remains a volunteering support to a range of great causes. pure asset manager without the distractions of other We hope you will find this update on our corporate business activities. responsibility activities helpful and, as always, we welcome This year, I am pleased to report a number of new your feedback on ways we could improve. milestones in our development. With regard to our colleagues, we have enhanced our appraisal system so that Andrew Laing it is now more focused on, and aligned with, the strategic Deputy Chief Executive objectives of the company. We have also enhanced December 2014 Attracting and Performance, retaining talent, transparency, Our key stakeholders creating an inclusive communication on environment, material issues and material issues remuneration Engagement High quality service on relevant Employees Investee and products, issues, support companies meeting market demands Professional/ Clients governmental and prospects organisations Positive Shareholders Value add, contribution to Communities and ratings return on economy and agencies investment, society, minimise sustainable environmental performance damage Authorities and Suppliers regulators Media Observance of regulatory laws Conduct, and conduct, service provision, cost engagement on relevant issues Open, clear communication Aberdeen Asset Management Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 3 Following the completion of the SWIP transaction, we communicated Aberdeen’s values to new colleagues through an internal newspaper. 4 Aberdeen Asset Management Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 What we believe in: now and in the future At Aberdeen, there are some things we strongly believe in. We want to deliver exceptional results for our clients, end-investors and shareholders, and make Aberdeen a rewarding place to work. Our principles, expressed as our corporate values, are: integrity, quality, teamwork, ambition and challenge. Integrity Ambition Do the right thing Be the best we can We expect our staff to work to the best of their ability in the interests We have a strategy for growth based on achieving long of our clients, end-investors and shareholders. We strive never to term results for our existing clients, while also improving sacrifice long term good for short term gain, and we seek to set the the distribution and penetration of our products among standards for good practice as investors and as a public new client markets. By being sensible on costs, which, unlike market company. We recognise that conflicts of interest can arise levels we can control, we hope to provide attractive returns to our – we manage them by being transparent and making clear shareholders. To achieve our ambition, we rely on attracting and where we believe a course of action is unwise or unethical. retaining bright, motivated individuals focused on working diligently, efficiently and with integrity. We look to foster a workforce that is Quality mindful of its responsibilities to one another and of our wider corporate responsibility obligations as a firm. Add value everywhere Our long term success depends on whether we can add sustainable Challenge value to client portfolios. This value primarily comes down to performance, but also from our emphasis on quality across Bring a fresh perspective every aspect of our business – from client service to investment Financial markets are fickle and experience has communications, from administration to corporate governance. Our hardened our natural scepticism. At Aberdeen we approach is to focus only on those markets, asset classes rarely take what markets say on trust. Our skill and strategies where we believe we have the resources to as asset managers lies in our willingness to ask questions, to buck underpin such a commitment. We think carefully before consensus if need be and do our own research to arrive at clear entering new markets; and we try to manage growth judgements. This attitude informs how we approach our business at a rate that does not compromise the standards our overall. We encourage everyone to think afresh and not to do clients expect of us. something just because ‘that’s the way it has always been done’. By constantly asking questions we aim to arrive at better answers. Teamwork Pool collective talent From our beginning we have valued a culture of “ We believe there are key drivers that reinforce openness, mutual dependency and collective purpose. the right culture or values. These are: clear and We organise our fund managers in teams, so every ongoing leadership from the top of the one of them has a voice. And by following investment processes that are clear, systematic and where all information is shared, we think organisation, with constant reinforcement, this leads to better outcomes than if a star fund manager were in incentive structures which support the charge. We strongly believe that the combination of experienced messages from senior management and the hands and fresh minds invigorates our thinking and can lead to better performance. That’s true in every aspect of our business – not just our board, effective performance management investment teams. including penalties for not doing the right thing, and, importantly rewards for doing the right thing.” Will Amos, Financial Conduct Authority, FCA, 2014 Corporate culture Led by the Board, this year we started to analyse critically our corporate culture. We want to preserve the fundamental attributes of our culture – predominantly our focus on teamwork, long termism, openness and simplicity – but we recognise that, as the company grows, our culture has to be actively articulated, shared, managed and monitored across our global offices. We have formed a Culture Committee, with representatives from the Board, Risk, Compliance, HR, Communications and Brand departments, to look at the culture we currently have and how we can better safeguard, manage, monitor and improve it. Aberdeen Asset Management Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 5 Our client focus Following the financial crisis, the regulatory scene has changed dramatically. In the UK, this has been most notable in the shift in focus of the regulator, now the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). The FCA is taking a more holistic approach to regulation, looking at asset managers from the perspective of the end-customer and in terms of the behaviour and conduct of firms themselves. As an asset manager we are, rightly, expected to take a close look at every aspect of our operating model to ensure the interests of our clients are incorporated at every step. Aberdeen takes these expectations seriously. Embracing developments in an environment where expectations are rising is sound business practice, as well as the right thing to do. Conduct Committee Head of Defines and reviews Conduct Strategy management Who works across the business information on Aberdeen’s to ensure the end-customer is adherence to its conduct factored into all aspects of the principles. way we do business – from Provides guidance, advice strategy setting through to and authority on conduct day-to-day operations. matters. Committees focused on A clear brand proposition Our process for conduct from an end-customer perspective, including: Championing focus, openness and managing conduct Investor Protection Committee: oversees the appropriateness of trading activity collaboration – simply in Aberdeen’s collective investment products. asset management. Pricing Committee: ensures assets within portfolios are A suite of mandatory appropriately priced. global employee training Conflicts Committee: A rigorous courses covering a wide range of oversees instances where the interests of complaints handling conduct-related matters including: Aberdeen may conflict with those of procedure Treating customers fairly; our clients. Ensuring all complaints Bribery and corruption; are addressed Financial crime; appropriately and in a Personal responsibilities such timely manner. as personal account dealing, gifts and hospitality. Every two years we undertake a Treating Customers Fairly (TCF) survey with Aberdeen UK retail investors. This survey seeks to test investor satisfaction according to the six TCF outcomes which were introduced by the UK regulator in 2006. By repeating the survey every two years we are able to examine trends relating to customer attitudes towards Aberdeen, our service, communication effectiveness and responsiveness. Testing TCF: our biennial survey FCA outcome 3 Research findings 2013 Consumers are provided with clear information Knowledge of staff 72% and are kept appropriately informed before, Explaining things clearly 72% during and after the point of sale. Speed of response 74% Quality of service 84% Quality of written communication 88% Quality of verbal communication 84% Source: Survey Solutions 2013 6 Aberdeen Asset Management Corporate Responsibilty Report 2014 Protecting client interests: our anti-bribery and corruption measures Regulators globally have increased their focus on anti-bribery and corruption (ABC), with a number of new regulations introduced, particularly in emerging markets, and a string of high profile fines and sanctions. At Aberdeen, we are subject to varying ABC requirements, dictated by the jurisdictions in which we conduct operations. In addition to the extra territorial application of the UK Bribery Act 2010 and the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act 1977 (as amended), Aberdeen is also a signatory of the UN Global Compact, the tenth principle of which commits participants to avoid bribery, extortion and other forms of corruption. In order to ensure that the highest standards are applied, we follow a globally consistent approach to managing ABC at all levels of our business and in all regions in which we work. Our ABC policy, which is publicly available on our website, covers expected standards of behaviour, escalation processes and specifically states that we do not allow the giving or receiving of any bribes or facilitation payments. In order to ensure this policy is implemented around the Group, all employees receive regular training on our policies and procedures in this area. We ensure that we have ABC controls in operation throughout the business, and use an ABC heat map to assess potential areas of weakness and then allocate resources accordingly. In addition, we have a robust gifts and entertainment policy which is in place to monitor relations with third parties, and a Conflicts of Interest Committee where issues and concerns are escalated and discussed by senior management on a monthly basis. Management information statistics on gifts and entertainment given, received or declined by employees are also provided to the Conflicts Committee on a quarterly basis. Furthermore, agreements with third parties include a commitment to abide by relevant bribery legislation and any breach of such would initiate an immediate review of the contract. As members of the Investment Management Association (IMA) in the UK, we are also able to benchmark our policy and procedures against those of our peers by attending regular financial crime discussion groups. Following a global ABC risk assessment conducted by the Anti-Financial Crime and the Compliance Monitoring team in 2014, further enhancements will be made to our ABC programme to ensure Aberdeen continues to operate to the highest standard. Issues or queries can be raised by employees with the Global Head of Financial Crime and Money Laundering Reporting Officer (MLRO) directly or to local compliance personnel, and any suspicions can be reported using the newly introduced, confidential, independent whistleblowing reporting line. There have been no reported breaches of our ABC policy in the past three years. Aberdeen Asset Management Corporate CorporateResponsibility Responsibilty Report 2014 2013 7 Investing in our people Aberdeen’s size of operations, locally and internationally, has changed dramatically since the company was founded in 1983. But, through multiple acquisitions and organic growth, our strong culture has prevailed. Recruitment and retention Evolving workforce As a business, we understand that recruiting, developing and retaining This year we hired 110 interns, 31 graduates, 5 apprentices and 5 the best available talent is fundamental to our ability to perform well. individuals on the Investment 2020 scheme. Since 1994, when our We continue to grow our apprenticeship, intern and graduate graduate programme began, we have recruited 198 graduates, 154 of programmes, equipping recruits with a broad-based knowledge of both which are still at the company. Aberdeen and the asset management industry as a whole, before they As a result of the SWIP acquisition our headcount increased by take a permanent position within the organisation. around 500. As with past acquisitions, we welcome the new ideas and At a senior level, we continue to encourage share ownership and offer approaches that the people from SWIP bring. Many of the existing some employees a deferral into Aberdeen funds thereby aligning our Aberdeen leadership joined through acquisitions which have proven to bonus scheme with the interests of our clients. be an important way to strengthen our management teams. Employee satisfaction survey In 2013, we undertook our first employee survey which was initially piloted in EMEA and then rolled 78% 84% 81% 89% General Client needs Quality is a Colleagues out across the Group. Globally, 86% of employees satisfaction are our top top priority support other took part and the results were extremely positive: priority within colleagues This year the focus has therefore been on action the Group planning and identifying areas for improvement. Absenteeism per employee Employee turnover rate 2014 2013 2014 2013 2.4 days 2.2 days 7.5% (unplanned) 6.8% (unplanned) Learning, development and talent management A solid talent pipeline is essential for the future success and growth of individual needs; and our bi-annual review of succession plans for each our company. functional and geographical area of the business. This year we launched our Senior Leadership and Emerging Talent We have also enhanced our performance management process. Programmes, which involved identifying individuals from across our The developments are aimed at improving the consistency and quality global offices whom we believe could fill senior management positions of performance discussions with line mangers and our reporting on this within the company in the future. These programmes are in addition throughout the company. Such enhancements provide a greater link to our entry level schemes; the bi-annual and annual appraisal process between employee objective setting and performance and company for all employees; the delivery of training and development to meet strategy, culture and remuneration. Average hours of training per employee Number of people sitting professional exams 2014 2013 2014 2013 26 hours 22 hours 104 106 8 Aberdeen Asset Management Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 Diversity “ As a global organisation with customers The business case in support of having a diverse workforce has never spanning a multitude of countries, cultures and been stronger. professions, we see diversity as a valuable We want to provide employees with an inclusive environment in which business asset. We strive to be an employer everyone can perform to the best of their ability to service our diverse client needs, globally. of choice in all the countries in which we operate and to provide This year, we reviewed our diversity initiatives to create a more formal strategy aligned to our core business objectives. an inclusive environment for all Gender diversity our employees.” Gender diversity is a topic Aberdeen has been championing for many Anne Richards years, both within our own business and in our investee companies. Chief Investment Officer Gender diversity across the group Total workforce: 2,700 PLC Board of Directors 55% 45% 10 male 77% male female 1,482 in total 1,218 in total 3 females 23% Managers Group Management Board 67% 33% 16 male 84% male female 447 in total 223 in total 3 females 16% Return to work following Entry levelA maternity and paternity leave 51% 49% 2014 2013 male 21 in total female 20 in total 95% 77% A This refers to the graduates, apprentices and Investment 2020 individuals who were recruited during the year. Note: The data above is an accurate reflection of the company on 30 September 2014. Aberdeen Asset Management Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 9 Investing in our people continued “At Aberdeen Asset Management, Boardroom diversity people recommend you to take Female representation in the boardroom continues to be discussed actively. Aberdeen’s Backroom to Boardroom (B2B) initiative, which is part in things that wouldn’t headed by our Chief Investment Officer Anne Richards, aims to help happen otherwise. We help address this issue by providing a platform for senior female members people to grow and develop.” of the investment community and organisations which are crucial to the wider economy, to come together and connect with women who Mary Verghese-Dipple are still building their careers. The events showcase how wide the talent Head of Legal UK, shortlisted for the Asian pool of women who are board-ready really is, as well as encouraging Women of Achievement Awards 2014 women on their way to the boardroom by sharing experiences, networking and supporting executive development. To date, there have been 20 B2B events, held both in the UK and internationally. This Entry level year, there was a strong focus on spreading the programme to Europe, At an entry level, we strive to achieve a gender balance for our notably Madrid, Milan and Stockholm. apprenticeship, intern and graduate programmes. In 2014, 23% of our internship applications were from females, a 4% increase from 2013, External initiatives and 48% of starting graduates and 75% of our apprentices are female. Externally, we continue to be an active member of the UK Government’s Think, Act, Report scheme which provides a simple Mentoring and maternity coaching step-by-step framework to help companies think about gender equality We also understand the importance of supporting women throughout in their workforces, particularly in relation to recruitment, retention, their careers and two examples of how we are trying to do this are promotion and pay. We also support many other initiatives including: through mentoring and maternity coaching. We offer mentoring for Women on Boards UK; the Women’s Business Forum; the investor both men and women at all stages of the career ladder and currently group of the 30% club; and the Breaking the Mould and the Asian 39% of mentees are women. Women of Achievement awards. In the UK, working in partnership with Parenting for Professionals, we Sponsorship have also put together a programme to support women through their Diversity is a key consideration of our sponsorships too. We have a wide maternity leave. Employees are offered three sessions – pre, during and varying sponsorship portfolio and are currently proud sponsors of and post leave which offer advice and support on subjects including the following: assertiveness, managing work-life balance and career development. In addition, we offer coaching to managers to try to ensure a smooth The Ladies Scottish Open process for new mothers returning to the business and provide the support they need to help them progress in their career. The Scottish Ladies Golfing Association Following the success of maternity coaching in the UK, we are currently C  atriona Matthew, Kylie Walker, Carly Booth, Pamela Pretswell running a pilot programme in our US offices and hope to continue and Daisy Dyer developing the scheme in the coming year.  owes Week which is an event open to women and men – C In addition, our maternity and paternity policies exceed the statutory approximately a third of all participating skippers are female minimum, 6% of the global workforce work flexibly and we are working N  ine Ski Schools and the Grindelwald Corporate Ski Race – all of to increase awareness of the services provided by our employee which cater for women and men equally assistance programme. T he Dad Vail Regatta in Philadelphia which has a clear 50/50 split of women’s crews and men’s crews competing 10 Aberdeen Asset Management Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 Aberdeen’s US employees take part in a mixed crew eight at the Dad Vail Regatta in Philadelphia. Age Ethnicity While we place significant focus on our entry level schemes, we This year, we engaged with employees in the UK, US and Asia, recognise the need to balance these with the retention and recruitment requesting that they self-declare their ethnic background and setting of experienced individuals. As a company, we have one of the most out the reasons why this is an important business issue. Due to the fact stable executive director teams in the UK, with five members of the that this is a recent development, we are not in a position to report Group Management Board having been at the company for 25 years. statistically significant results for these regions this year, however we This has enabled Aberdeen to grow while still maintaining a strong hope to do so in 2015. cultural identity. We do collate data on nationalities and we currently have 55 different Number of employees nationalities represented in our workforce a 22% increase on last year. 3000 Disability The diversity monitoring system we are in the process of implementing 2500 includes information on disability. While we do have employees with disabilities, we feel it is at their discretion to release this information. We are therefore asking our employees if they would like to self-declare 2000 themselves as disabled to ensure we are doing everything we can to be an inclusive employer. 1500 Health, safety and wellbeing We want to promote a culture of healthier lifestyles and to improve the 1000 quality and longevity of life for our employees and their families. This leads to increased productivity, resilience, job satisfaction and loyalty. 500 It also reduces healthcare costs and absenteeism. While we have a number of good schemes in place, we recognise the need to do more to further globalise our approach to employee wellbeing 0 2012 2013 2014 and expand our engagement on material wellbeing issues, including 16-25 26-35 36-45 46-55 56-65 65+ muscular skeletal health, employee resilience and mental health. Human rights We continue to be an active member of the UN Global Compact. Our operations and policies support and reflect the ten Global Compact principles and we uphold the Universal Declaration of Human Rights in all our operations. We also uphold employee rights and respect collective bargaining and freedom of association. In countries where an employee delegate or works council is not present, employees are encouraged to share their opinions with line managers or human resources representatives. Aberdeen Asset Management Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 11 Investing responsibly This year, we have further developed the way we integrate material ESG considerations in our investment processes. While our approach differs by asset class, assessing investments from an ESG perspective is a crucial element of our long term view and we are seeing an ever increasing interest in our responsible investing capabilities from clients and our wider stakeholders. We take a risk-based approach and analyse each investment on an individual basis. Equities Property Our process for integrating ESG considerations into the equity We are continuously reviewing our approach to responsible property investment process is long established. The corporate governance investment and working towards our aim of integrating sustainability practices of a company are a critical element of our initial quality across our investment process, including investment, asset assessment, as is regular engagement with management on material management, property development and property management. Given issues following investment. Further details on our engagements the importance of responsible investment to our business, we have with companies over the last year can be found in our annual equity continued to engage with our investors, property agents and tenants to engagement report. understand and reduce the environmental impact of the buildings that we manage. This year Planning for the long term As a tangible asset, property is at greater risk of the impacts of At over changing environments and rising costs than other asset classes. We We voted on over 1,900 capture key sustainability risks for our investments and monitor this 21,000 shareholder information within our investment process. We believe that this is the resolutions meetings best way to protect our investments and plan for the long term. We also gather physical risk data for our assets as well as collating data on green building certification, Energy Performance Certificates and supporting board wider sustainability data, ensuring that we are responding to changing recommendations in over regulatory requirements. 92% Enhancing asset value of proposals This year we developed a new sustainability and energy data management system that provides a holistic approach to data capture In addition to corporate governance matters, our dedicated and ensures that we work towards a single system of record across Responsible Investing (RI) team, spoke with over 150 companies our organisation, and externally through our supply chain. Next year, globally on ESG related issues during the year. A key focus has we intend to develop this further and using the robust data collection been helping investee companies and investors to understand the systems we have designed, we will set long term reduction targets importance of a risk-based approach to ESG integration. We expect across our property portfolios. The energy management system will our investee companies to conduct their own risk assessments and improve utility recharge for our tenants, facilitate quarterly analysis and be familiar with their ESG risks and how to mitigate these. However, enable energy saving opportunities to be identified and implemented, sometimes we meet with companies which have not carried out this leading to lower utility costs. assessment or which need direction on how to report on their risks As part of our energy management strategy, we have continued to and progress related to reducing these risks. We frequently share best seek alternative energy sources. In the UK, we have assessed our practice with our investee companies and encourage them entire portfolio for applicability to install solar panels, and undertaken to adopt the highest standards found in their industry across the detailed feasibility studies on some 9.4 million square foot of property. ESG spectrum. We believe that working with our occupiers is key to the successful Our RI team also undertook a number of topical engagements with long term sustainability performance of our funds. To this end, we are companies during the year. These included discussions and company working with M&S in the UK to agree Memoranda of Understandings at visits focused on palm oil, supply chain oversight, fracking and all locations where they occupy Aberdeen buildings. human rights. Clients can request ESG reports for both pooled and segregated portfolios and we have witnessed a significant increase in the interest from both our investments and our stakeholders on responsible investing issues. 12 Aberdeen Asset Management Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 This year, we have continued to work with the Private equity Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark The consideration of ESG issues is a key part of our private equity (GRESB) and we are now represented on investment process, given the impact that these factors can have on both the advisory board and the benchmark value creation and the long term performance of portfolio companies. committee. At the request of investors, During the course of 2014, in order to further strengthen our ESG we have increased the number of funds risk monitoring and reporting capabilities, we devised an in-house submitted to eight across Europe, and we are pleased that almost 90% questionnaire to extract material ESG related information from our of the funds improved their performance, and three funds achieved the core underlying fund investments. This questionnaire will be issued highest scoring possible with a Green Star status. by December 2014 and we expect to be in a position to report on the We have also undertaken a range of activities, from engaging with results in early 2015. The results should enable in-depth monitoring local communities to improving the energy efficiency of stock and and reporting of ESG information. In line with industry best practice, using innovative environmental techniques to improve our buildings. we will continue to refine and develop our monitoring during the course of 2015. For example, this year we won the Chairman’s Award at the London In Bloom Awards. This was awarded for our roof garden on Regis House, Infrastructure King William Street, and the environmental awareness it promotes. Our new infrastructure team, which was acquired as part of the SWIP We believe that our bee garden demonstrates what can be done with a transaction, aligns with our focus on investing for the long term. space not normally used to help the environment. The funds are unlisted and we have £1.6 billion of institutional capital under management. Our infrastructure investment policy is focused In Norway, we recently hosted a delegation from the Norwegian on greenfield social infrastructure, for example, schools, hospitals, Environment Agency to see the results of the work we have been doing water treatment facilities and transport, rather than wider economic to test green roofs. infrastructure. We also undertook a total refurbishment of a previously poorly Many of the infrastructure assets we invest in will be designed to have performing investment in Oslo. The property has been completely a social benefit to the community within which they operate. Some renovated and converted into a modern school building, and however, will be more controversial to local populations and have received BREEAM NOR GOOD certification, making it one of the first potential environmental impacts. For all new investments a thorough educational buildings in Norway to gain BREEAM certification. due diligence exercise is performed and this includes the consideration In Finland, nearly 30 of the properties we manage have been involved of environmental and social impacts of the potential project, including in the Motiva’s Energy Efficiency programme which aims to reduce any mitigating factors. For existing investments, we ensure that building energy consumption by 6% by 2016 and 20% by 2020, we understand the long term environmental and social impacts of against 2010 base consumption levels. To date, energy audits have the project and use our rights and influence on investee company been undertaken on all of the properties and detailed action plans boards to encourage strong governance and effective management of have been devised. We have now completed actions, of which environmental and social risks. computational energy savings total c. 2,100 MWh. This exceeds the total target for 2016, and sets us in a good position to achieve the Fixed Income 2020 target. Our Pan-European fixed income team incorporates ESG and SRI factors into investment decisions by using a scoring system as an element of Aberdeen Solutions the credit research process. In addition, negative screens are applied on Property multi manager a country, industry or issuer basis according to client demands. More For indirect property investments, we recognise that while we have generally, ESG specific risks are highlighted and discussed within fixed influence over ESG issues, we have less direct control. From an indirect income teams before an investment is made. As with the other asset property investment perspective, GRESB provides investors with a classes, we have seen an increase in client interest for incorporating consistent framework both to measure how fund managers perform ESG factors into mandates and are working towards establishing an on a number of important ESG related issues and to assess how much approach across the asset class. emphasis managers place on understanding the environmental risks and opportunities and the social impact of the funds they manage. A primary objective for 2015 is for the property multi manager investment team to consider ESG principals as we would any other aspect of a fund on both an initial and on-going basis. Aberdeen Asset Management Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 13 Engaging with other external stakeholders Public policy We recognise our responsibility to engage with governments, regulators and trade bodies, helping to shape a policy environment which operates in the best long term interests of our clients, who invest with us, and our shareholders, as well as for the wider financial sector. We believe that this relationship is mutually beneficial we have the opportunity to help shape the regulatory and political landscape in which we work and the regulatory bodies benefit from an understanding of what it is like to operate in the policy environment they create. We produce papers, write letters and partake in consultations on relevant public policy issues, including pension reform, corporate governance, diversity and long termism. This year, we have also actively engaged with members of the European Parliament and officials from the European Commission on the proposed regulation of money-market funds. On a practical and more hands-on level, our Chief Executive is a member of the UK Financial Services Trade and Investment Board, Stakeholder engagement: Anne Richards, Aberdeen Asset chairs the Prudential Regulatory Authority Practitioner Panel and is a Management’s Chief Investment Officer, with Rt Hon Dr Vince member of the International Advisory Panel of the Monetary Authority Cable MP, the UK’s Secretary of State for Business, Innovation of Singapore and the International Advisory Board of British American and Skills and IMA Chair Helena Morrissey, at the launch of Business. Our Chief Investment Officer is a member of the Financial The Investor Forum, a new body which aims to promote long Conduct Authority Practitioner Panel and is the vice-chair of a global term investment approaches and create an effective model for council supported by the World Economic Forum to explore issues collective engagement with UK companies. October 2014. on the future of insurance and asset management, and our Deputy Chief Executive is on the board of the IMA. Through these forums and others, we are able to engage with relevant stakeholders on key issues affecting our industry. Suppliers Our suppliers are critical to our ability to operate effectively. Any At a more local level, in 2014 we became one of a small number breakdown in the provision of key services poses a material risk to of companies in the City of London and in the UK finance sector, the business. Our largest risk is posed by a small number of strategic to become an accredited Living Wage employer, whereby we pay service providers. To manage this risk we have an outsourcing risk all employees and contractors at least the Living Wage. We believe oversight framework which is applied to all outsourcing relationships this was an important step, as without a strong support network of and sets out clearly defined roles, responsibilities and standards for contracted staff, who help to keep all our facilities all employees across the Group. Key components of this framework running, we cannot operate at our best. In include a risk assessment of all service providers (which involves testing addition, we continue to be a signatory to the UK their key controls); an internal Outsourcing Oversight Committee; and Government’s Prompt Payment Code. regular meetings with our material service providers to discuss service provision, risk and compliance. In addition, our business continuity plans incorporate outsourced services, and exit plans are in place should they be necessary. 14 Aberdeen Asset Management Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 The Aberdeen Charitable Foundation When we launched the Aberdeen Charitable Foundation in 2012, our principal aim was to engage globally with our employees and the communities in which we live and work. With operations in 27 countries, the local demands for monetary and skill based support vary by location, but our unifying themes of supporting local charities and then electing one larger, emerging market project per year, is achieving our aim. In 2014, over 40% of employees globally voted to select our new emerging markets partner. Following the launch of long term partnerships in South America (ABC Trust) and Asia (SeeBeyondBorders), this year we short-listed charities with suitable projects in sub-Saharan Africa. Our new charity partner is AfriKids, a child rights organisation which works in northern Ghana to alleviate child poverty and promote economic growth. The Aberdeen project will deliver a spectrum of educational initiatives for the poorest children living in Bolgatanga in the Upper East Region of Ghana – a region where 71% of children over six have never attended school and 78% of people over 15 are illiterate. The initiatives will include night classes for street children, scholarships, a young entrepreneurs’ project and school enhancement programmes to drive up attainment and employability across the region. This year, for the first time, we also took part in a 24 hour global volunteering day challenge to coincide with Give and Gain Day. Over 10% of the workforce from 24 cities took part – starting the day in Sydney and moving across the globe, finishing in Toronto, Philadelphia and São Paulo. Support for our local community projects has also grown significantly this year. Some great new charities have been identified, but also, importantly, long term relationships have developed. Further details on the projects we have supported can be found on our website. One project which has been particularly successful this year is our financial literacy programme in association with Knowledge @ Wharton in Pennsylvania. This financial literacy project started four years ago with five schools in Philadelphia. In 2014, 34 schools and a total of 140 teams took part. Aberdeen provides training materials, videos and webcasts to support Wharton and the local school teachers and then marks the student teams on their investment approach – emphasising the importance of long termism, a fundamental dimension of our own investment philosophy. Financial literacy is a focus we are keen to pursue globally. £1.6m 17% donated to charitable of our global workforce volunteered causes globally in 2014A 2013: 15% 2012: 11% 2013: £1.3m 2012: £0.6m A This includes donations made by the Foundation (£0.9m), the Group (£0.5m) and GAYE employer contributions (£0.2m) but excludes unspent contributions made by PLC to the Foundation. Aberdeen Asset Management Corporate CorporateResponsibility ResponsibilityReport Report2014 2014 15 Managing our environmental footprint By far our greatest environmental impact is indirect, through the investments that we hold. We do, however, work hard to reduce our direct impacts, recognising this is not only the right thing to do but also has business benefits including reducing utility costs. Energy consumption and associated emissions, waste and business travel, remain our key areas of focus as reflected by our environmental targets. We have a group-wide environmental policy, which is reviewed by the global environmental committee on a regular basis, and are certified to ISO14001 in the UK. This year, we achieved all the targets we set for the year ahead and are on track to achieve our more long term targets. 6% 30% global reduction in carbon emissions increase usage of per full-time equivalent videoconferencing 16% Reduction of environmental increase in recycling rates impact from sponsorship events in the UK Carbon emissions We are committed to reducing the carbon emissions produced by all our global offices and are now able to monitor consumption at every site. Initiatives adopted to reduce these emissions include: monitoring energy use through smart metering to identify areas for improvement; installing LEDs; educating employees and installing software to switch off computers at night. This year, we achieved a 6% reduction in carbon emissions intensity per FTE globally; a 9% reduction per FTE for offices covered by our EMS; and a 34% reduction compared with our base year, 2010. We continue to be accredited to the Carbon Trust Standard in recognition of the work we have done to reduce our office emissions and this year obtained a CDP score of 87B. Total global emissions for carbon reporting A As a result of implementing our new environmental management and reporting system, we CO2 e emissions (tonnes) identified minor inaccuracies in our data for 2013. The table reflects the amended figures. Scope Emissions source 2014 2013 B Historically, we have used the year end FTE number to calculate our intensity ratio but due to the significant change in headcount which took place this year, we are now using the 1 Natural gas 179 390A average FTE number. The 2013 intensity ratio has, therefore, also been amended to reflect Company owned vehicles 132 91 this change. Diesel 4 4 We have used the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard (revised edition) for our methodology and have used operational control as our boundary for Refrigerant gas loss 28 28 reporting. We have gathered data from invoices on energy consumption, register of 2 Electricity and district heating 4,205 3,554A refrigerants and service logs of owned vehicles. The UK emissions factors Defra/DECC (2014) have been used in all instances where country specific emissions factors are unavailable. Total 4,548 4,067 Intensity ratio: Emissions per FTE for Scope 1 and Scope 2 1.72 1.84B 16 Aberdeen Asset Management Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 Waste Stakeholder engagement Our offices produce a number of waste streams including general Engaging with external stakeholders on environmental issues is an waste, paper waste and other recyclable waste including plastics, metal important aspect of the work we do. and glass. We are committed to reducing the waste we produce and Throughout the year, we sponsor a number of large corporate increasing our recycling rates. events, notably the Dad Vail Regatta, the Scottish Open and Cowes This year, we achieved our target of zero waste to landfill in the UK Week. Some of the initiatives adopted this year to reduce the ahead of our target year (2015). environmental impact of these events and promote environmental awareness include: We have also increased our recycling rates by 16% in the UK. In • Ensuring all Aberdeen chartered boats adhered to the environmental London, we invested in innovative new desk bins which have doubled initiatives promoted by Cowes Week Limited; the amount of waste recycled and we are in the process of rolling these out to other offices. • Working with catering companies to reduce food wastage; and, • Carrying out a waste review and implementing a waste minimisation Business travel strategy at the Scottish Open. We have focused on implementing alternatives to business travel, for In addition, employees from a number of our global offices have example installing high quality videoconferencing facilities and using taken part in volunteering activities focused on the environmental other interactive software solutions. Videoconferencing facilities are improvement of the communities in which they live and work. now available in 17 offices worldwide and we have achieved a 30% increase in usage on the prior year. Our targets for 2015 Carbon and energy Business travel • Reduce carbon emissions intensity by 5% per FTE compared with • Increase videoconferencing by 10% (global target). the 2014 financial year (for all offices in the EMS). Stakeholder engagement Waste • Engage with employees and wider stakeholders on environmental • Increase recycling by 3% per FTE (UK only). initiatives (global target). Aberdeen Asset Management Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 17 UN Global Compact In 2013, to further demonstrate our support for the adoption of responsible business practices, we became a signatory to the UN Global Compact. The ten principles provide a framework against which we can benchmark our performance and work to improve our practices. The table below provides a reference to the relevant section in our CR report against which our progress on the principles can be assessed. Issue areas UN Global Compact Principles Relevant sections Human rights Principle 1 Investing in our people & Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally Engaging with other external proclaimed human rights stakeholders Principle 2 Investing in our people & Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Investing responsibly Labour Principle 3 Investing in our people & Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition Investing responsibly of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4 Investing in our people & Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and Investing responsibly compulsory labour Principle 5 Investing in our people & Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour Investing responsibly Principle 6 Investing in our people & Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of Investing responsibly employment and occupation Environment Principle 7 Managing our environmental Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges footprint Principle 8 Managing our environmental Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental footprint & Investing responsibly responsibility Principle 9 Managing our environmental Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally footprint & Investing responsibly friendly technologies Anti-corruption Principle 10 Our client focus – anti-bribery Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and corruption and bribery 18 Aberdeen Asset Management Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 GRI Assessment Once again, we have chosen to align our report to the GRI G3 Sustainability Reporting KEY Framework Financial Services Sector, supporting our commitment to transparency. Yes This disclosure has not been externally assured by a third party and therefore the information No below is self-assessed based on a pragmatic interpretation of the guidelines. Partial Not material A. Standard disclosures: profile Profile Disclosure Reference / comments Strategy and analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision maker of the organisation (for example, CR report – Introduction by the Andrew Laing CEO, Chairman, or equivalent senior position) about the relevance of (Deputy CEO and Head of the CR Steering Committee) sustainability to the organisation and its strategy 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities CR report – Introduction Organisational profile 2.1 Name of the organisation Aberdeen Asset Management PLC 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services Annual report 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation Annual report 2.4 Location of organisation’s headquarters Annual report 2.5 Number of countries where the organisation operates Annual report 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form Annual report 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of Annual report customers/beneficiaries) 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation Annual report 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or Annual report ownership 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period Annual report Reporting parameters 3.1 Reporting period (e.g. fiscal/calendar year) for information provided 1 October 2013 to 30 September 2014 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any) December 2013 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) Annual 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents csr@aberdeen-asset.com 3.5 Process for defining report content CR report – Introduction 3.6 Boundary of the report We report on all aspects of the business. 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report We report on all aspects of the business. 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced All information relates to Aberdeen Asset Management PLC. operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organisations 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations Where possible we use international standards and measurement techniques. The techniques adopted have been disclosed within each section. 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier No material restatement required. reports, and the reasons for such re-statement 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or No significant changes on prior year. measurement methods applied in the report 3.12 Table identifying the location of the standard disclosures in the report This GRI appendix. 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the Once again we have chosen not to have our report report independently assured given its limited length and data content and the extensive internal review process in place at Aberdeen. Aberdeen Asset Management Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 19 Profile Disclosure Reference / comments Governance, commitments and engagement 4.1 Governance structure of the organisation, including committees under the Annual report – Corporate governance report highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organisational oversight 4.2 Indicate whether the Chairman of the highest governance body is also an Annual report – Corporate governance report executive officer 4.3 For organisations that have a unitary board structure, state the number and Annual report – Corporate governance report gender of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or Annual report – Corporate governance report direction to the highest governance body 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, Annual report – Remuneration report senior managers, and executives (including departure arrangements), and the organisation’s performance (including social and environmental performance) 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest Annual report – Corporate governance report are avoided 4.7 Process for determining the composition, qualifications, and expertise of the Annual report – Corporate governance report members of the highest governance body and its committees 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and CR report – What we believe in: now and in the future principles relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance and the Our CR Super Policy covers all aspects of our responsible status of their implementation business practices. 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organisation’s The CR Steering Committee is chaired by Andrew Laing, identification and management of economic, environmental, and social Deputy CEO. The committee meets every two months to performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or discuss developments, achievements and issues faced. compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles Andrew Laing reports to PLC Board directly. 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, Annual report particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is We adopt a precautionary approach to environmental addressed by the organisation management, as set out in our group wide environmental policy (available on our website). We recognise that our activities have both direct and indirect impacts on the environment and the communities in which we operate and so accept our responsibility to identify and manage these impacts as effectively as possible. 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or We have been a member of the FTSE4Good Index since other initiatives to which the organisation subscribes or endorses 2002 and are a signatory to the PRI and UN Global Compact. We respond to the annual CDP survey and our UK business is certified to ISO 14001 certification. We are also members of, and/or submit data to, a large number of other organisations globally including over ten corporate governance associations, six global property organisations, Business in the Community (UK), the Carbon Trust and the UK Government’s Think, Act, Report initiative. Further details can be found in our Corporate Governance Equity Engagement Report. 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/ As above. international advocacy organisations 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation CR report – Introduction 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage CR report – Introduction 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by CR report – throughout type and by stakeholder group 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, CR report – throughout and how the organisation has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting 20 Aberdeen Asset Management Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 GRI assessment continued B. Standard disclosures: performance indictors 1. Financial services – sector specific guidelines Performance indicators Disclosure Location of disclosure Product portfolio FS1 Policies with specific environmental and social components applied to business lines CR report – Investing responsibly FS2 Procedures for assessing and screening environmental and social risks in business lines CR report – Investing responsibly FS3 Processes for monitoring clients’ implementation of and compliance with CR report – Investing responsibly environmental and social requirements included in agreements or transactions FS4 Process(es) for improving staff competency to implement the environmental and CR report – Investing responsibly social policies and procedures as applied to business lines & Investing in our people FS5 Interactions with clients/investees/business partners regarding environmental and CR report – Investing responsibly social risks and opportunities FS6 Percentage of the portfolio for business lines by specific region, size (e.g. micro/SME/ This information is not currently available. large) and by sector FS7 Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific social benefit CR report – Investing responsibly for each business line broken down by purpose FS8 Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific environmental CR report – Investing responsibly benefit for each business line broken down by purpose Audit FS9 Coverage and frequency of audits to assess implementation of environmental and Annual internal audits for CR and responsible social policies and risk assessment procedures investing policies and procedures. Active ownership FS10 Percentage and number of companies held in the institution’s portfolio with which CR report – Investing responsibly the reporting organisation has interacted on environmental or social issues FS11 Percentage of assets subject to positive and negative environmental or social CR report – Investing responsibly screening FS12 Voting policies applied to environmental or social issues for shares over which the This information is not currently available. reporting organisation holds the right to vote shares or advises on voting 2. Economic Performance indicators Disclosure Location of disclosure Economic performance EC1 Economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, Annual report employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organisation’s CR report Managing our environmental footprint activities due to climate change & Investing responsibly EC3 Coverage of the organisation’s defined benefit plan obligations Annual report EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government None Market presence EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant CR report Engaging with other external locations of operation stakeholders suppliers EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local We operate in 27 countries and our workforce is community at significant locations of operation represented by 55 different nationalities. EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided CR report – Investing responsibly & primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement The Aberdeen Charitable Foundation Aberdeen Asset Management Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 21 3. Environment Performance indicators Disclosure Location of disclosure Materials EN1 Materials used by weight or volume As an office-based company our operations do not consume significant quantities of raw materials. EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials Not material because Aberdeen does not use significant quantities of recycled materials. Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source This information is not currently available. EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source This information is not currently available. Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source As an office-based company our operations do not have a significant impact on water consumption. Biodiversity EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected Not material to Aberdeen as our offices are located in areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas urban areas and therefore do not have a material impact on protected areas or areas of high biodiversity outside of protected areas. EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on As above. biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas Emissions, effluent and waste EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight 4,548 tonnes of CO2e EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight 4,579 tonnes of CO2e EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved CR report – Managing our environmental footprint EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight As an office-based company, Aberdeen does not have any activities that result in significant air emissions other than those incorporated within GHG reporting. EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight As above. EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination As an office-based company, our operations do not result in significant water discharge. EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 71 tonnes of general waste (UK only) 150 tonnes of recyclable waste (UK only) EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills The only area where this may be relevant is in the refuelling of emergency generators. No significant spills took place in the reporting year. Products and services EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent CR report – Managing our environmental footprint of impact mitigation EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed Not applicable to Aberdeen’s operations. by category Compliance EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions Nil for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations 22 Aberdeen Asset Management Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 GRI assessment continued 4. Labour practices and decent work Performance indicators Disclosure Location of disclosure Employment LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region, broken CR report – Investing in our people down by gender LA2 Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, CR report – Investing in our people gender, and region Labour/management relations LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements CR report – Investing in our people LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes, including Minimum notice periods, where applicable, are whether it is specified in collective agreements governed by state or local law. Occupational health and safety LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of CR report – Investing in our people. There were no work related fatalities by region and by gender accidents or near misses in the current or prior year as reportable by RIDDOR. LA8 Education, training, counselling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place CR report – Investing in our people. No employees are to assist workforce members, their families, or community members regarding involved in occupational activities which have a high serious diseases risk of specific serious diseases. Training and education LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee CR report – Investing in our people category LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued CR report – Investing in our people employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development CR report – Investing in our people reviews by gender Diversity and equal opportunity LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee CR report – Investing in our people category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity LA14 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by This information is not currently available. significant locations of operation 5. Human rights Performance indicators Disclosure Location of disclosure Investment and procurement practices HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements and contracts This information is not currently available. that include clauses incorporating human rights concerns, or that have undergone human rights screening HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors and other business partners that This information is not currently available. have undergone human rights screening, and actions taken Non-Discrimination HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken This information is not currently available. Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining HR5 Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to exercise CR report – Investing in our people freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights Aberdeen Asset Management Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 23 Performance indicators Disclosure Location of disclosure Child Labour HR6 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for Given the nature of our business this is not a material incidents of child labour, and measures taken to contribute to the effective risk. abolition of child labour Forced and Compulsory Labour HR7 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for Given the nature of our business this is not a material incidents of forced or compulsory labour, and measures to contribute to the risk. elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labour 6. Society Performance indicators Disclosure Location of disclosure Local community SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact CR report – Aberdeen Charitable Foundation assessments, and development programs Corruption SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analysed for risks related to CR report – Anti bribery and corruption corruption All employees and business units are assessed. SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organisation’s anti-corruption policies and CR report – Anti bribery and corruption procedures All employees are trained in our anti-bribery and corruption policies and procedures. SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption CR report – Anti bribery and corruption There have been no reported breaches of our ABC policy in the past three years. Public policy SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying Engaging with other external stakeholders public policy As one of Europe’s largest listed independent fund managers, we are asked from time to time to give house views on regulatory policy and business issues, and are invited to take part in an increasing number of public forums, whether conference, media or trade association related. We therefore have a formal policy committee in place which is chaired by the Head of Public Affairs. SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and It is the Group’s policy not to make contributions for related institutions by country. political purposes. Anti-competitive behaviour SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust, and No such actions were faced in the financial year. monopoly practices and their outcomes Compliance SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions No significant fines or non-monetary sanctions during for non-compliance with laws and regulations the year. 24 Aberdeen Asset Management Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 7. Product responsibility Performance indicators Disclosure Location of disclosure Customer health and safety PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are Due to the nature of the business our products and assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services services do not have significant health and safety categories subject to such procedures risks. Product and service labelling PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures and percentage of In most of the countries in which we operate there are significant products and services subject to such information requirements strict regulations which govern product and service information. We ensure that we comply with these standards. Marketing communications PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to All financial promotions and image advertising are marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship reviewed by the Compliance department via an internal database prior to distribution. We comply with the service information regulations in all jurisdictions in which we operate. PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes There were no such incidents in the financial year. concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes Customer privacy PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy There were no such complaints in the financial year. and losses of customer data Compliance PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations There were no such fines in the financial year. concerning the provision and use of products and services Aberdeen Asset Management Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 25 Contact For more information please email csr@aberdeen-asset.com 26 Aberdeen Asset Management Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 Aberdeen Asset Management Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 27 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Bow Bells House, 1 Bread Street, London EC4M 9HH Telephone: +44 (0)20 7463 6000 Fax: +44 (0)20 7463 6001 aberdeen-asset.com Registered in Scotland No. 82015. Registered Office 10 Queen’s Terrace, Aberdeen AB10 1YG 121016903
