ANNUAL REPORT 2014 / 15 MAGAZINE MAGA ZINE MAGA ZINE UPGRADE The merger between TUI AG and TUI Travel PLC has created the world’s leading tourism business. The TUI Group is unique among its peers in the way it covers the value chain in the travel sector. The Group stands for an attractive dividend policy and an international working environment. That means an upgrade for customers, shareholders and employees. CONTE NTS Vision A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 14 /15 5 T U I G R O U P – F I N A N C I A L H I G H L I G H T S & O U R S T R AT E G Y VISION Discovering the world’s diversity, exploring new horizons, experiencing foreign countries and cultures: travel broadens peoples’ minds. At TUI we create unforgettable moments for our customers across the world and make their dreams come true. »In We arethe completed mindful of the importance of travel andyear, financial tourism for we havewithtaken a number of their future – many countries in the world and the people living there. We partner these countries and help shape key decisions in a committed to ensure and sustainable manner. that the TUI Group can continue We, the 76,000 TUI employees. Opening up the inspiring world of travel. Think travel. Think TUI . its growth course unabated.« Friedrich Joussen, Joint CEO CONTE NT S 2 Letter to our shareholders 6 TUI Group – financial highlights 7 Our strategy 18 Group Executive Committee TO OUR SHAREHOLDER S 01 A N N U A L R E P O R T F O R M AT S TO OUR SHARE HOLDERS This annual report is available in the following formats: 23 Report of the Supervisory Board 32 Audit Committee Report 36 Executive Board and Supervisory Board 39 Corporate Governance Report / Statement on Corporate Governance Print Online Tablet 73 TUI share performance 02 http://annualreport201415.tui-group.com MANAGEMENT REPORT MANAGEMENT REPORT C O M PA S S 80 TUI Group Fundamentals 97 Risk Report 115 Overall assessment by the Executive Board and Report on expected development This is a page This is a 120 Report on economic position reference. web link. 154 Annual financial statements of TUI AG 157 Information required under takeover law 159 Report on subsequent events C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S 03 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES 162 163 Income Statement Statement of Comprehensive Income 164 Financial Position 166 Statement of Changes in Group Equity 303 Responsibility statement by management 168 Cash Flow Statement 304 Independent Auditor’s Report 169 Notes 313 Forward-looking Statements 2 A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 14 /15 Letter to our shareholders LE T TER TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS Dear Shareholders, We are delighted to be able to look back on a year of positive developments for the TUI Group. They are reflected in our growth, our operating results and the integration and restructuring progress we have achieved since the merger at the end of 2014. In fact, we have made considerably faster progress than anticipated. Obviously this is good news for you, our shareholders, but also for our customers and employees. In the past financial year we ushered in a new era for TUI AG and TUI Travel PLC . When the merger went ahead on 17 December 2014 the world’s largest leisure travel group was created. The key objective behind the merger was to combine our tour operator business with the Group’s own hotel and cruise companies. This has been achieved through the new organisational structure. A number of hierarchical levels were eliminated during the restructuring process and, as a result, we are now a leaner, more agile and more competitive organisation. It is also due to these organisational changes that we have been able to step up the pace of the integration process. The associated positive impacts on our operating performance meant that it lost no momentum during the change process. Moreover, we again achieved double-digit growth in earnings and met our ambitious underlying EBITA target of around € 1bn. We are pleased to share this positive business development with you by offering you an attractive dividend. A proposal to increase the dividend to 56 cents per share will be made by us at the 2014 / 15 Annual General Meeting. This represents a 70 percent year-on-year increase. Further to the initial positive impact of the merger on our operations we have also made significant headway in delivering the synergies that we announced. We have combined TUI AG and TUI Travel PLC group functions with the aim of achieving € 50 m in savings by the end of the 2016 / 17 financial year. This is € 5 m more than we initially envisaged and announced at the time of the merger. At the same time, the non-recurring expenses necessary to deliver these synergies will be cut by € 10 m to € 35 m. We expect to be generating additional savings of € 20 m per annum as of the 2016 / 17 financial year through the restructuring and integration of TUI Destination Services. In light of our performance to date we are confident of being in a position to fully deliver the envisaged cost savings by the 2016 / 17 financial year. Letter to our shareholders A NVision 3 N U A L R EAPNONRUTA2L0 R1 4E P/ 1O5R T 2 0 1 4 / 1 5 5 T U I G R O U P – F I N A N C I A L H I G H L I G H T S & O U R S T R AT E G Y VISION MAGA ZINE Discovering the world’s diversity, exploring new horizons, experiencing foreign countries and cultures: travel broadens peoples’ minds. At TUI we create unforgettable moments for our customers across the world and make their dreams come true. We are mindful of the importance of travel and tourism for many countries in the world and the people living there. We partner with these countries and help shape their future – in a committed and sustainable manner. We, the 76,000 TUI employees. Opening up the inspiring world ofFromtravel. Think left to right: Joint travel. CEO s Friedrich JoussenThink TUI . and Peter Long 4 A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 14 /15 Letter to our shareholders Not only does the merger allow us to exploit cost synergies, it also means that we can cover the entire tourism value chain in an unprecedented way. We can offer our customers one-stop shop services ranging from holiday bookings and flights to hotel or club resort accommodation, plus fully comprehensive support. This is a USP that differentiates us from the traditional tour operators and online portals because we own the content, i.e. the hotels, clubs and cruise ships. Our own hotels and cruise ships are major assets that are crucial to our future growth, which is why we will continue to invest in them. In conjunction with our services they deliver a powerful brand experience to our customers and, for this reason, we will be shifting our business model’s focus from tour operator business to content in future. In this regard we will continue to follow a very clear strategic growth agenda. We aim to increase turnover, acquire new customers and launch new destinations – particularly all-year destinations. Our tour operators’ strong market presence plus our (online and offline) distribution make us confident that the market will accept our growth and that our bookings will increase. The risk / reward ratio for our hotel and cruise investments is also considerable more positive today due to our strengths as an integrated tourism group. Despite the many positive developments we have seen in the past financial year, we also experienced the devastating terrorist attack in Sousse. It shocked our Group, our sector and the holiday destination of Tunisia to the core. 33 TUI customers – mostly from the UK – lost their lives in the terrible incident. Our thoughts remain with the families and relatives of the victims. This inhumane act of violence inspired many people to perform courageous and commendable acts. The Riu and TUI ground staff and the TUI care teams immediately did their best to care for our customers who were affected by the tragedy. They saved lives and did everything in their power to support, comfort and provide solace to our customers in Sousse. In affected source markets, particularly the UK , colleagues worked tirelessly as victims, families, friends and customers holidaying in other parts of Tunisia were brought home and holidays re-arranged for those about to start their holidays in that country. We are sure you will join us in thanking all involved for their extraordinary and moving efforts. The TUI Group has got off to a great start. We have an excellent market position, we have a clear growth strategy and the Group itself is optimally structured. We will continue to pursue our strategy and endeavour to maintain our current pace of progress in order to ensure the TUI Group continues to be the first choice for you, our customers and our employees. We appreciate and thank you for your confidence, support and loyalty to the TUI Group. Yours sincerely, Friedrich Joussen Peter Long Joint CEO of TUI AG Joint CEO of TUI AG Vision A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 14 /15 5 T U I G R O U P – F I N A N C I A L H I G H L I G H T S & O U R S T R AT E G Y VISION MAGA ZINE Discovering the world’s diversity, exploring new horizons, experiencing foreign countries and cultures: travel broadens peoples’ minds. At TUI we create unforgettable moments for our customers across the world and make their dreams come true. We are mindful of the importance of travel and tourism for many countries in the world and the people living there. We partner with these countries and help shape their future – in a committed and sustainable manner. We, the 76,000 TUI employees. Opening up the inspiring world of travel. Think travel. Think TUI . 6 A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 14 /15 TUI Group – fi nancial highlights TUI GROUP – FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS 2014 / 15 2013 / 14 Var. % € million restated Turnover 20,011.6 18,536.8 + 8.0 Underlying EBITA 1 Northern Region 530.3 398.3 + 33.1 Central Region 103.5 163.0 – 36.5 Western Region 68.8 81.7 – 15.8 Hotels & Resorts 234.6 202.8 + 15.7 Cruises 80.5 9.7 + 729.9 Other Tourism – 21.1 – 22.3 + 5.4 Tourism 996.6 833.2 + 19.6 Specialist Group 56.2 45.5 + 23.5 Hotelbeds Group 116.8 101.7 + 14.8 All other segments – 100.6 – 110.5 + 9.0 TUI Group 1,069.0 869.9 + 22.9 Discontinued operation – 8.5 – 2.8 – 203.6 Total 1,060.5 867.1 + 22.3 EBITA 2 865.3 777.2 + 11.3 Underlying EBITDA 1,505.9 1,199.8 + 25.5 EBITDA 1,362.0 1,163.6 + 17.1 Net profit for the period 379.6 270.8 + 40.2 Earnings per share € 0.64 0.26 + 146.2 Equity ratio % 17.2 18.1 – 0.9 3 Cash investments in other intangible assets and property, plant and equipment 594.3 385.7 + 54.1 Net debt 213.7 – 292.4 n. a. Employees 76,036 77,028 – 1.3 Differences may occur due to rounding. 1 In order to explain and evaluate the operating performance by the segments, EBITA adjusted for one-off eff ects (underlying EBITA ) is presented. Underlying EBITA has been adjusted for gains / losses on disposal of investments, restructuring costs according to IA S 37, ancillary acquisition costs and conditional purchase price payments under purchase price allocations and other expenses for and income from one-off items. 2 EBITA comprises earnings before net interest result, income tax and impairment of goodwill excluding losses on container shipping measured at equity and excluding the result from the measurement of interest hedges. 3 Equity divided by balance sheet total in %, variance is given in percentage points. Our Strategy A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 14 /15 7 OUR STR ATEGY 8 A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 14 /15 Our Strategy T H E N E W T U I G R O U P 2 0 14 / 15 THE WOLRD’S LE ADING TOURISM BUSINE SS In the first year following the merger we have outperformed our operating earnings target of € 1 bn despite some geopolitical challenges earlier in the year. The integration of our businesses is on track and already delivering results. Our strong operational performance is reflected in the announced dividend of 56 cents per share. We have defined a clear strategy and growth roadmap and therefore expect to deliver growth in underlying EBITA of at least 10 % in 2015 / 16 and reiterate our previous guidance of at least 10 % underlying EBITA CAGR over the next three years to 2017 / 18. € M Resilient € business model CENT 1,069 + 23 % In our first year postmerger Our strong operational performance in 2014 / 15 demonstrates the resilience of our integrated business model. 56 + 70 % Through our progressive we have outperformed dividend policy our shareour earnings target of more holders benefit from our UNDERYLING than € 1 bn underlying DIVIDEND growth. G R O U P E B I TA EBITA.* Balance sheet strength and 20 € M Clear strategy and growth flexibility SYNERGIES R E A L I Z E D roadmap Our strong balance sheet and our flexible The integration of our two businesses We reiterate our previous guidance asset-right business model underpin our is on track and already delivering of at least 10 % underlying EBITA long-term growth plans. results. CAGR over the next three years to 2017 / 18.* * At constant currency Our Strategy A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 14 /15 9 Destinations Employees Aircraft MORE THAN 180 COUNTRIE S 76 Group-owned hotels 140 K 300 OVER WORLDWIDE WORLDWIDE 13 CRUISE SHIPS 5 T O U R O P E R AT O R AIRLINES 10 A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 14 /15 Our Strategy Marketing & Sales »20 CUSTOMER S m We control the end-to-end customer journey, from inspiration and advice, to booking, flight, inbound services and accommodation. This differentiates us from the competition. We are capitalizing on the strength of the TUI brand on a global scale. A global brand experience and a global brand identity offer many advantages for our customers, suppliers and for our employees. OUR VERTIC ALLY INTEGR ATED Hotels & Cruises »7 CUSTOMER S m Having our own hotels and cruise ships gives us product differentiation. We currently accommodate over 7 million customers in our own hotels and cruise ships. We control quality and customer satisfaction and can fulfill customer demand for destinations and experiences where content is scarce. Growth in accommodation will be key in driving profitable top-line growth. This is driven by three elements: Growth in our strong hotel and club brands, growth in our powerful and exclusive international hotel concepts and profitable growth in cruises. Our Strategy A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 14 /15 11 Flight »13 CUSTOMER S m We have more than 140 aircraft operated by five tour operator airlines, flying around 13 million customers per annum. Our integrated business model provides us with high occupancy rates. With our joint aviation platform we want to future-proof our airlines, and this will only be possible if we leverage the potential economies of scale. We expect to benefit in the areas of aircraft purchasing and financing, engineering and maintenance, one IT and joint long-haul planning and procurement. BUSINE SS MODE L Inbound services »11 CUSTOMER S m Our unique inbound services brings our brand alive and further enhances our customers’ holiday experience. Inbound services is currently operating in more than 100 destinations with over 6,500 employees with access to c. 11 million customers. We have implemented one service team and a single strategic customer platform for all the tourism activities within the TUI Group. We are delivering our differentiation strategy in all the destinations. 12 A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 14 /15 Our Strategy Marketing & Sales In the next few years we aim to grow faster than the market. We will be aided in this by the global strength of the TUI brand. TUI stands for Trusted. Unique. Inspiring. Our mission “Spreading Smiles” reflects our promise to put a smile on our customers’ faces with our products. We don’t want to be just any tour operator. We want to be synonymous with travel, impossible for any aspiring holiday-maker to ignore: “Think Travel. Think TUI .” oneBrand STRONG SALES The appeal of TUI and the Smile logo are extremely high. TR AVEL PL ATFORMS OneBrand offers significant opportunities in terms of growth potential, consistency of customer experience, digital AND presence, operational efficiency and competitive strength. In the long run, there will be one brand wherever it makes TR AVEL AGENCIES sense, maintaining our local roots. On 1 October 2015, we successfully launched our rebranding campaign with the introduction of the TUI brand in the Netherlands. +2 % +3 % FIRST STEP Netherlands 70 1 OCTOBER 2015 41 Share in % ONLINE CONTROLLED A central element of our marketing and sales strategies are our shops and platforms. All source markets are focused on delivering more direct, more online sales. In 2014 / 15 controlled distribution grew by two percentage points to 70 %. Online distribution grew by two percentage points to 41 %. 20 P R O F I TA B L E G R O W T H M ––––––––––––––– more FLEXIBILITY AND CUSTOMERS L O N G H A U L D E S T I N AT I O N S We are able to provide to our In order to outperfom the market we are broadening our offering in existing source more than 20 m customers the holiday markets – this includes long-haul expansion, wider choice of ﬂight times and durations experiences that they desire. due to the inclusion of third-party flying options. We also aim to tap new source markets through our scalable technology platforms. Our Strategy A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 14 /15 13 Flight We are building a common aviation platform for our five tour operator airlines to leverage scale and future-proof our airlines. We will act as one wherever it makes sense to do so, maintaining local differences where the benefits of differentiation are greater than those of harmonisation. one BOEING 787 Dreamliner AVIATION We are the only leisure airline operating Boeing 787 Dreamliners, which is a key differentiator on long-haul destinations. Flying in a 787 delivers an enhanced customer experience as well as cost efficiency due to lower fuel consumption than similarly sized aircraft. Consequently, the 787 opens up new destinations, adding to our significant and growing long-haul presence. In future our airlines will act as one virtual airline. Organisational structure, the business model and scale are the main elements of our central platform. D R E A M L I N E R O P E R AT E D 13 16 2014 / 15 +3 2018 / 19 Inbound Services Servicing our customers at their holiday destination is an integral part of our aim to create a superior end-to-end customer experience. Apart from transfers to their hotels, we offer our customers end-to-end services and attractive options such as local excursions. To this end, we have pooled our incoming agencies in a common organisation. We now operate one common customer platform in order to efficiently manage all tourism activities. This ensures implementation of our differentiation strategy in all destinations. Integration 11 MILLION CUSTOMERS 100 MORE THAN DESTINATIONS From 2015 / 16, these activities will be fully integrated within our tour operators. Our customers will benefit, and so will our dedicated 6,500 employees. At the same time, we MORE THAN will be saving costs. EMPLOYEES 14 A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 14 /15 Our Strategy Hotels With Hotels & Resorts, the TUI Group has an attractive portfolio of hotels in top locations. We are aiming to expand that position by means of strengthening our differentiation strategy and optimising our portfolio of Group-owned hotels and sharpening our brand profile. We had identified further growth potential through the internationalisation of our hotel brands and exclusive hotel concepts. We also want to develop new, exclusive hotel projects in top locations. We are targeting around 60 new hotels by financial year 2018 / 19. Riu TUI Blue Riu is TUI Group’s largest hotel brand, characterised by excellent AT TR ACTIVE TUI Blue is our new hotel brand focusing on differentiation and quality. As a distinctive customer service, location and quality. ExPORTFOLIO proposition, it offers a premium all-inclusive concept. pansion to new destinations will OF MORE THAN TUI Blue is the Group’s first hotel brand to feature 100 be an important growth lever. our own name, making TUI an end-to-end customer Further growth will be achieved by experience, from booking to flight and accommodaon-going portfolio optimisation tion as well as post-journey services. and facility refurbishment. HOTEL S PREMIUM ALL-INCLUSIVE 7 NE W PROJEC TS CONCEPT B E R L I N ( 2 0 14 / 15 ) N E W YO R K C I T Y ( 2 0 15 / 16) D O M . R E P U B L I C ( 2 0 15 / 16) B U L G A R I A ( 2 0 14 / 15 ) 50 new hotels A R U B A ( 2 0 14 / 15 ) S R I L A N K A ( 2 0 15 / 16) We will launch the first TUI Blue hotels in Turkey in May 2016. In the medium term TUI Blue is to M A U R I T I U S ( 2 0 14 / 15 ) comprise 50 hotels, both new hotels and repositioned existing hotels. Robinson Magic Life Robinson is our professional Magic Life is characterised by family friendly holiday offering of sport, entertainment villages, varied sport and international entertainand programmed events. In NEW CLUBS ment programmes. A strong integration with source terms of growth levers, Robinson markets has already led to a significant increase in will focus on increased source occupancy. For future growth, Magic Life will benefit market distribution, increased 2 0 15 / 16 from a further internationalisation of concept direct distribution globally through source markets and increased distribution and international expansion. Turkey globally. 2 0 15 / 16 2 0 15 / 16 Greece Maldives Our Strategy A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 14 /15 15 Cruises With TUI Cruises and Hapag-Lloyd Cruises, the TUI Group has two strong brands for premium, luxury and expedition cruises in Germany. We also operate in the UK market under the Thomson Cruises brand. TUI Cruises Thomson With its four ships TUI Cruises is well positioned in the German market for premium Cruises cruises. Further growth is secured by additional capacity – four further ships have been At Thomson Cruises we will fully modernise the ordered, which will be launched by 2019. fleet to significantly enhance the quality of our Mein Schiff 5 and Mein Schiff 6 will be offering, starting with the launch of Thomson commissioned in 2016 and 2017. Discovery in early 2016. The planned redeployment of Mein Schiff 1 and Mein Schiff 2 to Thomson Cruises will further expand our fleet and secure MEIN SCHIFF 5 our market share in the British cruise market. 2 0 16 MEIN SCHIFF 6 4 SHIPS 2 0 17 P R O F I TA B L E THOMSON DISCOVERY 4 GROW TH E A R LY 2 0 16 ORDER BOOK Hapag-Lloyd W E A R E E X PA N D I N G O U R FLEE T TO BECOME Cruises With Hapag-Lloyd Cruises, we continue to focus on luxury and expedition cruises. The successful repositioning of the brand has been completed and the turnaround was BEST CRUISE LINER ONE OF EUROPE’S delivered in 2014 / 15. Europa 2, the most ultramodern vessel in the fleet, was awarded the title Best Cruise Liner of the Year 2015 OF THE YEAR LEADING CRUISE LINES. by the magazine Hideaways. E U R O PA 2 16 A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 14 /15 Our Strategy Sustainability We take responsibility for society and our environment. Our sustainability strategy “BetterHolidays, Better World“ defines very clear and verifiable objectives that the TUI Group aims to achieve by 2020. For us, sustainability is not an “in vogue” issue but has been an inherent part of our corporate culture for many years. After all, it is not by mere coincidence that we are the only tourism group listed in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index – for the tenth consecutive time. In order to further enhance our leadership in this area, too, we have set ourselves a number of very ambitious goals for the next five years. By 2020 we aim to further reduce our ecological footprint and therefore reduce our specific CO 2 emissions by a further 10 %. In our destinations we want to further enhance the positive impacts of tourism on social development and wealth. And, last but not least, we aim to set new standards for sustainable development in our sector and work with our partners in the destinations in order to protect the core element of any holiday trip: an intact and livable holiday region. 10. FOLD – – – – – – – DOW JONES SUSTAINABILIT Y INDEX TUI Group ist the only tourism group listed in the DJSI . CO2 – 10 % UNTIL 2020 By 2020 we aim to reduce our CO 2 intensity by 10 %. N E W S T R AT E G Y betterholidays betterworld step TUI sustainability strategy lightly 2015 – 2020 Reducing the environmental impact of holidays through our own operations make a difference Creating positive change for people and communities through our value chain and customers lead the way Pioneering sustainable tourism influencing the wider industry and beyond Our Strategy A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 14 /15 17 Our clients Our people We want to open new horizons for our Our 76,000 employees are the face of customers and create unforgettable moour group and bring our brand to life. Their ments across the world. We want our dedication and loyalty are key for us. brand to become the epitome of travel: We want to further strengthen this comThink Travel. Think TUI . By doing this mittment and become an international we want to inspire even more people for employer of choice. our products and services. Our shareholders Our responsibility We create value for our shareholders We are mindful of the importance of and want to deliver against our clear growh travel and tourism for many countries in targets. Over the next three years to the world and the people living there. 2017 / 18 we want to deliver at least 10 %* We take responsibility for people and comunderlying EBITA CAGR . Through our munities. With our investments we help attractive dividend policy our shareholders to shape the future in a committed and susbenefi t from our growth. tainable manner. OUR TARGE T S * On constant currency basis 18 A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 14 /15 Group Executive Committee G RO U P E X E C U T I V E CO M M I T T E E KENTON JARVIS Group Director Controlling and Financial Director Tourism ELIE BRUYNINCK X Western Region DAVID BURLING Member of the Executive Board; Nothern Region, Airlines, Hotel Purchasing FRIEDRICH JOUSSEN Joint CEO FRANK ROSENBERGER Group Director Strategy DR HILKA SCHNEIDER Group Director Legal, Compliance & Board Office THOMAS ELLERBECK Group Director Corporate & External Affairs Group Executive Committee A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 14 /15 19 SEBASTIAN EBEL Member of the Executive Board; WILLIAM WAGGOTT Central Region, Hotels and Resorts, Cruises, Member of the Executive TUI Destination Services and IT Board; ERIK FRIEMUTH Specialist Group, Group Chief Marketing Officer Hotelbeds Group PETER LONG Joint CEO DR ELKE ELLER Member of the Executive Board; Human Resources HORST BAIER Please refer to our website for CV s www.tuigroup.com/en-en/about-us/ Member of the Executive Board; management CFO Marine habitats are essential to the cruise sector. That is why the design of the Mein Schiff newbuilds paid such careful attention to using resources wisely and keeping emissions low. Mein Schiff 5 is currently under construction in Finland; two sister ships are already plying the oceans with their advanced environmental technology. » R  EAD MORE ABOUT BUILDING MEIN SCHIFF 5 IN OUR M A G A Z I N E U N D E R „ F U L L ST E A M A H E A D “ TO OUR ­S HARE­H OLDERS CO N T E N T S 23 Report of the Supervisory Board 32 Audit Committee Report 36 Executive Board and Supervisory Board 39 Corporate Governance Report / Statement on Corporate Governance* 73 TUI share performance * As part of the Management Report 22 TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS ﻿Report of the Supervisory Board (from left to right) Top row: Prof. Christian Strenger, Timothy Martin Powell, Dr Dierk Hirschel, Marcell Witt, Maxim G. Shemetov, Michael Pönipp, Andreas Barczewski, Peter Bremme, Wilfried H. Rau Middle row: Ortwin Strubelt, Carola Schwirn, Prof. Dr Edgar Ernst, Janis Carol Kong, Anette Strempel, Carmen Riu Güell Bottom row: Frank Jakobi (Vice Chairman), Coline Lucille McConville, Prof. Dr Klaus Mangold (Chairman), Sir Michael Hodgkinson (Vice Chairman), Valerie Frances Gooding Report of the Supervisory Board TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS 23 REPORT OF THE SUPERVISORY BOARD Ladies and Gentlemen, The Report of the Supervisory Board presented below tells you will find some additional explanatory comments, in particular for our about our activities in financial year 2014 / 15. new shareholders from the Anglo-Saxon environment who may be less familiar with the management system in a German stock corporation. A successful business year marked by Apart from the merger and integration, we maintained our focus on ground-breaking change our day-to-day business. Acting in concert with the Executive Board, the Supervisory Board held in-depth discussions about our future TUI AG is looking back upon a financial year marked by charting a organisational structure and the strategic development of the TUI new course. On 28 October 2014, the Extraordinary General MeetGroup’s business model. We also dealt with the appalling attack in ings of TUI Travel PLC (“ TUI Travel”) and TUI AG resolved the Tunisia at the end of June 2015. In several extraordinary meetings merger of the two companies in the form of an all-share nil-premium we dealt with the situation in Tunisia and the measures implemented merger. This means that you, our shareholders, gave the final goby the Executive Board. We were greatly distressed and saddened by ahead to fully merge two companies which had been largely indethe killings and severe injuries suffered by defenceless TUI customers pendent beforehand. Both the Executive Board and Supervisory on the beach. At the same time, we were deeply concerned about Board promised you that they would tap into substantial synergies, the traumatisation of our employees on the ground and in the crisis not least by removing overlapping functions at the two holdings but teams. The Executive Board and all our employees did an outstanding also through a deeper integration of the two business models. We job in managing the crisis, for which they won widespread recognition have worked hard to deliver these goals ever since. in Germany and elsewhere. In this context, the Supervisory Board once again turned its attention to our security and crisis management. The first quarter of the completed financial year was, of course, marked by preparing for the merger and its completion according to We also gave our opinion and voted on a number of technical issues the German Stock Corporation Act, which was effected in mid-­ and business transactions requiring approval. As a Supervisory Board, December 2014. Only a few days later, the Integration Committee, we focused in particular on overseeing compliance with the German newly established by the Supervisory Board, came together for its Corporate Governance Code (“ DCGK ”), clarifying questions about first meeting (goals, tasks and priorities see page 29 of the present the UK Corporate Governance Code (“ UK Code”), offering review report). In Q2 to Q4 of the financial year under review, the Group’s and consultation around the financial statements of TUI AG and the Supervisory Board, Executive Board and employees worked towards Group and adopting resolutions on personnel issues relating to the numerous goals, creating processes and structures but also a joint Supervisory and Executive Board. In this context we also gave much corporate culture for the new company, and filling it with life. thought to the future composition of the Supervisory Board following the close of the Annual General Meeting in 2016. We issued public The Supervisory Board itself also underwent a successful integration information on this matter and placed it on our Company’s website. process in the period under review. In accordance with the merger With the letter of invitation to the AGM 2016, you will receive the outagreement, the Supervisory Board now includes five members of the come of our deliberations and our proposals for candidates to stand Board of Directors of the former TUI Travel as shareholder represen­ for election as shareholder representatives on the Supervisory Board. tatives. Against this background, we were deeply involved in forging a joint understanding of corporate governance in a German stock corIn summary, we can observe that your Company took a major step poration with a primary quotation on the London Stock Exchange. ahead in the financial year under review. The Company has managed This constellation is currently unique and entails a number of chalto set the course for a successful future and significantly exceed the lenges, not least in terms of understanding one another. I am therebudgeted targets. Let me thank the employees and the Executive fore delighted to be able to inform you on the next few pages about Board of the TUI Group on behalf of the Supervisory Board, for the progress we have achieved. In the present Annual Report you shouldering the resulting extraordinary workload. 24 TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS Report of the Supervisory Board Cooperation between the Executive Board and the about strategic development, planning, business performance and Supervisory Board the position of the Group in the course of the year, the risk situation, risk management and compliance, but also reports from the capital As TUI AG ’s oversight body, the Supervisory Board provided ongoing markets (e. g. from analysts). The Executive Board discussed with us advice and supervision for the Executive Board in managing the all key transactions of relevance to the Company and the further Company in accordance with the law, the Articles of Association and development of the Group. Any deviations in business performance our terms of reference in financial year 2014 / 15, as it has always done. from the approved plans were explained in detail. The Supervisory Its actions were guided by the principles of good and responsible Board was involved in all decisions of fundamental relevance to the corporate governance. Our monitoring activities essentially served Company in good time. We fully discussed and adopted all reso­ to ensure that the management of business operations and the lutions in accordance with the law, the Articles of Association and management of the Group were lawful, orderly, fit for purpose and our terms of reference. We were completely and speedily informed commercially robust. about specific and particularly urgent plans and projects, including those arising between the regular meetings. As Chairman of the Super­visory Board, I was regularly informed about current business Current composition of the Supervisory Board: developments and key transactions in the Company between Super­ www.tuigroup.com/en-en/about-us/management visory Board meetings. I N F O R M AT I O N O N T H E T W O -T I E R S Y S T E M ( T W O -T I E R B O A R D ) In a stock corporation according to German law, there is a mandatory Deliberations in the Supervisory Board and its strict separation of the executive board and the supervisory board. Committees While the management of the company is the exclusive task of the executive board, the supervisory board is in charge of advising and Financial year 2014 / 15 was again characterised by a busy meeting overseeing the executive board. schedule for the Supervisory Board and its Committees. The individual advisory and oversight tasks of the supervisory board Prior to Supervisory Board meetings, the shareholder represen­t atives are set out in accordance with the law, the Articles of Association and on the Supervisory Board and the employees’ representatives met our terms of reference. Accordingly, the supervisory board is, for in separate meetings, which were regularly also attended by Execuinstance, closely involved in entrepreneurial planning processes and tive Board members. Meeting attendance was again gratifyingly high. the discussion of strategic issues. Moreover, there is a defined list of No Supervisory Board member attended fewer than half of the Superspecific executive board decisions requiring the consent of the supervisory Board meetings in financial year 2014 / 15. Average attendance visory board, some of which have to be fully examined in advance was 95.1 % (previous year 94.8 %) at plenary meetings and 96.9 % and require the analysis of complex facts and circumstances. (previous year 93.3 %) at Committee meetings. Members unable to attend a meeting usually participated in the voting through proxies. In written and verbal reports, the Executive Board provided us with Preparation of all Supervisory Board members was greatly facilitated regular, timely and comprehensive information at our meetings and by the practice of distributing documents in advance in the run-up outside our meetings. The reports encompassed all relevant facts to the meetings and largely dispensing with handouts at meetings. Report of the Supervisory Board TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS 25 AT T E N D A N C E AT M E E T I N G S O F T H E S U P E R V I S O R Y B O A R D 2 0 14 / 15 AT T E N D A N C E AT M E E T I N G S O F T H E S U P E R V I S O R Y B O A R D 2 0 14 /15 Supervisory Presiding Audit Nomination Integration Galaxy Name Board ­Committee ­Committee Committee Committee ­Committee Prof. Dr Klaus Mangold (Chairman) 9 (9) 9 (9)* 6 (6) 7 (7)* 4 (4)* 1 (1)* Frank Jakobi (Deputy Chairman) 9 (9) 9 (9) 4 (4) 1 (1) Sir Michael Hodgkinson (since 12 December 2014, Deputy Chairman since 9 February 2015) 6 (7) 7 (7) 5 (5) 4 (4) Andreas Barczewski 9 (9) 9 (9) 6 (6) Peter Bremme 8 (9) Arnd Dunse (until 30 November 2014) 1 (1) Prof. Dr Edgar Ernst 7 (9) 6 (6)* 3 (4) 1 (1) Angelika Gifford (until 11 December 2014) 2 (2) Valerie Frances Gooding (since 12 December 2014) 6 (7) Dr Dierk Hirschel (since 16 January 2015) 7 (7) Janis Carol Kong (since 12 December 2014) 6 (7) Vladimir Lukin (until 11 December 2014) 2 (2) 2 (2) 2 (2) Coline Lucille McConville (since 12 December 2014) 7 (7) Michael Pönipp 9 (9) 5 (5) Timothy Martin Powell (since 12 December 2014) 6 (7) 5 (5) 3 (4) Wilfried H. Rau (since 3 December 2014) 8 (8) Carmen Riu Güell 8 (9) 7 (9) 6 (7) Carola Schwirn 9 (9) Maxim G. Shemetov 9 (9) 7 (7) 5 (5) Anette Strempel 8 (9) 8 (9) Prof. Christian Strenger 9 (9) 6 (6) 4 (4) 1 (1) Ortwin Strubelt 9 (9) 6 (6) Marcell Witt (since 16 January 2015) 7 (7) (In brackets: number of meetings held) * Chairman of Committee TOPIC S DISCUSSED BY THE SUPERVISORY BOARD held on 28 October 2014 in that context. Following preliminary ABOUT THE CO-DE TERMINED SUPERVISORY BOARD discussion in the Presiding Committee, it furthermore discussed TUI AG falls within the scope of the German Industrial Co-Determin­ the personal performance factor for the annual performance ation Act (MitbestG). Its Supervisory Board is therefore composed ­bonus for Mr Joussen and Mr Baier for financial year 2013 / 14 and of an equal number of shareholder representatives and employee the reference indicators for the annual performance bonus for representatives. Employee representatives within the meaning of financial year 2014 / 15. The Executive Board presented its pre­ the Act include an executive (section 5 (3) of the German Works liminary report on the completed financial year 2013 / 14 and subCouncil Constitution Act) and three trade union representatives. All mitted the budget for financial year 2014 / 15 and the planning for Supervisory Board members have the same rights and obligations the two subsequent financial years, adopted by the Supervisory and they all have one vote in voting processes. In the event of a tie, Board after deliberation. The Supervisory Board then discussed a second round of voting can take place according to the terms of the acquisition of Europa 2 and the sale of the shareholding in reference for the Supervisory Board, in which case the Chairman of Grecotel, and approved the declaration of compliance for 2014 the Supervisory Board has the casting vote. pursuant to section 161 of the German Stock Corporation Act. The meetings in detail: 2. By written circulation on 14 November 2014, the Supervisory Board resolved to sell the stake in Grecotel. 1. At its meeting on 27 October 2014, the Supervisory Board discussed the status of the merger (“Project Galaxy”). It also com3. On 21 November 2014, after reviewing the various options in prehensively prepared the Extraordinary General Meeting to be detail and weighing up the advantages and disadvantages of 26 TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS Report of the Supervisory Board e­ ntering into a settlement in order to resist actions for annul6. On 12 May 2015, the Supervisory Board discussed changes in the ment of AGM resolutions, the Supervisory Board resolved by composition of the Executive Board (for more detailed infor­ written circulation to authorise the Chairman of the Supervisory mation, see page 36, Supervisory Board and Executive Board) Board to grant a power of attorney to external lawyers to negoand discussed the plans to adjust the leadership structure with tiate and conclude the settlement. the Executive Board. It also comprehensively debated the reports by the Executive Board on Q2 and H1 of financial year 2014 / 15, 4. At its meeting on 9 December 2014, the Supervisory Board with the auditors also in attendance for this agenda item. The exten­sively discussed the annual financial statements of TUI AG , Executive Board provided information on the structure and conthe consolidated financial statements, the combined managetents of the Capital Markets Day to be held the following day, and ment report for TUI AG and the Group and the Report by the presented a new draft format for a monthly reporting to the SuSupervisory Board, each having received an unqualified audit pervisory Board about operating performance , which was subseopinion from the auditors, as well as the Corporate Governance quently adopted. Moreover, the Supervisory Board approved a Report and the Remuneration Report. The discussions were also number of transactions (e. g. the construction of cruise ships attended by representatives of the auditors. Following compreMein Schiff 7 and Mein Schiff 8 and the sale of cruise ships Mein hensive debate of these reports and its own review carried out Schiff 1 and Mein Schiff 2 to Thomson) and adopted a resolution on the previous day by the Audit Committee, the Supervisory on the transfer of TUI Travel share options to TUI AG . It also Board endorsed the audit result of the auditors and approved discussed a report on the interpretation of related party transacthe financial statements prepared by the Executive Board and tions and the draft agenda for the Super­visory Board’s strategy the combined management report for TUI AG and the Group meeting to be held in September. prepared by the Executive Board. The annual financial statements for 2013 / 14 were thereby adopted. Moreover, the Super7. The terms and conditions of the termination agreement with visory Board approved the Report by the Supervisory Board, Mr Lundgren was put to a vote by written circulation on the Corporate Governance Report and the Remuneration Report. 22 May 2015. It also adopted the invitation to the ordinary AGM 2015. 8. At the meeting on 30 June 2015, convened at short notice due The Supervisory Board likewise discussed the status of the to the urgency of the issue, the Supervisory Board was informed merger and the rules of a listing on the London Stock Exchange about the situation following the terrorist attack in Tunisia on and the preparatory activities of the Executive Board for “Day 26 June 2015 and the crisis management by the Executive Board. One” after completion of the merger. After preliminary discusThe members were informed in detail about the processes, the sions by the Presiding Committee followed by deliberations measures implemented and the situation of customers and within the Supervisory Board, the Supervisory Board adopted ­employees. resolutions, applicable in the event of completion of the merger, regarding the extension of the service contracts for Executive 9. On 9 July 2015, the Supervisory Board held a further extraordin­ Board members Mr Joussen and Mr Baier and the conclusion of ary meeting to learn about the impact of the attacks in Tunisia. Executive Board service contracts with Messrs Ebel, Lundgren It agreed a time schedule for an overall presentation and dis­ and Waggott. The Supervisory Board furthermore adopted reso­ cussion with the Executive Board of established procedures and lutions regarding capital increases, amendments to the Articles measures for crisis prevention and management in the Group. of Association upon completion of the merger, and the listing of the TUI AG share. It also approved resolutions by the Executive 10. At a further extraordinary meeting on 31 July 2015, the SuperBoard on the acquisition of Europa 2 and the provision of guaran­ visory Board resolved to appoint Dr Elke Eller as an Executive tees for aircraft lessors. Moreover, the Executive Board presented Board member and Labour Director with effect from 15 Octoa report on the participation in Hapag-Lloyd AG . ber 2015 after she had personally introduced herself and after comprehensive discussion of the matter in the Presiding Com5. On 9 February 2015, at the first Supervisory Board meeting mittee. The Supervisory Board furthermore defined the key terms follow­ing the merger, the Supervisory Board elected Sir Michael and conditions of her service contract as well as the schedule of Hodgkinson as an additional Deputy Chairman and elected new responsibilities. The Executive Board informed the Supervisory Supervisory Board members to the Committees. The meeting Board about the recent developments following the terrorist went on to prepare the ordinary AGM in 2015 and to discuss the ­attack in Tunisia and about the planned IPO of Hapag-­Lloyd AG . CEO ’s report on the first quarter of financial year 2014 / 15. In An outline was also provided of the state of play and thinking on addition to the reports from other committees, the Integration changes to the remuneration for the Supervisory Board. Committee in particular reported back from its meetings. The discussions also focused on the HR and Social Report and the 11. At the two-day strategy meeting on 2 and 3 September 2015, status of the planned global employee survey. Moreover, the the Supervisory Board discussed the strategic goals of TUI AG Super­visory Board approved the acquisition of the cruise ship and held in-depth debates on various issues. On the first day, Splendour for the UK market. our exchange focused, inter alia, on the challenges in source Report of the Supervisory Board TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS 27 market Germany and the approaches developed by the Executee, and the Integration Committee. The committee members and tive Board. Discussions also dealt with the characteristics of the chairpersons are shown in the above table on attendance at meetings. Chinese market and various options for a potential engagement of TUI AG . The Executive Board presented the underlying thinking, goals and implementation schedule for the Group’s global brand See page 25 strategy to the Supervisory Board for discussion. After consider­ ing further topics, the Supervisory Board adopted the 5-year Moreover, it established a committee pursuant to section 27 (3) of plan for TUI AG submitted by the Executive Board. On the second the German Industrial Co-Determination Act (“Mediation Commitday, discussions focused, inter alia, on the prevention and crisis tee”). This did not meet during the period under review. The members management system for Tourism, based on proposals submitted of the Mediation Committee are Prof. Dr Mangold, his deputy Frank by the Executive Board. Debates also dealt with various corpor­ Jakobi, Carmen Riu and Carola Schwirn. ate governance issues, based on a joint belief in the importance of good corporate governance that is reflected on the Super­ PRESIDING COMMIT TEE visory Board and Executive Board; issues included the regular Members of the Presiding Committee: limit on length of service on the Supervisory Board, the imple• Prof. Dr Klaus Mangold mentation of an efficiency review for the work performed by the • Frank Jakobi Supervisory Board, and a female quota for the Executive Board. • Sir Michael Hodginson The Supervisory Board also approved an extension to a revolving • Andreas Barczewski credit facility and the sale of the LateRooms Group, and reviewed • Carmen Riu Güell the status of the planned IPO of Hapag-Lloyd AG . • Maxim G. Shemetov • Anette Strempel 12. At its extraordinary meeting on 23 September 2015, the Supervisory Board debated and resolved a number of issues to be proAt its meeting on 27 October 2014, the Presiding Committee disposed to the AGM 2016 with regard to the future composition of cussed the progress of the Galaxy Project with the Executive Board. the Supervisory Board, the remuneration system for the SuperIt continued the meeting without the Executive Board to determine visory Board, the establishment and composition of committees the reference indicators for the Executive Board’s annual perforand a regular limit on length of service on the Supervisory mance bonus for 2014 / 15 and the personal performance factor for Board. It also adopted a resolution regarding the payment of an the Executive Board’s annual performance bonus for 2014 / 15. It additional cash compensation (discretionary bonus) to the Execu­ also discussed the status of negotiations on service contracts for tive Board members for their excellent and extremely time-­ Executive Board members in the event of a merger. intensive work in the implementation of the merger and the inte­ gration process as well as the delivery of synergies. At its meeting on 9 December 2014, the Presiding Committee focused on an in-depth discussion of the imminent completion of the Furthermore, in addition to Supervisory Board meetings, the following merger. It also prepared the extension of the Executive Board serworkshops were held in the framework of the merger and inte­ vice contracts for Messrs Joussen and Baier, and the conclusion of gration process: new Executive Board service contracts for Messrs Ebel, Lundgren and Waggott in the event of completion of the merger. • a one-day induction workshop for new Supervisory Board members on 2 December 2014, and The Presiding Committee met on 9 February 2015 to discuss a number • a joint workshop on selected items of German and British corporate of matters relating rto the Executive Board and its composition. The governance with internal and external experts on 23 April 2015. focus was on launching an advertisement and recruitment process to appoint an Executive Board member in charge of HR . Other issues A further workshop was held after the period under review on discussed were a female and gender quota, challenges regarding the 6 ­November 2015. variable compensation of the Supervisory Board in the light of UK Code and pay structures in the merged Company. Committee meetings On 12 May 2015 the focus was on an imminent reshuffling of the Execu­tive Board (details see page 36, Supervisory Board and Execu­ In the period under review, the Supervisory Board had set up five tive Board). The Presiding Committee also discussed ideas for meetcommittees to support its work: the Presiding Committee, the Audit ing a female quota on the Executive Board, which had in the meantime Committee, the Nomination Committee, the so-called Galaxy Commit­ progressed further, the planned transfer of TUI T ­ ravel stock options to TUI AG and the tax proceedings regarding Castelfalfi / Italy. 28 TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS Report of the Supervisory Board On 30 May 2015, using the written circulation method, the Presiding AUDIT COMMIT TEE Committee approved the role of Non-Executive Director and sub­ Members: sequently Chairman of the Board of Directors at Royal Mail PLC in • Prof. Dr Edgar Ernst the UK , for which Mr Long had applied. • Andreas Barczewski • Prof. Dr Klaus Mangold On 3 July 2015, the Presiding Committee focused on the appoint• Michael Pönipp ment of Dr Eller as a member of the Executive Board and Labour • Timothy Martin Powell Director, reflecting the process that had taken place. When Dr Eller • Prof. Christian Strenger had personally introduced herself and answered questions raised by • Ortwin Strubelt the members of the Presiding Committee, the Presiding Committee felt persuaded that it should propose appointment of Dr Eller to In the completed financial year, the Audit Committee held six ordinary the Supervisory Board and authorise the Chairman to engage in and one extraordinary meetings. For the tasks and the advisory and further contract negotiations. Moreover, Dr Joussen informed the resolution-related issues discussed by the Audit Committee, we refer Presiding Committee about crisis management after the terrorist to the comprehensive report on page 32. attack in Tunisia. N O M I N AT I O N C O M M I T T E E On 31 July 2015, the Presiding Committee met for a further extra­ Members: ordinary meeting. Following discussion of the final terms and con­ • Prof. Dr Klaus Mangold ditions of the service contract for Dr Eller, the Presiding Committee • Sir Michael Hodgkinson adopted recommendations for resolutions by the Supervisory Board. • Carmen Riu Güell It also started to discuss the latest information regarding a change • Maxim G. Shemetov in the remuneration system for the fixed remuneration for the Supervisory Board and initial ideas for granting an additional cash remuAt its meeting on 27 October 2014, the Nomination Committee neration (so-called discretionary bonus) to Executive Board members. ­focused in particular on the composition of the shareholder represen­ tatives on the Supervisory Board after the planned merger and At a joint extraordinary meeting of the Presiding Committee and the discussed alternative scenarios in case the merger should fail. Nomination Committee held on 25 August 2015, there were in-depth deliberations about the future composition of the Supervisory On 9 December 2014 the agenda of the Nomination Committee inBoard after the close of the Annual General Meeting in 2016. The cluded discussions of the forthcoming changes in the composition of agenda included the election of shareholder representatives to the the shareholder representatives in the event of the merger. The Supervisory Board, the future remuneration system for the SuperCommittee resolved to propose Maxim G. Shemetov, previously only visory Board and the structure and potential composition of the appointed by court order, for election by the ordinary AGM 2015. Committees. At its meeting on 9 February 2015, the Nomination Committee agreed The agenda for the Presiding Committee meeting on 1 Septemthe process to be pursued in selecting and choosing appropriate ber 2015 included preparatory discussions about setting a female candidates to be proposed for election by the AGM 2016. quota for the Executive Board, the definition of a regular limit on length of service on the Supervisory Board and its future remunerAt its meeting on 11 May 2015, the Nomination Committee discussed ation system, as well as the granting of an additional cash payment its initial ideas regarding the future composition of the shareholder to Executive Board members (so-called discretionary bonus). representatives on the Supervisory Board after the AGM 2016. It also debated various facets of fixed and performance-related remuner­ On 23 September 2015, the Presiding and Nomination Committee ation for the Supervisory Board members in the historical and cultural again met for a joint extraordinary meeting. They discussed and context in Germany and the UK . prepared resolutions to be adopted by the Supervisory Board on various matters related to the Executive and Supervisory Boards, Regarding the extraordinary joint meeting of the Nomination Commit­ e. g. fixing a regular limit on length of service on the Supervisory tee and the Presiding Committee on 25 August 2015, we refer to Board, the future remuneration system for the Supervisory Board the information presented above in the section on the Presiding and an examination of the legal modalities for transitioning to a new Committee. system, the structure and composition of the Committees and extending the option to elect an additional deputy chairman beyond the AGM 2016. Moreover, the final resolution regarding the granting of an additional cash payment (discretionary bonus) for Executive Board members was discussed. Report of the Supervisory Board TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS 29 On 1 September 2015, the Nomination Committee discussed the visory Board based on its proven expertise and experience in similar impact of fixing a regular limit on length of service on the Super­ integration projects. visory Board for the shareholder representatives. It also debated evolving ideas about the composition of shareholder represen­t atives On 11 May 2015, the Integration Committee discussed the report on the Supervisory Board after the AGM 2016. presented by Deloitte, providing observations and recommendations regarding the integration process. It went on to discuss the report Regarding the extraordinary joint meeting of the Nomination Commit­ presented by the Executive Board on the status of integration and tee and the Presiding Committee on 23 September 2015, we refer to synergies delivered. The Integration Committee then focused on the the information presented above in the section on the Presiding Executive Board’s planned project to launch a brand strategy featuring Committee. one common global brand for the entire Group (oneBrand project). GAL A X Y COMMIT TEE At its meeting on 1 September 2015, the agenda focused on the Members: report on the status of integration and synergies as well as cultural • Prof. Dr Klaus Mangold issues related to integration. The Integration Committee also dis• Frank Jakobi cussed a report presented by the Executive Board on post-merger • Prof. Dr Edgar Ernst organisational balance at top management level. • Prof. Christian Strenger The Galaxy Committee was established by a resolution adopted by Corporate Governance the Supervisory Board on 3 September 2014. Its task was the final deliberation and adoption of resolutions, where necessary, regarding The Supervisory Board regularly discusses corporate governance ad hoc issues in connection with the planned merger between issues at great length. TUI AG and TUI Travel. In the so-called 2.7 Announcement and the ad-hoc announcement At its meeting on 24 October 2014, the Galaxy Committee focused published on 15 September 2014, TUI AG had stated that the on preparing the EGM on 28 October 2014. ­Company was going to remain a German stock corporation with the two-tier system established by the German Stock Corporation Act, Following completion of the merger, the Galaxy Committee was i.e. both an Executive Board and a Supervisory Board. However, due merged with the newly established Integration Committee. to the primary quotation of the share on the London Stock Exchange, various provisions of the Listing Rules, Disclosure and TransI N T E G R AT I O N C O M M I T T E E parency Rules and the UK Code also have to be directly applied. Members: Regarding application of the German Corporate Governance Code • Prof. Dr Klaus Mangold (DCGK ) and the UK Code, TUI AG and TUI Travel also announced • Frank Jakobi on 15 September 2014 that they were going to comply to the extend • Sir Michael Hodgkinson practicable with both codes mentioned above. • Prof. Dr Edgar Ernst • Timothy Martin Powell For the DCGK , conceptually founded, inter alia, on the German • Prof. Christian Strenger Stock Corporation Act, we issued an unqualified declaration of compliance for 2015 pursuant to section 161 of the German Stock At its meeting on 15 December 2014, the Integration Committee Corporation Act. By contrast, there are some deviations from the discussed the deliberations of an external expert on the successful UK Code driven for the most part by the different concepts under­ management and completion of integration processes. The Inte­ lying a one-tier management system for a public listed company in gration Committee also reviewed the integration reporting planned the UK (one-tier board) and the two-tier management system comby the Executive Board and synergy management for the various prised of Executive Board and Supervisory Board in a stock corpowork packages to be performed. ration based on German law. On 9 February 2015, the Integration Committee dealt with various More detailed information on corporate governance, the declaration agenda items including a comparison of the levels of remuneration of compliance for 2015 pursuant to section 161 of the German Stock of the executive staff of the merged company. It also held an in-depth Corporation Act and the declaration on deviations from the UK Code discussion of the report presented by the Executive Board on the is provided in the Corporate Governance Report in the present status of integration and the synergies delivered. It furthermore ­Annual Report, prepared by the Executive Board and the Supervisory adopted a resolution to commission the Deloitte company with providBoard, as well as on TUI AG ’s website. ing external consultancy to the Integration Committee and Super­ 30 TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS Report of the Supervisory Board Audit of the annual and consolidated financial of office of Sir Michael Hodgkinson and Timothy Martin (“Minnow”) statements of TUI AG and the Group Powell therefore expires at the close of the AGM where their acts of management for the financial year ended on 30 September 2015 are PricewaterhouseCoopers Aktiengesellschaft Wirtschaftsprüfungsratified. Sir Michael Hodgkinson was elected as additional Deputy gesellschaft, Hanover, audited the annual financial statements of Chairman by the Supervisory Board at its meeting on 9 February 2015. TUI AG prepared in accordance with the provisions of the German Commercial Code (HGB ), as well as the joint management report of Upon completion of the merger, Valerie Frances Gooding, Janis Carol TUI AG and the TUI Group, and the consolidated financial stateKong and Coline Lucille McConville, elected by the AGM on 28 Octoments for the 2014 / 15 financial year prepared in accordance with ber 2014, became members of the Supervisory Board. Their term of the provisions of the International Financial Reporting Standards office will expire at the close of the AGM where their acts of manage(IFRS ), and issued their unqualified audit certificate. The above ment for the financial year ended on 30 September 2019 are ratified. ­documents, the Executive Board’s proposal for the use of the net profit available for distribution and the audit reports by the auditors Maxim G. Shemetov, only appointed by court in March 2014, was had been submitted in good time to all members of the Supervisory elected for a full term of office of around five years at the AGM on Board. They were discussed in detail at the Audit Committee meet10 February 2015. His term of office will expire at the close of the ing of 8 December 2015 and the Supervisory Board meeting of AGM where his acts of management for the financial year ended on 9 December 2015, convened to discuss the annual financial state30 September 2019 are ratified. ments, where the Executive Board provided comprehensive explanations of these statements. At those meetings, the Chairman of the Arnd Dunse was appointed managing director of TUI Deutschland Audit Committee and the auditors reported on the audit findings, GmbH with effect from 1 December 2014. Against this background, having determined the key audit areas for the financial year under he stepped down before the end of his mandate from his Super­ review beforehand with the Audit Committee. Neither the auditors visory Board function with effect from 30 November 2014. With effect nor the Audit Committee identified any weaknesses in the early risk from 3 December 2014, Wilfried H. Rau was appointed as employee detection and internal control system. On the basis of our own review representative by the register court. of the annual financial statements of TUI AG and the Group and the joint management report, we did not have any grounds for objections Moreover, Dr Dierk Hirschel and Marcell Witt were appointed as emand therefore concur with the Executive Board’s evaluation of the ployee representatives on the Supervisory Board by the register situation of TUI AG and the TUI Group. Upon the recommendation court with effect from 16 January 2015. of the Audit Committee, we approve the annual financial statements for financial year 2014 / 15; the annual financial statements of TUI AG The terms of office of Wilfried H. Rau, Dr Dierk Hirschel and Marcell are thereby adopted. We comprehensively discussed the proposal for Witt will expire upon the close of the AGM where their acts of managethe appropriation of profits with the Executive Board and approved ment for the financial year ended 30 September 2015 are ratified. the proposal in the light of the current and expected future financial position of the Group. PRESIDING COMMIT TEE Vladimir Lukin, who also left the Presiding Committee when he stepped down from the Supervisory Board, has been succeeded by Audit opinion see page 304 et seqq. Maxim G. Shemetov, elected as a Presiding Committee member by the Supervisory Board on 9 February 2015. Following completion of the merger, Sir Michael Hodgkinson was additionally elected as a Executive Board, Supervisory Board and Presiding Committee member on 9 February 2015. ­committee membership AUDIT COMMIT TEE The composition of the Executive Board and Supervisory Board as at Arnd Dunse, who also left the Audit Committee when he stepped 30 September 2015 is presented in the annex to the Notes. In financial down from the Supervisory Board, has been succeeded by Michael year 2014 / 15, the composition of the boards changed as follows: Pönipp, elected as an Audit Committee member by the Supervisory Board on 9 December 2014. Upon completion of the merger, Timothy SUPERVISORY BOARD Martin (“Minnow”) Powell was additionally elected as an Audit Since the completion of the merger, the Supervisory Board has Committee member on 9 February 2015. comprised 20 members in accordance with the law and the Articles of Association. For the timing of the completion of the merger, N O M I N AT I O N C O M M I T T E E ­A ngelika Gifford and Vladimir Lukin had declared their intention Vladimir Lukin, who also left the Nomination Committee when he to step down early from their Supervisory Board functions. In this stepped down from the Supervisory Board, has been succeeded by context, Sir Michael Hodgkinson and Timothy Martin (“Minnow”), Maxim G. Shemetov, elected as a Nomination Committee member elected by the AGM on 28 October 2014, succeeded them as members by the shareholder representatives on the Supervisory Board on of the Supervisory Board for the remaining term of office. The term 9 February 2015. Following completion of the merger, Sir Michael Report of the Supervisory Board TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS 31 Hodgkinson was additionally elected as a Nomination Committee 1 June 2015. On 31 July 2015, Dr Elke Eller was appointed as an member by the shareholder representatives on 9 February 2015. Executive Board member with effect from 15 October 2015. During the process of searching for and selecting candidates, the Presiding The Supervisory Board thanks all members who left in financial year Committee and the Supervisory Board were consulted by the 2014 / 15 for their cooperation in a spirit of constructive confidence. specialist company Stuart Spencer and Heiner Thorborg. E XECUTIVE BOARD Until the completion of the merger on 11 December 2014, to avoid Upon completion of the merger, the appointments of Messrs Ebel, any conflict of interest, Mr Long did not take part in any Executive Lundgren and Waggott as Executive Board members took effect. Board meetings nor in any Supervisory Board meetings to the extent At the same time, the appointment of Mr Joussen was extended that they entailed discussions or resolutions of issues concerning before the expiry of his service contract by five years, the appointProject Galaxy. ment of Mr Baier by three years and the appointment of Mr Long until the end of the AGM 2016. None of the reappointments related On behalf of the Supervisory Board to a contract not yet having reached the last year of the ongoing appointment period. Hanover, 9 December 2015 Mr Lundgren stepped down with effect from 30 May 2015. Mr ­Burling Prof. Dr Klaus Mangold was appointed as an Executive Board member with effect from Chairman of the Supervisory Board 32 TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS Audit Committee Report AUDIT COMMIT TEE REPORT Dear Shareholders, As the Audit Committee, it is our job to assist the Supervisory Board of the Audit Committee, at least one other member has expertise in in carrying out its monitoring function during the financial year, parthe field of accounting and is experienced with the use of accounting ticularly in relation to accounting and financial reporting for the TUI principles and internal control systems. Group, as required by legal provisions, the Corporate Governance Code and the Supervisory Board Terms of Reference. The Audit Committee has six regular meetings a year; additional meetings can also be held on specific topics. The meeting dates and In addition to these core functions, we are responsible in particular agendas are based both on the Group’s reporting cycle and on the for monitoring the effectiveness and proper functioning of internal Supervisory Board agendas. The Chairman of the Audit Committee controls, the risk management system, the Internal Audit Department reports on the work of the Audit Committee and the proposals it and the Legal and Regulatory compliance system. makes to the Supervisory Board meeting that follows each Audit Committee meeting. The Audit Committee advises the Supervisory Board on who should be proposed as external auditors at the Annual General Meeting Apart from the Audit Committee members, the meetings have been (AGM). Once the AGM has approved the appointment of the auditors, attended by the Chairman of the Executive Board, the CFO and the the Supervisory Board then formally appoints them to conduct the following management members, based on the topics covered: audit of the annual consolidated financial statements and the review of the quarterly interim financial reports. • Director of Group Financial Accounting • Director of Group Audit The Audit Committee consists of 7 Supervisory Board members as • Director of Compliance & Risk follows: • Director of Corporate Finance • Director of Group Tax • Prof. Edgar Ernst (Chairman) • Andreas Barczewski Auditors PricewaterhouseCoopers Aktiengesellschaft (PwC) have • Prof. Klaus Mangold also been invited to meetings on relevant topics. Wherever required, • Prof. Christian Strenger additional members of TUI Group senior management and oper­ • Ortwin Strubelt ational management have been asked to attend Audit Committee • Michael Pönipp (since 9 December 2014) meetings, as have external consultants. • Minnow Powell (since 9 February 2015) Where it was deemed necessary to go into further detail on specific On 9 December 2014, Mr Michael Pönipp replaced Mr Arnd Dunse topics or cases, the Chairman of the Audit Committee held – in add­ on the Audit Committee after the latter left the Supervisory Board. ition to Audit Committee meetings – individual meetings with the On 9 February 2015, another member was added to the committee. Executive Board, senior management or auditor representatives as Mr Minnow Powell, previously Chairman of the Audit Committee of appropriate. The Chairman of the Audit Committee reported on the TUI Travel PLC ( TUI Travel), was appointed by TUI AG ’s Supervisory key findings and conclusions from these meetings in the next Audit Board to its Audit Committee following the merger of TUI AG and Committee meeting. TUI Travel. Six regular Audit Committee meetings and one extraordinary meetBoth the Chairman of the Audit Committee and the remaining meming were held during the period under review. The members of the bers of the Audit Committee are seen by the Supervisory Board to committee took part in these meetings as shown in the table on meet the criterion of being independent. In addition to the Chairman page 25. Audit Committee Report TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS 33 Effects of the merger of TUI AG and TUI Travel on In order to monitor accounting, we examined individual aspects in the work of the Audit Committee great detail, particularly areas, areas impacted by the merger of TUI AG and TUI Travel. In addition, the accounting treatment of key The merger of TUI AG with TUI Travel that took place in the period balance sheet items, such as goodwill, touristic prepayments, pension under review through the acquisition of outstanding TUI Travel provisions, other provisions, including maintenance provisions, income shares had, given the significance of this transaction, a major impact taxes were reviewed. In each case we reviewed the underlying data on the Group’s organisational structure. In this context, the Audit and confirmed that the judgements were reasonable and in acceptCommittee has, since the meeting in February 2015, dealt in detail ance with the auditor’s view. Moreover the implementation of new with the status of integration in the areas of Group Financial AccountIFRS s, material l­itigations and key accounting issues arising from the ing, Internal Audit and Compliance & Risk Management. The decioperating businesses were assessed by the Audit Committee. sion to elect Minnow Powell to the Audit Committee was of particular importance owing to his in-depth knowledge of TUI Travel. In the period under review, we concerned ourselves with the following individual subjects: We believe that the integration work in the areas mentioned above were largely completed by the end of the financial year and that the Effects and accounting treatment arising from the acquisition of the relevant systems were also in place in the new organisation. The outstanding shares in TUI Travel by TUI AG , in particular the accountexperience of both parts of the company has been brought together ing for equity and debt financing measures, the allocation of goodaccording to the “best of both worlds” principle. will, the capitalisation of tax losses to be carried forward, segment reporting and the necessary reporting obligations in accordance with In addition, aspects of UK Corporate Governance have been applied the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance code. Topics discussed to the work of the Audit Committee insofar as possible whilst still also included the going concern analysis prepared by the Company being in accordance with the relevant regulations of a German stock to support the going concern statements in the half-year and year-end company. As far as possible, this has taken into account – earlier financial statements, and the additional Viability Statement made in than required – specific European Union regulations affecting the the Annual Report which is a new requirement this year under the future work of audit committees. UK Corporate Governance Code. As part of the continuation of the Castelfalfi development project in Reliability of financial reporting and monitoring Italy, the Audit Committee received regular reports on the status of of accounting process the business and management’s considerations regarding the safeguarding of the value of the investment in the long term. The writeIn a German stock corporation the Executive Board is responsible down of the book value that was effected for the annual financial for drafting the Annual Report & Accounts (AR A ). According to S. statements was discussed in detail. In connection with this project, 243 para. 2 of the German Commercial Law (Handelsgesetzbuch) the Audit Committee received in an extraordinary meeting in June a the AR A must be clearly arranged and should mirror a realistic picreport on the settlement of tax proceedings brought by the Italian ture of the Company’s economic situation. This is equivalent to the authorities against the business. UK -Code requirement for the AR A to be fair, balanced and understandable – although this assessment has not been delegated to the The August meeting included reports on both the effects of the Audit Committee (C3.4) – and the Executive Board is comfortable terrorist attacks in Tunisia and the Greek financial crisis on the that this AR A satisfies both requirements. Company’s operations and financial position. In order to ensure ourselves of the reliability of both the annual fiThe valuation logic with regard to the Hapag-Lloyd AG shares was nancial statements and interim (quarterly) reporting, we have rediscussed in detail on numerous occasions in the course of the quested that the Executive Board inform us in detail about the financial year, and particularly at the year end with respect to the Group’s operational performance and its financial situation. This was impairment that has been booked due to the current market situ­ done in the four Audit Committee meetings that took place directly ation of the container shipping industry. before the financial statements in question were published. In these meetings, the relevant reports were discussed and the auditors also The consistency and logic of the reconciliation from profit before tax reported in detail on key aspects of the financial statements and on to the key figure “underlying earnings” was discussed for all quarterthe findings of their audit or review of those financial statements. ly reports and the year-end financial statements. 34 TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS Audit Committee Report The operating performance of the joint venture in Russia was also Audit for the purposes of closer consultation and each year the insubjected to critical appraisal during the year. ternal audit plan is presented to the Audit Committee, discussed and approved. These regular points of contact give the Audit Committee Our evaluation of all discussed aspects of accounting and financial comfort that the Internal Audit Department is working effectively. reporting has been in line with that of both management and the Prior to the merger, TUI Travel’s Internal Audit Department was also Group auditors. assessed for effectiveness by an external third party to give additional comfort. While an external effectiveness review has not taken place The consolidated financial statements and summarised management in 2015, due to the completion of the merger and the organisational report for the TUI Group and the annual financial statements for changes which followed, it is our intention to resume the external the TUI AG entity as at 30 September 2014 were the subject of a reviews from 2016. random audit during 2015 by the German Financial Reporting Enforcement Panel (DPR ). The Audit Committee concerned itself with the During the year, in addition to the reporting on the core elements of progress of the audit several times during the year. The audit came the internal control and risk management system, we received reports to an end on 30 September 2015 without any errors or other material on the status of the Legal & Regulatory Compliance systems, on the findings being identified. Group’s hedging transactions (including the guidelines on which these are based), on insurance management, the status of IT security and individual crisis management processes. Effectiveness of internal controls and the risk management system Whistleblowing for staff members in case of The Audit Committee recognises that a robust and effective system ­potential impropriety of internal control is critical to achieving reliable and consistent business performance. To fulfil its monitoring function, the Audit ComAcross the Group, systems are implemented which allow staff memmittee is informed regularly about the current status of internal bers to raise concerns about infringements of groupwide complicontrols and the risk management system and also about the further ance standards. As part of the Legal Compliance reporting, we redevelopment of them. ceived information about the status of the integration of the exisiting whistleblowing systems and the material notifications throughout The Group has continued to evolve its internal control framework the financial year. which is underpinned by the COSO concept. In recent years the larger businesses in the Group have completed documentation of their main financial processes and regular testing by management of the key fiExamination of auditor independence and nancial controls as a matter of routine is the next area of development. ­objectivity The Group continues to have separate Compliance teams for the In December 2014 the Audit Committee recommended to the Superfunctions of Finance, Legal & Regulatory and IT, and these teams visory Board that it propose the existing auditors PwC to the Annual play a crucial role in improving controls across the Group and iden­ General Meeting as auditors for financial year 2014 / 15. PwC has tify­ing areas where more focus is required. The Group auditors also audited the TUI Group for more than 20 years and the Audit Comreport to us on any weaknesses they find in the internal control mittee has always held PwC’s work to be of high quality. Whilst the system of individual Group companies, and management tracks last time that the Group audit was put out to tender was in financial these items to ensure that they are addressed on a timely basis. year 2008, it did not seem appropriate to issue an invitation to tender in financial year 2014 / 15 due to the completion of the merger and The Audit Committee receives regular reports on the performance the extra accounting complexity it created. It is noted that, in accord­ and effectiveness of the risk management system, as noted in the ance with the EU regulation 537 / 2014 governing the rotation of Risk Report on page 97. It is noted that the Risk Oversight Committee a­ uditors, it was decided to put the Group audit out to tender in (ROC ) is an important management committee within the Group financial year 2015 / 16 for the financial statements as at 30 Septemand we are satisfied that there is appropriate, active management of ber 2017. risk throughout the Group. Following the approval of PwC as auditors by the Annual General The Internal Audit Department ensures the independent monitoring Meeting in February 2015, the Supervisory Board appointed PwC of implemented processes and systems and reports directly to the with the task of auditing the 2014 / 15 annual financial statements Audit Committee on a quarterly basis. In the period under review, and reviewing the interim financial statements. The Audit Committhe Audit Committee was not provided with any audit findings inditee discussed with PwC their audit plan for this year’s annual financating material weaknesses in the international control system or cial statements, including the main companies to be audited from the risk management system. In addition talks are held regularly between Group’s perspective and the key areas of focus for the audit. Based the Chairman of the Audit Committee and the Director of Internal on this, the Audit Committee firmly believes that the audit has taken Audit Committee Report TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS 35 into account the main financial risks to an appropriate degree and is discussed guidelines for approving non-audit services, which comes satisfied that the auditors are independent and object­ive in how they into force in financial year 2015 / 16. These take into account the conduct their work. The Group audit fee was also discussed and requirements from the regulations of EU regulation 537 / 2014 on again we are comfortable that it has been set at an appropriate level. prohibited non-­audit services and on limitations of the scope of Through this regular engagement with the auditors, we are able to non-audit services. satisfy ourselves that the external audit process is effective. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Audit Committee Where the auditor has performed services that do not fall under the members, the auditors and the management for their hard work scope of the Group audit, the nature and extent of these services have over the past financial year. been explained to the Audit Committee. In financial year 2014 / 15, these non-audit services accounted for 38 % of the auditor’s fees, Hanover, 8 December 2015 which totalled € 18.6 m. The non-audit fees included services incurred in relation to the merger. Excluding those merger related fees the Prof. Edgar Ernst ratio would have been 17 %. Together with management, we have Chairman of the Audit Committee 36 TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS Executive Board and Supervisory Board Executive Board and Supervisory Board Annex to the Notes SUPERVISORY BOARD Name Function / Occupation Location Prof. Dr Klaus Mangold Chairman of the Supervisory Board of TUI AG Stuttgart Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Rothschild GmbH Frank Jakobi1 Deputy Chairman of the Supervisory Board of TUI AG Hamburg Travel Agent Sir Michael Hodgkinson Deputy Chairman of the Supervisory Board of TUI AG London (since 12 December 2014) Andreas Barczewski 1 Aircraft Captain Hanover Peter Bremme1 Regional Head of the Special Division Hamburg of ver.di – Vereinte Dienstleistungsgewerkschaft Arnd Dunse1 (until 30 November 2014) Head of Group Controlling Department of TUI AG Bad Nenndorf Prof. Dr Edgar Ernst President of Deutsche Prüfstelle für Rechnungslegung (DPR ) Berlin Angelika Gifford (until 11 December 2014) President Hewlett Packard Germany, Kranzberg Vice President HP Software Germany Valerie Frances Gooding Member of supervisory bodies in different companies Weybridge (since 12 December 2014) Dr Dierk Hirschel1 (since 16 January 2015) Business unit manager of the trade-union ver.di – Berlin Vereinte Dienstleistungsgewerkschaft Janis Carol Kong Member of supervisory bodies in different companies London (since 12 December 2014) Vladimir Lukin (until 11 December 2014) Senior Vice President Legal Affairs, OAO Severstal Moscow First Deputy CEO , ZAO Sever Group First Deputy CEO , OOO Kapital Coline Lucille McConville Member of supervisory bodies in different companies London (since 12 December 2014) Michael Pönipp1 Hotel Clerk Hanover Timothy Martin Powell Member of supervisory bodies in different companies London (since 12 December 2014) Wilfried H. Rau1 (since 3 December 2014) Director Group Audit Hanover Carmen Riu Güell Entrepreneur Palma de Mallorca Carola Schwirn1 Department Coordinator in the Transportation Division Berlin of ver.di – Vereinte Dienstleistungsgewerkschaft Maxim G. Shemetov Head of Investment Management, Travel Sector, ZAO Sever Group Moscow Anette Strempel1 Travel Agent Hemmingen Prof. Christian Strenger Member of Supervisory Boards Frankfurt / Main Ortwin Strubelt1 Travel Agent Hamburg Marcell Witt (since 16 January 2015) Referee of Group and European Works Councils of TUI AG Executive Board and Supervisory Board TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS 37 1 Representative of the employees a) Membership in supervisory boards within the meaning of section 125 of the German 2 Information refers to 30 September 2015 or date of resignation from the Supervisory Stock Corporation Act (AktG) Board of TUI AG in financial year 2014 / 15. b) Membership in comparable German and non-German bodies of companies within the 3 Chairman meaning of section 125 of the German Stock Corporation Act (AktG) 4 Deputy Chairman Initial Appointment Appointed until AGM Other Board Memberships 2 Name 7 Jan 2010 2016 a) Alstom AG 3 b) Alstom S. A. Prof. Dr Klaus Mangold Continental AG Baiterek Holding JSC Ernst & Young Rothschild GmbH 3 Swarco AG 4 15 Aug 2007 2016 Frank Jakobi1 12 Dec 2014 2016 b) Keolis (UK ) Limited3 Sir Michael Hodgkinson Keolis Amey Docklands Ltd. (since 12 December 2014) 10 May 2006 2016 Andreas Barczewski 1 2 July 2014 2016 a) TÜV Nord AG Peter Bremme1 1 Oct 2008 Arnd Dunse1 (until 30 November 2014) 9 Feb 2011 2016 a) Deutsche Postbank AG Prof. Dr Edgar Ernst DMG Mori AG VONOVIA SE Wincor Nixdorf AG 26 March 2012 a) ProSiebenSat.1 Media SE b) Rothschild & Co Angelika Gifford (until 11 December 2014) (former Paris Orléans SCA ) 12 Dec 2014 2020 b) Premier Farnell 3 Valerie Frances Gooding Vodafone PLC (since 12 December 2014) 16 Jan 2015 2016 a) DZ Bank Gruppe Dr Dierk Hirschel1 (since 16 January 2015) 12 Dec 2014 2020 b) Copenhagen Airport Bristol Airport Ltd. Janis Carol Kong Network Rail Infrastructure Limited Kingfischer PLC (since 12 December 2014) Network Rail Limited Portmeirion Group PLC South West Airports Ltd. 12 Feb 2014 b) OAO AB Rossiya ZAO National Media Group Vladimir Lukin (until 11 December 2014) OAO Severstal ZAO Sveza OJSC Power Machines ZAO Video International OOO T2 RTK Holding 12 Dec 2014 2020 b) Fever-Tree Drinks plc Inchape PLC Coline Lucille McConville Travis Perkins plc (since 12 December 2014) UTV Media PLC 17 April 2013 2016 a) TUI Deutschland GmbH b) MER -Pensionskasse V. V. a. G. Michael Pönipp1 TUI BKK 12 Dec 2014 2016 b) Computacenter PLC Timothy Martin Powell Supergroup PLC (since 12 December 2014) 3 Dec 2014 2016 a) TUI Deutschland GmbH Wilfried H. Rau1 (since 3 December 2014) 14 Feb 2005 2016 b) Hotel San Francisco S.A. Productores Hoteleros Carmen Riu Güell Riu Hotels S.A. Reunidos, S.A. RIUSA II S.A. 1 Aug 2014 2016 Carola Schwirn1 14 March 2014 2020 Maxim G. Shemetov 2 Jan 2009 2016 Anette Strempel1 9 Feb 2011 2016 a) Deutsche Asset & Wealth Management b) The Germany Funds, Inc.3 Prof. Christian Strenger Investment GmbH 3 April 2009 2016 Ortwin Strubelt1 16 Jan 2015 2016 Marcell Witt (since 16 January 2015) 38 TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS Executive Board and Supervisory Board Annex to the Notes EXECUTIVE BOARD1 Name Department Other Board Memberships Friedrich Joussen Joint CEO (Age 52) Member of the Executive Board since Oct 2012, CEO of the Executive Board from Feb 2013, Joint CEO since Dec 2014 Current appointment until Oct 2020 Peter Long Joint CEO a) TUI Deutschland GmbH b) Beaumont Film Partnership LLP (Age 63) NRL Properties LLP Member of the Executive Board since 2007, Royal Mail PLC 2 Joint CEO since Dec 2014 The Close Film Sale and Lease Back Current appointment until Feb 2016 (2003/4) No 2 LLP The Family Holiday Association TUI Nederland Holding N.V. TUI Travel Belgium N.V. Horst Baier Finance a) Hapag-Lloyd AG b) RIUSA II S.A.2 (Age 58) Leibniz-Service GmbH Sunwing Travel Group Inc. Member of the Executive Board since 2007 TUI Deutschland GmbH TUI Canada Holdings Inc. Current appointment until Nov 2018 TUI fly GmbH David Burling Northern Region b) Sunwing Travel Group Inc. The Family Holiday Association (Age 47) Airlines TUI Canada Holdings Inc. Member of the Executive Board since June 2015 Hotel Purchasing TUI Travel Ltd. Current appointment until May 2018 TUI UK Ltd. TUI UK Transport Ltd. Sebastian Ebel Central Region a) TUI Cruises GmbH BRW Beteiligungs AG 2 (Age 52) Hotels TUI fly GmbH EVES Information Technology AG 2 Member of the Executive Board since Dec 2014 Cruises Eintracht Braunschweig Current appointment until Nov 2017 TUI Destination Services GmbH & Ko.KG aA2 IT HR and Labour Director Johan Lundgren Mainstream b) TUI Mostravel (Age 49) (Organisational Member of the Executive Board from structure until May 2015) Dec 2014 until May 2015 William Waggott Specialist Group b) Atlantica Golden Resorts Ltd. Hotelbeds UK Ltd. (Age 52) Hotelbeds Group Bella Vista EAD Thomson Travel Group (Holdings) Ltd. Member of the Executive Board since Dec 2014 First Choice Holidays & Flights Ltd. Travel Choice Ltd. Current appointment until Nov 2017 First Choice Holidays Ltd. Travel Scot World Ltd. Isango Ltd. Trina Group Ltd. Meetings & Events UK Ltd. TTG (Jersey) Ltd. Preussag UK Ltd. TUI Aviation GmbH 2 TUI Travel Holdings Ltd. TUI Travel Belgium N.V. TUI Travel Ltd. TUI Nederland Holding N.V. TUI Travel Group Management Services Ltd. TUI Travel Amber Ltd. 1 Information refers to 30 Sep 2015 or date of resignation from the Excecutive Board a) Membership in Supervisory Boards required by law within the meaning of section 125 in financial year 2014 / 15. of the German Stock Corporation Act (AktG) 2 Chairman b) Membership in comparable Boards of domestic and foreign companies within the meaning of section 125 of the German Stock Corporation Act (AktG) Corporate Governance TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS 39 C O R P O R AT E G O V E R N A N C E Corporate Governance Report / Statement on Corporate Governance (as part of the Management Report) The actions of TUI AG ’s management and oversight bodies are (e. g. the Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules) ­determined by the principles of good and responsible corporate for foreign companies such as TUI AG and its Annual Report. governance. In this chapter, the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board proUK Corporate Governance Code is available at: www.frc.org.uk vide their report on Corporate Governance in the Company pursuant German Corporate Governance Code see at www.dcgk.de to sub-section 3.10 of the German Corporate Governance Code and section 289a of the German Commercial Code (HGB ). In accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.7R and Listing Rule 9.8.6R (6), the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board therefore declare as follows: Declaration of Compliance pursuant to section 161 of the German Stock Corporation Act (AktG) UK Corporate Governance Statement The Executive Board and the Supervisory Board comprehensively discussed corporate governance issues in financial year 2014 / 15 and “Throughout the reporting period, the Company has complied with jointly submitted the declaration of compliance for 2015 in Decemthe provisions of the UK Code, including its main principles, except ber 2015, pursuant to section 161 of the German Stock Corporation in respect of the departures set out and explained below. Act. The declaration was made permanently accessible to the general public on TUI AG ’s website in December 2015. TUI AG confirmed in the documentation for the merger of TUI AG and TUI Travel PLC sent to shareholders before the merger that it W O R D I N G O F T H E D E C L A R AT I O N O F C O M P L I A N C E F O R 2 0 15 intended to adhere to both the UK Code and the German Corporate “In accordance with section 161 of the German Stock Corporation Governance Code (German Code) to the extent practicable. During Act, the Executive Board and Supervisory Board of TUI AG hereby the year, compliance with both the UK and German Codes was redeclare: viewed, taking into account that TUI is a German company subject to German law. In many respects, the requirements of the two Codes Since we submitted our last Declaration of Compliance in Decemare similar, but there are certain aspects which are not compatible ber 2014, we complied with the recommendations of the Code in its (in some cases due to the different legal regimes for German and UK version of 24 June 2014. In future, all recommendations of the Code companies) and so some deviations from best practice in the UK in its new version of 5 May 2015 will be observed.” have been necessary. It is important to understand that (as explained in the merger docuThe current and all previous declarations of compliance have been made permamentation) under the German Stock Corporation Act, the legislation nently available on the web at: www.tuigroup.com/en-en/investors/corporate-­ applicable to TUI AG , a two-tier board system is mandatory. This governance/declaration-of-conformity means that two separate boards must be established by law: U K C O R P O R AT E G O V E R N A N C E C O D E • The Executive Board (Vorstand), which is responsible for running For the first time, the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board the Company. It is headed by the CEO (or in case of TUI AG also provide a report on the Corporate Governance Code of the currently by two Joint CEO s). The Executive Board members can United Kingdom (“ UK Code”). In the framework of its merger anbroadly be compared to the Executive Directors in a UK company. nouncements, TUI Travel PLC ( TUI Travel) and TUI AG had an• The Supervisory Board (Aufsichtsrat), which is responsible for nounced that they were going to comply also with the UK Code to the supervision of the Executive Board, and is headed by its the extend practicable. Moreover, due to its listing in the London Chairman. The Supervisory Board members can broadly be comStock Exchange, various UK provisions are also directly mandatory pared to the non-executive directors in a UK company. 40 TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS Corporate Governance This two-tier board structure is different to the UK unitary board In the UK there is no concept of Employee Representatives and the structure on which the UK Code is based. Some of the principal UK Code only envisages shareholder representatives on the Board structures and procedures of the boards of a German company are as Non Executive Direstors. Therefore, the Company’s approach is to also different to a UK company (for example, there is no Company exclude Employee Representatives from its independence disclosures Secretary). For this reason the Company has explained below circum(for a detailed explanation of Shareholder and Employee Representastances where it considers not to comply. Furthermore the Company tions, please see below). has explained where it considers not to be compliant in the legal sense, but with the spirit of the UK Code. In these cases the ComThe Supervisory Board has determined that seven of its nine mempany has explained its considerations for a better understanding of bers from the shareholder representatives (excluding the Chairman investors. Sub-headings refer to sections of the UK Code for ease of as required by the UK Code) are independent for the purposes of the reference for investors. UK Code and that the Chairman was independent on appointment in 2011 and is still considered independent (Prof. Mangold also was I D E N T I F I C AT I O N O F S E N I O R I N D E P E N D E N T D I R E C T O R ( A1 . 2 ) independent when he became member of the Supervisory Board in Under German law and the German Code, there is no concept of a January 2010). The shareholder representatives of the Supervisory “Senior Independent Director”. Instead, shareholders may raise any Board considered to be independent are: Prof. Edgar Ernst, Val issues at the Annual General Meeting (AGM ). In this forum, the Gooding, Sir Michael Hodgkinson, Janis Kong, Coline McConville, ­E xecutive Board and, with respect to certain matters, the Chairman Minnow Powell and Prof. Christian Strenger. are available to address any issues and are legally obliged to provide adequate responses. The members of the Supervisory Board not considered to be independent for the purposes of the UK Code are Carmen Riu Güell Outside the AGM, and where contact through the normal channels of and M ­ axim Shemetov. the Executive Board and in particular with the Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer has failed to resolve an issue or where such In reaching its determination, the Supervisory Board has considered contact is deemed inappropriate, the Chairman or any of his Deputies in particular the factors set out below. may be approached. Sir Michael Hodgkinson, who was the Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director of TUI ­Travel PLC beP E R F O R M A N C E R E L AT E D PAY fore the merger, was appointed Second Deputy Chairman of the All Supervisory Board members currently receive a performance-­ Company in February 2015 alongside Frank Jakobi (First Deputy related pay element in addition to their fixed pay. This variable Chairman who, according to the German Co-Determination Act, element was resolved upon by shareholders at the 2013 AGM and must be an Employee Representative). The role of Second Deputy was in line with a specific recommendation of the German Code at Chairman was introduced following the merger and will remain for that time. In practice, the variable element is not substantial when the foreseeable future. compared to the level of fixed compensation (for further details see page 70 of the Directors’ Remuneration Report). In these circumDIVISION OF RESPONSIBILITIES – CHAIRMAN & CHIEF stances, the Supervisory Board considers that the variable pay ­E X E C U T I V E S ( A 2 .1) ­element does not affect its members’ independence for the purThe separation of the roles of the Chairman of the Supervisory poses of the UK Code. Board (Prof. Klaus Mangold) and the two Co-Chief Executives (­Friedrich Joussen and Peter Long) is clearly defined under German Moreover, as the recommendation in the German Code has now been law as part of the two-tier board structure. Therefore, no further withdrawn, and there is a tendency of German companies for division of responsibilities is required and both the Executive Board ­Supervisory Board members to receive fixed remuneration only, it is and the Supervisory Board consider that the Company complies intended to propose a resolution at the 2016 AGM to replace the with the spirit of the UK Code. performance-­related pay element with a fixed fee only and thereby to comply with the UK standards of good corporate governance. I N D E P E N D E N C E O F S U P E R V I S O R Y B O A R D M E M B E R S ( B 1 .1) Under the UK Code, the Board must identify in the annual report each S H A R E H O L D E R A N D E M P L O Y E E R E P R E S E N TAT I V E S non-executive director it considers to be “independent” for the purThe Supervisory Board of TUI AG consists of ten members who are poses of the UK Code. As explained above, all members of the Superelected by shareholders at AGM s (the “Shareholder Representavisory Board are considered to be non-executive directors for the tives”) and ten members who represent the employees of TUI AG purposes of the UK Code. Under the UK Code, “independent” means (the “Employee Representatives”). This differs from UK practice that the relevant individual is independent in character and judgement where only those board members representing major shareholders and that there are no relationships or circumstances which are likely are typically referred to as “Shareholder Representatives” and are to affect, or could appear to affect, the individual’s judgement. Corporate Governance TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS 41 not considered independent under the UK Code because of their HALF THE BOARD SHOULD BE INDEPENDENT NON-E XECUTIVE link to a significant shareholder. DIREC TOR S (B1. 2) Considering for the purpose of the UK Code only the Shareholder In TUI AG , only Carmen Riu Güell and Maxim Shemetov are conRepresentatives on the Supervisory Board, more than half of its nected to significant shareholders, namely Riu Hotels (circa 3.4 %) members are independent. and Alexey Mordashov (circa 15.0 %) respectively. It should also be noted that joint ventures exist between TUI AG and both Riu Hotels N O M I N AT I O N C O M M I T T E E – C O M P O S I T I O N A N D and TUI Russia (its majority is controlled by Mr Mordashov) (for ­R E S P O N S I B I L I T I E S ( B 2 .1) further ­details page 157 of the Annual Report). Therefore, neither The role of the Nomination Committee in a typical UK company is Ms Riu Güell nor Mr Shemetov is considered “independent” for the fulfilled in the Company by two Committees of the Supervisory purposes of the UK Code. Board: Under the Rules of Procedure for the Supervisory Board and its Committees (which are equivalent to the Terms of Reference in Sir Michael Hodgkinson was a Non-Executive Director of the UK ) the Nomination Committee considers and proposes suitable TUI ­Travel PLC before the merger with TUI AG . He had also been on candidates for election as Shareholder Representatives of the Super­ the Board of First Choice Holidays PLC since 2004 (which merged visory Board. The Presiding Committee determines the requirements with the Tourism Division of TUI AG to form TUI Travel PLC in and remuneration for any new appointments to the Executive Board 2007). However, these appointments were to legally different and recommends suitable candidates to the Supervisory Board. On Boards responsible for only part of the current Group and are this basis the Supervisory Board appoints Executive Board members. therefore not included when considering his length of service on This is different from the UK where all director apointments are the TUI AG ­Supervisory Board. It is also noted that Sir Michael approved by shareholders at the AGM . Hodgkinson was elected to the Supervisory Board by Shareholders in connection with the merger. However, as is common practice in Germany, at each AGM shareholders are asked to decide whether they approve the actions of the The Employee Representatives of the Supervisory Board are elected Executive Board and Supervisory Board Members during the past by TUI AG ’s workforce. Three Employee Representatives are nomifinancial year. At the AGM 2015, the first following the merger, the nated by a German workers’ union (the ver.di). Company changed its procedure to allow a separate vote on each individual Executive Board and Supervisory Board member, in the Under the UK Code, directors who are or have been an employee of light of UK practice. The Company intends to continue this practice. the Group in the last five years or who participate in the Group’s Accordingly, the Supervisory Board considers that the Company pension arrangements would generally not be considered independcomplies with the spirit of the UK Code to the extent practicable. ent. In the UK , directors with an employment relationship are normally current or former executives. By contrast, under German law, There is no requirement under German law or the German Code for Employee Representatives of the Supervisory Board must be employthe majority of the Nomination Committee members to be “indeees of the Group, and must be elected by the employees without pendent”. Of the four members of the Nomination Committee, two any involvement of the Executive or Supervisory Boards. In addition, are representatives of significant shareholders (Carmen Riu Güell and their employment agreement may be terminated while they are Maxim Shemetov) and so not independent for the purposes of the Employee Representatives only in exceptional circumstances. UK Code. The remaining two members are Sir Michael Hodgkinson and Prof. Klaus Mangold (Chairman) who are both independent. The Employee Representatives may also participate in Group pension Therefore TUI AG is not compliant with the UK Code which requires schemes as is normal for employees and in their capacities as ema majority of the Nomination Committee to be independent. However, ployees. the Company considers that the current membership of the Nomination Committee provides a strong and experienced pre-­selection Union representatives are nominated, and employed by, the Union of Supervisory Board members, while keeping the Committee to a but are still classified as Employee Representatives. The Union manageable size. representatives are nominated, and may only be removed from the Supervisory Board, by their respective Union and neither the The Rules of Procedure for the Supervisory Board and its CommitExecutive nor the Supervisory Board has any role in their appointment tees are currently under revision and will be finalised within H1 of or removal. the financial year 2015 / 16. Afterwards the Supervisory Board will 42 TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS Corporate Governance decide whether they will be made available for the public. Therefore Succession planning for management below Executive Board level is the Company is currently not compliant with this part of the Code driven by the Executive Board. The Presiding Committee is responprovision (and part C3.3 as far as the public availability of the Rules sible for succession planning for the Executive Board only and a of Procedure for the Audit Committee is concerned). presentation on talent management and succession planning was given to the Presiding Committee during the year. LENGTH OF TENURE FOR NON-E XECUTIVE DIREC TOR S (B2.3) In accordance with German law and common practice, Shareholder TERMS & CONDITIONS OF APPOINTMENTS OF NON-E XECUTIVE Representatives are generally elected for five-year terms. Employee DIREC TOR S (B3. 2) Representatives are also generally elected for five years. Therefore, The terms and conditions of Supervisory Board members’ appointneither Executive nor Supervisory Board Members are re-appointed ments follow the provisions of the German Stock Corporation Act annually by shareholders and so TUI AG does not comply with this and the Articles of Association of the Company. The Articles are availprovision of the UK Code. able on the website www.tuigroup.com/en-en/investors/corporate-­ governance. Under the UK Code, any term beyond six years should be subject to rigorous review and a term extending beyond nine years could affect E X TERNAL NON-E XECUTIVE /CHAIRMAN ROLE S (B3.3) the independence of a Non-Executive Director. However, in the Peter Long was appointed as a non-executive director and Chairman-­ ­German Corporate Governance context, a longer length of service is designate of Royal Mail PLC with effect from 8 June 2015 and the quite normal as Supervisory Board members are usually elected for appointment was approved at its Annual General Meeting on five years and regular re-election is common. 23 July 2015. He took over the role of Chairman with effect from 1 September 2015. This appointment overlaps with his position of A N N U A L R E E L E C T I O N B Y S H A R E H O L D E R S AT T H E A G M ( B 7.1) Joint CEO of TUI AG for a short period which is a point of non-­ None of the Executive or Supervisory Board members is re-elected compliance with the UK Code. However, Peter Long intends to annually. However, as noted above, in light of the UK Code and UK step down as Joint CEO as of the end of the AGM in February 2016, practice, the Company voluntarily puts individual resolutions and his proposed appointment to the Supervisory Board will be put ­approving the actions of each Executive and Supervisory Board to a shareholder resolution at the AGM for approval. member in the previous financial year to the last AGM and intends to continue this practice. A D V I C E A N D S E R V I C E S O F T H E C O M PA N Y S E C R E TA R Y ( B 5 . 2 ) There is no specific role of Company Secretary in German companies. Supervisory Board member´s appointments expiring at the AGM However, Executive and Supervisory Board Members have access to 2016 are disclosed in the table following the Chairman´s letter on the Board Office (with team members in Germany and the UK ) if page 36. In respect of the Shareholder Representatives, the Superthey need any advice or services. The Board Office acts as an intervisory Board proposes the re-election of Prof. Dr Klaus Mangold, Sir face for corporate matters for the Executive and Supervisory Board Michael Hodgkinson, Carmen Riu Güell and Prof. Dr Edgar Ernst. members and is responsible for ensuring that the requisite processPeter Long and Angelika Gifford will also be proposed for election by es and procedures are in place governing all Executive and Super­ the shareholders. Maxim Shemetov has confirmed his intention to visory Board meetings (i.e. preparation of agendas, minuting of resign from the Supervisory Board provided that Alexey Mordashov meetings and ensuring compliance with German and UK law as apis elected at the AGM 2016. propriate). The Board Office also supports the Chairman, the Joint CEO s, the CFO and the Chairman of the Audit Committee. N O M I N AT I O N C O M M I T T E E S E C T I O N O F T H E A N N U A L Executive and Supervisory Board members also have access to REPORT & ACCOUNTS (B2.4) legal advice via the Group Legal Director and the Board Office generSee page 30 for the activities of the Nomination Committee which ally. The Supervisory Board can also approach the Executive Board forms part of the Chairman’s letter to shareholders. directly for specific advice on any matters. Accordingly, the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board consider that the Company During the year, neither a search consultancy nor external advertisecomplies with the spirit of the UK Code. ments were used for any Supervisory Board appointments. The proposals for the new members were part of the merger terms B O A R D P E R F O R M A N C E E V A L U AT I O N ( B 6 ) designed to ensure a balance of interests and knowledge for the The individual Executive Board member’s performance is evaluated new combined group and appropriate diversity. annually by the Supervisory Board for the annual variable bonus. In Corporate Governance TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS 43 this context, the Supervisory Board also reviews the individual’s allow the company to recollect damages from Executive Board overall performance as part of the Executive Board. However, no members. First, the service contracts of Executive Board members external performance evaluation is done for the Executive Board provide for forfeiture of the annual performance-based remuneration and this would be highly unusual in Germany. and the LTIP if the company terminates the service contract for cause without notice before the end of the one year performance In respect of the Supervisory Board’s performance, it is not customperiod in case of the annual performance-based remuneration or ary to conduct annual reviews of effectiveness. Each Supervisory before the end of the respective performance reference period Board Member can give feedback to the Chairman, the Deputy regarding the LTIP. Second, the Supervisory Board may, under Chairmen or the Supervisory Board as a whole as and when approcertain exceptional circumstances, reduce Executive Board compenpriate or required. sation in case of a deterioration of the economic situation of the company. Third, Executive Board members may be liable for damages External evaluation is limited to Supervisory Board members and is under German Corporate Law in case of a breach of duties of care performed by means of individual interviews and anonymous reviews. and fiduciary duties. Consolidated results are shared with the entire Supervisory Board and appropriate actions suggested and discussed as appropriate. See page 50 et seqq. of the Directors’ Remuneration Report for full The last external review of the Supervisory Board was undertaken details on Executive and Supervisory Board member´s remuneration. during 2013 by Board Consultants International and the current external review commenced in September 2015. Board Consultants C O M P E N S AT I O N C O M M I T M E N T S I N E X E C U T I V E D I R E C T O R S ’ International has no other connection with the Company. SE RVICE CONTR AC T S (D1.4) The principles that apply for departing Executive Directors are The appraisal of the Chairman of the Supervisory Board is covered ­detailed in the Directors´ Remuneration Report (see page 62). The during the external evaluation process and Executive Board members terms are already agreed in the Executive Directors’ contracts of are invited to contribute to the process. employment as approved by the Supervisory Board taking into account the various circumstances in which a director may leave. These F A I R , B A L A N C E D A N D U N D E R S TA N D A B L E A N N U A L R E P O R T include maximum limits on the amounts payable on termination. A N D A C C O U N T S ( C1 .1) Given that in Germany contracts are issued for a fixed term, termin­ In a German stock corporation the Executive Board is responsible ation payments may be greater than the one year recommended in for drafting the Annual Report & Accounts (AR A ). According to the UK Code. S. 243 para. 2 of the German Commercial Law (Handelsgesetzbuch) the AR A must be clearly arranged and should mirror a realistic However, taking into account (among other things) the UK Code, for ­picture of the Company’s economic situation. This is equivalent to all appointments made on completion of or following the merger, the UK Code requirement for the AR A to be fair, balanced and termination payments are subject to a cap of two years’ remuneraunder­standable – although this assessement has not been delegated tion. For Executive Board members other than Mr Joussen and to the Audit Committee (C3.4) – and the Executive Board is comMr Baier the cap reduces to one year’s remuneration after the first fortable that this AR A satisfies both requirements. year´s service. In any event, if the outstanding term of the service contract at the time of termination is shorter, then the relevant cap E S TA B L I S H M E N T A N D O P E R AT I O N O F R E M U N E R AT I O N is reduced to the remaining term. ­C O M M I T T E E ( D 2 ) , R E M U N E R AT I O N ( D 1) In the German governance structure there is no separate RemunerNOTICE PE RIODS FOR E XECUTIVE DIREC TOR S (D1.5) ation Committee. The remuneration of the Executive Board is Executive Board appointments are normally for a fixed term of three agreed by the Supervisory Board based on recommendations from to five years and therefore do not comply with the UK Code which the Presiding Committee, which is governed by the Supervisory stipulates that notice or contract periods should be set at one year Board Rules of Procedure, as referred to above. or less. However, the contracts include maximum limits on the amounts payable on termination (see the Directors´ Remuneration Supervisory Board and Committee remuneration is governed by Report from page 57). the Articles of Association as resolved upon by the shareholders at the AGM . D I A L O G U E W I T H S H A R E H O L D E R S ( E 1 .1) The Supervisory Board receives feedback from the Chairman and There are no clawback or malus provisions which work in exactly the Deputy Chairman (Shareholder Representative) and Executive same way they would in the UK in the service contracts of Executive Board Members following meetings with major shareholders. Board members and this would be unusual in Germany. However, there are different contractual and statutory provisions that may The following meetings between management and investors (attendallow for a reduction or forfeiture of remuneration components or ed by the Chief Executive Officers and / or the Chief Financial Officer 44 TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS Corporate Governance and members of the Investor Relations team where appropriate) • The IR team monitors detailed investor feedback (obtained via took place during the year ended 30 September 2015: the Company brokers) following management roadshows and ­results announcements / trading updates. DIALOGUE WITH SHAREHOLDERS It is not common practice in German companies for Supervisory Board members to make themselves available for meetings with major Date Event Attendees shareholders. This preserves the separation of duties between the Supervisory and Executive Boards and prevents unequal disseminaOctober 2014 TUI AG German investor roadshow FJ , HB tion of information. The AGM is considered the appropriate forum TUI Travel US investor roadshow PJL for shareholders to raise any topics for discussion. However, see Investor roundtable PJL , FJ , HB , page 40 above in relation to the role of Sir Michael Hodgkinson as January 2015 Commerzbank German investment ­seminar HB Second Deputy Chairman. Accordingly, the Supervisory Board conGerman corporates conference HB siders that the Company complies with the spirit of the UK Code. March 2015 Investor dinner PJL May 2015 London investor roadshow FJ , PJL , HB N O N E X E C U T I V E D I R E C T O R S ’ U N D E R S TA N D I N G O F Frankfurt investor roadshow FJ , PJL , HB ­S H A R E H O L D E R V I E W S ( E 1 . 2 ) BAML conference FJ , PJL , HB Regular updates on meetings between Executive Board members June 2015 Paris investor roadshow HB and shareholders are circulated to the Supervisory Board to keep Scandinavia investor roadshow HB them informed of market and industry views. The updates also Zurich investor roadshow HB include analysts’ views of TUI AG ’s position in the market. US investor roadshow FJ , PJL , HB Deutsche Bank conference HB An Investor Relations Report and Broker Notes are provided elecSeptember 2015 121 with Standard Life FJ , PJL , HB tronically to Executive and Supervisory Board Members and, where Key: Friedrich Joussen ( FJ ), Peter Long ( PJL ), Horst Baier ( HB ) relevant, reports are circulated separately to Supervisory Board Members. Key topics discussed at meetings between shareholders and Executive A G M R E S O L U T I O N O N F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S A N D Board members included: ­C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S ( E 2 .1) It is not German practice to pass a resolution at the AGM to receive • Updates on the merger of TUI Travel and TUI AG . and approve the financial statements and consolidated financial • Strategic themes outlined at the Capital Markets Day Update in statements. Therefore, this was not done at the AGM in 2015 and it May 2015 including the growth roadmap and capital requireis not intended to do so at the AGM in 2016. However, the first item ments / allocation to achieve growth. on the agenda of the Company’s AGM is the presentation of the financial statements and consolidated financial statements to the The following additional meetings also took place between Sir ­Michael AGM as required by German law. Under this item, the Executive Hodgkinson and the top five former TUI Travel investors to discuss Board will explain the financial statements and consolidated financial corporate governance, in particular in the context of the merger, statements and the Chairman will explain, in particular, the report of mainly around alignment of UK and German Corporate Governance the Supervisory Board (including this corporate governance staterequirements. These meetings were also attended by members of ment). Shareholders will have the opportunity to raise any questions the Investor Relations Department of TUI AG : that they wish to put. Questions are typically raised, as is normal in the AGM s of German companies, and, as a general rule, answers • December 2014 – L&G must be provided under German law. • January 2015 – Blackrock, Artemis, JO Hambro, M&G • June 2015 – Standard Life This is the standard practice for a German company and is in full compliance with the German Code. While the lack of a resolution to Additional communications: receive the Annual Report & Accounts is not in compliance with the UK Code, the Company considers that the arrangements afford share• The Investor Relations report is circulated each month to the holders with sufficient opportunity to raise any questions or concerns ­E xecutive Board and a report is also prepared for the Supervisory that they may have in relation to the Annual Report & A ­ ccounts, and Board. This includes updates on share price performances, sell-side to receive answers, in the AGM . Accordingly, the E­ xecutive Board analyst research and investor feedback. and the Supervisory Board consider that the Company complies with the spirit of the UK Code to the extent practicable. Corporate Governance TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS 45 C I R C U L AT I O N O F A G M D O C U M E N TAT I O N T O S H A R E H O L D E R S Executive Board with effect from 15 October 2015. Dr Eller will be in (E . 2.4) charge of HR and will also be Labour Director. The 2015 AGM of the Company was held on 10 February 2015. As required by German law, the Invitation to the Company’s 2015 AGM (including the agenda and the voting proposals of the Executive For functions, see section on Executive Board and Supervisory Board on page 36 Board and the Supervisory Board) was published in the Federal et seqq. ­Gazette in Germany on 30 December 2014. Shareholders then had rights under German law to requisition additional agenda items at In accordance with the law and the Articles of Association, the Superany time up to 30 days before the AGM . Therefore, in accordance visory Board had 20 members at the balance sheet date, i.e. 30 Sepwith German practice, the combined Invitation and explanatory tember 2015. From 1 October 2014 until the completion of the notes relating to the AGM was sent to shareholders on 19 Janumerger between TUI AG and TUI Travel on 12 December 2014, the ary 2015 once this deadline had expired, which was less than the Supervisory Board only had 16 members. 20 business days before the AGM recommended in the UK Code (but more than the 21 days’ notice required by German law). However, in addition to the original publication of the Invitation in the Federal For details about the activities of the Supervisory Board, see Supervisory Board Gazette in Germany, the combined Invitation and explanatory notes Report from page 23 relating to the AGM was published on the company’s website on 30 December 2014. As no agenda items were requisitioned by shareThe Supervisory Board advises and oversees the Executive Board in holders, this was in the same form as the final combined Invitation the management of the Company. It is involved in strategic and and explanatory notes relating to the AGM later sent to shareholdplanning decisions and all decisions of fundamental importance to ers. Further, the Company’s Annual Report and Accounts for the the Company. When the Executive Board takes decisions on major Financial Year to 30 September 2014 was published on 10 Decemtransactions, such as the annual budget, major acquisitions or divestber 2014, significantly more than 20 business days before the 2015 ments, it is required by its terms of reference to seek the approval AGM . Accordingly, the Company considers that it complied with the of the Supervisory Board. The Chairman of the Supervisory Board spirit of the UK Code requirements to the extent practicable. A coordinates the work in the Supervisory Board, chairs its meetings similar timetable will be followed in relation to the 2016 AGM .” and represents the concerns of the body externally. The Supervisory Board and the Audit Committee have adopted terms of reference for their own work, which are being revised. In the run-up to the SuperFunctioning of the Executive and Supervisory visory Board meetings, the representatives of shareholders and Boards ­employees meet separately. TUI AG is a company under German law. One of the fundamental The Executive Board provides the Supervisory Board at regular principles of German stock corporation law is the dual management meetings and in writing with comprehensive, up-to-date information system involving two bodies, the Executive Board in charge of manabout the strategy, the budget, business performance and the situaaging the company and the Supervisory Board in charge of monitortion of the Group, including risk management and compliance. The ing the company. TUI AG ’s Executive Board and Supervisory Board Executive Board works on the basis of terms of reference issued by cooperate closely and in a spirit of trust in managing and overseeing the Supervisory Board, which are also being revised. the Company, with strict separation between the two bodies in terms of their membership and competences. Both bodies are obliged to TUI AG has taken out a D&O insurance policy with an appropriate ensure the continued existence of the Company and sustainable deductible for all members of the Executive Board and Supervisory creation of added value in harmony with the principles of the social Board. The deductible amounts to 10 % of the loss up to the amount market economy. of one and a half times the fixed annual compensation. TUI AG ’s Executive Board comprised six members as at the closing COMPOSITION OF THE SUPERVISORY BOARD date 30 September 2015. The Executive Board is responsible for As at the balance sheet date, 30 September 2015, the Supervisory managing the Company’s business operations in the interests of the Board of TUI AG comprised 20 members. Pursuant to section 8 of Company. The allocation of functions and responsibilities to individual the Terms of Reference for the Supervisory Board of TUI AG and in Board members is presented in a separate section. On 31 July 2015, line with the recommendations of the German Corporate Governance the Supervisory Board appointed Dr Elke Eller a member of the Code, the composition of the Supervisory Board in financial year 46 TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS Corporate Governance 2014 / 15 ensured that its members as a group had the knowledge, the Nomination Committee and the Integration Committee. The ability and expert experience required to properly complete their Galaxy Committee, which functioned from September 2014 until the tasks. The goals set by the Supervisory Board itself for its composition completion of the merger, was absorbed into the newly created include in particular comprehensive industry knowledge, internaIntegration Committee in December 2014. A committee was furthertionality, diversity and an appropriate degree of female representamore established in accordance with section 27 (3) of the German tion. The goals set by the Supervisory Board itself for its composition Co-Determination Act. include in particular comprehensive industry knowledge, internationality, diversity and an appropriate participation of women. These The Presiding Committee and Audit Committee have up to eight goals are currently being reviewed and further developed, where members each, with an equal number of shareholder and employee necessary, in the framework of a revision of its terms of reference. representatives. The Presiding Committee prepares, in particular, The revision will be completed in the first half-year of the financial the appointment of Executive Board members, including the terms year 2015 / 16. and conditions of service contracts and remuneration proposals. The Audit Committee’s task is to support the Supervisory Board in exercising its oversight function. The Chairman of the Audit Committee is For current composition, go to: an independent financial expert and has particular knowledge and www.tuigroup.com/en-en/investors/corporate-governance/management experience in the application of accounting principles and internal control methods from his own professional practice. The Nomination Twelve members of the Supervisory Board had considerable interCommittee consists exclusively of shareholder representatives, in national experience. Due to the different professional careers of its keeping with the recommendation in the German Corporate Governmembers, the composition of the Supervisory Board overall reflects ance Code. Its task is to suggest suitable candidates for the Supera great diversity of relevant experience, ability and industry knowhow. visory Board to propose to the Annual General Meeting. None of the shareholder representatives on the Supervisory Board had any commercial or personal relationship with the Company, its The Integration Committee was set up by a resolution adopted by the Executive Board or third parties that might cause a material clash of Supervisory Board on 10 July 2014 for a period of two years after interests. Eight shareholder representatives are independent. completion of the planned merger. Its role is to advise and monitor the Executive Board in implementing the integration process required In accordance with the recommendations of the German Corporate following completion of the merger. It develops recommendations for Governance Code, the original shareholder representatives were resolutions to be adopted by the Supervisory Board; however, it does individually elected for five-year terms of office during elections to not have a mandate to adopt any resolutions on its behalf. the Supervisory Board at the Annual General Meeting in 2011. All shareholder representatives newly elected in the period under review Executive and Supervisory Board members have a duty to act in were individually elected at the Extraordinary General Meeting on TUI AG ’s best interests. In the completed financial year 2014 / 15, 28 October 2014 or the Annual General Meeting on 10 Februthere were no conflicts of interest requiring disclosure to the Superary 2015. The district court of Hanover appointed Wilfried H. Rau, visory Board. In the Executive Board of TUI AG only Mr Long sat on Dr Dierk Hirschel and Marcell Witt as employee representatives. The more than three supervisory boards of listed non-Group companies or only member older than 68 years when elected to the Supervisory supervisory bodies of external companies with similar requirements. Board was Sir Michael Hodgkinson. In this case, the Supervisory Board deemed it appropriate to deviate from the regular age limit in order for the Company to benefit from Sir Michael Hodgkinson’s Specifications pursuant to sections 76 (4), 111 (5) extensive experience in the framework of the imminent integration of the German Stock Corporation Act process and in order to ensure continuity. In financial year 2014 / 15, no former Executive Board members of TUI AG were represented At least 30 % of the Supervisory Board members were women and on the Supervisory Board. On 23 September 2015, the Supervisory at least 30 % were men at the balance sheet date. The Supervisory Board also specified a regular limit of length of membership for the Board was therefore compliant with section 96 (2) sentence 1 of the members of the Supervisory Board, in accordance with section 5.4.1. German Stock Corporation Act. Neither the shareholder representpara. 2 sentence 2 of the German Corporate Governance Code. atives nor the employee representatives on the Supervisory Board have raised an objection to general application of the 30 % quorum COMMIT TEE S OF THE SUPERVISORY BOARD AND THEIR to the entire Supervisory Board in accordance with section 96 (2) ­C O M P O S I T I O N sentence 2 of the German Stock Corporation Act. The Supervisory At 30 September 2015, the balance sheet date, the Supervisory Board resolved during the period under review, in keeping with Board had established four committees from among its members to section 111 (5) of the German Stock Corporation Act, that a woman support its work: the Presiding Committee, the Audit Committee, should be recruited to the Executive Board. This objective is to be Corporate Governance TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS 47 implemented by 31 October 2015. It was achieved ahead of the auditors. The Executive Board regularly informs the Supervisory target date as at 15 October 2015 when Dr Eller joined the Executive Board about existing risks and changes to these risks. The Audit Board. Committee deals in particular with monitoring the accounting process, including reporting, the effectiveness of the internal control and risk In turn, the Executive Board resolved during the period under review, management systems and the internal auditing system, compliance in keeping with section 76 (4) of the German Stock Corporation Act, and audit of the annual financial statements. that women should account for 20 % of executives at the level immediately below the Executive Board and 30 % at the level below this. More detailed information about risk management in the TUI Group Both targets are to be achieved by 30 June 2017. is presented in the Risk Report. It also contains the report on the accounting-related internal control and risk management system required in accordance with the German Commercial Code (sections Additional corporate governance disclosures 289 (5), 315 (2) no. 5 HGB ). SHAREHOLDERS AND ANNUAL GENER AL MEE TING TUI AG shareholders exercise their co-determination and monitoring Risk Report see page 97 rights at the Annual General Meeting, which takes place at least once a year. The AGM takes decisions on all statutory matters, and T R A N S PA R E N C Y these are binding on all shareholders and the Company. For voting TUI provides immediate, regular and up-to-date information about on resolutions, each share confers one vote. the Group’s economic situation and new developments to capital market participants and the interested public. The Annual Report All shareholders registering in due time are entitled to participate in and the Interim Reports are published within the applicable timethe Annual General Meeting. Shareholders who are not able to attend frames. The Company publishes press releases and ad hoc announcethe AGM in person are entitled to have their voting rights exercised ments, if required, on topical events and any new developments. by a bank, a shareholder association, one of the representatives proMoreover, the company website at www.tuigroup.com provides comvided by TUI AG and acting on the shareholders’ behalf in accordance prehensive information on the TUI Group and the TUI share. with their instructions, or some other proxy of their own choosing. Shareholders also have the opportunity of authorising the repreThe scheduled dates for the principal regular events and publications sentative provided by TUI AG via the web in the run-up to the AGM . – such as the AGM , Annual Report and Interim Reports – are set out Shareholders can, moreover, register for electronic dispatch of the in a financial calendar. The calendar is published well in advance and AGM documents. made permanently accessible to the public on TUI AG ’s website. Information on the AGM at: www.tuigroup.com/en-en/investors/agm Financial calendar online at: www.tuigroup.com/en-en/investors The invitation to the AGM and the reports and information required DIREC TORS’ DE ALINGS /SHAREHOLDINGS for voting are published in accordance with the provisions of the The Company was informed by William Waggott of notifiable purGerman Stock Corporation Act and provided in German and English chase and sale transactions of TUI AG shares or related financial on TUI AG ’s website. During the AGM , the presentations by the instruments by directors (directors’ dealings) concerning financial chairmen of the Supervisory Board and the Executive Board can be year 2014 / 15. followed live over the internet. Such purchase and sale transactions by directors are governed RISK MANAGEMENT by the TUI Share Dealing Code, adopted for the TUI Group by the Good corporate governance entails the responsible handling of Executive Board on 16 December 2014. commercial risks. The Executive Board of TUI AG and the management of the TUI Group have comprehensive general and company-­ specific reporting and monitoring systems available to identify, assess Directors’ dealings online at: and manage these risks. These systems are continually developed, www.tuigroup.com/en-en/investors/corporate-governance/directors-dealings adjusted to match changes in overall conditions and reviewed by the 48 TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS Corporate Governance No member of the Executive Board or Supervisory Board holds mance of the audit. There were no grounds to provide such inforshares in TUI AG , related options or other derivatives representing mation in the framework of the audit of financial year 2014 / 15. 1 % or more of the capital stock. Moreover, the ownership of TUI AG shares and related financial instruments by Executive and Super­ visory Board members amounts in total to less than 1 % of the Compliance shares issued by the Company. The TUI Group’s Compliance Management System is a fundamental ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING element of our commitment to commercial, environmental and soTUI AG prepares its consolidated financial statements and consolicially responsible activity and operations. It is underlined by memberdated interim financial statements in accordance with the provisions ships in associations such as the UN Global Compact and the Business of the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS ) as appliIntegrity Forum of Transparency International and therefore forms cable in the European Union. The statutory annual financial statean indispensable part of the TUI Group’s corporate culture and our ments of TUI AG , which form the basis for the dividend payment, corporate governance activities. are prepared in accordance with the German Commercial Code (HGB ). The consolidated financial statements are prepared by the CODE OF CONDUC T / SUPPLIERS’ CODE OF CONDUC T Executive Board, audited by the auditors and approved by the SuperThe Code of Conduct, drawn up for the entire TUI Group, enshrines visory Board. The interim reports are discussed between the Audit guiding principles for everyone to follow, from executives and senior Committee and the Executive Board prior to publication. The conmanagement to every Group employee. It defines minimum standards solidated financial statements and the financial statements of aimed at assisting our employees in their everyday work and providing TUI AG were audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers Aktiengesellschaft orientation in conflict situations. Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft, Hanover, the auditors elected by the 2015 Annual General Meeting. The audit was based on German auditing rules, taking account of the generally accepted auditing Compliance online: www.tuigroup.com/en-en/about-us/compliance standards issued by the German Auditors’ Institute as well as the International Standards on Auditing. It also covered risk management The Suppliers’ Code of Conduct forms the counterpart to TUI ’s and compliance with reporting requirements on corporate governance Code of Conduct. It details our ethical, social and legal expectations pursuant to section 161 of the German Stock Corporation Act as of our business partners. After we had announced our Suppliers’ well as the Listing Rule 9.8.7 R and Listing Rule 9.8.10. Code of Conduct, our business partners were required by contract to observe, in particular, all national and international anti-corruption laws applicable to the supplier relationship. This places our business See audit opinion by the auditors on page 304 relationship with our partners on a solid legal and social basis. The condensed consolidated interim financial statements and manCOMPLIANCE RULES agement reports as at 31 December 2014, 31 March and 30 June 2015 In addition, the principles set out in the Code of Conduct are detailed were examined by the auditors. in various policies and rules reflecting the legal requirements. Guidance on appropriate conduct and working practice is found in, for In addition, a contractual agreement was concluded with the auditors example, our anti-corruption policy and our policies on gifts and to the effect that the auditors will immediately inform the Super­ invitations, data protection and trade sanctions. All groups of emvisory Board of any grounds for disqualification or partiality as well as ployees have thus been acquainted with the policies of relevance to of all findings and events of importance arising during the perfortheir everyday work. Corporate Governance TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS 49 COMPLIANCE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM TUI ’s Compliance Management System is built on three pillars: prevention, discovery and response, which, in turn, comprise a large number of internal measures and processes: COMPLIANCE MANAGEMENT PROCESSES PREVENTION EXPOSURE REACTION • Compliance Policies and Group Policies • Reporting • Implementation of Process Controls • Compliance Training • Leads • Exchange with Management and • Compliance Communication • Investigations local Compliance Officers • Compliance Information • Disciplinary Measures • Compliance Risk Identification and Risk Assessment Activities in the completed financial year focused on merging and mented throughout the Group in different countries and cultures. harmonising two proven Compliance Management Systems tailored Under the aegis of the Chief Compliance Officer, Group Compliance to the needs of the tourism sector. In a first step, the Compliance and the decentralised Compliance Officers perform the following Management Systems of TUI Travel and TUI AG were compared to tasks at different management levels: identify what they had in common. It became clear that the systems were partly based on different approaches but that both Compliance Management Systems have similar structures. Based on this result, Compliance online: www.tuigroup.com/en-en/about-us/compliance the best from both systems has now been gradually merged into the new Compliance Management System. 1. Raising awareness of Compliance 2. Achieving the goals of the Code of Conduct and the Compliance The strategic goal of TUI ’s Compliance Management System is to Rules prevent misconduct. Apart from a bundle of Compliance-specific 3. Providing training measures, responsible action requires managers and employees to 4. Advising managers and employees receive appropriate assistance. To this end, the Group-wide Policy 5. Securing the necessary exchange of information Management process was transferred to Group Compliance following 6. Monitoring national and international legislative initiatives the merger of TUI AG and TUI Travel PLC in order to create a har7. Providing regular reports monised set of Policies that are sufficiently comprehensive and clear to meet our standards. COMPLIANCE TR AINING Compliance training is an indispensable element of TUI ’s Compliance COMPLIANCE PROGR AMME Management System, with its focus on preventing misconduct. It is In the period under review, the Compliance Programme focused on carried out according to a graded concept. Managers and staff at TUI various issues, including anti-corruption measures, protecting free and have all benefited from face-to-face teaching, online programmes fair competition, data protection and the handling of trade sanctions. and the “Compliance Compass” brochure, enabling all our employees Any other issues identified are regularly monitored to check their to acquaint themselves with Compliance and the underlying corporate relevance for the TUI Group through a risk identification process. From values, regardless of their position in the company hierarchy and next financial year, they will be captured via an automated system. their geographical location. In order to reflect the importance of training for a compliance culture within the Company, the online COMPLIANCE STRUC TURE training programme was extended in the completed financial year so The TUI Group’s Compliance structure supports those responsible as to include a refresher course on TUI ’s Code of Conduct. In addition, in the task of communicating the values and rules and anchoring them TUI companies and sectors offer training schemes with their own in the Group. It ensures that Compliance requirements are implespecific focus to raise awareness of challenges they may face. 50 TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS Corporate Governance WHISTLE-BLOWING confidentiality and handle information discreetly. Any incidents In agreement with various stakeholder groups, TUI offers its managers reported are analysed by Group Compliance in consultation with and employees a group-wide whistleblower system to enable severe Group Audit Services and the necessary action is then taken. Infringeinfringements of the corporate values anchored in TUI ’s Code of ments are fully investigated in the interests of all our staff and the Conduct to be reported anonymously and without reprisals. This Company itself. whistle-blower system is currently available to staff in 47 countries. Any infringements reported are consistently investigated in the interests of all stakeholders and the Company. Our top priority is to ensure Executive Board of TUI AG : www.tuigroup.com/en-en/about-us/management Remuneration Report Introduction Remuneration of the Executive Board The remuneration report outlines the general principles underlying I . A P P R O V A L O F T H E R E M U N E R AT I O N F R A M E W O R K B Y the determination of the total remuneration of the members of the SHAREHOLDERS Executive Board of TUI AG , and sets out the structure and level of For Executive Board members of TUI AG , a new remuneration the remuneration of the Executive Board members. It also comprisframework was proposed in financial year 2009 / 10 and approved by es the general principles governing, and levels of the remuneration the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 17 Februpaid to members of the Supervisory Board. This section is in parary 2010. The framework is designed to promote and reward susticular based on the recommendations of the German Corporate tained growth and robust financial performance in the Group Governance Code (“GCGC ”), the requirements of the German Comthrough incentivising the members of the Executive Board. mercial Code (Handelsgesetzbuch) and the German Stock Corporation Act (Aktiengesetz) and, to the extent practicable, the requireII. REGULAR INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL REVIEW ments of the UK Corporate Governance Code (“ UK -Code”). For the financial year 2014 / 15 a review against section 87 (1) of the German Stock Corporation Act (Aktiengesetz) was performed as an As TUI AG is also listed on the London Stock Exchange, this report annual standing agenda item of the Presiding Committee and the refers, wherever appropriate, to the recommendations of the UK Supervisory Board during their meetings on 21 October 2015 with Code. However, matters that are related to the governance or legisthe outcome that the Executive Board remuneration was deemed to lation of a German company, and therefore are mandatory law, are meet the requirements of section 87 (1) of the German Stock Cordisclosed in this report by reference to German governance or legisporation Act (Aktiengesetz). lation. To support its decision making, the Presiding Committee and the Whilst the UK -Code requirements are followed as far as practicable, Supervisory Board may from time to time seek external advice rein line with current German legislation it is not proposed that the garding remuneration. In particular, advice provides external perremuneration framework and policy will be put to shareholders for spective of the appropriateness and levels of remuneration within a binding vote. In addition, there are no Malus or Clawback terms the company (vertical benchmarking) and also provides horizontal within the framework at the current time. This position will continue benchmarking data for comparable companies in the DA X and to be monitored. MDA X on the levels of pay and short and long-term incentives. In financial year 2014 / 15, the Supervisory Board commissioned a Following a recommendation from the Presiding Committee (for ­consultancy company, hkp Group AG , to prepare an expert report further remits, please see page 27), and according to section 87 (1) regarding the appropriateness of the remuneration level for Execusentence 1 German Stock Corporation Act (Aktiengesetz), the Sutive Board members. The overall finding supported the judgement pervisory Board determines the remuneration of the individual of the Supervisory Board that the level of remuneration for Execu­E xecutive Board members. It also regularly adopts and reviews the tive Board members complied with section 87 (1) of the German remuneration framework for the Executive Board. Stock Corporation Act (Aktiengesetz) as well as the recommendations of the GCGC . Corporate Governance TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS 51 III. M E R G E R R E L AT E D I S S U E S • There is an appropriate correlation between the levels of fixed On 12 December 2014, the merger between TUI AG and the former remuneration and performance-based variable remuneration. TUI Travel PLC (“ TUI Travel”; now TUI Travel Limited) became ef• The interests of the Executive Board members should be consistfective (the “merger date”). Up until the merger date, the Executive ent with those of the shareholders in that the Executive Board Board of TUI AG consisted of Mr Joussen, Mr Baier and Mr Long. As members are incentivised to benefit from both share price inpart of the merger, the Executive Board of TUI AG was expanded creases for the company and other shareholder measures such as and Mr Ebel, Mr Lundgren and Mr Waggott were also appointed as Total Shareholder Return. members. V. R E M U N E R AT I O N O F T H E E X E C U T I V E B O A R D I N F I N A N C I A L Mr Long, Mr Lundgren and Mr Waggott were Executive Directors of Y E A R 2 0 14 / 15 the former TUI Travel PLC before the merger became effective. Up In the financial year 2014 / 15, the remuneration framework for the until the merger date, Mr Long, Mr Lundgren and Mr Waggott reExecutive Board of TUI AG comprises: (1) a fixed remuneration; (2) ceived their remuneration exclusively from TUI Travel. Their remuan annual performance-based remuneration; (3) virtual shares of neration was approved by TUI Travel’s remuneration committee TUI AG in accordance with the Long-Term Incentive Plan (“ LTIP ”); which consisted of independent Non-Executive Directors. Following (4) fringe benefits; (5) pension benefits; and (6) a potential additionthe merger, the service contracts of Mr Long, Mr Lundgren and al remuneration in cash or in virtual shares (“discretionary bonus”). Mr Waggott with TUI Travel were terminated and new service contracts were agreed by TUI AG with Mr Joussen, Mr Long, Mr Baier, Details of the various remuneration elements are set out below: Mr Ebel, Mr Lundgren and Mr Waggott. The remuneration framework agreed by the shareholders in 2010 applies to of all these ser1. F I X E D R E M U N E R AT I O N vice contracts. The remuneration framework also applies to service contracts concluded or amended after the merger date, including P U R P O S E A N D L I N K T O S T R AT E G Y the service contracts of Mr Burling and Mrs Eller. Highly-qualified Executive Board members who are needed to develop I V. GENER AL PRINCIPLES and implement company strategy should be acquired and retained. The framework and levels for the remuneration of Executive Board members are determined and reviewed regularly by the full SuperThe remuneration should be commensurate with the abilities, expevisory Board taking into account the following principles: rience and role of the individual Executive Board member. • The remuneration framework should be transparent and easy to O P E R AT I O N understand. • The remuneration must be appropriate. The level of remuneration The Supervisory Board must take into account the following criteria, is determined by the responsibilities and personal performance in particular, when determining the fixed remuneration: of each individual Executive Board member. • The economic position, performance and sustainable development • Individual degree of responsibility. of the company are taken into account. A substantial part of the • Results of operational and personal performance (if applicable). total remuneration is based on the achievement of stretching • Economic position, performance and sustainable development of long-term performance targets. the company. • Remuneration is reviewed in line with the relevant peer group and • Remuneration structure in companies that are comparable to benchmark of other large international organisations and also TUI AG in terms of size, worldwide business activities and comreflects typical practice in other large German companies. plexity. • The common level of remuneration is considered in comparison • Ability to be competitive to attract and retain highly-qualified and with the compensation structure in other areas of the company. marketable Executive Board members. In this regard it is also taken due account of the relationship • The comparison to the broader remuneration structures of the between the remuneration of the Executive Board and that of senior leaders and the wider employees in the TUI Group. senior management and staff, both overall and with regard to its development over time. The fixed remuneration is paid in twelve equal instalments at the • The remuneration is set at a level that is competitive in the market end of each month. If the service contract begins or ends in the for highly qualified Executive Board members. course of a year, the fixed annual remuneration will be paid pro-rata for that year. 52 TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS Corporate Governance The remuneration is generally reviewed when service contracts of In the event of a Reported Group EBITA of between 50 % below Executive Board members are extended, and fixed for the term of target value and target value, any award will be based on a linear the new service contract. A review of the remuneration can also take interpolation between 0 % and 100 % and in the event of a Reported place during the term of a service contract in particular if there is a Group EBITA of between target value and 50 % above target value change with respect to the tasks or responsibility of an Executive linear interpolation between 100 % and 187.5 % will be used to Board member. determine the degree of target achievement. The degree of target achievement will be rounded to two decimal places, as customary in commercial practice. PERFORMANCE CRITERIA At the discretion of the Supervisory Board, the degree of target Personal performance and the operational performance are taken achievement for the performance target can be multiplied by a factor into account when determining the fixed remuneration. of between 0.8 and 1.2, depending on the individual performance of the Executive Board member and based upon their achievement of personal objectives and other performance indicators such as 2 . A N N U A L P E R F O R M A N C E B A S E D R E M U N E R AT I O N customer satisfaction and / or employee satisfaction metrics. ( J A H R E S E R F O L G S V E R G Ü T U N G – “J E V ” ) The figure resulting from the multiplication of the Target Amount by P U R P O S E A N D L I N K T O S T R AT E G Y the degree of target achievement for the Reported Group EBITA and the discretionary multiplier will be paid out in cash in the month The JE V is intended to motivate Executive Board members to following the approval by the Supervisory Board of the annual achieve ambitious and stretching financial and strategic perforaccounts of TUI AG for the respective financial year. If the service mance targets. The performance targets are reflective of the contract begins or ends in the course of the financial year relevant company strategy and aimed at increasing corporate value. for the grant of the JE V, the claims for payment of the same will generally be pro-rata. O P E R AT I O N CAP The JE V will be calculated on the basis of a group performance indicator and the individual performance of the Executive Board An annual cap applies and the maximum amount payable for the member. The performance reference period is the financial year of JE V is capped as follows: TUI AG . • Mr Joussen: € 2,070.0 thousand For every Executive Board member, an individual target amount • Mr Long: € 2,070.0 thousand (“Target Amount”) is agreed in the service contract. Since 1 Octo• Mr Baier: € 1,012.5 thousand ber 2010 the performance target has been the reported earnings • Mr Burling: € 900.0 thousand before interest, tax and amortisation of goodwill (“Reported Group • Mr Ebel: € 720.0 thousand EBITA ”). The target value for the one-year performance reference • Mr Waggott: € 810.0 thousand period for the Reported Group EBITA performance target will be set • Mr Lundgren: € 1,192.5 thousand each year by the Supervisory Board. In accordance with section 87 (1) sentence 3 German Stock CorpoTo measure performance, the planned Reported Group EBITA will ration Act (Aktiengesetz), the Supervisory Board is entitled to limit be compared with the corresponding actual Reported Group EBITA the amount of the JE V to allow for extraordinary circumstances as set forth in the audited consolidated accounts of TUI AG . The (e. g. takeover of the company, sale of parts of the company, uncovdegree of target achievement will be determined as follows: ering of hidden reserves, external influences). Mr Lundgren received the JE V on a pro-rata basis until 31 May 2015. • If the value achieved is below the target value by 50 % or more, this is equivalent to a target achievement of 0 %. PERFORMANCE CRITERIA • If the value achieved corresponds to the target value, this is equivalent to a target achievement of 100 %. The JE V is linked to the degree of target achievement and the indi• If the value achieved is above the target value by 50 % or more, vidual performance of the Executive Board member. The degree of this is equivalent to a target achievement of 187.5 %. target achievement and the personal performance determines the amount of the possible JE V up to the cap. Corporate Governance TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS 53 3 . V I R T U A L S H A R E S A C C O R D I N G T O T H E LT I P • TSR value of TUI AG equivalent to the third to bottom value of 3 .1 G E N E R A L P R I N C I P L E S the Dow Jones Stoxx 600 Travel & Leisure corresponds to a target achievement of 25 %. P U R P O S E A N D L I N K T O S T R AT E G Y • TSR value of TUI AG equivalent to the median of the Dow Jones Stoxx 600 Travel & Leisure corresponds to a target achievement The long-term objective is to increase corporate and shareholder of 100 %. value by defining ambitious goals that are closely linked to the com• TSR value of TUI AG equivalent to the third to top value of the pany’s earnings, share price performance and dividends. Dow Jones Stoxx 600 Travel & Leisure corresponds to a target achievement of 175 %. O P E R AT I O N For performance between the third to bottom and top third position The LTIP is a performance share plan based on virtual shares and a straight line assessment will be used to determine the level of is assessed over a period of four years (“Performance Reference target achievement at between 25 % and 175 %. The degree of target Period”). achievement will be rounded to two decimal places, as customary in commercial practice. For Executive Board members, an individual target amount (“Target Amount”) is agreed in the service contract. At the beginning of each To determine the final number of virtual shares, the degree of target financial year a provisional number of virtual shares, commensurate achievement will be multiplied by the provisional number of virtual with the Target Amount, will be set. This will constitute the basis for shares on the final day of the Performance Reference Period (“Final the determination of the final performance-based payment for the Number of Virtual Shares”). The payout is determined by multiplying tranche in question at the end of the respective Performance Referthe Final Number of Virtual Shares by the average XE TR A price of ence Period. To set this number, the Target Amount will be divided TUI AG shares over the 20 trading days prior to the end of the Perby the average XE TR A price of TUI AG shares over the 20 prior formance Reference Period. The payout which is calculated in this trading days. The claim to a payment only arises upon expiry of the way will be due in the month following the approval of the annual Performance Reference Period and depends on whether or not the accounts of TUI AG for the fourth financial year of the Performance respective performance target is achieved. Reference Period and the resulting amount is paid out in cash. If the service contract ends in the course of the financial year relevant for The performance target for determining the amount of the final the grant of the LTIP, the claims for payment of the same will payout at the end of the Performance Reference Period is the total generally be pro-rata. shareholder return (“ TSR ”) of TUI AG relative to TSR of the Dow Jones Stoxx 600 Travel & Leisure, whereby the ranking of the CAP TUI AG TSR in relation to the Dow Jones Stoxx 600 Travel & Leisure companies will be monitored over the entire Performance Reference LTIP payments are capped and the absolute maximum amount Period. The TSR is the aggregate of all share price increases plus the payable in cash per Performance Reference Period is capped at: gross dividends paid over the Performance Reference Period. Data from a reputable data provider (e. g. Bloomberg, Thomson Reuters) • Mr Joussen: € 4,440.0 thousand will be used for the purpose of establishing the TSR values for • Mr Long: € 4,440.0 thousand TUI AG and the Dow Jones Stoxx 600 Travel & Leisure companies. • Mr Baier: € 2,025.0 thousand The reference for the determination of the rankings is the composi• Mr Burling: € 1,500.0 thousand tion of the Dow Jones Stoxx 600 Travel & Leisure on the last day of • Mr Ebel: € 1,500.0 thousand the Performance Reference Period. The values for companies that • Mr Waggott: € 1,650.0 thousand and from financial year 2015 / 16 were not listed over the entire Performance Reference Period will be onwards € 2,100.0 thousand factored in on a pro-rata basis. The level of target achievement is • Mr Lundgren: € 2,370.0 thousand established as follows depending on the ranking of the TSR of TUI AG relative to the TSR values of the Dow Jones Stoxx 600 PERFORMANCE CRITERIA ­Travel & Leisure companies: The LTIP is based on the financial results over a four-year period. • TSR value of TUI AG equivalent to the bottom and second to The relevant degree of target achievement is determined by combottom value of the Dow Jones Stoxx 600 Travel & Leisure corres­ paring the change in TSR at TUI AG with the change in TSR at the ponds to a target achievement of 0 % . companies in the Dow Jones Stoxx 600 Travel & Leisure Index. 54 TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS Corporate Governance 3 . 2 D E V E L O P M E N T O F A G G R E G AT E V I R T U A L S H A R E S O F O P E R AT I O N ­E X E C U T I V E B O A R D M E M B E R S O F T U I A G ( I N C L . F O U R -Y E A R S M O D E L ) Executive Board members receive the following fringe benefits: Units • Reimbursement of business travel expenses in accordance with TUI AG ’s general business travel guidelines. Balance as at 30 Sep 2014 679,101 • Twice a year, free of charge, a holiday from within the World of Virtual shares granted for the financial year 2014 / 15 453,532 TUI range, without any limitation as to tour operator, type of holi­ Decrease of virtual shares – 60,213 day, category or price. Spouses / partners are granted a 50 % disBalance as at 30 Sep 2015 1,072,420 count on the catalogue price for the aforementioned vacations, and children still in education or training a 100 % discount. Apart from that, a reduction of 75 % (spouses / partners) / 50 % (children still in education or training) is granted for flights. On 30 September 2015, former Executive Board members who were • A suitable company car with driver or alternatively a car allowance Executive Board members of TUI AG prior to the merger date held of € 1.5 thousand gross per month. no virtual shares in TUI AG (previous year no virtual shares). Insurance cover is provided in line with local arrangements applicable Provisions totalling € 5,417.9 thousand (previous year € 2,660.8 in Germany and the United Kingdom. This is offered as follows: thousand) and liabilities worth € 1,530.0 thousand (previous year € 1,839.2 thousand) were made to cover entitlements under TUI AG provides insurance cover for accidents and death in service TUI AG ’s LTIP for Executive Board members. Those provisions only to the customary extent for Mr Joussen, Mr Baier and Mr Ebel and cover liabilities of the LTIP of TUI AG and do not include rolled-over will pay the insurance contributions for the terms of their service liabilities of TUI Travel. The total expense for share-based payments contract. The coverage amounts to € 1,500.0 thousand for death and the amount attributable to each individual Executive Board and € 3,000.0 thousand for disablement. Furthermore, Mr Joussen, member are shown in the table “Remuneration of individual ExecuMr Baier and Mr Ebel receive an allowance towards health and longtive Board members”. term care insurance in the amount payable if the respective Executive Board member were an employee, but no more than half of each Provisions that sat with TUI Travel for rolled-over virtual share LTI s insurance premium. to their Executive Directors who are now Executive Board members of TUI AG at an amount of € 2,030 thousand were transferred to For Mr Long, Mr Burling and Mr Waggott private medical insurance TUI AG and increase the provision mentioned in the paragraph cover is provided for both the individual and their spouse / partner above. Other rolled-over equity settled LTI s continue to be provided and school age children. In addition life insurance cover is provided for in equity within the Group accounts. as a multiple of their base salary and permanent health insurance cover is also provided. These benefits are provided and paid for by 4. FRINGE BENEFITS TUI AG as part of the existing employee policies offered to UK employees. Mr Lundgren received the fringe benefits on a pro-rata basis P U R P O S E A N D L I N K T O S T R AT E G Y until 31 May 2015. Additional benefits offered should be competitive to those offered AMOUNT to highly qualified Executive Board members. It can be assumed that the value of the benefits for a company car Fringe benefits should also support and promote the health and and for free holiday annually received by an individual Executive well-being of the Executive Board members. Board member normally does not exceed € 100.0 thousand. Fringe benefits include the provision of a company car with driver services as well as travel and insurance benefits. Corporate Governance TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS 55 PERFORMANCE CRITERIA • Mr Baier: € 267.75 thousand per year. Mr Baier becomes eligible for payment of the pension upon reaching the age of 60. AccordThe provision of fringe benefits is not based on the performance of ing to the service contract effective up until the merger date, the the company and / or personal performance. pension contribution amounted to 22.5 % of the target cash remuneration in the contribution year. • Mr Ebel: € 207.0 thousand per year. Mr Ebel becomes eligible for 5. PENSION BENEFITS payment of the pension upon reaching the age of 62. P U R P O S E A N D L I N K T O S T R AT E G Y Should Executive Board members retire from TUI AG before the normal retirement date due to an on-going occupational disability, Highly-qualified Executive Board members to develop and implement they will receive an occupational disability pension until they are company strategy should be attracted and retained. able to work again, but at most until they reach the normal retirement date. The pension entitlements should be competitive on the market for highly-qualified Executive Board members and should provide them Under certain circumstances, spouses, partners or cohabitants of with security in their retirement. deceased Executive Board members will receive a survivor’s pension worth 60 % of the above-mentioned pension for their lifetime or O P E R AT I O N until remarriage. Children of Executive Board members will receive an orphan’s pension, paid as a maximum until they reach the age of Pensions are paid to former Executive Board members if they reach 27. Orphans who have lost one parent will receive 20 % of the pension, the predefined age limit or are permanently incapacitated. The Execu­ and orphans who have lost both parents will receive 25 %. tive Board members are not entitled to receive transition payments upon leaving the Executive Board, with the exception of Mr Ebel who Mr Long, Mr Burling and Mr Waggott receive a fixed annual amount has an acquired right receiving transition payments under a legacy for pension purposes. These may be payable into an agreed company contract. pension scheme where possible or where the tax arrangements prevent payment into a pension plan will be payable as cash. The With regard to pension entitlements, different principles apply for amounts agreed on in the service contracts are: Mr Joussen, Mr Baier and Mr Ebel on the one hand and Mr Long, Mr Burling, Mr Lundgren and Mr Waggott on the other hand due to • Mr Long: € 454.5 thousand the legacy systems in Germany and the UK . • Mr Burling: € 225.0 thousand • Mr Waggott: € 236.25 thousand Mr Joussen, Mr Baier and Mr Ebel are entitled to pension benefits • Mr Lundgren: € 316,125 thousand according to the pension commitments granted to Executive Board members by TUI AG (“ TUI AG Pension Scheme”). Those Executive Mr Waggott also has a deferred pension entitlement under the Final Board members receive, on an annual basis, a contractually agreed Salary section of the TUI UK Scheme. He ceased to be an active amount that is paid into an existing pension plan for the respective member on 3 September 2007 (appointment of Mr Waggott as Executive Board member. The contributions to the company pension ­E xecutive Director of TUI Travel) and, therefore did not accrue further plan carry an interest rate established in the pension obligation. The benefits during the year. David Burling has a deferred pension entitle­ interest rate currently stands at 5 % p. a. The beneficiary may choose ment under the Final Salary section of the TUI UK Scheme. He between a one-off payment, payment by instalments or pension ceased to be an active member on 31 March 2014 and therefore did payments. not accrue further benefits during the year. Mr Lundgren received the amount for pension purposes on a pro-rata basis until The amounts agreed on and effective since the merger date in the 31 May 2015. service contracts are: • Mr Joussen: € 454.5 thousand per year. Mr Joussen becomes eli­ PERFORMANCE CRITERIA gible for payment of the pension upon reaching the age of 62. According to the service contract effective up until the merger date, Pension entitlements are not based on the performance of the comMr Joussen received an amount of € 196.5 thousand per year. pany and / or personal performance. 56 TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS Corporate Governance PENSION OF CURRENT EXECUTIVE BOARD MEMBERS BELOW THE TUI AG PENSION SCHEME Addition to / reversal from pension provision Net present value € ’000 2014 / 15 2013 / 14 30 Sep 15 30 Sep 14 Friedrich Joussen 1,876.7 0.0 1,876.7 0.0 Horst Baier 1,193.1 715.2 8,053.3 6,860.2 Sebastian Ebel 784.7 0.0 784.7 0.0 Total 3,854.5 715.2 10,714.7 6,860.2 At 30 September 2015, pension obligations for active members of the O P E R AT I O N Executive Board totalled € 10,714.7 thousand (previous year balance sheet date: € 6,860.2 thousand) according to IAS 19 and € 9,233.1 The Supervisory Board may grant an additional remuneration in thousand (previous year balance sheet date € 6,371.9 thousand) accash or in virtual shares in exceptional circumstances such as an cording to commercial law (Handelsgesetzbuch). In the period under extraordinary high workload in connection with the merger of review, the provision according to IAS 19 was increased by an TUI AG and TUI Travel or a realization of synergies that exceed the amount of € 3,854.5 thousand (previous year decrease by € 13,627.4 planned level by more than 20 % above budget. The Supervisory thousand), with an increase of € 2,861.2 thousand (previous year Board determines whether and to what amount the additional decrease by € 11,692.3 thousand) according to commercial law ­remuneration will be paid. (Handelsgesetzbuch) provisions. CAP Where the above table shows a corresponding amount, the pension obligations for beneficiaries are funded via the conclusion of pledged An annual cap applies and the cash equivalent of the additional reinsurance policies. As the reinsurance policy fully covers the pension remuneration is capped at: obligations for former and current Executive Board members, the insurance was deducted as an asset from the pension obligations. • Mr Joussen: € 920.0 thousand • Mr Long: € 920.0 thousand The values of the pension-entitlements differ with regard to the • Mr Baier: € 450.0 thousand prior year figures as they are disclosed unbalanced to the covered • Mr Burling: € 400.0 thousand assets in the amount of the actuarial net present value. The figures • Mr Ebel: € 320.0 thousand of the prior year have been adapted accordingly. • Mr Waggott: € 360.0 thousand • Mr Lundgren: € 530.0 thousand 6 . P O T E N T I A L A D D I T I O N A L R E M U N E R AT I O N I N C A S H O R I N VIRTUAL SHARE S (DISCRE TIONARY BONUS) PERFORMANCE CRITERIA P U R P O S E A N D L I N K T O S T R AT E G Y Personal performance and the result of operations are taken into account when determining the additional remuneration. The potential additional remuneration is intended to compensate exceptional performance by Executive Board members. Corporate Governance TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS 57 7. R E M U N E R AT I O N C A P S The following table summarises the agreed caps that will apply with respect to remuneration (remuneration components and total ­remuneration) Executive Board members for a financial year. R E M U N E R AT I O N C A P S Annual cap on € ’000 1 Fixed remuneration2 JE V LTIP Discretionary bonus ­remuneration3 Friedrich Joussen 1,100.0 2,070.0 4,440.0 920.0 7,500.0 Peter Long 1,100.0 2,070.0 4,440.0 920.0 7,500.0 Horst Baier 740.0 1,012.5 2,025.0 450.0 4,200.0 David Burling 600.0 900.0 1,500.0 400.0 3,450.0 Sebastian Ebel 680.0 720.0 1,500.0 320.0 3,380.0 William Waggott 4 690.0 810.0 1,650.0 360.0 3,600.0 Johann Lundgren 875.0 1,192.5 2,370.0 530.0 5,000.0 1 Discclosure on full-year base accordig to current service contracts 2 No cap applied 3 Cap of total remuneration acc. to service contract 4 From financial year 2015 / 16 on LTIP will be capped at € 2,100.0 thousand, annual cap on remuneration will be at € 4,080.0 thousand VI. ROLLE D OVE R SHARE AWARDS Awards vest based on performance against Earnings per share (as During their period of service as Executive Directors of TUI Travel, defined in the plan rules), relative TSR and Return on invalid Capital Mr Long, Mr Lundgren, and Mr Waggott received long-term incenmeasures over a three-year period. The relative weightings are tives (LTI ) on an annual basis in the form of TUI Travel shares with shown are EPS – 50 %, Relative TSR – 25 % and ROIC – 25 %. a vesting period of three years. Mr Burling received these long-term incentives during the term of his employment relationship with TUI Following the merger it has been agreed by the Supervisory Board Travel. that the performance will be measured up until the merger date based upon TUI Travel performance and from the merger date on As a result of the three-year vesting period, a number of tranches are based upon TUI AG performance. Aggregate performance will then still outstanding. Following the merger in December 2014 and the subbe determined for the full three-year period. Deferred bonus awards sequent delisting of TUI Travel, it was agreed that these outstanding are not subject to performance measures. No further performance share awards would be rolled over. These outstanding share awards measures apply to deferred share awards as these represent the will remain in place and will vest in line with the previous three-year deferral of annual bonus amounts that have already been earned. period. At the date of vesting any share awards that vest will be awarded as the applicable number of TUI AG . The performance conMr Long, Mr Burling, Mr Lundgren and Mr Waggott were granted ditions applicable to these awards will remain in place as follows: share-based awards under the Deferred Annual Bonus Scheme (“ DABS ”) as well as the Performance Share Plan (“ PSP ”). The following tranches are currently outstanding: 58 TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS Corporate Governance FORME R E XECUTIVE DIREC TOR S OF TUI TR AVE L PLC O U T S TA N D I N G D A B S / D A B L I S S H A R E AWA R D S AT 3 0 S E P T E M B E R 2 0 15 ( AWA R D E D B Y T U I T R AV E L P L C ) T U I A G C L O S I N G S H A R E P R I C E AT 3 0 S E P 2 0 15 ( G B P ) : 12 .18 TUI Travel TUI Travel n­ il-cost Market price TUI Travel s­ hares ­shares / ­nil-cost options ­awarded ( TUI Travel) per vested and ­released ­options held at d­ uring the year ended share at award during the year ended Name 1 October 2014 30 September 2015 Award date (GBP ) 30 September 2015 Peter Long 256,646 1 6 Dec 12 2.840 1,026,584 2 6 Dec 12 2.840 181,546 1 12 Dec 13 3.769 726,184 2, 3 12 Dec 13 3.769 161,972 1, 4 8 Dec 14 4.500 Total 2,190,960 161,972 0 David Burling 42,253 1 6 Dec 12 2.840 169,012 2 6 Dec 12 2.840 40,295 1 12 Dec 13 3.769 161,180 2, 3 12 Dec 13 3.769 25,000 1, 4 8 Dec 14 4.500 Total 412,740 25,000 0 William Waggott 134,207 1 6 Dec 12 2.840 536,828 2 6 Dec 12 2.840 98,063 1 12 Dec 13 3.769 392,252 2, 3 12 Dec 13 3.769 42,777 1, 4 8 Dec 14 4.500 Total 1,161,350 42,777 0 Johan Lundgren 170,809 1 6 Dec 12 2.840 683,236 2 6 Dec 12 2.840 119,607 12 Dec 13 3.769 478,428 2, 3 12 Dec 13 3.769 54,444 1, 4 8 Dec 14 4.500 Total 1,452,080 54,444 0 Grand total 5,217,130 284,193 0 All outstanding share awards shown were made over TUI Travel PLC shares. At vest / exercise, shares will convert to TUI AG shares at the merger conversion ratio of 0,399. 1  D ABS / DABLIS deferred award: The deferred element of annual bonus, subject to forfeiture for gross misconduct, bankruptcy or certain other circumstances in accordance with the scheme rules. 2  D ABS / DABLIS matching award: A multiple of the deferred award, subject to continued employment to the release date and performance conditions over the three-year vesting period. 3 Change to remuneration structure with effect from 1 October 2014 – last matching awards made in December 2013. 4 All awards made in December 2014 are phantom awards and will therefore be settled in cash on vesting. Corporate Governance TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS 59 TUI Travel Maximum value based Market price s­ hares /­ ­nil-cost Maximum TUI Travel Maximum TUI AG on TUI AG ­share ( TUI Travel) Planned / Actual ­options lapsed during ­shares / ­nil-cost shares / nil-cost price of GBP 12.18 at per share at Market value ­vesting and the year ended ­options held at ­options held at 30 September 2015 vesting (GBP ) at vesting (GBP ) release date 30 September 2015 30 September 2015 30 September 2015 (GBP ) 6 Dec 15 256,646 102,401 1,247,244 6 Dec 15 1,026,584 409,607 4,989,013 12 Dec 16 181,546 72,436 882,270 12 Dec 16 726,184 289,747 3,529,118 8 Dec 17 161,972 64,626 787,145 0 0 2,352,932 938,817 11,434,790 6 Dec 15 42,253 16,858 205,330 6 Dec 15 169,012 67,435 821,358 12 Dec 16 40,295 16,077 195,818 12 Dec 16 161,180 64,310 783,296 8 Dec 17 25,000 9,975 121,496 0 0 437,740 174,655 2,127,298 6 Dec 15 134,207 53,548 652,215 6 Dec 15 536,828 214,194 2,608,883 12 Dec 16 98,063 39,127 476,567 12 Dec 16 392,252 156,508 1,906,267 8 Dec 17 42,777 17,068 207,888 0 0 1,204,127 480,445 5,851,820 6 Dec 15 170,809 68,152 830,091 6 Dec 15 683,236 272,611 3,320,402 12 Dec 16 119,607 47,723 581,266 12 Dec 16 478,428 190,892 2,325,065 8 Dec 17 54,444 21,723 264,586 0 0 1,506,524 601,101 7,321,410 0 0 5,501,323 2,195,018 26,735,318 60 TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS Corporate Governance FORME R E XECUTIVE DIREC TOR S OF TUI TR AVE L PLC O U T S TA N D I N G P S P AWA R D S AT 3 0 S E P T E M B E R 2 0 15 ( AWA R D E D B Y T U I T R AV E L P L C ) T U I A G C L O S I N G S H A R E P R I C E AT 3 0 S E P 2 0 15 ( G B P ) : 12 .18 TUI Travel PSP TUI Travel PSP TUI Travel PSP n­ il-cost options Market price ­shares vested s­ hares / nil-cost ­awarded during the ( TUI Travel) per and r­ eleased during ­options held at year ended share at award the year ended Name 1 October 2014 30 September 2015 Award date (GBP ) 30 September 2015 Peter Long 598,591 6 Dec 12 2.840 338,286 12 Dec 13 3.769 Total 936,877 0 0 David Burling 105,633 6 Dec 12 2.840 79,596 12 Dec 13 3.769 137,600 8 Dec 14 4.500 Total 185,229 137,600 0 William Waggott 232,394 6 Dec 12 2.840 145,927 12 Dec 13 3.769 Total 378,321 0 0 Johan Lundgren 295,774 6 Dec 12 2.840 185,725 12 Dec 13 3.769 Total 481,499 0 0 Grand total 1,981,926 137,600 0 PSP awards are subject to continued employment to the release date and performance conditions over the three-year vesting period. All outstanding share awards shown were made over TUI Travel PLC shares. At vest / exercise, shares will convert to TUI AG shares at the merger conversion ratio of 0,399. 1 The award made to David Burling in December 2014 is a phantom award and will therefore be settled in cash on vesting. Corporate Governance TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS 61 Maximum Maximum value based Market price TUI Travel PSP TUI Travel PSP Maximum TUI AG on TUI AG ­share ( TUI Travel) Planned / Actual ­shares lapsed during s­ hares / nil-cost shares / nil-cost price of GBP 12.18 at per share at Market value ­vesting and the year ended ­options held at ­options held at 30 September 2015 vesting (GBP ) at vesting (GBP ) release date 30 September 2015 30 September 2015 30 September 2015 (GBP ) 6 Dec 15 598,591 238,837 2,909,035 12 Dec 16 338,286 134,976 1,644,008 0 0 936,877 373,813 4,553,043 6 Dec 15 105,633 42,147 513,350 12 Dec 16 79,596 31,758 386,812 8 Dec 17 137,600 54,902 668,706 0 0 322,829 128,807 1,568,868 6 Dec 15 232,394 92,725 1,129,391 12 Dec 16 145,927 58,224 709,168 0 0 378,321 150,949 1,838,559 6 Dec 15 295,774 118,013 1,437,398 12 Dec 16 185,725 74,104 902,587 0 0 481,499 192,117 2,339,985 0 0 2,119,526 845,686 10,300,455 62 TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS Corporate Governance V I I . PAY M E N T S / B E N E F I T S I N C A S E O F P R E M AT U R E Meeting 2016. The exceptional right of termination can only be exerT E R M I N AT I O N O F E X E C U T I V E B O A R D M E M B E R S H I P cised six months after the Annual General Meeting 2016 within a pe1. GENER AL CONTR AC TUAL FR AME WORK riod of three months. The exceptional right of termination lapses if Payments made to an Executive Board member on premature terMr Joussen is appointed as sole Chairman of the Executive Board of mination of his service contract without good cause generally may TUI AG before exercising the exceptional right of termination. If not exceed the value of two years’ compensation (severance pay cap) Mr Joussen exercises the exceptional right of termination, he is entiand compensate no more than the remaining term of the service tled to a severance payment in the amount of the severance pay cap contract. The severance pay cap is calculated on the basis of the as described above. Claims of Mr Joussen to the JEV for the Perfortarget direct compensation (fixed remuneration, target JE V and mance Reference Period in question and claims under the LTIP for all target LTIP ) for the last expired financial year and, if relevant, the tranches of virtual shares not yet paid will not lapse in this case. expected target direct compensation for the current financial year. If the service contract is terminated for cause without notice, no pay2 . PAY M E N T S / B E N E F I T S M A D E I N C A S E O F P R E M AT U R E ments will be made to Executive Board members. T E R M I N AT I O N O F E X E C U T I V E B O A R D M E M B E R S H I P I N F I N A N C I A L Y E A R 2 0 14 / 15 In cases of premature termination of the service contract, the JE V Mr Lundgren resigned from his position as member of the Executive and payments according to the LTIP will be managed as follows: Board of TUI AG with effect from 31 May 2015. In this respect, TUI AG and Mr Lundgren agreed that their service relationship • JE V : would end by mutual agreement with effect from 31 May 2015. • If the company terminates the service contract for cause without Mr Lundgren has received his fixed remuneration, the fringe benenotice before the end of the one-year Performance Reference fits, the car allowance and the amount for pension purposes on a Period on the grounds of matters for which the Executive pro-rata basis from 12 December 2014 until the termination date. Board member is responsible or if the Executive Board member Mr Lundgren also has received the JE V on a pro-rata basis from terminates the service contract without cause, the claim to the 1 October 2014 until the termination date pursuant to the terms JE V for the performance reference period in question will be agreed on in his service contract. In addition, Mr Lundgren has reforfeited and no alternative remuneration or compensation for ceived secretarial support until the expiry of 30 September 2015. the loss of the JE V will be paid. • In all other cases of premature termination of the service conThe JE V was settled at the termination date, taking into account the tract before the end of the one-year Performance Reference Reported Group EBITA according to the forecast submitted at the Period, the JE V will generally be paid pro-rata. Supervisory Board meeting on 12 May 2015, and an individual performance factor of 1.0. The annual, performance based remuneration • LTIP : became due on 1 July 2015. • If the company terminates the service contract for cause without notice before the end of the respective Performance ReferMr Lundgren is not entitled to any rights under TUI AG ’s LTIP. ence Period on the grounds of matters for which the Executive Granted virtual shares, if any, have been forfeited entirely. All share Board member is responsible, or if the Executive Board memawards granted to Mr Lundgren by TUI Travel prior to the financial ber terminates the service contract without good cause, the year 2014 / 15 and which were rolled over to TUI AG will be treated claims under the LTIP will lapse for all tranches not yet paid according to the agreed plan conditions. and no alternative remuneration or compensation will be paid. • If the service contract ends before the expiry of the PerforA post-contractual covenant not to compete for the period from mance Reference Period for other reasons, the claims under the 1 June 2015 to 30 September 2016 has been agreed in the severLTIP will be maintained for tranches not yet paid. The tranche ance agreement. For the duration of the post-contractual covenant of the current financial year will generally be reduced on a not to compete, TUI AG pays Mr Lundgren a compensation totalling pro-rata basis. The determination of pay-out will be done in the € 2,318.8 thousand. Correlatively over the period of 16 months insame way as in case of a continuation of the service contract. stalments of € 144,927.06 are payable at the end of each month. Payments made to Mr Lundgren in financial year 2014 / 15 as a result The service contracts of the Executive Board members do not contain of the termination of his service contract amount to a total of change of control clauses. € 1,108.9 thousand (monthly compensation for post-contractual covenant, JE V pro-rated, pension contribution pro-rated). The service contract of Mr Joussen contains an exceptional termination right. According to this provision Mr Joussen is entitled to resign 3 . PAY M E N T S T O PA S T E X E C U T I V E B O A R D M E M B E R S W H O from his position as a member of the Executive Board and to termiL E F T P R I O R T O F I N A N C I A L Y E A R 2 0 14 / 15 nate his service contract with a notice period of six months to the end Other than the above mentioned no payments were made in financial of a month if he should not be appointed as sole Chairman of the year 2014 / 15 to past Executive Board members due to premature Executive Board of TUI AG on the day following the Annual General termination of Executive board membership (previous year € 2,451.0 Corporate Governance TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS 63 thousand). As far as those past Executive Board members received sheet date, and € 68,170.10 thousand (previous year € 63,193.0 pension payments during the financial year 2014 / 15 they are included thousand) as measured according to commercial law provisions in the paragraph VIII of this remuneration report. (Handelsgesetzbuch). In financial year 2014 / 15, obligations for this group of persons decreased by € 610.1 thousand (in financial year V I I I . P E N S I O N PAY M E N T S M A D E T O PA S T E X E C U T I V E B O A R D 2013 / 14 increase by € 20,038.9 thousand) according to IAS 19 and MEMBERS increased by € 3,088.6 thousand (in the previous year by € 11,559.3 In financial year 2014 / 15, the total pensions paid to former Executive thousand) according to commercial law provisions. Board members and their surviving dependants totalled € 4,891.1 thousand (previous year € 4,455.8 thousand). I X . O V E R V I E W : R E M U N E R AT I O N O F I N D I V I D U A L E X E C U T I V E BOARD MEMBERS Pension provisions for former members of the Executive Board and 1 . R E M U N E R AT I O N O F I N D I V I D U A L E X E C U T I V E their dependants amounted to € 79,754.3 thousand (previous year BOARD M ­ EMBER S GR ANTED BY TUI AG FOR € 69,626.6 thousand) as measured according to IAS 19 at the balance F I N A N C I A L Y E A R 2 0 14 / 15 R E M U N E R AT I O N O F I N D I V I D U A L E X E C U T I V E B O A R D M E M B E R S G R A N T E D BY T U I A G F O R F I N A N C I A L Y E A R 2 0 14 /15 (ACC . TO S E C T I O N 314 , PA R AG R A PH 6 L I T A O F T H E G E R M A N CO M M E RC I A L CO D E Total Total € ’000 Fixed remuneration1 JE V Discretionary Bonus LTIP 2 2014 / 15 2013 / 14 Friedrich Joussen 1,132.0 1,335.8 500.0 8,900.1 11,867.9 3,895.9 Peter Long 3 918.4 1,335.8 500.0 2,980.1 5,734.3 Horst Baier 4 811.9 977.2 320.0 3,384.2 5,492.7 1,699.5 David Burling 5 215.3 193.6 0.0 1,668.9 2,077.8 Sebastian Ebel 6 561.2 373.7 320.0 1,907.6 3,162.6 William Waggott6 583.5 479.2 0.0 2,207.5 3,270.1 Johann Lundgren7 420.4 384.3 0.0 3,170.7 3,975.4 Total 4,642.7 5,079.6 1,640.0 24,219.0 35,581.4 5,595.4 Previous year 8 1,747.3 1,722.2 0.0 2,371.3 5,595.4 1 Including fringe benefits (without insurances under Group coverage) 2 Disclosure of all performance reference periods within current service contract terms ( IFR S 2) 3 Since merger date paid by TUI AG 4 Acc. to current service contract fixed remuneration in F Y 2014 / 15 includes € 63,600 received for memberships on the Hapag-Lloyd AG Supervisory Board and its committees 5 Since 1 June 2015 6 Since merger date 7 From merger date until 31 May 2015 8 Remuneration Horst Baier received for memberships on the Hapag-Lloyd AG Supervisory Board and its committees is deducted Between 1 October 2014 and the merger date Mr Long has been to € 272.0 thousand for the period between 1 October 2014 and member of the Executive Board of TUI AG but received his remumerger date. Furthermore during the reporting period and based on neration through TUI Travel based on a resolution of its Remunerathe resolutions of the Remuneration Committee of TUI Travel, tion Committee. The remuneration shown below for information Mr Long received a remuneration referring to prior financial years purposes only relates to the terms of Mr Long´s TUI Travel service totalling € 19,508.2 thousand whereof € 13,673.8 thousand were agreement and includes the bonus payable in December 2014 for attributable to bonuses and € 5,834.4 thousand to the long-term the financial year 2013 / 14 and the long term incentives schemes incentive programme. awarded by TUI Travel in December 2011 which vested in December 2014. During this period TUI Travel performed very strongly with As in the prior year, the members of the Executive Board did not market capitalisation more than doubling and with significant imreceive any loans or advances in financial year 2014 / 15. provement in the share price and the value of the long term incentive awards which vested reflect this. The two tables below (Remuneration awarded and Remuneration paid) show the benefits already granted by TUI AG and payments The fixed remuneration of Mr Long for the financial year 2014 / 15 as received by the individual members of the Executive Board. determined by the Remuneration Committee of TUI Travel amounted 64 TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS Corporate Governance 2 . R E M U N E R AT I O N A W A R D E D ( A C C . T O 4 . 2 . 5 , AT TA C H M E N T TA B L E 1 D C G K ) R E M U N E R AT I O N AWA R D E D ( A C C . T O 4 . 2 . 5 , AT TA C H M E N T TA B L E 1 D C G K ) Friedrich Joussen Peter Long Joint CEO , since 14 February 20131 Joint CEO , since 12 December 2014 2 2013 / 14 2014 / 15 2014 / 15 2014 / 15 2013 / 14 2014 / 15 2014 / 15 2014 / 15 € ’000 (Min) (Max) (Min) (Max) Fixed remuneration 1,000.0 1,080.4 1,080.4 1,080.4 – 884.8 884.8 884.8 Fringe benefits 56.5 51.6 51.6 51.6 – 33.7 33.7 33.7 Total 1,056.5 1,132.0 1,132.0 1,132.0 – 918.4 918.4 918.4 JE V 920.0 920.0 0.0 2,070.0 – 920.0 0.0 2,070.0 Discretionary bonus – 500.0 0.0 920.0 – 500.0 0.0 920.0 LTIP 1,731.4 1,805.6 0.0 4,440.0 – 1,805.6 0.0 4,440.0 Cash Deferral (2013 / 14 – 2014 / 15) – – – – – – – – LTIP (2013 / 14 – 2016 / 17) 1,731.4 – – – – – – – LTIP (2014 / 15 – 2017 / 18) – 1,805.6 0.0 4,440.0 – 1,805.6 0.0 4,440.0 Total 3,707.9 4,357.6 1,132.0 6,851.1 – 4,144.0 918.4 7,134.4 Pension / service costs3 196.5 648.9 648.9 648.9 – 365.6 365.6 365.6 Total remuneration4 3,904.4 5,006.5 1,780.9 7,500.0 – 4,509.6 1,284.0 7,500.0 R E M U N E R AT I O N AWA R D E D ( A C C . T O 4 . 2 . 5 , AT TA C H M E N T TA B L E 1 D C G K ) Horst Baier David Burling CFO , since 8 November 2007 Member of Executive Board, since 1 June 2015 2013 / 14 2014 / 15 2014 / 15 2014 / 15 2013 / 14 2014 / 15 2014 / 15 2014 / 15 € ’000 (Min) (Max) (Min) (Max) Fixed remuneration 680.0 728.3 728.3 728.3 – 200.0 200.0 200.0 Fringe benefits 10.8 20.1 20.1 20.1 – 15.3 15.3 15.3 Total 690.8 748.3 748.3 748.3 – 215.3 215.3 215.3 JE V 255.0 450.0 0.0 1,012.5 – 133.3 0.0 300.0 Discretionary bonus – 320.0 0.0 450.0 – – 0.0 400.0 LTIP 894.9 823.5 0.0 2,025.0 – 203.3 0.0 500.0 Cash Deferral (2013 / 14 – 2014 / 15) 255.0 – – – – – – – LTIP (2013 / 14 – 2016 / 17) 639.9 – – – – – – – LTIP (2014 / 15 – 2017 / 18) – 823.5 0.0 2,025.0 – 203.3 0.0 500.0 Total 1,840.7 2,341.8 748.3 3,798.8 – 552.0 215.3 1,415.3 Pension / service costs3 358.3 401.2 401.2 401.2 – 75.0 75.0 75.0 Total remuneration4 2,199.0 2,743.1 1,149.6 4,200.0 – 627.0 290.3 1,490.3 Corporate Governance TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS 65 R E M U N E R AT I O N AWA R D E D ( A C C . T O 4 . 2 . 5 , AT TA C H M E N T TA B L E 1 D C G K ) Sebastian Ebel William Waggott Member of Executive Board, since 12 December 2015 Member of Executive Board, since 12 December 2014 2013 / 14 2014 / 15 2014 / 15 2014 / 15 2013 / 14 2014 / 15 2014 / 15 2014 / 15 € ’000 (Min) (Max) (Min) (Max) Fixed remuneration – 547.0 547.0 547.0 – 555.0 555.0 555.0 Fringe benefits – 14.3 14.3 14.3 – 28.5 28.5 28.5 Total – 561.2 561.2 561.2 – 583.5 583.5 583.5 JE V – 257.4 0.0 579.1 – 360.0 0.0 810.0 Discretionary bonus – 320.0 0.0 320.0 – – 0.0 360.0 LTIP – 490.7 0.0 1,206.5 – 671.0 0.0 1,650.0 Cash Deferral (2013 / 14 – 2014 / 15) – – – – – – – – LTIP (2013 / 14 – 2016 / 17) – – – – – – – – LTIP (2014 / 15 – 2017 / 18) – 490.7 0.0 1,206.5 – 671.0 0.0 1,650.0 Total – 1,629.3 561.2 2,666.9 – 1,614.5 583.5 3,403.5 Pension / service costs3 – 279.2 279.2 279.2 – 190.0 190.0 190.0 Total remuneration4 – 1,908.5 840.5 2,946.1 – 1,804.5 773.5 3,593.5 R E M U N E R AT I O N AWA R D E D ( A C C . T O 4 . 2 . 5 , AT TA C H M E N T TA B L E 1 D C G K ) Johan Lundgren Member of Executive Board, from 12 December 2014 to 31 May 2015 2013 / 14 2014 / 15 2014 / 15 2014 / 15 € ’000 (Min) (Max) Fixed remuneration – 412.1 412.1 412.1 Fringe benefits – 8.3 8.3 8.3 Total – 420.4 420.4 420.4 JE V – 353.3 0.0 795.0 Discretionary bonus – – 0.0 530.0 LTIP – 0.0 0.0 0.0 Cash Deferral (2013 / 14 – 2014 / 15) – – – – LTIP (2013 / 14 – 2016 / 17) – – – – LTIP (2014 / 15 – 2017 / 18) – – – – Total – 773.7 420.4 1,745.4 Pension / service costs3 – 144.9 144.9 144.9 Total remuneration4 – 918.6 565.3 1,890.3 1 Appointment as CEO of TUI AG , member of Executive Board since 15 October 2013 2 Appointment as Joint CEO of TUI AG (before: CEO of TUI Travel PLC ), member of the Executive Board of TUI AG since 3 September 2007 3 For Mr Joussen, Mr Baier and Mr Ebel service costs acc. to IA S19 are disclosed, Mr Long, Mr Burling and Mr Waggott received pension contributions 4 For Mr Joussen, Mr Long and Mr Baier the (reduced) cap on total remuneration acc. to their service contracts applies 66 TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS Corporate Governance 3 . R E M U N E R AT I O N PA I D ( A C C . T O 4 . 2 . 5 , AT TA C H M E N T TA B L E 2 D C G K ) R E M U N E R A T I O N P A I D ( A C C . T O 4 . 2 . 5 , A T T A C H M E N T T A B L E 2 D C G K ) Friedrich Joussen Peter Long Horst Baier Joint CEO , Joint CEO , CFO , since 14 February 20131 since 12 December 2014 2 since 8 November 2007 2 € ’000 2014 / 15 2013 / 14 2014 / 15 2013 / 14 2014 / 15 2013 / 14 Fixed remuneration 1,080.4 1,000.0 884.8 – 728.3 680.0 Fringe benefits 51.6 56.5 33.7 – 20.1 10.8 Total 1,132.0 1,056.5 918.4 – 748.3 690.8 JE V 1,326.3 1,108.0 1,326.3 – 648.7 307.1 Discretionary bonus 500.0 – 500.0 – 320.0 – LTIP 0.0 1,280.0 0.0 – 1,853.6 866.3 Cash Deferral (in F Y 2011 / 12) – – – – – 169.9 Cash Deferral (in F Y 2012 / 13) – – – – 152.4 137.1 Cash Deferral (in F Y 2013 / 14) – – – – 171.2 – LTIP (2010 / 11 – 2013 / 14) – – – – – 559.2 LTIP (2011 / 12 – 2014 / 15) – – – – 1,530.0 – LTIP (2013 / 14 – 2016 / 17) – 1,280.0 – – – – Others – – – – 63.6 – 245.4 Total 2,958.3 3,444.5 2,744.8 – 3,634.2 1,618.8 Pension / service costs3 648.9 196.5 365.6 – 401.2 358.3 Total remuneration 3,607.2 3,641.0 3,110.3 – 4,035.5 1,977.1 R E M U N E R A T I O N P A I D ( A C C . T O 4 . 2 . 5 , A T T A C H M E N T T A B L E 2 D C G K ) David Burling Sebastian Ebel William Waggott Member of Executive Board Member of Executive Board Member of Executive Board since 1 June 2015 since 12 December 2014 since 12 December 2014 € ’000 2014 / 15 2013 / 14 2014 / 15 2013 / 14 2014 / 15 2013 / 14 Fixed remuneration 200.0 – 547.0 – 555.0 – Fringe benefits 15.3 – 14.3 – 28.5 – Total 215.3 – 561.2 – 583.5 – JE V 192.2 – 371.1 – 475.7 – Discretionary bonus – – 320.0 – – – LTIP 0.0 – 0.0 – 0.0 – Cash Deferral (in F Y 2011 / 12) – – – – – – Cash Deferral (in F Y 2012 / 13) – – – – – – Cash Deferral (in F Y 2013 / 14) – – – – – – LTIP (2010 / 11 – 2013 / 14) – – – – – – LTIP (2011 / 12 – 2014 / 15) – – – – – – LTIP (2013 / 14 – 2016 / 17) – – – – – – Others – – – – – – Total 407.5 – 1,252.3 – 1,059.2 – Pension / service costs3 75.0 – 279.2 – 190.0 – Total remuneration 482.5 – 1,531.5 – 1,249.2 – Corporate Governance TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS 67 R E M U N E R A T I O N P A I D ( A C C . T O 4 . 2 . 5 , A T T A C H M E N T T A B L E 2 D C G K ) Johan Lundgren Member of Executive Board from 12 December 2014 to 31 May 2015 € ’000 2014 / 15 2013 / 14 Fixed remuneration 412.1 – Fringe benefits 8.3 – Total 420.4 – JE V 384.3 – Discretionary bonus – – LTIP 0.0 – Cash Deferral (in F Y 2011 / 12) – – Cash Deferral (in F Y 2012 / 13) – – Cash Deferral (in F Y 2013 / 14) – – LTIP (2010 / 11 – 2013 / 14) – – LTIP (2011 / 12 – 2014 / 15) – – LTIP (2013 / 14 – 2016 / 17) – – Others – – Total 804.6 – Pension / service costs3 144.9 – Total remuneration 949.5 – 1 Appointment as CEO of TUI AG , member of Executive Board since 15 October 2013 2 Appointment as Joint CEO of TUI AG (before: CEO of TUI Travel PLC ), member of the Executive Board of TUI AG since 03 September 2007 3 For Mr Joussen, Mr Baier and Mr Ebel service costs acc. to IA S19 are disclosed, Mr Long, Mr Burling and Mr Waggott received pension contributions The allocation for the completed financial year shows the cash payand Mr Joussen agreed to cease any entitlement of Mr Joussen to ment for the performance period “ LTIP 2011 / 12 – 2014 / 15” for contractual advance payments as part of the LTIP. As a conseMr Baier. For Mr Joussen a contractual advance payment of € 1,280.0 quence, Mr Joussen will not receive additional advance payments of thousand was agreed with for the performance period “ LTIP € 100.0 thousand each for the performance periods “ LTIP 2013 / 14 – 2016 / 17” payable upon the adoption of the annual finan2012 / 13 – 2015 / 16” and “ LTIP 2013 / 14 – 2016 / 17” nor has he recial statements for financial year 2013 / 14. It is shown as an allocaceived any advance payments for the performance period “ LTIP tion and will be offset against the actual entitlement that will have 2014 / 15 – 2017 / 18” nor will he receive advance payments for subsearisen at the end of the performance period “ LTIP 2013 / 14 – quent performance periods. 2016 / 17”. Under the new service contract of December 2014, TUI AG 68 TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS Corporate Governance X. THE RECRUITMENT OF NE W E XECUTIVE BOARD MEMBERS of stretching short and long-term performance targets. As part of 1. GENER AL PRINCIPLES this process, the Supervisory Board will regularly review the impact of When hiring a new Executive Board member, or promoting to the different performance scenarios on the potential reward opportunity Executive Board from within the Group, the Supervisory Board will and pay-outs to be received by Executive Board members. The charts offer a package that is sufficient to retain and motivate and, if relevant, show hypothetical values of the remuneration package for Executive attract the right talent whilst at all times aiming to pay no more than Board members under three assumed performance scenarios: necessary. In determining an appropriate remuneration package, the Supervisory Board will take into consideration all relevant factors, • Minimum performance (i.e. fixed elements of pay only, with no including, but not limited to, the impact on other existing remunerJE V pay-out or vesting of long-term incentives); ation arrangements, the candidate’s location and experience, external • Performance in line with expectations (assuming target pay-out market influences and internal pay relativities. under the JE V, and threshold performance under the LTIP ); and • Maximum performance (assuming maximum pay-out under both Typically, the new appointment will be in line with, or be transitioned the JE V and the LTIP in line with the caps allowable in the indion to, the principles as set in the previous tables. In certain circumvidual service contracts). stances, the Supervisory Board may use other elements if it considers it appropriate to do so with due regard to the best interests of all These charts are for illustrative purposes only and actual outcomes stakeholders of the company. may differ from those shown. 2 . I L L U S T R AT I O N S O F T H E A P P L I C AT I O N O F T H E E X E C U T I V E Key: B O A R D M E M B E R S R E M U N E R AT I O N P O L I C Y Fixed ­Remuneration The company’s remuneration arrangements have been designed so JE V that a substantial proportion of pay is dependent on the achievement LTIP FRIEDRICH JOUSSEN 8,000 7,500 Fixed € ’000 ­Remuneration JE V LTIP Total 7,000 1. Minimum ­performance 1,573 0 0 1,573 6,000 2. Performance in line 5,000 with expectations 1,573 920 1,480 3,973 3,973 3. Maximum ­performance 1,573 2,070 3,858 7,500 4,000 3,000 % 2,000 1,573 1,000 € ’000 1. Minimum ­performance 2. Performance in line 100 0 0 100 with expectations 40 23 37 100 1. 2. 3. 3. Maximum ­performance 21 28 51 100 Corporate Governance TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS 69 PETER LONG 8,000 7,500 Fixed € ’000 ­Remuneration JE V LTIP Total 7,000 1. Minimum ­performance 1,573 0 0 1,573 6,000 2. Performance in line 5,000 with expectations 1,573 920 1,480 3,973 3,973 3. Maximum ­performance 1,573 2,070 3,858 7,500 4,000 3,000 % 2,000 1,573 1,000 € ’000 1. Minimum ­performance 2. Performance in line 100 0 0 100 with expectations 40 23 37 100 1. 2. 3. 3. Maximum ­performance 21 28 51 100 HORST BAIER Fixed 8,000 € ’000 ­Remuneration JE V LTIP Total 7,000 1. Minimum ­performance 1,026 0 0 1,026 6,000 2. Performance in line 5,000 with expectations 1,026 450 675 2,151 4,063 3. Maximum ­performance 1,026 1,013 2,025 4,063 4,000 3,000 2,151 % 2,000 1,026 1,000 € ’000 1. Minimum ­performance 2. Performance in line 100 0 0 100 with expectations 48 21 31 100 1. 2. 3. 3. Maximum ­performance 25 25 50 100 DAVID BURLING Fixed 8,000 € ’000 ­Remuneration JE V LTIP Total 7,000 1. Minimum ­performance 825 0 0 825 6,000 2. Performance in line 5,000 with expectations 825 400 500 1,725 3. Maximum ­performance 825 900 1,500 3,225 4,000 3,225 3,000 % 1,725 2,000 1,000 € ’000 825 1. Minimum ­performance 2. Performance in line 100 0 0 100 with expectations 48 23 29 100 1. 2. 3. 3. Maximum ­performance 26 28 47 100 70 TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS Corporate Governance SEBASTIAN EBEL Fixed 8,000 € ’000 ­Remuneration JE V LTIP Total 7,000 1. Minimum ­performance 905 0 0 905 6,000 2. Performance in line 5,000 with expectations 905 320 500 1,725 3. Maximum ­performance 905 720 1,500 3,125 4,000 3,125 3,000 % 1,725 2,000 1,000 € ’000 905 1. Minimum ­performance 2. Performance in line 100 0 0 100 with expectations 52 19 29 100 1. 2. 3. 3. Maximum ­performance 29 23 48 100 WILLIAM WAGGOT T Fixed 8,000 € ’000 ­Remuneration JE V LTIP Total 7,000 1. Minimum ­performance 974 0 0 974 6,000 2. Performance in line 5,000 with expectations 974 360 700 2,034 3,884 3. Maximum ­performance 974 810 2,100 3,884 4,000 3,000 2,034 % 2,000 1,000 € ’000 974 1. Minimum ­performance 2. Performance in line 100 0 0 100 with expectations 48 18 34 100 1. 2. 3. 3. Maximum ­performance 25 21 54 100 Notes These illustrations of the application of the Director’s Remuneration Policy show the potential reward opportunity for the Executive Directors from 1 October 2015 onwards. Total remuneration for minimum performance (“fixed remuneration”) is comprised of salary, company car or car allowance and employer pension contribution / allowance. Total remuneration for performance in line with expectations is comprised of “fixed remuneration”, target annual bonus and target long-term incentive. Total remuneration for maximum performance is comprised of “fixed remuneration”, maximum annual bonus and maximum long-term incentive including share price appreciation. Maximum is capped at overall remuneration caps where applicable. All employee share plans have been excluded, as have any legacy awards which Executive Directors may hold. Remuneration of the Supervisory Board The remuneration of Supervisory Board members currently comprises in accordance with section 18 of TUI AG ’s Articles of Association, fixed components and a long-term variable component. For parts of which have been made permanently accessible to the public on the a financial year, when a member leaves or joins the Supervisory internet. Board, the remuneration is paid on a pro-rata basis. It is determined Corporate Governance TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS 71 P U R P O S E A N D L I N K T O S T R AT E G Y The members of the Supervisory Board and the Committees receive an attendance fee of € 1.0 thousand per meeting. The members of Highly-qualified Supervisory Board members should be acquired the Supervisory Board are also reimbursed for necessary travel and and retained. other expenses incurred in connection with their role. O P E R AT I O N The members of the Supervisory Board are included in any financial liability insurance policy (D&O insurance) taken out in an appropriate The members of the Supervisory Board receive a fixed remuneration amount by the company and in its interest. The relevant insurance of € 50.0 thousand, payable upon completion of the financial year, premiums are paid by the company. In line with the recommendation besides reimbursement of their expenses. The Chairman of the of the German Corporate Governance Code, there is a deductible Supervisory Board receives three times, the deputy chairs receive for which the Supervisory Board members can take out their own one and a half times the fixed and long-term variable remuneration private insurance. of an ordinary member. The remuneration of the Supervisory Board is reviewed at appropriate An additional fixed remuneration of € 40.0 thousand is paid for intervals. In this regard the expected time required for the relevant membership of committees (the Presiding Committee, Audit Comduties and experience in companies of a similar size, industry and mittee and Integration Committee, with the exception of the Nomicomplexity are taken into account. nation Committee). The Chairman of the Audit Committee receives three times the remuneration of the ordinary Audit Committee CAP members. The maximum aggregate remuneration for an ordinary Supervisory The fixed remuneration is paid out at the end of the respective Board member on the basis of the current remuneration scheme ­financial year. including long term variable remuneration (considering the cap ­mentioned above) and not including committee memberships, atThe members of the Supervisory Board do not receive annual tendance fees or the reimbursement of travel and other expenses, is management bonuses or fringe benefits. € 100.0 thousand. The remuneration of Supervisory Board members is determined by the Annual General Meeting and set forth in the First time for the financial year 2012 / 13, the members of the SuperArticles of Association. visory Board also receive remuneration related to the company’s long-term performance. It amounts to € 400 per € 0.01 of the average undiluted earnings per share (EPS ) carried in the consolidated financial statements for the respective last three financial years. The At the meeting of the Supervisory Board held on 23 Septemlong-term variable remuneration is payable for the first time upon ber 2015, it was agreed that a change in respect of Supervisory the close of the Annual General Meeting which will vote on the ratiBoard remuneration should be put to the shareholders at the Annual fication of the acts of management of the Supervisory Board for the General Meeting in 2016. The proposal for consideration by sharethird completed financial year (February 2016 for the financial year holders is that the remuneration of the Supervisory Board will no 2014 / 15). The payable amount is to be capped at € 50.0 thousand. longer include a long-term variable element. Further details will be published with the invitation to the Annual General Meeting mentioned above. I. R E M U N E R AT I O N O F T H E S U P E R V I S O R Y B O A R D T O TA L R E M U N E R AT I O N O F S U P E R V I S O R Y B O A R D € ’000 2014 / 15 2013 / 14 Fixed remuneration 1,081.6 906.7 Long-term variable remuneration 628.3 235.1 Remuneration for committee memberships 797.6 559.6 Attendance fee 306.0 249.0 Remuneration for TUI AG Supervisory Board mandate 2,813.5 1,950.4 Remuneration for Supervisory Board mandates in the Group 15.5 74.1 Total 2,829.0 2,024.5 72 TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS Corporate Governance In addition, travel and other expenses totalling € 421.6 thousand ation of the Supervisory Board members thus amounted to € 3,250.6 (previous year: € 362.1 thousand) were reimbursed. Total remunerthousand (previous year: € 2,386.6 thousand). I I . R E M U N E R AT I O N O F I N D I V I D U A L S U P E R V I S O R Y B O A R D M E M B E R S F O R T H E F I N A N C I A L Y E A R 2 0 14 / 15 R E M U N E R AT I O N O F I N D I V I D U A L S U P E R V I S O R Y B O A R D M E M B E R S F O R F I N A N C I A L Y E A R 2 0 14 /15 Fixed Remuneration for Long-term ­remuneration Supervisory Fixed ­v ariable for committee Board member€ ’000 ­remuneration ­remuneration ­membership Attendance fee ships in the Group Total Prof. Dr Klaus Mangold (Chairman) 150.0 115.9 112.1 35.0 413.0 Frank Jakobi (Deputy Chairman) 75.0 53.2 72.1 22.0 222.3 Sir Michael Hodgkinson (since 12 December 2014; Deputy Chairman since 9 February 2015) 56.2 15.6 57.8 22.0 151.6 Andreas Barczewski 50.0 38.6 80.0 24.0 192.6 Peter Bremme 50.0 23.1 8.0 81.1 Arnd Dunse (until 30 November 2014) 8.3 17.2 6.7 1.0 33.2 Prof. Dr Edgar Ernst 50.0 38.6 152.1 16.0 256.7 Angelika Gifford (until 11 December 2014) 9.9 17.8 2.0 29.6 Valerie Frances Gooding (since 12 December 2014) 40.1 10.6 6.0 56.8 Dr Dierk Hirschel (since 16 January 2015) 35.3 10.3 7.0 52.5 Janis Carol Kong (since 12 December 2014) 40.1 10.6 6.0 56.8 Vladimir Lukin (until 11 December 2014) 9.9 6.9 7.9 6.0 30.7 Coline Lucille McConville (since 12 December 2014) 40.1 10.6 7.0 57.8 Michael Pönipp 50.0 36.5 33.3 14.0 15.5 149.3 Timothy Martin Powell (since 12 December 2014)* 40.1 0.0 57.8 14.0 111.9 Wilfried H. Rau (since 3 December 2014) 41.3 10.7 8.0 60.0 Carmen Riu Güell 50.0 38.6 40.0 21.0 149.6 Carola Schwirn 50.0 22.7 9.0 81.7 Maxim G. Shemetov 50.0 24.6 25.7 21.0 121.3 Anette Strempel 50.0 38.6 40.0 16.0 144.6 Prof. Christian Strenger 50.0 38.6 72.1 19.0 179.7 Ortwin Strubelt 50.0 38.6 40.0 15.0 143.6 Marcell Witt (since 16 January 2015) 35.3 10.3 7.0 52.5 Total 1,081.6 628.3 797.6 306.0 15.5 2,829.0 * Mr Powell declared to waive his long-term variable remuneration. The Supervisory Board members who left in the course of the finanarrangement are covered by a pro-rata provision. Apart from the cial year receive their entitlements from the long-term programme work performed by the employees’ representatives pursuant to on a pro-rata basis upon the ratification of the acts of management their contracts, none of the members of the Supervisory Board proof the Supervisory Board for the financial year in which they left vided any personal services such as consultation or agency services during the following Annual General Meeting. The entitlements of for TUI AG or its subsidiaries in financial year 2014 / 15 and thus did the Supervisory Board members under the long-term remuneration not receive any additional remuneration arising out of this. TUI share performance TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS 73 TUI SHARE PERFORMANCE Market environment T U I S H A R E D ATA In financial year 2014 / 15, the global indices showed strong volatility. 30 September 2015 The German share index (DA X ) hit a new record high of more than 12,000 points in April 2015 after a low of 8,572 points at the beginning WKN TUAG 00 of the financial year, on 15 October 2014. The FTSE 100 fluctuated ISIN DE 000TUAG 000 within a broad bandwidth from 5,899 to 7,104 points from OctoStock exchange centres London, Xetra, Hanover ber 2014 to September 2015. Reuters / Bloomberg TUIG n.DE /TUI 1.GR (Frankfurt); TUIT .L/TUI :LN In the period under review, global indices were affected, in particular, (London) by the discussions around the potential insolvency of Greece. In DeStock category Registered ordinary shares cember 2014, the markets were already nervous as Greece failed to Capital stock € 1,499,627,312 elect a new president. Market anxiety heightened in the Spring, and Number of shares 586,603,217 by July 2015, events were virtually affected every day by debates Market capitalisation bn € 9.6 around a potential exit by Greece from the eurozone (Grexit). Market capitalisation bn GBP 7.1 In the period under review, the monetary policy of the central banks also played a major role. Investors were concerned about the potential timing of an interest rate turnaround in the US , while the European TUI share price significantly outperforms the Central Bank (ECB ) injected positive stimuli by expanding its asset ­market in the financial year 2014 / 15 purchase programme. In the completed financial year, the TUI share price showed a posiIn financial year 2014 / 15, a considerable slump in share prices was tive performance. The primary listing on the London Stock Exchange driven by economic developments in a number of key emerging recorded an increase of 8 %, considerably outperforming the F TSE economies. Following a weak start to calendar year 2015 by the 100. The secondary listing in Germany rose considerably by 41 %, global economy, in the summer of 2015 the focus again shifted to while the MDA X increased by 22 % in the same period of time. disappointing macroeconomic data from China. Speculation about the state of the Chinese economy was additionally fuelled by the The main event at the beginning of financial year 2014 / 15 was the strongest drop in share prices in the Chinese stock market for more merger between TUI AG and TUI Travel. The management teams of than eight years in July 2015 and China devaluing its currency several the two companies supported the merger plan aimed at creating the times within a very short period of time. world’s leading tourism business. At the Extraordinary General Meetings held in October 2014, the shareholders of the two compaTowards the end of the period under review, stock markets again nies approved the merger. The improved growth prospects to be came under pressure amid fears of a substantial cooling of China’s expected from a steady expansion of the hotel and cruise brands economy. The F TSE 100 closed at 6,062 points at the balance sheet and the substantial synergies to be delivered by simplifying the Group date, down by 8 %. The German indexes delivered a better perforstructure had convinced both the shareholders and the capital market. mance in a volatile environment. The DA X index reported a slight increase of 3 %, while the MDA X grew by 22 % in the financial year In the months that followed, the TUI share price benefited from the under review. successful completion of the merger. The share price was also boosted by sound business performance and an attractive dividend payment. 74 TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS TUI share performance In May 2015, TUI ’s management team provided an update on the in Tunisia in late June 2015. TUI ’s top priority was to support its tourism group’s future growth strategy and the status of integration. customers, their families and any employees concerned during this At a Capital Markets Update held in London, the Executive Board of sad period. Despite these events, the TUI Group achieved strong the TUI Group defined a number of clear strategic milestones to be growth in underlying EBITA in Q3 2014 / 15, demonstrating the resilachieved by 2018, aimed at enhancing the efficiency and agility of ience of its integrated business model. the Group and accelerating profitable growth. In the last few weeks of the period under review, the TUI share price Later in the financial year, the TUI share price did not avoid the was influenced by opposing trends, with sound operating results challenging market environment. The share price was impacted by and booking volumes on the one hand and a stock market environthe debates about the debt crisis in Greece, the potential threat of a ment marked by weak economic data on the other. Even during that Grexit and the associated effects on the tourism sector. Moreover, phase, the share price remained more stable than its national, closing the tourism sector was impacted by a terrorist attack on customers at 1,218 pence or € 16.35 at the balance sheet date. TUI SHARE PRICE (XE TR A) TUI SHARE PRICE (LONDON) W I T H M D A X ( FINANCIAL YE AR 2014 / 15 ) W I T H F T S E 1 0 0 ( FINANCIAL YE AR 2014 / 15 ) TUI XETRA in € MDAX in points TUI London in GBp FTSE in points 18.50 24,650 1,600 7,400 1,500 7,170 16.50 21,650 1,400 6,940 14.50 1,300 6,710 18,650 1,200 6,480 12.50 15,650 1,100 6,250 10.50 1,000 6,020 12,650 8.50 900 5,790 800 5,560 9,650 6.50 700 5,330 1.10.2014 30.9.2015 17.12.2014* 30.9.2015 TUI XETRA MDAX TUI London FTSE 100 * Start of Trading at London Stock Exchange L O N G -T E R M D E V E L O P M E N T O F T H E T U I S H A R E P R I C E ( X E T R A) € 2010 / 11 2011 / 12 2012 / 13 2013 / 14 2014 / 15 High 10.86 6.97 9.85 13.88 17.71 Low 3.68 3.14 6.70 9.14 9.84 Year-end share price 3.88 6.70 9.44 11.85 16.35 TUI share performance TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS 75 Quotations, indexes and trading that has managed to gain admission to the sustainability index. At this year’s annual review of the sustainability ranking, TUI scored particuSince 17 December 2014, the primary listing of TUI has been in the larly well in the categories Climate Strategy and Corporate Citizenpremium segment of the main market on the London Stock Exship. TUI is also listed in the sustainability F TSE 4Good, STOX X change. It was admitted to the F TSE UK series of indexes including Global ESG Leaders Index, Ethibel Excellence Index and ECPI Ethical the F TSE 100, the most important British share index. It has addiIndex €uro and is featured in the CDP Climate Disclosure Leadership tionally been listed in the electronic trading system Xetra and at the Index in the UK and Germany. Hanover stock market with a secondary listing. Since the beginning of 2015, the average daily trading volume has Among the sustainability, TUI has been listed in the renowned Dow been around one million shares each on the London Stock Exchange Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI ) Europe since September 2015, and on Xetra. This reflects strong liquidity in the pound sterling and this being the tenth time in succession. TUI is the only tourism group euro trading lines. Analyst recommendations A N A LY S T S ’ R E C O M M E N D AT I O N S N U M B E R O F A N A LY S T S AS AT 30 SEPT 2015 AS AT 30 SEPT 2015 Sell Sell 4 Hold 1 Hold Buy 27 Buy 7 69 18 % For institutional and private investors, assessments and recommensubscribed capital, there is also authorised and conditional capital, dations by financial analysts are a key decision-making factor. In the as outlined in greater detail in the Notes to the consolidated financial financial year under review, around 25 analysts regularly published statements. studies on the TUI Group. In September 2015, 69 % of analysts issued a recommendation to “buy” TUI shares, with 27 % recommending “hold”. 4 % of the analysts recommended “sell”. See page 161 et seqq. CONVERTIBLE BONDS Capital stock and number of shares In November 2009, TUI AG had issued a convertible bond with subscription rights with a total volume of around € 218 m. At the end of E MPLOYE E SHARE S the conversion period, the outstanding volume had fallen to € 2 m, In financial year 2014 / 15, a total of 133,340 employee shares were and this was duly redeemed in November 2014. issued. At the balance sheet date, the capital stock totalled € 1,499,627,311.68, consisting of 586,603,217 no-par value shares In March 2011, TUI AG again issued convertible bonds with subscripdocumented by global certificates. The proportionate share capital tion rights with a total volume of around € 339 m, maturing in 2016, attributable to each individual share is around € 2.56. Apart from and a coupon of 2.75 %. In the completed financial year, the TUI 76 TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS TUI share performance Group decided to redeem this convertible bond early. The principal TUI AG and TUI Travel by a large majority, paving the way for the amount of € 2 m still outstanding at the end of the conversion period creation of the world’s number one integrated tourism business. was redeemed in April 2015. For the convertible bond of TUI Travel still outstanding in the period Details about the 2015 AGM are available online at: under review, third-party investors received shares in TUI AG in exwww.tuigroup.com/en-en/investors/agm change for shares in TUI Travel for all outstanding bonds. Moreover, a residual amount from a further convertible bond of TUI Travel still The first Annual General Meeting following the successful merger of outstanding at the beginning of the financial year was redeemed as the two companies was held in Hanover on 10 February 2015. It was at the due date. At the balance sheet date, therefore, there were no attended by around 1,720 shareholders and shareholder representconversion rights left from convertible bonds. atives, representing around 60 % of the voting capital during the votes. The acts of management of the Executive and Supervisory Boards of the Company were ratified by large majorities. The AGM Resolutions of the 2014 Extraordinary General approved the proposal submitted by the Executive Board and SuMeeting and the 2015 Annual General Meeting pervisory Board to pay a dividend of € 0.33 per share for the completed financial year. At the Extraordinary General Meeting held on 28 October 2014, the TUI shareholders approved the resolutions on the merger between Shareholder Structure SHAREHOLDER STRUCTURE GEOGRAPHICAL SHAREHOLDER STRUCTURE AS AT 30 SEPT 2015 AS AT 30 SEPT 2015 Riu Hotels S.A. Switzerland Institutional 3 Private investors 3 Other investors 6 Alexey EU 6 Russia 78 ­Mordashov 64 13 13 % % USA 14 Some 87 % of all TUI shares were in free float at the end of financial analysis of the share register, most shares were held by investors year 2014 / 15. Around 6 % of all TUI shares were held by private from EU countries. shareholders, around 78 % by institutional investors and financial institutions and around 16 % by strategic investors. According to an The latest information on the shareholder structure and voting right notifications pursuant to section 26 of the German Securities Trading Act is available online at: www.tuigroup.com/en-en/investors/news TUI share performance TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS 77 Dividend DEVELOPMENT OF DIVIDENDS AND EARNINGS OF TUI € 2010 / 11 2011 / 12 2012 / 13 2013 / 14 2014 / 15 Earnings per share – 0.01 – 0.16 – 0.14 + 0.26 + 0.64 Dividend – – 0.15 0.33 0.56 TUI AG ’s profit for the year amounted to € 1,256.7 m. Taking account Investor Relations of the transfer to other revenue reserves (€ 314.0 m) and the profit carried forward of € 66.7 m, net profit available for distribution totalled Open and continuous dialogue and transparent communication form € 1,009.4 m. A proposal will be submitted to the Annual General Meetthe basis for confidence in our dealings with shareholders, institutioning to use the net profit available for distribution for the financial al investors, equity and credit analysts and lenders. Many discussions year under review to distribute a dividend of € 0.56 per no-­par value were held with TUI shareholders and bondholders; they centred on share and to carry the amount of € 680.9 m, remaining after deduction Group strategy and the development of business in the various of the dividend total of € 328.5 m, forward on new account. business sectors, enabling stakeholders to make a realistic assessment of TUI ’s future development. Rating Apart from the development of business operations in Tourism, Investor Relations in the period under review focused in particular on the The international rating agencies Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s regmerger between TUI AG and TUI Travel and the growth strategy for ularly rate the creditworthiness of TUI as a debtor. In December 2014, the integrated tourism group. Standard & Poor’s Rating Services lifted TUI ’s corporate rating from “B+” to “ BB –”. S&P attributed the rating upgrade to an improvement TUI ’s management team explained these central issues at road shows in key indicators in financial year 2013 / 14. It was also attributed to in London, Frankfurt, Paris, Zurich, Oslo, Copenhagen, New York and the merger between TUI and TUI Travel, which had a structurally Boston. The IR team also carried out road shows in Amsterdam, advantageous effect on the rating. Brussels and Milan. In December 2014, Moody’s Investors Service also lifted TUI ’s rating Questions from analysts and investors were also discussed at the to “Ba3”. In August 2015, the agency improved its outlook again conference calls held when the interim reports were published, in from “neutral” to “positive”. Moody’s attributed the rating upgrade the framework of analysts’ meetings, at many investor conferences in to the reduction in debt after the rating agency had adjusted its Europe and the US and at numerous one-to-ones. Many of these methodology for the measurement of operating leases. A further meetings were personally attended by management. positive factor was the improved operating performance despite an increase in security risks in Tunisia and volatility in Greece. Investor Relations also makes every effort to engage in direct contact with private investors. The IR team sought dialogue with this target group on many occasions, such as events organised by shareholder R AT I N G A G E N C I E S associations. Another key platform for exchanges with private shareholders was the IR stand at TUI ’s Annual General Meeting. TUI Corporate Rating Outlook also uses its new website to address its private investors. Apart from the comprehensive information that is made available, all IR Standard & Poor’s BB – stable conference calls and the Capital Markets Update were transmitted Moody’s Ba3 positive live and in full on that website in financial year 2014 / 15. More details about Investor Relations online at www.tuigroup.com/en-en/investors Protecting natural resources and taking social responsibility for our destinations are part and parcel of TUI ‘s corporate culture. Mexico is no exception. Holbox island and its little fishing village are in the middle of the biosphere reserve Yum Balam. Preserving this unspoilt Caribbean holiday idyll is a matter close to our hearts. » R  E A D M O R E A B O U T M E X I CO A S A LO N G H A U L D E ST I N AT I O N IN OUR MAGAZINE UNDER „ ÁNDALE!“ MANAGEMENT ­R EPORT * CO N T E N T S 80  T UI Group Fundamentals 138 Financial position of the Group 80 Structure, business model and 146 Sustainable development market environment 150 Human resources 87 Goals and strategies 154 Annual financial statements 94 Value-oriented Group management of TUI AG 97 Risk Report 157 Information required under 115 Overall assessment by the ­takeover law ­E xecutive Board and Report on 159 Report on subsequent events expected development 120 Report on economic position * T he present combined Management Report has been 120 Macroeconomic and industry drawn up for both the TUI Group and TUI AG. It was ­framework prepared in accordance with sections 289, 315 and 315 (a) of the German Commercial Code (HGB) and German 122 Group earnings ­A ccounting Standards (DRS) numbers 17 and 20. 127 Business development by segments The combined Management Report also includes the ­Remuneration Report and the Corporate ­G overnance 135 Group net assets Report as well as the Two-Year-Table. 80 MANAGEMENT REPORT TUI Group Fundamentals T U I G R O U P F U N D A M E N TA L S Structure, business model and market environment TOURISM BUSINESS SPECIALIST TR AVE L ALL OTHER SEGMENTS* SOURCE H OT E L S & CRUISES OT H E R S P E C I A L I ST H OT E L B E D S MARKETS RESORTS TO U R I S M GROUP GROUP • Northern • Riu • TUI Cruises • Corporate Center ­Region • Robinson • Hapag-Lloyd • Real Estate • Central Region • Other Hotels Cruises • Western ­Region * LateRooms Group and Financial stake in Hapag-Lloyd AG (Container shipping) held for sale TUI Group O R G A N I S AT I O N A N D M A N A G E M E N T TUI AG is a stock corporation under German law, whose basic principle TUI Group is the world’s leading tourism business consisting of is dual management by two boards, the Executive Board and the market-­leading tour operators, 1,800 travel agencies and leading ­Supervisory Board. The Executive and Supervisory Boards cooperate online portals, five tour operator airlines with more than 140 aircraft, closely in governing and monitoring the Company. The Executive over 310 hotels with 214,000 beds, 13 cruise liners and countless inBoard is responsible for the overall management of the Company. coming agencies in all major holiday destinations around the globe. This integrated offering will enable us to provide our 20 million cusThe appointment and removal of Board members is based on sections tomers with an unparalleled holiday experience in 180 regions. 84 et seq. of the German Stock Corporation Act in combination with section 31 of the German Co-Determination Act. Amendments to the Articles of Association are effected on the basis of the provisions of TUI AG structure sections 179 et seq. of the German Stock Corporation Act in combination with section 24 of TUI AG ’s Articles of Association. TUI AG is the Group’s parent company headquartered in Hanover. It holds directly or, via its affiliates, indirect interests in the principal E XECUTIVE BOARD AND GROUP E XECUTIVE COMMIT TEE Group companies conducting the Group’s operating business in indiAs at the balance sheet date, the Executive Board of TUI AG consisted vidual countries. Overall, TUI AG ’s group of consolidated companies of the two Joint CEO s and four other Board members. comprised 532 direct and indirect subsidiaries at the balance sheet date, of which 45 were based in Germany and 487 abroad. A further 19 affiliated companies and 33 joint ventures were included in Details on Executive Board members see page 38 TUI AG ’s consolidated financial statements on the basis of at equity measurement. A Group Executive Committee was set up in order to manage the TUI Group strategically and operationally. As at 30 September 2015 the Committee consisted of twelve members who meet under the chairmanship of Joint CEO s Friedrich Joussen and Peter Long. TUI Group Fundamentals MANAGEMENT REPORT 81 REPORTING STRUCTURE Western Region Due to the merger with TUI Travel PLC , the TUI Group changed its organisational structure as of 31 March 2015. The previous reporting The tour operators and airlines in Belgium and the Netherlands structure has been updated to reflect the management structure of and the tour operators in France are included within the segment the new TUI Group, in line with IFRS 8. The previous sectors Travel, Western Region. Hotels & Resorts and Cruises have been replaced by the following reporting segments: Hotels & Resorts TUI Group’s tour operating business is clustered into the three geographical regions. The Northern Region, Central Region and Western The Hotels & Resorts segment comprises all Group-owned hotels Region represent together with Hotels & Resorts, Cruises and Other and hotel companies of the TUI Group. The hotel activities of the Tourism the Tourism division. former Travel Sector have also been allocated to Hotels & Resorts. The segment continues to hold majority participations in hotels, joint ventures with local partners, companies where TUI holds a fi­ nancial Northern Region stake, enabling it to exert a strong influence, and hotels operated under management contracts. The Northern Region segment comprises the tour operators, airlines and cruise business in the UK , Ireland and the Nordics. In addition, In financial year 2014 / 15, Hotels & Resorts comprised a total of the Canadian strategic venture Sunwing and the joint venture in 310 hotels with 214,066 beds. At 272 hotels, most hotels are in the Russia have been included within this segment. fouror five-star categories. 46 % were operated in the framework of management contracts, 36 % were owned by the respective hotel company, 15 % were leased and 3 % of the hotels were managed Central Region under franchise agreements. The Central Region segment comprises the tour operators and airlines in Germany and the tour operators in Austria, Switzerland and Poland. FINANCING STRUCTURE HOTELS & RESORTS OWNED HOTEL BEDS ACCORDING TO REGIONS Franchise Other countries 3 (4) Lease 8 Management 15 (5) Western Mediterranean (10) 46 (50) 26 (28) Caribbean 19 (26) % % Eastern North Africa / Ownership Mediterranean Egypt 36 (41) 24 (13) 23 (23) In brackets: previous year 82 MANAGEMENT REPORT TUI Group Fundamentals HOTELS & RESORTS Hotel brand 3 stars 4 stars 5 stars Total hotels Beds Main sites Riu 5 57 42 104 90,187 Spain, Mexico, Caribbean, Tunisia, Cape Verdes Robinson – 20 4 24 14,442 Spain, Greece, Turkey, Switzerland, Austria Iberotel – 15 9 24 13,406 Egypt, Turkey, Germany Other hotel companies 33 95 30 158 96,031 Spain, Greece, Egypt Total 38 187 85 310 214,066 As at 30 September 2015 RIU H A PA G L L O Y D C R U I S E S Riu is the largest hotel company in the portfolio of Hotels & Resorts. Hamburg-based Hapag-Lloyd Cruises holds a leading position in the The Majorca-based enterprise has a high proportion of regular German-speaking market with its four ships fleet in the luxury and customers and stands for professionalism and excellent service. expedition cruise segments. Most of the hotels are in the premium and comfort segments and are located in Spain, Mexico and the Caribbean. Its flagships are the five-star-plus vessels Europa and Europa 2. They were awarded this category by the Berlitz Cruise Guide and are the ROBINSON world’s only ships to be recognised in this way, in the case of Europa Robinson, the leading provider in the premium club holiday segment, for the sixteenth time in succession. Europa primarily cruises on world is characterised by its professional sport, entertainment and event tours, while her sister ship Europa 2 takes shorter but combinable portfolio. Moreover, the clubs offer high-quality hotel amenities, excelroutes. The Hanseatic is used, among other destinations, for expedilent service and spacious architecture. Most of the hotels are located tion cruises to the Arctic and Antarctic. It is the world’s only five-star in Spain, Greece, Turkey, Switzerland and Austria. The facilities also passenger vessel with the highest Arctic class. The Bremen, a four-star meet ambitious standards in terms of promoting sustainable developvessel – also awarded the highest Arctic class – is another expedition ment activities and meeting specific environmental standards. ship travelling to similar destinations. Three of the ships are owned and one was chartered. IBEROTEL Iberotel hotels offer a comprehensive level of comfort and excellent TUI CRUISES dining options. Most of these premium hotels are located in Egypt The Hamburg-based TUI Cruises is a joint venture formed in 2008 and Turkey. They offer top-quality products, complying with the between TUI AG and the US shipping company Royal Caribbean highest quality, safety and environmental standards. Cruises Ltd., in which each partner holds a 50 % stake. With four ships so far TUI Cruises is top-ranked in the German-speaking premium O T H E R H O T E L C O M PA N I E S market for cruises. The Berlitz Cruises Guide awarded the Mein Other hotel companies include Majorca-based Grupotel and other Schiff 4 as World’s best ship in the category “Large Resort Ships“ brands such as Jaz and Magic Life, our club brand characterised by and her sister ship Mein Schiff 3 second best. family friendly holiday villages and varied sport and entertainment programmes. TUI Cruises is planning to take advantage of growth opportunities and expand its market position by additional newbuilds. The decision to order Mein Schiff 7 and Mein Schiff 8 was taken in SeptemCruises ber 2015. The commissioning of the newbuilds is planned for 2018 and 2019 and they are to replace Mein Schiff 1 and Mein Schiff 2 The Cruises segment consists of Hapag-Lloyd Cruises and the joint respectively. TUI Cruises first two ships are planned to be transventure TUI Cruises. ferred within TUI Group to Thomson Cruises, currently part of the UK tour operator reported within Northern Region. TUI Group Fundamentals MANAGEMENT REPORT 83 Other Tourism Market environment and competition in the tourism businesses Other Tourism comprises the French airline Corsair and, in particular, central Tourism functions such as the TUI Group’s flight control and Tourism is our core business. Following the merger between TUI AG information technology departments. and TUI Travel PLC we have created the world´s number one integrated leisure tourism business. Furthermore, we consider ourselves to be Europe’s largest leisure ­hotelier based on capacity. Within our Specialist Travel Tourism segment, we also operate three cruise line businesses, Thomson Cruises, Hapag-Lloyd Cruises and TUI Cruises. The Specialist Group segment and the Hotelbeds Group segment together form Specialist Travel. TOURISM MARKE T According to the World Tourism Organization (UNW TO), tourism SPECIALIST GROUP comprises the activities of persons travelling to and staying in places The Specialist Group segment pools more than 100 specialist and outside their usual environment for not more than one consecutive adventure tour operators in Europe, North America and Australia. It year for leisure, business and other purposes. The key tourism indioperates under five divisions: Adventure, Education, North A ­ merican cators to measure market size are the number of international tourist Specialists, Events and Specialist Holiday Group. It includes tour operarrivals, and international tourism receipts. With international tourism ators offering market-leading travel experiences and adventures, receipts reaching $ 1.2 trillion in 2014, the tourism industry is one of tour operators for student trips and language courses, providers of the most important sectors in the world economy. International charter yachts, premium tour operators, and providers of skiing and tourism (travel and passenger transport) accounts for 9 % of GDP other sporting tours. and for 30 % of the world’s exports of services and 6 % of overall exports of goods and services. As a worldwide export category, HOTELBEDS GROUP tourism ranks fifth after fuels, chemicals, food and automotive The Hotelbeds Group previously was part of the Accommodation & products, while ranking first in many developing countries (UNW TO , Destinations sector and comprises B2B hotel portals selling globally Tourism Highlights, 2015). International tourist arrivals worldwide sourced hotel and apartment accommodation online to wholesale are expected to increase by 3.3 % a year between 2010 and 2030 to customers such as travel agencies and tour operators via various reach 1.8 billion by 2030 (UNW TO Tourism Towards 2030). Internet portals. The Inbound Services Division manages regional incoming agencies providing incoming services for tour operators, Travel for leisure, recreation and holidays accounts for just over half such as transfers and liaison with holiday-makers. This Division also of all international tourist arrivals (53 %). Some 14 % travel for busiprovides wide-ranging services for the cruise industry. ness and professional purposes and another 27 % travel for specific purposes, such as visiting friends and relatives or health, with the remaining 6 % travelling for unspecified reasons (UNW TO , Tourism All other segments Highlights, 2015 Edition). Apart from the segments mentioned above, the segment “All other Europe is the largest and most mature tourism market in the world, segments” will also be retained. It combines, in particular, the corpoaccounting for 51 % of international tourist arrivals and 41 % of rerate centre functions of TUI AG and the interim holdings as well as ceipts in 2014. Asia Pacific accounts for 17 % of international tourist the Group’s real estate companies. The corporate centre functions arrivals in 2014. The total increased with a C AGR of + 4 % from 1990 of TUI Travel PLC , previously comprised in the Travel Sector, have up to 1,133 m tourists in 2014. Five European countries (France, also been allocated to that segment. Spain, Italy, the United Kingdom and G ­ ermany) figured in the top ten international tourism destinations in 2014. Our three main The segment of the LateRooms Group has been classified as a dissource markets were in the top six of all source markets worldwide continued operation. As at October 2015 the platform for travel measured by international tourism expenditure. services was sold. The financial stake in Hapag-Lloyd Container Shipping of roughly 13.9 % (as at 30 September 2015) was reclassified to financial assets available for sale according to IFRS 5 since Q3 2013 / 14. 84 MANAGEMENT REPORT TUI Group Fundamentals D E V E L O P M E N T I N T E R N AT I O N A L T O U R I S T A R R I VA L S BY O R I G I N 1,133 +4 % 1,200 A N N U A L G R O W T H R AT E 1,087 Origin not specified SINCE 19 9 0 1,035 30 Africa 1,100 33 Middle East 27 948 26 33 37 Americas 1,000 891 32 32 32 26 189 900 807 28 28 178 35 172 26 Asia Pacific 32 800 677 25 19 156 23 147 700 268 14 250 15 137 237 528 14 206 600 131 181 Europe 434 9 12 153 500 9 8 108 114 10 400 8 99 86 300 59 537 566 575 477 497 450 200 389 M $ 303 250 100 1990 1995 2000 2005 2009 2010 2012 2013 2014 S H A R E O F I N T E R N AT I O N A L TO U R I S T A R R I VA L S BY OR IG I N Europe 51 Asia Pacific Americas Middle East 17 3 24 Origin not specified 3 Africa 3 % TUI Group Fundamentals MANAGEMENT REPORT 85 Germany continues to be the third largest source market in the with its two main tour-operator brands, Nouvelles Frontières and world, with international tourism expenditure of approximately Marmara. Thomas Cook is second-ranked in the French tour-operator $ 92.2 billion in 2014, after China (approximately $ 164.9 billion) and market (Mintel, European Leisure Travel Industry, September 2013). the United States (approximately $ 110.8 billion). In terms of expendFrance is the largest destination market in the world, with over iture per capita, Germany ranks first globally, with approximately 83.7 million tourists in 2014. $ 1,137 spent per G ­ erman on average in 2014. (source: UNW TO , Tourism Highlights, 2015 Edition). Key operators in the German HOTEL MARKE T tourism market are TUI Deutschland, Thomas Cook, DER Touristik, The total worldwide hotel market was € 385.5 bn in 2014 (business F TI and Alltours (F V W , Dossier, Deutsche Veranstalter, 2013). and leisure market). It is estimated to grow with a C AGR of 6.4 % by 2018 (Euromonitor; June 2015). The hotel market is divided between The United Kingdom is the fourth largest source market in the business and leisure travel. A number of characteristics differentiate world, with approximately $ 52.7 billion spent on tourism activities in leisure travel hotels from business hotels, including longer average 2014 and on average $ 893 spent per capita over the same period lengths of stay for guests in leisure hotels, varying l­ocations of hotels (source: UNW TO , Tourism Highlights, 2015 Edition). The British (e. g. cities or leisure resorts) as well as hotel amenities and service tourism market is characterized by a high degree of concentration, requirements. From a demand perspective, the leisure hotel market with two key operators: TUI Group and Thomas Cook (Mintel, Euroin Europe is divided into several smaller submarkets which cater to pean Leisure Travel Industry, September 2013). the ­individual needs and demands of tourists. These submarkets include premium, comfort, budget, family / apartment, and club or France is the sixth largest source market in 2014, with international resort style hotels. Hotel companies can offer a variety of hotels tourism expenditure of approximately $ 42.9 billion (source: UNWTO, across different sub-markets because they are often defined by Tourism Highlights, 2015 E­ dition). TUI is the market leader in France price range, star ratings, exclusivity, or available facilities. H O T E L M A R K E T, R E TA I L VA L U E 500 +6 % A N N U A L G R O W T H R AT E U N T IL 2018 436.7 7.8 493.5 Australasia Eastern Europe 15.8 Middle East and Africa 450 26.7 385.5 6.8 13.5 Latin America 56.0 400 344.1 6.1 22.4 North America 11.4 350 309.0 5.5 18.8 45.8 9.7 5.1 37.2 119.6 16.1 300 8.1 30.7 15.7 109.4 25.5 98.2 Western Europe 250 86.8 77.9 116.8 200 110.5 105.4 150 103.2 Asia Pacific 100.6 100 128.3 B N . 150.8 50 76.1 92.1 108.4 € 2010 2012 2014 2016 FC 2018 FC Consumers in our three main source markets prefer the following France, Poland and Greece (source: Mintel, European Leisure Travel destinations: Industry, September 2013). Turkey is expected to be the highest growing market with a C AGR of 13.6 % to 2018 while Italy is the Germany: The most popular leisure hotel destinations for consumers biggest market in terms of size with a volume of € 22.9 bn retail value in the German source market are Spain, I­taly, Turkey, Austria, Croatia, (Euromonitor, June 2015). 86 MANAGEMENT REPORT TUI Group Fundamentals United Kingdom: The most popular leisure hotel destinations for businesses are not branded and customers cannot typically access consumers in the United Kingdom source market are Spain, France, these hotels through global distribution systems. Given the variety the United States, Italy, Greece, Portugal and Turkey (Mintel, Euroof models under which leisure hotels are owned and operated and the pean Leisure Travel Industry, September 2013). fragmented com­petitive landscape which, at least in Europe, is not dominated by large hotel chains, conditions differ greatly between France: The most popular leisure hotel destinations for consumers ­locations. in the French source market are Spain, Tunisia, Morocco, Greece and Turkey (Mintel, European Leisure Travel Industry, September 2013). CRUISE MARKET The global cruise industry is expected to generate approximately Hotel operations can generally be divided into (i) asset owners, $ 39.6 billion of revenue in 2015 – a 6.9 % increase over 2014 with whose primary business is to own real estate a­ ssets; (ii) brand owners 22.2 million passengers carried each year (Cruise Market Watch and operators who typically manage hotel assets themselves or enter website, www.cruisemarketwatch.com/market-share). The North into franchising arrangements with independent operators who, in American market is by far the largest and most mature cruise market turn manage the hotel property assets; and (iii) independent in the world, with approximately 13 million guests in 2015 and a ­operators combining the operations of asset owners and brand strong penetration rate of 3.4 % of the total population taking a owners and operators by managing diverse assets under different cruise in 2014. By contrast, the European cruise markets showed brands, often through franchise agreements. approximately 6.4 million European passengers and, on average, a penetration rate of only 1.0 % in 2014, with penetration rates varying The upper end of the leisure hotel market is characterized by a high significantly from country to country (CLIA Europe Statistics and degree of sophistication and specialization among large international Markets, 2014). companies and investors. There are also a large number of small, often family-run businesses, particularly in Europe, with less sophistication The United Kingdom, France and Germany are among the five largest and fewer financial resources. Most family-owned and operated cruise markets in Europe (Mintel, Cruises – International, June 2014). W O R L D W I D E C R U I S E PA S S E N G E R S BY S O U R C E R E G I O N A N D P E N E T R AT I O N R AT E 2 0 14 P E N E T R AT I O N R AT E South America Australia – 2014 New Zealand 3 4 Asia 4.0 9 3.5 3.4 3.0 2.4 2.2 % 2.5 2.0 North Europe America 26 1.5 1.0 59 1.0 0.5 % US Europe Germany UK Germany, largest cruise market in Europe, reached 1.8 million passen2014, well above the European average) (CLIA Europe Statistics and gers in 2014 and, at 2.2 %, showed a lower penetration rate than the Markets, 2014). France, the fourth largest cruise market in Europe, United Kingdom (CLIA Europe Statistics and Markets, 2014). The had approximately 0.6 million cruise passengers in 2014. The French United Kingdom is the second largest cruise market in Europe, with cruise market is characterized by a lower penetration rate, with only approximately 1.6 million cruise passengers in 2014 and the strongest 0.9 % of the population boarding a cruise in 2014 (CLIA Europe Statispenetration rate (2.4 % of the British population took a cruise in tics and Markets, 2014). TUI Group Fundamentals MANAGEMENT REPORT 87 The European cruise market is divided into submarkets that cater to Brand a variety of customers: budget, discovery, premium and luxury. Cruise operators utilize different cruise formats to target these subThe TUI Group offers strong brands in all its sectors. In our view, the markets and the unique demands of their customers. For example, strength of our brands in all tourism source markets in Europe and Hapag-Lloyd Cruises, Deilmann and Phoenix are all active in the in the destinations provides us with a significant competitive edge premium cruise submarket, Compagnie du Ponant Cruises is active over our peers. In a survey carried out in 2015, TUI was again rated in the French luxury cruise submarket, and Hapag-Lloyd Cruises is as the most trusted travel brand in Germany and Austria (source: the exclusive operator in the German luxury submarket. In addition Reader’s Digest Trusted Brands 2015). TUI has also achieved the to trad­itional ­formats, operators offer club ship cruises (such as strongest growth in brand value of all companies included in a study AIDA ) or more contemporary oriented cruises (such as TUI Cruises) conducted by the internationally renowned brand consultancy Interin the premium cruise submarket. As a cruise ship is often perceived brand to rank the most valuable German brands in 2015. TUI ’s as a destination in itself, cruise companies compete, in particular, brand value grew by 43 % to € 1.4 bn euros. In analysing TUI , Interwithin the luxury and premium cruise submarkets, with other destibrand’s brand experts emphasize the fact that the Group will nations such as leading hotels and resorts. achieve a greater presence and gain continuity due to the ongoing pooling of all services and sub-brands under the TUI brand. Goals and strategies Merger of TUI AG and TUI Travel progression from predominantly being a trading business, to being a branded consumer services group with a strong focus on exclusive The merger of TUI AG and TUI Travel PLC in December 2014 created hotel and cruise content. We will set new standards in our industry the world’s leading Tourism business, combining the premium leisure with respect to growth, quality as well as brand promise and will hotel and cruise brands of TUI AG with the strong marketing and create significant opportunities for shareholders, customers, suppliers sales capabilities, modern and efficient airline fleet, inbound services and our employees. We deliver an unparalleled customer proposition network and unique holiday concepts of TUI Travel. This has resulted and increased value for shareholders. in a vertically-integrated Tourism business model completing our 88 MANAGEMENT REPORT TUI Group Fundamentals O U R V E R T I C A L I N T E G R AT E D B U S I N E S S M O D E L Marketing & Sales Flight » 20 m customers » 13 m customers I N T E G R AT E D P L AT F O R M S Hotels & I N T E G R AT E D MANAGEMENT Inbound Services Cruises » 11 m customers » 7 m customers Our business model differentiates us through scale and leading posi• Growth is accelerated and de-risked as a result of the integration tions at all stages of the customer journey: Marketing & Sales, Flight, of content with distribution – we can grow our hotels, concepts Inbound Services and Accommodation. This, and the combination and cruise ships with the knowledge that we have direct access to of our TUI power brand, our local roots and local market expertise, the customer through our own strong marketing and sales network. with a strong central IT platform, defines our uniqueness. • Significant corporate and operational synergies will also be delivered as a result of vertical-integration – for example, occupancy The benefits of a vertically-integrated model are clear: in our own hotels has already improved as a result of the merger. • We control the end-to-end customer journey, from inspiration and advice, to booking, flight, inbound services and accommodation. Our organisational structure This differentiates us from the competition and gives us the knowledge and ability to provide the holiday experiences that our The post-merger integration is progressing smoothly and with a customers desire, resulting in sustainable, profitable top-line faster pace than originally anticipated. We have therefore accelerated growth through growth in customer volumes, revenue per customer organisational change, implementing a flat structure to enable fast and retention. and agile decision-making and clearly separating our Tourism business • Having our own hotels and cruise ships gives us the ability to differfrom our other businesses (Specialist Travel and Hapag-­Lloyd AG , entiate our products and means that we control quality, customer the latter being a financial asset available for sale). satisfaction and can fulfil customer demand for destinations and experiences where content is scarce. TUI Group Fundamentals MANAGEMENT REPORT 89 TOURISM BUSINESS SPECIALIST TR AVE L NORTHERN REGION H OT E L S & R E S O R T S H OT E L B E D S G R O U P S P E C I A L I ST G R O U P CENTRAL REGION CRUISES W E ST E R N R E G I O N INBOUND SERVICES* HELD FOR SALE Platforms (aviation & customer / IT ) Hapag-Lloyd AG * From 2015 / 16 This structure enables us to focus on growing our integrated tourism Taking TUI to the next level: The world’s leading business whilst managing our other businesses for both growth and Tourism business value. The structure of our Tourism business is balanced between local management tailored to the different characteristics of our three W H AT W E W A N T T O A C H I E V E – O U R G R O W T H L E V E R S regions, Hotels & Resorts, Cruises and Inbound Services divisions, The following growth levers form the basis to deliver increased with the scale and efficiency achieved through our global platforms. shareholder returns: • Deliver Tourism growth • Maximise growth & value of our other businesses • Deliver merger synergies • Balance sheet strength, flexibility and strong cash flow generation 90 MANAGEMENT REPORT TUI Group Fundamentals OUR GROWTH LEVERS D E L I V E R TO U R I S M G R O W T H Unparalleled Marketing & Flight Inbound Hotels & Integrated customer Sales Services Cruises platforms PROP OSITION Integrated management M A X I M I S E G R O W T H & V A L U E O F O U R OT H E R B U S I N E S S E S Increased shareholder DELIVER MERGER SYNERGIES RETURNS  ALANCE SHEET STRENGTH, FLEXIBILITY AND STRONG FREE B C A S H F L O W G E N E R AT I O N Deliver tourism growth Control over distribution continues to be central to our marketing and sales strategy, and all Source Markets are focused on delivering MARKETING & SALES more direct, and online sales. In 2014 / 15 controlled distribution Our Source Markets (including our joint ventures) sell holidays to grew by two percentage points to 70 %. Online distribution grew by over 20 million customers per annum. Our goal is to achieve profitable three percentage points to 41 %. Good progress was made across all top-line growth ahead of the market. In 2014 / 15 we achieved 2 % source markets. growth in Source Market customers, with 5 % growth in the UK and Benelux offset partly by capacity reductions in the Nordics and In order to grow ahead of the market, we are also broadening our France and a lower growth rate in Germany. offering in existing source markets. This includes long-haul expansion, offering more choice of flight times and durations for our unique We are capitalising on the strength of the TUI brand on a global holidays. Our long-haul package customers grew by 8 % in 2014 / 15. scale. A global brand experience and a global brand identity offer many advantages for our customers, suppliers and for our employees. In addition, new source markets will deliver additional growth and The appeal of TUI and the Smile logo are extremely high. OneBrand will be accessed by our scalable technology platform, already offers significant opportunities in terms of growth potential, consistlaunched in Spain and soon to be launched in Portugal and Brazil, ency of customer experience, digital presence, operational efficiency providing us with a straightforward route to market entry. Tapping and competitive strength. In the long run, it is our objective that there the long-tail market will further enhance opportunities for Group will be one brand wherever it is reasonable, but we will still ensure hotels to increase occupancy. that we maintain our local roots. We launched our brand migration successfully in the Netherlands in October 2015, and we are already We will also continue to focus on improving earnings in underperachieving strong unaided awareness of the TUI Brand in this source forming source markets and driving improvements in operational market. The TUI brand roll-out has also commenced in France, with efficiency. Belgium, Nordics and the UK to follow over the next few years. TUI Group Fundamentals MANAGEMENT REPORT 91 FLIGHT G R O W T H I N A C C O M M O D AT I O N – C O N T E N T A S K E Y We have around 140 aircraft operated by five tour operator airlines, D I F F E R E N T I AT O R flying around 13 million customers per annum. These airlines have We currently accommodate over 7 million customers per annum in until recently been run separately. We are now changing that strucour own hotels and cruise ships. Growth in accommodation will be ture. Together, our airlines would rank as the seventh largest airline key in driving profitable top-line growth. This is driven by three operation in Europe, with high rates of asset utilisation due to our elements: Growth in our strong hotel and club brands, growth in our integrated model. We want to future-proof our airlines, and this will powerful and exclusive international hotel concepts and profitable only be possible if we leverage the potential economies of scale. growth in cruises. The way our five airlines are operating will further improve as we are G R O W T H I N A C C O M M O D AT I O N – H O T E L S A N D building a competitive aviation platform. In essence, we are building I N T E R N AT I O N A L C O N C E P T S a virtual airline. This means that we will act ’as one’ wherever it We have identified further growth potential through the internationalmakes sense to do so, maintaining local differences where the benefit isation of TUI ’s owned and controlled hotel brands and exclusive of that differentiation is greater than that of harmonisation. Organihotel concepts. In addition, new, exclusive hotel projects are to be sational structure, the business model and scale are the main eledeveloped and operated in prime locations. ments of our central platform. We expect to benefit in the areas of aircraft purchasing and financing, engineering and maintenance, IT Our strategic focus within TUI Hotels & Resorts is to achieve further and joint long-haul planning and procurement. differentiation and optimisation of our own hotel portfolio and a more focused and defined brand profile. The core brands will be Riu, We are the only leisure airline operating the Boeing B787 Dreamliner Robinson, Magic Life and the new hotel brand TUI Blue. The offerwhich is a key differentiator on long-haul destinations. As the B787 ing will be rounded off by the internationalisation of three hotel is providing us with significant commercial benefits, we are growing ­concepts – Sensatori, Sensimar and Family Life. our B787 fleet. Flying in a B787 delivers an enhanced customer experience as well as cost efficiency due to lower fuel consumption than Hotel brands and hotel concepts differ in that the brands will be similarly sized aircrafts. Consequently, the B787 opens up new destimanaged by TUI as the hotel operator, while the hotel concepts may nations, adding to our significant and growing long-haul presence. also be adopted by other hotel operators for their hotels. For our hotel activities, we are planning to create strong volume growth in INBOUND SERVICES content. We are targeting around 60 new hotels by 2018 / 19. Our unique inbound service brings our brand alive. We have implemented one service team and a single strategic customer platform Riu is TUI Group’s largest hotel brand, characterised by excellent for all the tourism activities within the TUI Group. Inbound service service, location and quality. It is our strategy to continue to grow is currently operating in more than 100 destinations with over the highly profitable brand. In addition to the attractive portfolio of 6,500 employees with access to 11 million customers. From 2015 / 16, more than 100 hotels, we opened three new hotels in 2014 / 15 in the inbound services business will start to be integrated within Aruba, Bulgaria and Germany and one new resort in Mauritius. tourism. We are delivering our differentiation strategy in all the desExpansion to new destinations will be an important growth lever, tinations. We are enhancing customer experience, sales, margin and particularly on long-haul. Adding to the existing long-haul presence people engagement and, in parallel, reducing cost of sales and overof Riu, four more new hotels are scheduled to open in 2015 / 16 and heads which all contributes to an increased margin profile. As an 2016 / 17 in the Dominican Republic, Sri Lanka, Jamaica and Mexico. integral element of our seamless approach based on world class Further growth will be achieved by ongoing portfolio optimisation customer platforms we are offering joint operations for transfer, and facility refurbishment. management and transport and we offer differentiated, local experience excursions. 92 MANAGEMENT REPORT TUI Group Fundamentals TUI Blue is our new hotel brand focusing on differentiation and With Hapag-Lloyd Cruises, we continue to focus on luxury and exquality. As a distinctive customer proposition, it offers a premium pedition cruises. The successful repositioning of the brand has been all-inclusive concept. In addition to new hotels, there will be reposicompleted and the turnaround was delivered this year. tioning of some existing underperforming hotel brands to deliver turnaround. We held an operational trial in Summer 2015 at a former I N T E G R AT E D P L AT F O R M S , I N T E G R AT E D M A N A G E M E N T Iberotel in Sarigerme and we will formally launch this hotel plus one Our platform development is focussed on customer experience, which other currently in our portfolio under the TUI Blue brand in in turn will drive profitable top-line growth. Our central mobility and May 2016, followed by the launch of a resort in Tuscany towards the online platforms continue to evolve. In addition, we are implementing end of 2016. A further twelve hotels are currently under negotiation a SAP -based central customer platform which will collate all inforfor launch in 2015 / 16. mation on our customers across their journey, providing a single view of the customer; and we are also implementing our eCRM platform Robinson and Magic Life will be the core focus for our growth in clubs. which will support strategic marketing. Robinson is our professional offering of sport, entertainment and programmed events. In terms of growth levers, Robinson will focus We have a strong management team with experienced commercial on increased source market distribution, increased direct distribution leaders. By integrating our management team, we are making globally and international expansion. We opened one new club in joined-up decisions across the business, ensuring that we deliver Tunisia in 2014 / 15 and have four more openings scheduled in our common goal of achieving profitable top-line growth. 2015 / 16 and 2016 / 17 in Turkey, Greece and the Maldives, with several more opportunities under negotiation. Maximise growth and value the segment Magic Life is characterised by family-friendly holiday villages, varied Specialist Travel sport and international entertainment programmes. A strong integration with source markets has already led to a significant increase M A X I M I S I N G T H E G ROW T H A N D VA LU E O F H OT E L B E D S G RO U P in occupancy. For future growth, Magic Life will benefit from a further AND SPECIALIST GROUP internationalisation of concept through source markets and inDue to their different business models and strategies, Hotelbeds creased distribution globally. We launched new Magic Life clubs in Group and Specialist Group are operated independently from the Ibiza and Rhodes this summer. Tourism Business. Managing them separately enables us to focus more effectively on maximising their growth and value. Furthermore, we will grow our powerful and exclusive hotel concepts through internationalisation. Sensatori, Sensimar and Family Life are Hotelbeds Group is the global number 1 in the B2B accommodation our outstanding international hotel concept brands designed for spewholesale space with operations in over 100 countries. This market cific customer segments. With more than 100 hotels captured under position has been achieved predominantly by growing the business these brands, there is a strong base which differentiates our local organically and we continue to outperform the market, delivering market offering. The internationalisation of the existing Sensatori over 20 % per annum T T V growth in recent years. In financial year and Sensimar brands and introduction of Family Life is being 2014 / 15 the bedbank delivered 26 % T T V growth and 18 % growth launched for Summer 2016. in roomnights. In 2015 we launched two new Sensatoris and two new Sensimars, The separation of Inbound Services has commenced and following which are operated by Group hotels. their integration into the Tourism Business, Hotelbeds Group will be run as an independent business. This approach provides us with full G R O W T H I N A C C O M M O D AT I O N – C R U I S E S flexibility and we are evaluating all our options how to best proceed We expect the planned expansion of our fleet to enable us to become with the strategy to maximise the growth and value of the Hotelbeds one of Europe’s leading cruise companies. Group, including potential disposal. In the meantime, we continue to target 15 % – 20 % CAGR in underlying EBITA over the next TUI Cruises currently operates four ships in the high growth, underthree years. penetrated premium German market. We have a strong competitive advantage, having secured additional capacity, with four further The Specialist Group is run to maximise value, focussing on opporships ordered and one being delivered in each of the coming four tunities to improve the performance of their portfolio of businesses. years. In the UK Thomson Cruises operates a five ship fleet, which Underlying EBITA increased by € 11 m in the financial year 2014 / 15, we intend to fully modernise in the next few years, starting with the with an improvement in all divisions. In July 2015 we announced with new Thomson Discovery in Q2 2016. It is also intended that, with the the founders of Intrepid Travel that we would end the PE AK stratedelivery of Mein Schiff 7 and 8 to TUI Cruises, Mein Schiff 1 and 2 gic venture, enabling us to focus on our adventure travel offering will be moved to Thomson Cruises, leaving TUI Cruises with a six more effectively. We target underlying EBITA C AGR for Specialist ship fleet and enabling the modernisation of the Thomson fleet. Group in line with the Tourism Business over the next three years. TUI Group Fundamentals MANAGEMENT REPORT 93 L AT E R O O M S G R O U P these savings have declined by roughly € 6 m to approximately We took the strategic decision this year to exit the LateRooms € 69 m (including P&L, capex and tax costs). There is a minimal risk Group as it was non-core to our Tourism strategy. The operational to achievement – our cost savings target is already de-risked. The business of AsiaRooms was closed down during the second quarter separation of legal entities and IT functions from Hotelbeds com2014 / 15, and Malapronta was closed during the third quarter. The menced at the start of financial year 2015 / 16. sale of LateRooms.com was completed in October 2015. Balance sheet strength, flexibility and strong cash Deliver merger synergies flow generation Although the key rationale for the merger of TUI AG and­ FOCUS ON BAL ANCE SHEET STRENGTH AND STRONG FREE TUI Travel PLC was growth, significant synergies are also expected. C A S H F L O W G E N E R AT I O N The integration of our two businesses is on track and already deWe have clearly stated strategic goals to improve free cash flow and livering results. In 2014 / 15 we have updated our assumptions on therefore deliver superior returns on investment for shareholders. expected synergies and one-off integration costs. Our growth strategy will reflect these goals, with the aim of creating a strong, flexible balance sheet and enhanced cash flow generation. Due to further reorganisation measures initiated, corporate streamlining is now expected to deliver cost savings of € 50 m (previously TUI Group has the right balance sheet structure for growth. We intend € 45 m) per annum from 2016 / 17, mainly from the consolidation of to support long-term growth through the operation of a flexible, overlapping functions. We have delivered € 10 m savings in 2014 / 15. asset-right business model. In order to operate more efficiently and Against the backdrop of measures implemented, estimated one-off maximise the value of our assets, we will continue to optimise the integration costs of € 35 m (previously € 45 m) are expected in order to ownership structure of existing and new hotels and cruise ships. We achieve these savings, € 31 m of which have been incurred in 2014 / 15. are convinced that our asset-right strategy gives a balance of risk and returns. Capex will reflect our growth plans. Our unified ownership structure enables a more efficient tax grouping and use of carried forward tax losses. A profit & loss transfer agreeThanks to the sustained reduction in group debt, we have further ment between TUI AG and Leibniz-Service GmbH was approved by strengthened our financial stability and flexibility. We are also comour shareholders in February 2015. This enabled immediate corporate mitted to a strict focus on SDI management and to improve our restructuring for tax purposes. As a consequence, the Group’s undercredit metrics following the delivery of merger synergies and the lying effective tax rate has reduced to 25 %. There are no restrucexecution of our growth roadmap. Our focus on rating will allow us turing or one-off costs in relation to achieving this synergy. to obtain optimal financing conditions. We have therefore set financial stability targets based on an leverage ratio of 3.5 to 2.75 times We also expect to deliver further synergies due to joint management earnings (3.0 times in 2014 / 15), and an interest coverage ratio of of occupancy by source markets and group hotels. Occupancy is ex4.5 to 5.5 times interest (4.7 times in 2014 / 15). pected to improve by 5 percentage points by 2016 / 17 as a result of integration. In 2014 / 15 we delivered a 1.7 percentage point improveWith the increase in our operating profitability, the clearly noticeable ment, equating to approximately € 10 m underlying EBITA benefit decline in interest payments due to the reduction in Group debt and on the basis outlined at the time of the merger. We do not expect any the more efficient tax grouping, we are committed to a progressive restructuring or one-off costs in relation to achieving this synergy. dividend policy. Dividends are expected to grow in line with the There is only minimal risk attached to this synergy as TUI Travel’s growth in underlying EBITA at constant currency, with an additional acquisition of Magic Life successfully demonstrated. 10 % in 2014 / 15 and 2015 / 16 as outlined at the time of the merger. We are pleased to have announced our dividend of 56 cents per share Additional (net) cost savings of at least € 20 m per annum are expectin respect of 2014 / 15, reflecting the strong growth in underlying ed from the integration of Inbound Services into the Tourism Busiearnings this year, and calculated off the 2013 / 14 base of 44.5 cents nesses. Due to a lower estimated tax burden from the restructuring per share, including the TUI Travel PLC interim dividend. of legal entities, estimated one-off cash costs in order to achieve 94 MANAGEMENT REPORT TUI Group Fundamentals W H AT W E W A N T T O A C H I E V E : T H E W O R L D ’ S L E A D I N G T O U R I S M Based on our growth levers, our balance sheet strength and strong BUSINESS cash flow generation, we believe TUI Group is a compelling investTUI Group is on course to meet its strategic and commercial objecment case with strong prospects for delivering increased shareholder tives, with a strong and sustainable business model and exciting returns. growth prospects: • Profitable top-line growth ahead of the market (greater than 3 %) Research and development • At least 10 % underlying EBITA C AGR over the next three years to 2017 / 18 As a tourism service provider, the TUI Group does not engage in • Committed to progressive dividend growth research and development activities comparable with manufacturing companies. This sub-report is therefore not prepared. Value-oriented Group management Management system and Key Performance The indicator we use in order to explain and assess the TUI Group’s ­Indicators operating performance is underlying EBITA adjusted for special one-off effects. It is adjusted for gains on disposal of financial assets, As the world’s leading tourism business with a global brand, an restructuring expenses, primarily scheduled amortisation of intangible attractive hotel portfolio, a growing cruise business, a modern and assets from purchase price allocations and other expenses for and efficient aircraft fleet and direct access to more than 20 million cusincome from one-off items. tomers, we aim to secure our vertically integrated business model by means of profitable growth and achieve a sustainable increase in In the framework of our growth strategy, we aim to achieve an underthe value of the TUI Group. lying EBITA C AGR of at least 10 % over the next three years on a constant currency basis. A standardised management system has been created to implement value-driven management across the Group as a whole and in its inIn order to follow the development of business in our segments in the dividual business segments. The value-oriented management system course of the year, we monitor the financial indicators turnover and is an integral part of the consistent Group-wide planning and conEBITA , but also non-financial performance indicators, such as custrolling process. tomer numbers in our tour operators, and capacity or passenger days, occupancy and average prices in Hotels & Resorts and Cruises Key management variables used for regular value analysis are Return segments. In the framework of our sustainability reporting, we have On Invested Capital (ROIC ) and absolute value added. ROIC is comalso defined a target indicator for specific CO 2 emissions per paspared with the segment-specific cost of capital. ROIC is calculated senger kilometre for our airlines. We measure achievement of that as the ratio of underlying earnings before interest, taxes and amorindicator on an annual basis. tisation of goodwill (underlying EBITA ) to average invested interest-­ bearing invested capital (invested capital) for the segment. Information on operating performance indicators is provided in the sections on Our definition of EBITA is earnings before interest, taxes, net interest “Business development by segments” (page 127) and “Environment” (page 146) expenses and expenses for the measurement of interest hedging and in the Report on expected developments (page 115). instruments as well as impairments of goodwill. While EBITA includes amortisation of intangible assets, it does not carry the at equity result of our investment in container shipping as our stake in Hapag-­L loyd AG is a pure equity investment without an operating character. TUI Group Fundamentals MANAGEMENT REPORT 95 Cost of capital C O S T O F C A P I TA L ( WA C C ) Tour operator Hotels Cruises TUI Group 2014 / 15 2014 / 15 2014 / 15 2014 / 15 % Risk-free interes rate 1.50 1.50 1.50 1.50 Risk adjustement 9.86 6.48 6.56 8.94 Market risk premium 6.00 6.00 6.00 6.00 Beta factor 1 1.6426 1.0807 1.0927 1.4904 Cost of equity after taxes 11.36 7.98 8.06 10.44 Cost of debt capital before taxes 4.02 4.02 4.02 4.02 Tax shield 1.20 1.20 1.20 1.20 Cost of debt capital after taxes 2.82 2.82 2.82 2.82 Share of equity 2 52.77 73.08 69.80 58.19 Share of debt capital 2 47.23 26.92 30.20 41.81 WACC after taxes3 7.25 6.50 6.50 7.25 Tax rate 29.83 29.83 29.83 29.83 Cost of equity before taxes 15.72 11.05 11.14 14.51 Cost of debt capital before taxes 4.02 4.02 4.02 4.02 Share of equity 2 52.77 73.08 69.80 58.19 Share of debt capital 2 47.23 26.92 30.20 41.81 WACC before taxes 3 10.25 9.25 9.00 10.00 1 Segment beta based on peer group, group beta based on weighted segment betas 2 Segment share based on peer group, group share based on weighted segment shares 3 Rounded to 1/4 percentage points The cost of capital is calculated as the weighted average cost of for invested interest-bearing capital (invested capital) for the relevant equity and debt capital ( WACC ). While the cost of equity reflects the segment. Given its definition, this performance indicator is not influreturn expected by investors from TUI shares, the cost of debt capital enced by any tax or financial factors and has been adjusted for is based on the average borrowing costs of the TUI Group. The cost one-off effects. From a Group perspective, invested capital under of capital always shows pre-tax costs, i.e. costs before corporate the financing approach is derived from liabilities, comprising equity and investor taxes. The expected return determined in this way including non-controlling interests and the balance of intercorresponds to the same tax level as the underlying earnings inest-bearing liabilities and interest-bearing assets. The cumulative cluded in ROIC . amortisations of purchase price allocations are then factored in to invested capital. ROIC and economic value added Apart from ROIC as a relative performance indicator, economic value added is used as an absolute value-oriented performance indicator. ROIC is calculated as the ratio of underlying earnings before interest, Economic value added is calculated as the product of ROIC less assotaxes and amortisation of goodwill (underlying EBITA ) to the average ciated capital costs multiplied by interest-bearing invested capital. 96 MANAGEMENT REPORT TUI Group Fundamentals ROIC AND VALUE ADDE D TUI GROUP 2014 / 15 2013 / 14 € million restated Equity 2,417.3 2,530.2 Interest bearing financial liability items 3,500.0 3,502.7 Financial assets 2,523.6 3,004.6 Purchase price allocation 572.9 514.1 Invested Capital 3,966.6 3,542.4 Invested Capital prior year 3,542.4 3,568.1 Seasonal adjustment1 500.0 500.0 Ø Invested capital2 4,254.5 4,055.3 Underlying EBITA 1,069.0 869.9 ROIC % 25.13 21.45 Weighted average cost of capital ( WACC )% 10.00 10.00 Value added 643.5 464.4 1 Adjustment to net debt to reflect a seasonal average cash balance 2 Average value based on balance at beginning and year-end For the TUI Group, ROIC was up by 3.7 percentage points on the previous year at 25.1 %. With the cost of capital at 10.0 %, this meant positive economic value added of € 643.5 m (previous year € 464.4 m). Risk Report MANAGEMENT REPORT 97 RISK REPORT Successful management of existing and emerging risks is critical to Group Strategy function develops an in-depth fact base in a conthe long-term success of our business and to the achievement of our sistent format which outlines the market attractiveness, competitive strategic objectives. In order to seize market opportunities and leverposition and financial performance by division and source market. age the potential for success, risk must be accepted to a reasonable These are then used to facilitate debate as to the level and type of degree. Risk management is therefore an integral component of the risk that the Executive Board finds appropriate in the pursuit of its Group’s Corporate Governance. strategic objectives. The strategy, once fully defined, considered and approved by the Executive Board, is then incorporated into the Group’s As with many of the Group functions and processes, the financial year three-year roadmap and helps to communicate the risk appetite and 2014 / 15 has been a year of transition following the merger of expectations of the organisation both internally and externally. TUI AG and TUI Travel PLC in December 2014. However given that both of the companies had strong risk management cultures, it has Ultimate responsibility for the Group’s risk management rests with been a period of gentle evolution as opposed to wholesale revolution. the Executive Board. Having determined and communicated the The evolution has involved identifying the strengths in each of the appropriate level of risk for the business, the Executive Board has previous risk management processes to create a unified process and established and maintains a risk management system to identify, framework which continues to apply best practice principles and assess, manage and monitor risks which could threaten the existsatisfies both German and UK legal and regulatory requirements. ence of the company or have a significant impact on the achievement of its strategic objectives: these are referred to as the principal risks Our revised risk governance framework, which is aligned to and of the Group. embedded within our business planning cycle, is set out below. This risk management system includes an internally-­published risk management policy which helps to reinforce the tone set from the Risk governance framework top on risk, by instilling an appropriate risk culture in the organisation whereby employees are expected to be risk aware, control minded S T R AT E G I C D I R E C T I O N A N D R I S K A P P E T I T E and “do the right thing”. The policy provides a formal structure for The Executive Board, with oversight by the Supervisory Board, deterrisk management to embed it in the fabric of the business. Each mines the strategic direction of the TUI Group and agrees the nature principal risk has assigned to it a member of the Executive Committee and extent of the risks it is willing to take to achieve its strategic as overall risk sponsor to ensure that there is clarity of responsibility objectives. and to ensure that each of the principal risks are understood fully and managed effectively. To ensure that the strategic direction chosen by the business represents the best of the strategic options open to it, the Executive The Executive Board regularly reports to the Audit Committee of Board is supported by the Group Strategy function. This function the Supervisory Board on the overall risk position of the Group, on exists to facilitate and inform the Executive Board’s assessment of the individual principal risks and their management, and on the the risk landscape and development of potential strategies by which performance and effectiveness of the risk management system as it can drive long-term shareholder value. On an annual basis the a whole. 98 MANAGEMENT REPORT Risk Report RISK MANAGEMENT SYSTEM EXECUTIVE BOARD Direct & Assure • Overall responsibility for risk management • Determine strategic approach to risk • Approve risk policy including risk appetite and set tone at the top • Agree how principal risks are managed, mitigated & monitored • Review the effectiveness of the risk management system R I S K OV E R S I G H T CO M M I T T E E ( RO C ) Review & Communicate • Formulate risk strategy and policy • E nsure effective monitoring • Discuss & propose risk appetite • Embed risk within business planning • Summarise principal risks GROUP RISK TEAM Support & Report Identify & Assess • Understand key risks B US I N ES S ES BUSINESSES • Review key risks & mitigation B U SI NE SSE S B U SI NE SS E S & FUN C TI O N S & FUNC TIONS • Manage & monitor risks & FU NC T I O NS & FU NC T I ON S • Report on risk status R I S K C H A M P I O N CO M M U N I T Y Risk Report MANAGEMENT REPORT 99 The Risk Oversight Committee (“ ROC ”) ensures on behalf of the addition, the divisions and source markets each appoint a Risk Executive Board that business risks are identified, assessed, managed Champion, who promotes the risk management policy within their and monitored across the businesses and functions of the Group. business and ensures its effective application. The Risk Champions Meeting on at least a quarterly basis, the ROC ’s responsibilities inare necessarily in close contact with the Group Risk team and they are clude considering the principal risks to the Group’s strategy and the critical both in ensuring that the risk management system functions risk appetite for each of those risks, assessing the operational effeceffectively and in implementing a culture of continuous improvement tiveness of the controls in place to manage those risks and any action in risk management and reporting. plans to further improve controls, and reviewing the bottom-up risk reporting from the businesses themselves to assess whether there RISK MANAGEMENT PROCE SS are any heightened areas of concern. The ROC helps to ensure that The Group Risk team applies a consistent risk methodology across risk management is embedded into the planning cycle of the Group all key areas of the business. This is underpinned by risk and control and has oversight of the stress-testing of cash flow forecasts. software which reinforces clarity of language, visibility of risks, controls and actions and accountability of ownership. Although the proSenior executives from the Group’s major businesses are required cess of risk identification, assessment and response is continuous to attend the ROC on a rotational basis and present on the risk and and embedded within the day-to-day operations of the divisions control framework in their business, so that the members of the and source markets, it is consolidated, reported and reviewed at ROC can ask questions on the processes in place, the risks present varying levels throughout the Group on at least a quarterly basis. in each business and any new or evolving risks which may be on their horizon, and also to seek confirmation that the appropriate risk culture Risk identification: On a quarterly basis, line management closest continues to be in place in each of the major businesses. to the risks identify the risks relevant to the pursuit of the strategy within their business area in the context of four types of risk: Chaired by the Chief Financial Officer, other members of the Committee include the Group Director Controlling and Finance Director • longer-term strategic and emerging threats, Tourism, the directors of Compliance & Risk, Financial Accounting, • medium-term challenges associated with business change proTreasury & Insurance, Group Reporting, Assurance & Strategy, grammes, Investor Relations, Group Reward and representatives from the IT • short-term risks triggered by changes in the external and regulatory and Legal Compliance functions. The director of Group Audit attends environment, and without having voting rights to maintain the independence of their • short-term risks in relation to internal operations and control. function. The ROC reports quarterly to the Executive Board to ensure that it is kept abreast of changes in the risk landscape and A risk owner is assigned to each risk, who has the accountability and developments in the management of principal risks, and to facilitate authority for ensuring that the risk is appropriately managed. regular quality discussions on risks and risk management at the Executive Board. Risk descriptions: The nature of the risk is articulated, stating the underlying concern the risk gives arise to, identifying the possible The Executive Board has also established a Group Risk team to encausal factors that may result in the risk materialising and outlining sure that the risk management system functions effectively and that the potential consequences should the risk crystallise. This allows the risk management policy is implemented appropriately across the the divisions / source markets and the Group to assess the interaction Group. The Group Risk team supports the risk management process of risks and potential triggering events and / or aggregated impacts by providing guidance, support and challenge to management whilst before developing appropriate mitigation strategies to target causes acting as the central point for co-ordinating, monitoring and reporting and / or consequences. on risk across the Group. The Group Risk team is responsible for the administration and operation of the risk and control software which Risk assessment: The methodology used is to initially assess the underpins the Group’s risk reporting and risk management process. gross risk. The gross risk is essentially the worst case scenario, being the product of the impact together with the likelihood of the risk Each division and source market within the Group is required to materialising if there were no controls in place to manage, mitigate adopt the Group Risk Management policy. In order to do this, each or monitor the risk. The key benefit of assessing the gross risk is either has their own Risk Committee or includes risk as a regular that it highlights the potential risk exposure if controls were to fail agenda item at their Board meetings to ensure that it receives the completely or not be in place at all. Both impact and likelihood are appropriate senior management attention within their business. In scored on a rating of 1 to 5 using the criteria outlined below. 100 MANAGEMENT REPORT Risk Report The next step in the process is to assess the controls which are This measures the impact and likelihood of the risk with the current currently in place and which help to reduce the likelihood of the risk controls identified in operation. The key benefit of assessing the materialising and / or its impact if it does. The details of the controls current risk score is that it provides an understanding of the current including the control owners are documented. Consideration of the level of risk faced today and the reliance placed on the controls controls in place then enables the current or net risk score to be currently in operation. assessed, which is essentially the reasonably foreseeable scenario. IMPAC T A S SE S SME N T INSIGNIFICANT MINOR M O D E R AT E MAJOR C ATA ST R O P H I C Q U A N T I TAT I V E < 3 % EBITA * 3 – < 5 % EBITA * 5 – < 10 % EBITA * 10 – < 15 % EBITA * ≥ 15 % EBITA * (< € 30 m) ( 30 – < € 50 m) (50 – < € 100 m) (100 – < € 150 m) ( ≥ € 150 m) Q U A L I TAT I V Minimal impact on Limited impact on Short term impact on Medium term impact on Detrimental impact on • Global reputation • Global reputation • Global reputation • Global reputation • Global reputation • Programme delivery • Programme delivery • Programme delivery • Programme delivery • Programme delivery • Technology reliability • Technology reliability • Technology reliability • Technology reliability • Technology reliability • Health & Safety • Health & Safety • Health & Safety • Health & Safety • Health & Safety ­standards ­standards ­standards ­standards ­standards * Budgeted underlying EBITA for the financial year ended 30 September 2015 LIKELIHOOD ASSESSMENT RARE U N L I K E LY POSSIBLE L I K E LY A L M O ST C E R TA I N < 10 % Chance 10 – <30 % Chance 30 – < 60 % Chance 60 – < 80 % Chance ≥ 80 % Chance Risk Response: If management are comfortable with the current individual tasked with ensuring that this action plan is implemented risk score, then the risk is accepted and therefore no further action is within an agreed timetable. required. The controls in place continue to be operated and management monitor the risk, the controls and the risk landscape to ensure Each division / source market will continue to review their risk register that the risk score stays stable and in line with management’s toleron an ongoing basis through the mechanism appropriate for their ance of the risk. business e. g. local Risk Committee. The risk owner will be held to account if action plans are not implemented within the agreed delivery If, however, management assesses that the current risk score is too timescales. high, then an action plan will be drawn up with the objective of introducing new or stronger controls which will reduce the impact and / or This bottom-up risk reporting is considered by the ROC alongside likelihood of the risk to an acceptable, tolerable and justifiable level. the Group’s principal risks. New risks are added to the Group’s principal risk register if deemed to be of a significant nature so that This is known as the target risk score and is the parameter by which the ongoing status and the progression of key action plans can be management can ensure the risk is being managed in line with the managed in line with the Group’s targets and expectations. Group’s overall risk appetite. The risk owner will normally be the Risk Report MANAGEMENT REPORT 101 AD HOC RISK REPORTING EFFEC TIVENE SS OF RISK MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Whilst there is a formal process in place aligned to reporting on risks The Executive Board regularly reports to the Audit Committee of and risk management on a quarterly basis, the process of risk identithe Supervisory Board on the performance and effectiveness of the fication, assessment and response is continuous and therefore if risk management system, supported by the ROC and the Group Risk required risks can be reported to the Executive Board outside of the team. Additionally, the Audit Committee receives assurance from quarterly process if events dictate that this is necessary and approInternal Audit through its programme of audits over a selection of priate. Ideally such ad hoc reporting is performed by the business or principal risks and business transformation initiatives most critical function which is closest to the risk, but it can be performed by the to the Group’s continued success. Finally, the Group’s auditors assess Group Risk team if necessary. Examples of ad hoc risk reporting in the risk management system in accordance with section 317 (4) of the financial year 2014 / 15 were the assessment of the risks posed the German Commercial Code. by the potential exit of Greece from the EU (so-called “Grexit” risk) and reporting of the impact and action plans required in the afterThe conclusion from all of the above assurance work is that the risk math of the tragic events in Tunisia which occurred at the end of management system has functioned effectively throughout the year June 2015. and there have been no significant failings or weaknesses identified. Of course there is always room for improvement and as noted earlier, R I S K M AT U R I T Y & C U LT U R E in assessing risk maturity at each of our major businesses we have During the financial year 2014 / 15, the Risk Champions and the developed risk management actions plans which the Risk Champions, Group Risk team have worked together to formally assess the risk on behalf of local management, will focus on in their respective busimaturity and culture of their business primarily through the Risk nesses during the financial year 2015 / 16. Broadly this concerns enChampions completing self-assessment questionnaires, validating suring consistency of approach in assessing risk scores, clearer identithis with their local boards and then discussing their responses with fication of controls currently in place as well as any action plans to the Group Risk team. The Group Risk team have then used these introduce further controls, and ensuring that risk identification has assessments to rate the risk maturity of each business and have considered the four risk categories. There will be an upgrade to the included this assessment on the risk reporting dashboard which risk and control software during the financial year 2015 / 16 which forms part of the quarterly bottom-up risk reporting pack. This aswill help to facilitate and monitor these action plans. sessment process has proven to be an extremely useful exercise which has led to the development of risk management actions plans for the businesses as part of the culture of continuous improvement. Principal risks Furthermore we have just conducted our first Group-wide employee There are some principal risks which are inherent to the tourism survey since the merger completed and the feedback received from sector and necessarily face all businesses in the sector. Internally we our employees will form the basis for forging a unified culture for refer to these as our “Monitored” risks – we have controls, processes the Group. It is a key yardstick for us, indicating where we stand as and procedures in place as a matter of course which serve to mitigate a Company, what our strengths are and what weaknesses we will each risk to either minimise the likelihood of the event occurring need to address. and / or minimise the impact if it does occur. These risks are on our risk radar and we regularly monitor the risk, the controls and the risk ENTIT Y SCOPING landscape to ensure that the risk score stays stable and in line with A robust exercise is conducted each year to determine the specific our risk appetite in each case. entities in the Group which need to be included within the risk and control software and therefore be subject to the full rigour of the risk Furthermore, the tourism industry is fast-paced and competitive, management process. The scoping exercise starts with the entities with the emergence of new market participants operating new busiincluded within the Group’s consolidation system, and applies materi­ ness models, combined with consumer tastes and preferences evolving ality thresholds to a combination of revenue, profit and asset benchall the time. As a result as a business we always have to adapt to the marks. From the entities this identifies, the common business changing environment, and it is this process of constant change management level at which those entities are managed is identified which generally gives rise to a number of principal risks which we to dictate the entities which need to be set in the risk and control have to actively manage in order to bring the risk into line with our software itself to facilitate completeness of bottom-up risk reporting overall risk appetite. across the Group. This ensures that the risks and controls are able to be captured appropriately at the level at which the risks are being With the merger completing in December 2014, this has led to a refinemanaged. ment of the overall Group strategy and the associated principal risks 102 MANAGEMENT REPORT Risk Report in the strategic and business change risk categories as a result. We If the risk detail in the subsequent tables does not suggest otherwise, have action plans in place to increase controls around each of these the risks shown below relate to all segments of the Group. The risks risks and reduce the current net risk score to the target level indicated listed are the principal risks to which we are exposed and are not in the heat map overleaf. exhaustive. They will necessarily evolve over time due to the dynamic nature of our business. Note that because of the new format of the In the heat map the assessment criteria used are shown on page presentation of our risks in this the first year of the newly merged 100. Note that the quantitative impact assessment is based on the Group, the risks as presented are not directly comparable in detail budgeted underlying EBITA for the financial year ended 30 Sepwith the risks listed in the risk report 2014. tember 2015. RISK POSITION I NHE R E NT R I SKS gh re Hi Sco sk C U R R E NT R I SK PO SI T I O N Ri 1 Macroeconomic Risks Health & Safety Seasonal Cash Flow Profile Competition and Consumer Preferences 2 3 1 4 Destination disruption 5 7 6 Input Cost Volatility I MPAC T Legal & Regulatory Compliance 7 Joint Venture Partnerships 2 3 6 Supply Chain Risk 8 4 5 A KT I VE R I SKS 8 Ri C U R R E NT R I SK PO SI T I O N TA RG E T R I SK POS I T I ON w re Lo Sco sk 1 IT Development & Strategy 2 Brand Change LIKELIHOOD 3 Growth Options 4 Integration Oportunities C UR REN T RI S K PO S ITION TARGET RISK POSITIO N 5 Sustainability Targets This shows the current level of risk faced This shows the target level of risk deemed to be 6 Cyber Security today after taking in to account the an acceptable, tolerable and justifiable risk posi7 Talent Management controls that are in place and which are tion after further actions have been implemented operating as intended. to mitigate the risk. 8 Corporate Streamlining Risk Report MANAGEMENT REPORT 103 Principal risks – Inherent to the sector RISK NAME N AT U R E O F R I S K M I T I G AT I N G FA C T O R S D E S T I N AT I O N Providers of holiday and travel services are exposed to • Whilst we are unable to prevent such events from occur­D I S R U P T I O N the inherent risk of incidents affecting some countries or ring, we have well defined crisis management procedures destinations within their operations. This can include and emergency response plans which are implemented natural catastrophes such as hurricanes or tsunamis; outwhen an event of this nature occurs, with the focus breaks of disease such as Ebola; political volatility as has being on the welfare of our customers. been seen in Egypt and Greece in recent years; the impli• Where the appropriate course of action is to bring cuscations of war in countries close to our source markets tomers home immediately, our significant fleet of airand destinations; and terrorist events such as the tragic craft allows us to do this smoothly and efficiently. incident in Tunisia this year. • Our policy is to follow foreign office advice in each of our source markets with regards to non-essential travel. There is the risk that if such an event occurs which imThis serves to minimise the exposure of our customers pacts on one or more of our destinations that we could to turbulent regions. potentially suffer significant operational disruption and • Due to our presence in all key holiday regions, when a costs in our businesses. We may possibly be required to specific destination has been impacted by an external repatriate our customers and / or the event could lead to event, we are able to offer alternative destinations to our a significant decline in demand for holidays to the affected customers and to remix our destination portfolio away destinations over an extended period of time. from the affected area in future seasons if necessary. • We always assume some level of destination disruption each year when setting financial plans and targets, so that we are able to cope with a “normal” level of disruption without it jeopardising achievement of our targets. M AC RO E CO N O M I C Spending on travel and tourism is discretionary and price • Many consumers prioritise their spending on holidays RISKS sensitive. The economic outlook remains uncertain with above other discretionary items. different source markets at different points in the economic • Creating unique and differentiated holiday products cycle. Consumers are also waiting longer to book their trips which match the needs of our customers. in order to assess their financial situation. • Leveraging our scale to keep costs down and prices competitive. There is the risk that fluctuations in macroeconomic con• Having a range of source markets so that we are not ditions in our source markets will impact on the spending over exposed to one particular economic cycle. power of our customers which could impact on our short• Promoting the benefits of travelling with a recognised term growth rates and lead to margin erosion. and leading tour operator to increase consumer confidence and peace of mind. 104 MANAGEMENT REPORT Risk Report RISK NAME N AT U R E O F R I S K M I T I G AT I N G FA C T O R S CO M P E T I T I O N & The tourism industry is fast-paced and competitive with • Our outstanding market position as a leading tourism CO N S U M E R the emergence of new market participants operating new group, the strength of our brands and our vertically inte­P R E F E R E N C E S business models, combined with consumer tastes and grated business model enables us to respond robustly preferences evolving all the time. to competitive threats. • The TUI Group is characterised by the continuous deIn recent years there has been an emergence of successful velopment of unique and exclusive holidays, developing substitute business models such as web-based travel and new concepts and services which match the needs and hotel portals which allow end users to combine the indipreferences of our customers. vidual elements of a holiday trip on their own and book • Our vertically integrated business model offers end-tothem separately. end customer services, from consultation and booking of holidays via flights with the Group’s own airlines Consumer tastes and preferences have evolved in recent through to Group-owned or operated hotels, resorts years as well, with more consumers booking their holidays and cruise ships. Vertical integration thus facilitates online and via mobiles and tablets, and booking closer to the development and marketing of individual, tailored the time of travel. holiday offerings for customers which it is difficult for competitors to replicate. There is the risk that if we do not respond adequately to • Building strong and lasting relationships with our key such business model disruption or if our products and serhotel partners, which further reinforces our ability to vices fail to meet changing customer demands and preferdevelop new concepts exclusive to the TUI Group ences, that our turnover, market share and profitability which competitors struggle to match. will suffer as a result. • Focusing on being online throughout the whole of the customer journey – from inspiration, to booking, to the holiday itself, as well as returning and sharing experiences through social media. I N P U T CO ST A significant proportion of operating expenses are in non-­ • Ensuring that the appropriate derivative financial instru­V O L AT I L I T Y local currency and / or relate to aircraft fuel which therements are used to provide hedging cover for the underfore exposes the business to changes in both exchange lying transactions involving fuel and foreign currency. rates and fuel prices. • Maintaining an appropriate hedging policy to ensure that this hedging cover is taken out ahead of source There is the risk that if we do not manage adequately the market customer booking profiles. This provides a devolatility of exchange rates, fuel prices and other input gree of certainty over input costs when planning pricing costs, then this could result in increased costs and lead to and capacity, whilst also allowing some flexibility in margin erosion, impacting on our ability to achieve profit prices so as to be able to respond to competitive prestargets. sures if necessary. • Tracking the foreign exchange and fuel markets to enThere is also the risk that if our hedging policy is too rigid, sure the most up-to-date market intelligence and the we may find ourselves unable to respond to competitive ongoing appropriateness of our hedging policies. pricing pressures during the season without it having a • Detailed information on currency and fuel hedges can direct detrimental impact on our market position and / or be found in the Notes to the consolidated financial profitability. statements. Risk Report MANAGEMENT REPORT 105 RISK NAME N AT U R E O F R I S K M I T I G AT I N G FA C T O R S SEASONAL Tourism is an inherently seasonal business with the major• As our business is spread across a number of source ­C A S H F L O W P R O F I L E ity of profits earned in the European summer months. markets within the Tourism division there are some Cash flows are similarly seasonal with the cash high occurcounter-cyclical features e. g. winter is a more important ring in the summer as advance payments and final balances season for the Nordic and Canadian source markets. are received from customers, with the cash low occurring Similarly some of the businesses in the Specialist Travel in the winter as liabilities have to be settled with many division e. g. Crystal, have a different seasonality profile suppliers after the end of the summer season. to temper the seasonality within Tourism. • The business produces regularly both short term and There is the risk that if we do not adequately manage cash long term cash forecasts during the year which the balances through the winter low period this could impact Treasury team use to manage cash resources effectively. on the Group’s liquidity and ability to settle liabilities as • Existing credit facilities are considered to be more than they fall due whilst ensuring that financial covenants are sufficient for our requirements and provide ample maintained. headroom. • We continue to maintain high-quality relationships with the Group’s key financiers and monitor compliance with the covenants contained within our financing facilities. LEGAL & Most providers of holiday and travel services operate • Communication and strong tone from the top concerning ­R E G U L ATO R Y across a number of economies and jurisdictions which compliance with laws and regulations. ­C O M P L I A N C E therefore exposes them to a range of legal, tax and other • Embedded legal and tax expertise in all major businesses regulatory laws which must be complied with. responsible for maintaining high quality relationships with the relevant regulators and authorities. As the TUI Group is the world’s leading tourism business • Ongoing review conducted by the Group Legal Comoperating from 31 source markets and providing holidays pliance team to centrally monitor compliance with in over 180 destinations, we are exposed to a range of laws regulations and provide expert advice to local teams and regulations with which we must comply or else risk on specific areas. incurring fines or other sanctions from regulatory bodies. H E A LT H & S A F E T Y For all providers of holiday and travel services, ensuring • Health and safety functions are established in all busithe health and safety of customers is of paramount imnesses in order to ensure there is appropriate focus on portance. This is especially so for TUI as we are the health and safety processes as part of the normal world’s leading tourism business selling holidays to over course of business. 20 million customers per annum. • Ongoing monitoring is conducted by the Group Health & Safety compliance function to ensure compliance There is the risk of accidents occurring causing injury or with minimum standards. death to customers or colleagues whilst on a TUI holiday. • Appropriate insurance policies are in place for when This could result in reputational damage to the business incidents do occur. and / or financial liabilities through legal action being taken by the affected parties. 106 MANAGEMENT REPORT Risk Report RISK NAME N AT U R E O F R I S K M I T I G AT I N G FA C T O R S S U P P LY C H A I N R I S K Providers of holiday and travel services are exposed to the • Owned and joint venture partner hotels form a substaninherent risk of failure in their key suppliers, particularly tial part of our programme which reduces our inherent hotels. This is further heightened by the industry convenrisk in this area. tion of paying in advance (“prepayment”) to secure a level • Established and embedded a robust prepayment auof room allocation for the season. thorisation process to both limit the level of prepayments made and ensure that they are only paid to There is the risk that we do not adequately manage our trusted, credit-worthy counterparties. financial exposure should demand drop either for individual • Where prepayments are made to external hoteliers this hotels and / or for the destination in which the hotels are is to secure access to unique and differentiated product located and to which the tour operator still has a level of for which demand is inherently higher and more resilient prepayment outstanding which could result in financial to external events than for commodity product. losses. • Prepayments are monitored on a timely and sufficiently granular basis to manage our financial exposure to justifiable levels. JOINT VENTURE It is common for tourism groups to use joint venture part• Good working relationships exist with all of our main PA R T N E R S H I P S nerships in some of their operations in order to reduce joint venture partners and they are fully aligned with the risk of new ventures or to gain access to additional and committed to the growth strategy of TUI Group. expertise. TUI has four significant joint ventures – Riu; TUI Cruises; Sunwing; TUI Russia & Ukraine. There is the risk that if we do not maintain good relations with our key partners that the ventures’ objectives may not remain consistent with that of the Group which could lead to operational difficulties and jeopardise the achievement of financial targets. Risk Report MANAGEMENT REPORT 107 Actively managed principal risks – Strategic & emerging and business change RISK NAME N AT U R E O F R I S K M I T I G AT I N G FA C T O R S I T D E V E LO P M E N T & Our focus is on enhancing customer experience by provid• Developed and communicated (in conjunction with ExS T R AT E G Y ing engaging, intuitive and seamless customer service ecutives, Business & IT Leadership Teams) the Group’s through delivery of leading digital solutions, core platform IT Strategy which is clearly aligned to our overall busicapabilities, underlying technical infrastructure and IT ness objectives and considers external factors such as services required to support the Group’s overall strategy the pace of technology change and internal factors for driving profitable top-line growth. such as the underlying quality required throughout IT. • Continuing to implement our online platform in order There is a risk that we fail to keep up with or outpace the to enhance customer experience and drive higher conmarket and evolving consumer preferences, we do not version rates. concentrate our activities on the correct areas for overall • Implementing a SAP -based central customer platform business success, do not address legacy inefficiencies and to collate all information on our customers across their complexities of our existing infrastructure and / or do not journey to provide a single view of the customer alongexecute our strategy and developments in line with exside an eCRM platform which will support strategic pectations. marketing. • Defined and implemented a programme and project If we are ineffective in our strategy or technology developmanagement framework and software delivery lifecycle ment this could impact on our ability to provide leading management methodologies, including associated traintechnology solutions in our markets thereby impacting on ing and coaching. our competitiveness, our ability to provide a superior cus• Cascaded clear technology standards and associated tomer experience and associated impact on quality and delivery roadmaps which are linked to Group wide and operational efficiency. This would ultimately impact on source market objectives. our customer numbers, revenue and profitability. BRAND CHANGE Our long term strategy is to migrate our many local brands • Undertaken detailed market research in each source in to one global brand, with the aim of strengthening market to assess current brand positioning and likely and enhancing our competitive positon, particularly in the impact of the brand change. online world. We are aiming to capitalise on the strength • Approved incremental marketing spend to raise the of the TUI brand on a global scale whilst ensuring we profile of the TUI brand locally in order to promote the maintain local roots. benefits and to manage the expectations of our customers in relation to the future of our enhanced products There is an inherent risk when executing such a large and services. scale global brand strategy that we may not be able to • Established a ‘oneBrand’ programme team responsible maintain the benefits of local brand equity throughout the for coordinating and monitoring the brand change process and we recognise that such a large programme activity across all source markets, with KPI s identified should take place with respect for the interests of all our and tracked on a regular basis by both local and group stakeholders and existing contractual obligations. colleagues and prompt corrective action taken to address issues as they arise. If we do not successfully deliver against our strategy this • Taking a phased and focussed approach to the brand could result in a decline in brand awareness and loyalty change by implementing in one source market at a with associated decline in customer demand or it could time. This minimises the risk at a given point in time impact on our ability to maximise on the opportunities and allows us to gain learnings from the source markets facilitated by having oneBrand on a global scale. undergoing transition and implement those learnings in the next source market. • Communicating both internally & externally across multiple media channels to drive brand awareness, with further plans to increase awareness through consistent marketing in key destination airports and changing of the livery on our aircraft in order to support greater awareness of the TUI Brand. 108 MANAGEMENT REPORT Risk Report RISK NAME N AT U R E O F R I S K M I T I G AT I N G FA C T O R S GROWTH OPTIONS We have set ourselves a target of achieving underlying • The Executive Board is very focussed on the strategy EBITA C AGR of at least 10 % over the next three financial and mindful of the risks, so there is strong direction years. The achievement of this target is likely to require and commitment from the top. us to achieve growth in revenues of c. 3 % pa. Our focus is • The Group Tourism Board plays an important role in on achieving growth in accommodation by: co-ordinating, executing and monitoring the various growth initiatives. • opening new hotels (target set of c. 60 new hotels by • There are a number of initiatives underway to achieve 2018 / 19); growth which reduces the risk through diversification. • growing our powerful and exclusive international hotel • Each of the business teams tasked with achieving an concepts; element of the growth strategy are still required to • continuing to expand the Cruise fleet. maintain sound financial discipline. The Group’s investment criteria and authorisation processes must still be Additionally we are looking to broaden our offering to adhered to as we are not prepared to be reckless in the customers by introducing extra flexibility into our packages, pursuit of growth. and to expand our long-haul offering by taking advantage • We continue to maintain strong relationships with the of the capabilities of the 787s which we have and are due to providers of aircraft finance. receive via our order book. Note that availability of aircraft • Monitoring of overall market conditions continues to finance is a key assumption of our business model. occur so that plans can be adapted or contingency plans invoked if required. Whilst managing this expansion, we must continue to adapt to changes in consumer tastes and booking profiles, and we must continue to match our capacity to consumer demand. There is a risk that we could be unsuccessful in maximising opportunities to execute our expansion strategy. This could mean that we fail to achieve some of the initiatives we have embarked upon, which could result in us falling short against the overall growth targets we have set for the business. Risk Report MANAGEMENT REPORT 109 RISK NAME N AT U R E O F R I S K M I T I G AT I N G FA C T O R S I N T E G R AT I O N Our key rationale for the merger of TUI AG and • Strong project management structures exist for all of the ­O P P O R T U N I T I E S TUI ­Travel PLC is growth and delivery of significant synmajor restructuring programmes which are underway ergies and to act ‘as one’ wherever it makes sense to do to ensure that they are managed effectively. so, maintaining local differences where the benefit of that • Roll-out of project reporting tool is underway to ensure differentiation is greater than that of harmonisation. enhanced visibility of the progress of major projects as a matter of routine. There are a number of restructuring projects underway • Regular reporting by the major projects to the Executive across the Group as a result to enable us to achieve these Board to ensure swift resolution of any issues or to enopportunities. There is an inherent risk with any large rehance co-ordination across the Group where required. structuring programme that we face challenges in managing the complexities associated with further integrating our business, reducing overlapping activities in order to develop a more lean and streamlined operating model. If we are not successful in leveraging and optimising the identified opportunities this could have a significant impact on our ability to deliver the identified benefits in line with expectations and enhance shareholder value. S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y Our focus is to reduce the environmental impact of our • Developed and launched the ‘Better Holidays, Better TA R G E T S holidays, creating positive change for people and commuWorld’ 2020 sustainability strategy framework. nities and pioneer sustainable tourism across the world. • Established a dedicated sustainability team to work closely with the business and other stakeholders to There is a risk that we are not successful in driving forecast implement the sustainability strategy. environmental improvements across our operations, that • Operating the most carbon efficient airlines in Europe our suppliers do not uphold our sustainability standards with continued investment in new, more efficient aircraft and we fail to influence destinations to manage tourism (e. g. Boeing 787 Dreamliner) and cruise ships (e. g. more sustainably. Mein Schiff 3 & 4). • Implemented an environmental management system If we do not maximise our positive impact on destinations with five of our airlines having achieved ISO 14001 certiand minimise the negative impact on the environment to fication. the extent that our stakeholders expect, this could result • Increased measures to influence accommodation supin a decline in stakeholder confidence, reduction in demand pliers to achieve third party sustainability certification for our products and services and loss of competitive recognised by the Global Sustainable Tourism Council advantage. (GSTC ). • Continuing to invest in projects to drive innovation such as the ecoDemonstrator partnership with Boeing and ground-breaking total impact measurement study in collaboration with PwC and the Travel Foundation to inform future strategy. 110 MANAGEMENT REPORT Risk Report RISK NAME N AT U R E O F R I S K M I T I G AT I N G FA C T O R S CYBER SECURITY Our responsibility is to protect the confidentiality, integrity • Renewed commitment from the Executive Board in and availability of the data we have and the services we support of key initiatives to ensure all existing and provide to our customers, our employees, our suppliers future IT systems are secure by design, that exposure and service delivery teams. to vulnerability is managed effectively and that user access is sufficiently controlled. There is a risk that our increasing dependence on online • Continuous review and testing of all external devices sales and customer care channels (web / mobile) increases and ongoing monitoring of logs in order to identify any our exposure and susceptibility to cyber-attacks and hacks. potential threats as and when they arise. If we do not ensure we have the appropriate level of security controls in place across the Group, this could have a significant negative impact on our key stakeholders, associated reputational damage and potential for financial implications. TA L E N T Our success depends on the ability to attract and retain • Continuing to extend and embed our established talent ­M A N A G E M E N T key talent and it relies on having good relations with management framework across the Group in order to colleagues. engage and empower people whilst delivering results and managing performance. There is a risk that we are unable to attract and retain key • Assessing our current organisational competence and talent, build future leadership capability and maintain the capability against that required to maximise current commitment and trust of our employees. This risk is enand future shareholder value. hanced in periods of uncertainty and in areas of the busi• Ensuring succession plans are in place for all identified ness impacted by the merger and the restructuring probusiness critical roles, in particular emergency succesgrammes which are underway as a result. sors for all senior management roles, and that these plans are reviewed every six months. If we face challenges in managing and maintaining our • Developed a structured and standard approach to be aptalent pipeline in order to deliver against our strategy, drive plied where necessary to key individuals during periods competiveness and maximise on our operating perforof uncertainty and / or organisational change in order mance, this could impact on our ability to future proof the to retain top talent in business critical roles. Group and the associated potential for negative impact • Implemented a process to identify and deliver proon shareholder confidence. grammes targeted at high potential talent in order to drive competiveness and maximise operating performance. • Building our pipeline of leadership talent through our International Graduate Leadership Programme which attracts, develops and retains high quality graduates to become our future senior Commercial Leaders. • Driving high performance and engagement through our performance review, development plans and career planning process. Risk Report MANAGEMENT REPORT 111 RISK NAME N AT U R E O F R I S K M I T I G AT I N G FA C T O R S C O R P O R AT E The merger of TUI AG and TUI Travel PLC has presented • Close monitoring of the delivery of corporate streamSTREAMLINING us with the opportunity to reduce Corporate overheads lining cost savings to ensure they are achieved in line by eliminating duplicate costs. with expectations. • To date 20 % of the target savings have been achieved If we do not deliver the targeted savings of € 50 m this in the financial year 2014 / 15. may impact on our ability to achieve our overall underlying EBITA growth target. R I S K S W I T H N O I M PA C T O N U N D E R LY I N G E B I TA talent is always a risk which is heightened in the immediate afterImpairment risk related to the investment in container shipping math of a major corporate transaction. (Hapag-Lloyd AG ). TUI Group continues to hold a substantial investment in the container shipping company, Hapag-Lloyd AG . SignifiDestination disruption is an inherent risk to which all providers of cant deterioration in the market value of the investment will require holiday and travel services are exposed. This disruption can take an impairment to be booked in the income statement of the TUI place in many forms such as natural catastrophes, outbreaks of disGroup – as has occurred in the financial year ended 30 Septemeases, social unrest, terrorist attacks and the implications of war in ber 2015. Whilst this risk has been reduced by the impairment already countries close to our source markets and destinations. Sadly, this taken, the value of the investment on our balance sheet is still matefinancial year saw the crystallisation of one such risk with the tragic rial and therefore the risk continues to exist. We are committed to events in Tunisia at the end of June. Whilst in general the destinaour plan to fully exit this investment in the medium term. tion disruption risk is constant on a year-to-year basis, with the ­Tunisia incident and the recent suspension of flights from the UK to German trade tax risk. As noted in prior years, the German tax Sharm el-Sheikh in Egypt, it is apparent that the risk of disruption in authorities have issued guidance on how certain items of expend­ some North African destinations has increased. Our policy in this iture should be treated for the purposes of German trade tax. The regard remains to follow foreign office advice in each of our source Group continues to disagree with the German tax authorities’ markets relating to non-essential travel to specific destinations. ­interpretation of this matter and it is possible that the issue will have to be litigated through the German tax courts which could Cyber crime is an emerging threat which is present in all modern take a considerable amount of time to bring it to a resolution. It is economies and across virtually all industry sectors due to the indifficult to estimate accurately the potential liability should the creased use of the internet as a business channel and method of German tax authorities challenge successfully the Group’s intercommunication. We have recognised this by including cyber security pretation of the guidance due to the differing nature of the conon our principal risk register this year. tracts which could be impacted by any such challenge. As a result there is a range of possible outcomes, however it is possible that a Finally, the risk of a deterioration in the valuation of our container material liability might arise for the overall period since 2008. shipping investment crystallised during the year and an impairment ­Further details can be found in the Contingent liabilities note to has been taken. Whilst this has therefore reduced the risk for future the consolidated financial statements. periods, the value of the investment on our balance sheet is still material and therefore the risk continues to exist. OVER ALL RISK A SSE SSMENT The completion in December 2014 of the merger between TUI AG Other than the items noted above, the Executive Board is of the and TUI Travel PLC has had an impact on our risk landscape by opinion that there has been no other significant change to the risk opening up new business opportunities but also introducing new landscape of the Group. risks in the pursuit of those opportunities (e. g. brand change) and in the context of the delivery of specific merger synergies and we are V I A B I L I T Y S TAT E M E N T pleased that the post-merger integration of the Group is progressing In accordance with provision C2.2 of the 2014 revision of the UK well and with a faster pace than originally anticipated. We are confident Corporate Governance Code, the Executive Board has assessed the in the delivery of our specific merger synergy targets and integration-­ prospect of the Company over a longer period than the twelve related restructuring programmes and in our ability to successfully months required by the ‘Going Concern’ provision. The Executive attract, retain and manage our key talent as the management of Board considers annually and on a rolling-basis a three year plan for 112 MANAGEMENT REPORT Risk Report the business as outlined earlier in the “Strategic direction and risk trusted responsibility for the internal control system in the TUI Group appetite” section. The latest three year plan was approved in Octoto specific Group functions. ber 2015 and covers the period to 30th September 2018. A three year horizon is considered appropriate for a fast-moving competitive enThe elements of the internal monitoring system in the TUI Group vironment such as tourism, and it is noted that the latest three year comprise both measures integrated into processes and measures plan goes beyond the June 2018 date when the Group’s current performed independently. Besides manual process controls, e. g. the € 1,535.0 m revolving credit facility matures, which is used to manage “four-eyes principle”, another key element of the process-related the seasonality of the Group’s cash flows and liquidity. measures are automated IT process controls. Process-related monitoring is also secured by bodies such as the Risk Oversight Committee The three year plan considers cash flows as well as the financial of TUI AG and by specific Group functions. covenants which the credit facility requires compliance with. Key assumptions underpinning the three year plan and the associated The Supervisory Board of TUI AG , in particular its Audit Committee, cash flow forecast are that the credit markets will be sufficiently as well as the Group Auditing department at TUI AG and the decenfluid to enable the revolving credit facility to be renewed at the same tralised audit departments within Group companies, are incorporated level, and that aircraft finance will continue to be readily available. into the TUI Group’s internal monitoring system through their audit activities performed independently from business processes. On the The Executive Board has conducted a robust assessment of the basis of section 107 (3) of the German Stock Corporation Act, the principal risks facing the company, including those that would threaten Audit Committee of TUI AG deals primarily with the auditing of the its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity. Sensiannual financial statements, monitoring the accounting process and tivity analysis is applied to the cash flow to model the potential effects the effectiveness of the internal control and risk management system. should principal risks actually occur, individually or in unison. This includes modelling the effects on the cash flow of significant disruption The Group’s auditors have oversight of the TUI Group’s control ento a major destination in the summer season. vironment through their non-process-related activities. The audit of the consolidated financial statements by the Group auditor and the Taking account of the company’s current position, principal risks and audit of the individual financial statements of Group companies the aforementioned sensitivity analysis, the Executive Board has a included in the consolidated financial statements, in particular, conreasonable expectation that the company will be able to continue in stitute a key non-process-related monitoring measure with regard operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three year to Group accounting. period of the assessment. In relation to Group accounting, the risk management system, introduced as an Enterprise Risk Management System (ERM System) as Key features of the internal control and risk a component of the internal control system, also addresses the risk ­management system in relation to the Group of misstatements in Group bookkeeping and external reporting. ­accounting process (sections 289 (5) and 315 (2) Apart from operational risk management, which includes the transfer no 5 of the German Commercial Code HGB ) of risks to insurance companies by creating cover for damage and liability risks and also hedging transactions to limit foreign currency 1 . D E F I N I T I O N A N D E L E M E N T S O F T H E I N T E R N A L C O N T R O L and fuel price risks, the TUI Group’s risk management system emAND RISK MANAGEMENT SYSTEM IN THE TUI GROUP braces the systematic early detection, management and monitoring The TUI Group’s internal control system comprises all the principles, of risks across the Group. A more detailed explanation of the risk processes and measures that are applied to secure effective, efficient management system is provided in the section on the Risk Governance and accurate accounting which is compliant with the necessary legal Framework in the Risk Report. requirements. 2. USE OF IT SYSTEMS In the completed financial year, the TUI Group’s existing internal Bookkeeping transactions are captured in the individual financial control system was further developed, drawing on the internationally statements of the subsidiaries of TUI AG , through local accounting recognised framework of COSO (Committee of Sponsoring Organisystems such as SAP or Oracle. As part of the process of preparing zations of the Treadway Commission), which forms the conceptual their individual financial statements, subsidiaries complete standbasis for the internal control system. ardised reporting packages in the Group’s Oracle Hyperion Financial Management 11.1.2.3 (HFM ) reporting system. HFM is used as the The TUI Group’s internal control system consists of internal controls uniform reporting and consolidation system throughout the Group so and the internal monitoring system. The Executive Board of TUI AG , that no additional interfaces exist for the preparation of the consoliin exercising its function of managing business operations, has endated financial statements. Risk Report MANAGEMENT REPORT 113 All consolidation processes used to prepare the consolidated financial of specific indicators. Separation of administrative, execution, settlestatements of TUI AG , e. g. capital consolidation, assets and liabilities ment and authorisation functions and the implementation of these consolidation and expenses and income elimination including at equity functions by different persons reduces the potential for fraudulent measurement, are generated and fully documented in HFM . All eleoperations. Organisational measures also aim to capture any corpoments of TUI AG ’s consolidated financial statements, including the rate or Group-wide restructuring or changes in sector business operdisclosures in the Notes, are developed from the HFM consolidation ations rapidly and appropriately in Group accounting. They also ensystem. HFM also provides various modules for evaluation purposes sure, for instance, that bookkeeping transactions are correctly in order to prepare complementary information to explain TUI AG ’s recognised in the period in which they occur in the event of changes consolidated financial statements. in the IT systems used by the accounting departments of Group companies. The internal control system likewise ensures that changes The HFM reporting and consolidation system has an in-built workin the TUI Group’s economic or legal environment are mapped and flow process whereby when businesses promote their data within that new or amended accounting standards are correctly applied. the system, to signal that their reporting package is complete, they are then locked out from making any further changes to that data. The TUI Group’s accounting policies together with the International This ensures data integrity within the system and also facilitates a Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS ) in compliance with EU legis­ strong audit trail enabling changes to a reporting package to be lation, govern the uniform accounting and measurement principles identified. This feature of the HFM system has been checked and for the German and foreign companies included in TUI ’s consolidated validated by the TUI AG Group Audit department on several occafinancial statements. They include general accounting principles and sions since the system was introduced. methods, policies concerning the statement of financial position, income statement, notes, management report, cash flow statement At their own discretion, TUI AG ’s Group auditors select certain indiand segment reporting. vidual financial statements from the financial statements entered in the HFM reporting and consolidation system by the Group comThe TUI Group’s accounting policies also govern specific formal repanies, which are then reviewed for the purposes of auditing the quirements for the consolidated financial statements. Besides defining consolidated financial statements. the group of consolidated companies, they include detailed guidance on the reporting of financial information by those companies via the 3. S P E C I F I C R I S K S R E L AT E D T O G R O U P A C C O U N T I N G group reporting system HFM on a monthly, quarterly and year end Specific risks related to Group accounting may arise, for example, basis. TUI ’s accounting policies also include, for instance, specific from unusual or complex business transactions, in particular at critical instructions on the initiating, reconciling, accounting for and settletimes towards the end of the financial year. Business transactions not ment of transactions between group companies or determination of routinely processed also entail special risks. The discretion necessarily the fair value of certain assets, especially goodwill. granted to employees for the recognition and measurement of assets and liabilities may result in further Group accounting-related risks. At Group level, specific controls to ensure proper and reliable Group The outsourcing and transfer of accounting-specific tasks to service accounting include the analysis and, where necessary, correction of the companies may also give rise to specific risks. Accounting-­related individual financial statements submitted by the Group companies, risks from derivative financial instruments are outlined in the Notes taking account of the reports prepared by the auditors and meetings to the consolidated financial statements. to discuss the financial statements which involve both the auditors and local management. Any further content that requires adjusting 4 . K E Y R E G U L AT I O N A N D C O N T R O L A C T I V I T I E S T O E N S U R E can be isolated and processed downstream. PROPER AND RELIABLE GROUP ACCOUNTING The internal control measures aimed at securing proper and reliable The control mechanisms already established in the HFM consolidation Group accounting ensure that business transactions are fully recorded system minimize the risk of processing erroneous financial statein a timely manner in accordance with legal requirements and the ments. Certain parameters are determined at Group level and have Articles of Association. This also ensures that assets and liabilities to be applied by group companies. This includes parameters appliare properly recognised, measured and presented in the consolidated cable to the measurement of pension provisions or other provisions financial statements. The control operations also ensure that bookand the interest rates to be applied when cash flow models are used keeping records provide reliable and comprehensive information. to calculate the fair value of certain assets. The central implementation of impairment tests for goodwill recognized in the financial Controls implemented to secure proper and reliable accounting instatements secures the application of uniform and standardised clude, for instance, analysis of facts and developments on the basis evaluation criteria. 114 MANAGEMENT REPORT Risk Report 5. DISCLAIMER in particular, cannot be ruled out and will restrict the efficiency and With the organisational, control and monitoring structures estabreliability of the internal control and risk management systems, so lished by the TUI Group, the internal control and risk management that even Group-wide application of the systems cannot guarantee system enables company-specific facts to be captured, processed and with absolute certainty the accurate, complete and timely recording recognised in full and properly presented in the Group’s accounts. of facts in the Group’s accounts. However, it lies in the very nature of the matter that discretionary Any statements made relate exclusively to subsidiaries according to decision-making, faulty checks, criminal acts and other circumstances, IFRS 10 included in TUI AG ’s consolidated financial statements. Overall assessment by the Executive Board and Report on expected development MANAGEMENT REPORT 115 OVER ALL A SSE SSMENT BY THE E XECUTIVE BOARD AND REPORT ON E XPEC TED DE VELOPMENT KEY FIGURES TA R G E T A C H I E V E M E N T OUTLOOK  TA R G E T 2014 / 15  A C T U A L 2014 / 15  TA R G E T 2015 / 16 B R A N D T U R N O V E R in € bn 22.6 n. a. + 6.7 %1 at least + 5 %1 T U R N O V E R in € bn 20.0 2 – 4 %1 + 3.6 %1 at least + 3 %1 E B I TA ( U N D E R LY I N G ) in € m 1,069 + 10 – 15 %1 + 15.4 %1 at least + 10 %1 A DJ U S T M E N T S 2 in € m 220 204 180 costs costs costs C A S H C A P E X A N D I N V E S T M E N T S in € m 800 826 750 gross capex gross capex net capex and investments N E T D E B T in € bn broadly 0.2 ca. 0.5 neutral net debt net debt 1 Variance year-on-year at constant currency in %, based on the current group structure 2 Comprises SDI s and PPA 116 MANAGEMENT REPORT Overall assessment by the Executive Board and Report on expected development Comparison of the actual business performance in At an increase of 8.0 %, the TUI Group’s turnover climbed substan2014 / 15 with the forecast tially in the period under review, in particular due to foreign exchange effects. On a constant currency basis, the TUI Group’s turnover In financial year 2014 / 15, the TUI Group’s performance exceeded growth stood at 3.6 %, placing it at the upper end of the range origiour original forecast. The TUI Group’s underlying EBITA rose by nally communicated in our forecast. 22.9 % to € 1,069.0 m in financial year 2014 / 15. Excluding the positive foreign exchange effects included in these earnings, in particular Investments in other intangible assets and property, plant and from the rise of sterling against the euro in the period under review, equipment were slightly higher than expected at € 826.4 m. With a the amount corresponds to the target we communicated of achieving net liquidity of € 213.7 m carried at the end of financial year 2014 / 15, an operating result of around € 1 bn on a constant currency basis. the development of the TUI Group’s net debt was slightly above the broadly neutral position we had expected. Due to the sound operating performance, the Group also achieved an increase in its reported EBITA , which grew by 11.3 % to € 865.3 m. Expected changes in the economic framework EXPECTED DEVELOPMENT OF GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT Var. % 2016 2015 World 3.6 3.1 Eurozone 1.6 1.5 Germany 1.6 1.5 France 1.5 1.2 UK 2.2 2.5 US 2.8 2.6 Russia – 0.6 – 3.8 Japan 1.0 0.6 China 6.3 6.8 India 7.5 7.3 Source: International Monetary Fund ( IMF ), World Economic Outlook, October 2015 M A C R O E C O N O M I C S I T U AT I O N for calendar year 2015 (source: UNW TO , World Tourism Barometer, The International Monetary Fund (IMF, World Economic Outlook, October 2015). October 2015) expects average world gross domestic product growth of 3.1 % for calendar year 2015. For 2016, the IMF expects EFFEC TS ON THE TUI GROUP the global economy to grow by 3.6 %. While higher growth rates are As a leading tourism provider, the TUI Group depends on the developexpected for the advanced countries the outlook for the emerging ment of consumer demand in the large source markets in which we markets has become weaker primarly reflecting declining commodity operate with our tour operator and hotel brands. Our budget is prices and disruptions in domestic markets. based on the assumptions used as a basis by the IMF to predict the future development of the global economy. MARKE T TREND IN TOURISM UNW TO expects international tourism to continue growing globally Apart from the development of consumer sentiment, political stability in this decade. For the next few years, average weighted growth of in the destinations is a further crucial factor affecting demand for around 3 % per annum has been forecast (source: UNW TO , Tourism holiday products. In our view, our business model is sufficiently flexible Highlights, 2014 edition). In the first eight months of 2015, internato compensate for the challenges we currently face. tional arrivals grew by 4.3 %. UNW TO expects growth of 3 % to 4 % Overall assessment by the Executive Board and Report on expected development MANAGEMENT REPORT 117 The expected turnover growth assumed in our budget for financial dated turnover, earnings and cash flow, and has significant balance year 2015 / 16, is slightly above the UNW TO forecast. Our strategic sheet balances in non-Euro currencies, in particular GBP, USD and focus is to further align our brands in the source markets, further SEK . Taking account of the seasonal nature of the tourism business, expanding our Group-owned hotel portfolio and expanding our the development of these currencies against the euro in the course cruise business, in particular under the TUI Cruises brand. of the year therefore strongly impacts the financial indicators carried in TUI Group’s consolidated financial statements. The comments on the expected development of our Group in financial year 2015 / 16 Expected development of Group turnover, provided below are based on a constant currency exchange rates, earnings and adjustments based on the rates prevailing in financial year 2014 / 15. TUI GROUP Our consolidated financial statements are translated using monthly exchange rates. The TUI Group generates a large portion of consoliE X P E C T E D D E V E L O P M E N T O F G R O U P T U R N O V E R , U N D E R LY I N G E B I TA A N D A D J U S T M E N T S Expected Development vs. PY € million 2014 / 15 2015 / 16* Brand turnover 22,584 at least 5 % growth Turnover 20,012 at least 3 % growth Underlying EBITA 1,069 at least 10 % growth Adjustments (SDI s and PPA ) 204 approx. € 180 m cost * Based on constant currency, without discontinued operations BR AND TURNOVER ADJUSTMENTS A significant proportion of earnings growth will be delivered by TUI ’s For financial year 2015 / 16 we expect purchase price allocations and joint ventures, however, due to equity accounting the revenue from net one-off costs (mainly in relation to the delivery of merger synerthese businesses is excluded from reported turnover. We have gies) of approximately € 180 m to be carried as adjustments. therefore introduced the concept of brand turnover, to show more clearly the total revenue generated by TUI brands, the key ones RO I C A N D E CO N O M I C VA LU E A D D E D being TUI Cruises and our Canadian tour operator strategic venture. Due to the enhanced operating result, we expect ROIC to improve We expect brand turnover to rise by at least 5 % in financial year slightly in financial year 2015 / 16; depending on the development of 2015 / 16 at constant currency. the TUI Group’s capital costs, this is also expected to result in a slight increase in economic value added. TURNOVER We expect turnover to rise by at least 3 % at constant currency in DE VELOPMENT IN THE SEGMENTS financial year 2015 / 16, primarily due to an anticipated increase in The development outlined below is based on current trading, our customer numbers of our tour operators as we deliver our growth growth roadmap and the relative performance of our segments during roadmap (as outlined in the Goals and Strategy section of this report). financial year 2014 / 15. This development is sensitive to fluctuations in customer demand from specific source markets and customer U N D E R LY I N G E B I TA segments, as well as the development of input costs. The benefit of In financial year 2015 / 16, underlying EBITA by the TUI Group is our diversified business model is that such fluctuations may be offset expected to grow by at least 10 % at constant currency as we deliver by improved demand elsewhere in the business. our growth roadmap (as outlined in the Goals and Strategy section of this report). Risks relate to the development of customer numbers against the backdrop of continued volatility in the economic environment for our key source markets, demand for our Group hotels and cruises and the delivery of merger synergies. See Risk report for further details 118 MANAGEMENT REPORT Overall assessment by the Executive Board and Report on expected development SOURCE MARKETS CRUISES Based on current trading and assuming constant currency exchange Based on the full year operation of Mein Schiff 4 and delivery of rates, we would expect the Source Markets to deliver at least 10 % Mein Schiff 5 during financial year 2015 / 16, we expect growth in underlying earnings growth at constant currency. Based on their relaCruises underlying EBTIA to significantly exceed our Group guidance tive performances during the financial year ended 2014 / 15, we of at least 10 %. would expect the growth percentage for Central and Western Region in financial year 2015 / 16 to exceed that of Northern Region. S PE C I A L I S T T R AV E L Specialist Travel comprises the segments Specialist Group and Hotel­ HOTELS & RESORTS beds Group that operate in seperate markets with different developWe are delivering phased growth in our key hotel and club brands and ments. Based on current trading and our strategy to maximize the also expect to deliver further occupancy improvements in financial growth and value of these businesses, we would expect underlying 2015 / 16. Taking into account the non-recurring gain on disposal of EBITA in Specialist Travel to develop in line with the Source Markets. a Riu hotel in financial year 2014 / 15, we would expect growth in Hotels & Resorts at the lower end of our Group underlying EBITA guidance of at least 10 %. Expected development of Group financial position EXPECTED DEVELOPMENT OF GROUP FINANCIAL POSITION Expected development vs. PY in % € million 2014 / 15 2015 / 16* Net capex and investments 654.7 approx. € 750 m Net debt 213.7 slight increase * At constant currency NET CAPEX AND INVESTMENTS Sustainable development In the light of investment decisions already taken and projects in the pipeline, we expect net cash capex and investments to be approxiC L I M AT E P R O T E C T I O N A N D E M I S S I O N S mately € 750 m in financial year 2015 / 16. This includes anticipated pre-­ Greenhouse gas emissions and the impact of these emissions on delivery payments for aircraft and disposal proceeds for fixed assets. climate change pose one of the major global challenges for the tourism Most of these funds will be used for investments in property, plant sector. In September 2015 TUI Group launched its sustainability and equipment. The planned investments include the expansion and strategy, Better Holidays, Better World 2015 – 2020. By 2020 we will refurbishment of our hotel portfolio, introduction of new production operate Europe’s most carbon-efficient airlines and reduce the carbon and booking systems and the purchase of aircraft spares and yachts. intensity of our global operations by 10 % by 2020. We will reduce TUI airlines carbon emissions per passenger km (g CO 2 / rpk) by NET DEBT 10 % (against the baseline of 2013 / 14). At the balance sheet date, the Group’s net debt amounted to € 213.7 m. Due to the expected increase in financing volume for aircraft and a cruise ship in the UK on the basis of finance leases, we expect the TUI Group’s net debt to increase in financial year 2015 / 16 to around € 0.5 bn. Overall assessment by the Executive Board and Report on expected development MANAGEMENT REPORT 119 Overall Executive Board assessment wide planning and control process. The core task of the Group’s of the TUI Group’s current situation and Executive Board is to secure profitable growth for the TUI Group by expected development optimising the shareholding portfolio and developing the Group structure over the long term. At the date of preparation of the Management Report (8 December 2015), we uphold our positive assessment of the TUI Group’s ecoOverall, the TUI Group is well positioned to benefit from opportunities nomic situation and outlook for financial year 2015 / 16. With its resulting from the main trends in its markets. finance profile and branded customer services portfolio, the TUI Group is well positioned in the market. In the first few weeks of the OPPORTUNITIE S FROM THE DE VELOPMENT OF THE OVER ALL new financial year 2015 / 16 the overall business performance has FR AME WORK matched expectations. Should economic development prove better than expected, the TUI Group and its Sectors would benefit from the resulting increase in As against the prior year reference period, we expect our Group’s demand in the travel market. Moreover, changes in the competitive operating result to grow year-on-year due to the improved operating environment might create opportunities for the TUI Group in indiperformance of our Sectors. The TUI Group’s underlying earnings vidual markets. are expected to rise by at least 10 % year-on-year, on a constant currency basis. C O R P O R AT E S T R AT E G Y We see opportunities for further organic growth in particular by Our roadmap for growth over the next three years has enabled us to expanding our hotel portfolio and cruise business. As market leader, provide updated guidance for the future prospects of our Group. We we also intend to benefit from demographic change and the resulting intend to deliver at least 10 % underlying EBITA C AGR over the next expected increase in demand for high-quality travel at an attractive three years to 2017 / 18. Our long-term target for the TUI Group’s price / performance ratio in the long term. gross capex (excluding advance payments on aircraft orders) is 3 % of consolidated turnover. O P E R AT I O N A L O P P O R T U N I T I E S We intend to improve our competitive position further by offering unique content and further expanding controlled distribution in Opportunity Report Source Markets, in particular online distribution. We also see operational opportunities arising from stronger integration of our content The TUI Group’s opportunity management follows the Group strateand tour operator business. gy for core business Tourism. Responsibility for the systematic detection and use of opportunities rests with the operational manageOTHER OPPORTUNITIES ment of the Tourism Sectors Source markets, Hotels & Resorts and Moreover, we consider the potential sale of our remaining stake in Cruises. Market scenarios and critical success factors for the individual Container Shipping as an opportunity to further improve the TUI Sectors are analysed and assessed in the framework of the GroupGroup’s key financial ratios. 120 MANAGEMENT REPORT Report on economic position REPORT ON ECONOMIC POSITION Macroeconomic and industry framework Macroeconomic development DEVELOPMENT OF GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT Var. % 2015 2014 World 3.1 3.4 Eurozone 1.5 0.9 Germany 1.5 1.6 France 1.2 0.2 UK 2.5 3.0 US 2.6 2.4 Russia – 3.8 0.6 Japan 0.6 – 0.1 China 6.8 7.3 India 7.3 7.3 Source: International Monetary Fund ( IMF ), World Economic Outlook, October 2015 In calendar year 2015, the global economy continued to grow modergrowth for 2015 at 3.1 %, down year-on-year. Economic momentum ately. Overall, the International Monetary Fund in its most recent picked up gradually in the advanced economies, while growth was outlook (IMF, World Economic Outlook, October 2015) projects global very moderate in the emerging markets. Development of tourism C H A N G E O F I N T E R N AT I O N A L T O U R I S T A R R I VA L S V S . P R I O R Y E A R Var. % 2015* 2014 World + 4.3 + 4.2 Europe + 5.3 + 2.4 Asia and the Pacific + 4.3 + 5.7 Americas + 4.2 + 8.4 Afrika – 5.4 + 1.8 Middle East + 3.6 + 6.2 Source: UNW TO World Tourism Barometer, October 2015 * Period January till August Report on economic position MANAGEMENT REPORT 121 In calendar year 2014, international arrivals grew worldwide by 4.2 % Customer numbers in the TUI Group’s source markets rose by a to € 1.13 bn. This trend continued for the first eight months of calendar total of 1.6 % on the prior year in financial year 2014 / 15. This growth year 2015, with growth totalling 4.3 % within that period. Europe was mainly attributable to the positive development in the UK . This remained the most popular region worldwide, showing the strongest source market benefited from the expansion of the Boeing 787 increase in arrivals at 5.3 %. The Eurozone benefited from the weaklong-haul programme and growth in TUI unique travel. ness of its currency together with a gradual economic recovery. For the full year 2015, UNW TO expects the global travel and tourism market to grow by 3 to 4 %. The stable growth trend observed in Business development in the source markets, see page 127 et seqq. tourism in the past few years has thus held up (UNW TO , World Tourism Barometer, October 2015). Key exchange rates and commodity prices E X C H A N G E R AT E U S D E X C H A N G E R AT E G B P USD / EUR GBP / EUR 1.50 0.90 1.40 0.80 1.30 1.20 0.70 1.10 OC T. 13 SEPT. 14 SEPT. 15 OC T. 13 SEPT. 14 SEPT. 15 The exchange rate charts are presented on the basis of the indirect quotation format OIL PRICE customary in the foreign exchange market. If the exchange rate falls, the value of the ­p resented currency rises against the euro. By contrast, if the exchange rate rises, the Brent ( USD / Barrel) ­v alue of the currency falls against the euro. 120 The TUI Group companies operate on a worldwide scale. This presents financial risks for the TUI Group, arising from changes in exchange 100 rates and commodity prices. 80 The essential financial transaction risks from operations relate to 60 euros and US dollars. They mainly result from foreign exchange 40 items in the individual Group companies, for instance aircraft fuel and bunker oil, ship handling costs or products and services sourced 20 by hotels. The value of sterling against the euro is of relevance for the translation of results generated in the UK market in TUI ’s conOC T. 13 SEPT. 14 SEPT. 15 solidated financial statements. 122 MANAGEMENT REPORT Report on economic position In the period under review, the average exchange rate of the US transactions and the scope of such transactions at the balance sheet dollar against the euro fell by around 11.1 % from 1.26 USD / euro to date is provided in the sections Financial Position and Risk Report in 1.12 USD / euro. The average exchange rate of sterling against the euro the Management Report and the section Financial Instruments in decreased by around 5.1 % from 0.78 GBP / euro to 0.74 GBP / euro the Notes to the consolidated financial statements. in the period under review. Both currencies thus appreciated against the euro. Fincancial Position see page 138 Changes in commodity prices affect the TUI Group, in particular in Risk Report see page 97 procuring fuels such as aircraft fuel and bunker oil. The price of Brent Financial Instruments see page 262 oil almost halved in the financial year under review, amounting to 48.37 USD per barrel as at 30 September 2015. Changes in the legal framework In Tourism, most risks related to changes in exchange rates and price risks from fuel sourcing are hedged by derivatives. Information In financial year 2014 / 15, there were no changes in the legal frameon hedging strategies and risk management as well as financial work with material impacts on the TUI Group’s business performance. Group earnings Comments on the consolidated income statement very good performance of Northern Region, Hotels & Resorts and Cruises. The significant increase in the result from continued operaFinancial year 2014 / 15 brought a markedly positive development in tions to € 448.4 m derived not only from an improved operating the TUI Group’s earnings position. The operating result (underlying performance, but also from a better interest result and lower inEBITA ) of the TUI Group improved by 22.9 % to € 1,069.0 m in the come taxes following the merger with TUI Travel. period under review. This growth was driven in particular by the I N C O M E S TAT E M E N T O F T H E T U I G R O U P F O R T H E P E R I O D F R O M 1 O C T O B E R 2 0 14 T O 3 0 S E P T E M B E R 2 0 15 2014 / 15 2013 / 14 Var. % € million restated Turnover 20,011.6 18,536.8 + 8.0 Cost of sales 17,616.3 16,300.8 + 8.1 Gross profit 2,395.3 2,236.0 + 7.1 Administrative expenses 1,715.4 1,533.8 + 11.8 Other income 51.2 35.9 + 42.6 Other expenses 8.0 2.1 + 281.0 Financial income 37.9 36.8 + 3.0 Financial expenses 370.1 300.9 + 23.0 Share of result of joint ventures and associates 144.5 26.8 + 439.2 Earnings before income taxes 535.4 498.7 + 7.4 Income taxes 87.0 212.5 – 59.1 Result from continuing operations 448.4 286.2 + 56.7 Result from discontinued operation – 68.8 – 15.4 – 346.8 Group profit for the year 379.6 270.8 + 40.2 Group profit for the year attributable to shareholders of TUI AG 340.4 90.4 + 276.5 Group profit for the year attributable to non-controlling interest 39.2 180.4 – 78.3 Report on economic position MANAGEMENT REPORT 123 Turnover and cost of sales TURNOVER € million 2014 / 15 2013 / 14 Var. % Northern Region 7,014.9 6,200.8 + 13.1 Central Region 5,601.8 5,426.0 + 3.2 Western Region 2,903.4 2,970.2 – 2.2 Hotels & Resorts 574.8 515.9 + 11.4 Cruises 273.3 281.0 – 2.7 Other Tourism 496.1 478.4 + 3.7 Tourism 16,864.3 15,872.3 + 6.2 Specialist Group 1,835.1 1,625.5 + 12.9 Hotelbeds Group 1,227.1 999.7 + 22.7 All other segments 85.1 39.3 + 116.5 TUI Group 20,011.6 18,536.8 + 8.0 Discontinued operations 69.7 74.8 – 6.8 Sum of the segments 20,081.3 18,611.6 + 7.9 In financial year 2014 / 15, turnover by the TUI Group rose by 8.0 % OTHER INCOME /OTHER E XPENSE S to € 20.0 bn, partly due to foreign exchange effects. On a constant In financial year 2014 / 15, other income and other expenses of currency basis, adjusted in particular for the effect of the increase in € 51.2 m mainly included book profits from the sale of a Riu Group sterling against the euro, turnover grew by 3.6 %, showing stronger hotel in December 2014 (€ 16.9 m) and from the sale of two Greek growth than customer numbers in the source markets, which rose hotel companies in Q3 2014 / 15 (€ 10.1 m). Income was also generat1.6 % year-on-year. Turnover is presented alongside the cost of ed from the sale of the companies in the PE AK Adventure Travel sales, which were up 8.1 % in the period under review. Group (€ 4.4 m) and the sale of two hotels in the Specialist Group as well as sale-and-lease-back transactions with aircraft. Additional inGROSS PROFIT come relates to the recycling to the income statement of cumulative Gross profit, i.e. the difference between turnover and the cost of foreign exchange gains previously carried in equity in the wake of a sales, increased by € 159.3 m to around € 2.4 bn in financial year capital reduction in a subsidiary. 2014 / 15. Other income carried in the prior year mainly related to profits from A D M I N I S T R AT I V E E X P E N S E S sale-and-lease-back transactions with aircraft, book profits from Administrative expenses rose by € 181.6 m year-on-year to € 1,715.4 m. the disposal of real estate, the sale of a hotel company in Switzerland Apart from foreign exchange effects, the year-on-year increase in and from gains on disposal from the sale of shareholdings. administrative expenses mainly results from reorganisation and restructuring measures implemented in the period under review, in Other expenses carried for 2014 / 15 totalled € 8.0 m, resulting mainly particular for the conversion of the corporate centre, the planned from foreign exchange losses in connection with capital reductions integration of incoming agencies into the source market organisaand liquidations of subsidiaries and from expenses for aircraft saletion and the combination of the airlines. The restructuring projects and-lease-back transactions. in source markets Germany, Benelux and Nordic also resulted in higher administrative expenses compared with the prior year. FurN E T F I N A N C I A L R E S U LT ther expenses relate in particular to impairments on input tax claims In the period under review, the net financial result declined by in an Italian subsidiary and transfers to provisions for pending litiga€ 68.1 m to € – 332.2 m despite a considerable reduction in the intertion in connection with the acquisition of a Turkish hotel. est expenses in the reporting period. The increase in overall financial expenses was driven by the impairment of € 147.1 m on the stake in Hapag-Lloyd AG , classified as a financial instrument available for sale, in the period under review. 124 MANAGEMENT REPORT Report on economic position The decline in interest expenses results from a change in the strucGROUP PROFIT ture of the financial liabilities. All convertible bonds were fully conGroup profit increased by € 108.8 m year-on-year to € 379.6 m in verted in financial year 2014 / 15. Accordingly, the interest expense ­financial year 2014 / 15. for convertible bonds declined by € 95.9 m. TUI AG also repaid a bank loan of € 100 m in August 2014. As a result, the interest exS H A R E I N G R O U P P R O F I T AT T R I B U TA B L E T O T U I A G pense declined by a further € 12.9 m. SHAREHOLDERS The share in Group profit attributable to the TUI AG shareholders The new funding scheme in connection with the merger between improved from € 90.4 m in the prior year to € 340.4 m in financial TUI AG and TUI Travel PLC had offsetting effects. The credit line year 2014 / 15. Apart from the general improvement in the Group’s granted to TUI Travel was replaced by a credit line granted to performance, the increase is attributable to the fact that the TUI AG . The borrowing costs for the credit facility of TUI Travel PLC non-controlling shareholders in TUI Travel PLC ceased to exist on previously carried as prepaid expenses of € 14.2 m were fully taken completion of the merger between TUI AG and TUI Travel PLC in through profit and loss in Q1 2014 / 15. Moreover, the high-yield December 2014. bond worth € 300.0 m issued previously by TUI AG in September 2014 resulted in interest expenses of € 14.7 m. In addition, the NON-CONTROLLING INTERESTS acquisition of Europa 2 led to an increase in financial liabilities and a Non-controlling interests in Group profit for the year totalled rise in interest expenses of € 9.3 m. Interest expenses rose by € 39.2 m in the period under review. They related to the external € 10.2 m from the increase in finance lease liabilities. shareholders of TUI Travel PLC until the completion of the merger with TUI AG and to the companies in Hotels & Resorts. S H A R E O F R E S U LT S O F J O I N T V E N T U R E S A N D A S S O C I AT E S The result from joint ventures and associates comprises the proporEARNINGS PER SHARE tionate net profit for the year of the associated companies and joint The interest in Group profit for the year attributable to TUI AG ventures and impairments of goodwill for these companies. In the shareholders after deduction of non-controlling interests totalled period under review, the at equity result totalled € 144.5 m. The sig€ 340.4 m (previous year € 90.4 m) in 2014 / 15. Basic earnings per nificant increase of € 117.7 m partly resulted from the higher profit share therefore amounted to € 0.64 (previous year € 0.26) in financontribution by TUI Cruises. cial year 2014 / 15. I N C O M E TA X E S The year-on-year decline in income taxes in financial year 2014 / 15 EBITA , underlying EBITA und underlying earnings is mainly attributable to a revaluation of the deferred tax assets for per share loss carryforwards following the merger between TUI AG and TUI Travel PLC . Key indicators used to manage the TUI Group are EBITA and underlying EBITA . We consider EBITA to be the performance indicator R E S U LT F R O M D I S C O N T I N U E D O P E R AT I O N best suited to explain the development of the TUI Group’s operating The result from discontinued operation shows the after-tax result of performance. EBITA comprises earnings before interest, taxes and the LateRooms Group, classified as a discontinued operation. goodwill impairments; it does not include the results from container shipping operations measured at equity nor the results from the measurement of interest hedging instruments. Report on economic position MANAGEMENT REPORT 125 R E C O N C I L I AT I O N T O U N D E R LY I N G E A R N I N G S 2014 / 15 2013 / 14 Var. % € million restated Earnings before income taxes 535.4 498.7 7.4 less: Profit (prior year loss) on Container Shipping measured at equity – 0.9 54.2 n. a. plus: Loss on measurement of financial investment in Container Shipping 147.1 – n. a. plus: Net Interest expense and expense from the measurement of interest hedges 183.7 224.3 – 18.1 EBITA 865.3 777.2 11.3 Adjustments: less: Gain on disposals (prior year loss) – 5.2 – 3.7 – 40.5 plus: Restructuring expense 64.8 43.6 48.6 plus: Expense from purchase price allocation 76.2 71.8 6.1 plus: Expense (prior year income) from other one-off items 67.9 – 19.0 n. a. Underlying EBITA 1,069.0 869.9 22.9 Reported earnings (EBITA ) of the TUI Group rose by € 88.1 m to € 865.3 m due to the very good operating performance in financial year 2014 / 15. E B I TA € million 2014 / 15 2013 / 14 Var. % Northern Region 505.3 428.3 + 18.0 Central Region 72.9 140.3 – 48.0 Western Region 56.6 61.6 – 8.1 Hotels & Resorts 195.7 199.1 – 1.7 Cruises 80.5 24.2 + 232.6 Other Tourism – 26.4 – 27.6 + 4.3 Tourism 884.6 825.9 + 7.1 Specialist Group 38.5 26.6 + 44.7 Hotelbeds Group 82.3 29.1 + 182.8 All other segments – 140.1 – 104.4 – 34.2 TUI Group 865.3 777.2 + 11.3 Discontinued operations – 68.1 – 4.7 n. a. Sum of the segments 797.2 772.5 + 3.2 In order to explain and evaluate the operating performance of the rendering an evaluation of the operating profitability of the segments, earnings adjusted for special one-off effects (underlying ­segments and the Group more difficult or causing distortions. These EBITA ) are presented below. Underlying EBITA has been adjusted items include in particular major restructuring and integration exfor gains on disposal of financial investments, restructuring expenses penses not meeting the criteria of IAS 37, material expenses for litaccording to IAS 37, all effects from purchase price allocations, anigation, gains and losses from the sale of aircraft and other material cillary acquisition costs and conditional purchase price payments business transactions with a one-off character. and other expenses for and income from one-off items. The TUI Group’s underlying EBITA rose by € 199.1 m to € 1,069.0 m One-off items carried here include adjustments for income and exin financial year 2014 / 15. pense items that reflect amounts and frequencies of occurrence 126 MANAGEMENT REPORT Report on economic position U N D E R LY I N G E B I TA € million 2014 / 15 2013 / 14 Var. % Northern Region 530.3 398.3 + 33.1 Central Region 103.5 163.0 – 36.5 Western Region 68.8 81.7 – 15.8 Hotels & Resorts 234.6 202.8 + 15.7 Cruises 80.5 9.7 + 729.9 Other Tourism – 21.1 – 22.3 + 5.4 Tourism 996.6 833.2 + 19.6 Specialist Group 56.2 45.5 + 23.5 Hotelbeds Group 116.8 101.7 + 14.8 All other segments – 100.6 – 110.5 + 9.0 TUI Group 1,069.0 869.9 + 22.9 Discontinued operations – 8.5 – 2.8 – 203.6 Sum of the segments 1,060.5 867.1 + 22.3 In the period under review, adjustments worth € 15.1 m were carried E X P E N S E S F O R P U R C H A S E P R I C E A L L O C AT I O N S for income, compared with adjustments on underlying expenses In financial year 2014 / 15, expenses for purchase price allocations amounting to € 218.8 m, taking into account the expenses for purworth € 76.2 m were adjusted for; they related in particular to schedchase price allocations. uled amortisation of intangible assets from acquisitions made in previous years. Overall, one-off expenses worth € 46.6 m were incurred in connection with the merger between TUI AG and the former TUI Travel PLC . ONE-OFF ITEMS They included an amount of € 30.9 m for the restructuring of the corNet expenses for one-off items of € 67.9 m included an amount of porate centre and € 15.7 m for the planned integration of the incom€ 28.3 m relating to the source markets. Apart from expenses for the ing agencies in the source market organisations. commissioning of new Boeing 787 Dreamliners worth € 6.9 m, € 3.1 m were carried as adjustments for strike costs at Corsair in connection The adjustments primarily related to the following facts and cirwith the originally planned sale of the company. A further € 7.5 m cumstances: related to reorganisation in Germany, Benelux and France. In Hotels & Resorts, adjustments worth € 18.6 m were carried for impairments GAINS ON DISPOSAL on input tax claims in an Italian subsidiary and transfers to proviIn financial year 2014 / 15, gains on disposal worth € 5.2 m had to sions for pending litigation in connection with the acquisition of a be adjusted for. They related in particular to capital reductions in Turkish hotel worth € 15.6 m. In the Hotelbeds Group segment, adsubsidiaries. justments of € 6.1 m were carried for expenses for the planned integration of the incoming agencies in the source market organisations. RESTRUC TURING COSTS All other segments essentially carried adjustments for pension obliIn financial year 2014 / 15, restructuring costs of € 64.8 m had to be gations in the UK and for CP Ships Canada worth € 7.1 m. adjusted for. This amount included € 29.6 m for the conversion of the corporate centre and € 9.6 m for the planned integration of the P R O F O R M A U N D E R LY I N G E A R N I N G S P E R S H A R E incoming agencies in the source market organisations. A further In order to provide a comparable basis for TUI Group’s underlying € 9.0 m related to the combination of the airlines within the oneAviearnings per share going forward, a pro forma calculation is included ation project, with a further € 13.5 m relating to reorganisation in the below. The calculation is based on the issued share capital as at German, Benelux and Nordic source markets. An additional € 2.8 m 30 September 2015, and therefore adjusts for the impact of bond related to restructuring activities in the Hotelbeds Group segment. conversions during the year, as well as the impact on minority interest and share count arising from the merger with TUI Travel PLC during December 2014. The 32.4 % increase in pro forma underlying earnings per share is driven by the growth in underlying EBITA and reduction in underlying effective tax rate to 25 %. Report on economic position MANAGEMENT REPORT 127 P R O F O R M A U N D E R LY I N G E A R N I N G S P E R S H A R E T U I G R O U P € million 2014 / 15 2013 / 14 EBITA (underlying) 1,069.0 869.9 less: Net interest expense – 183.7 – 224.3 plus: Interest expense on convertible bonds 19.0 108.1 Underlying profit before tax 904.3 753.7 Income taxes (underlying)* 226.1 221.6 Underlying Group profit 678.2 532.1 Minority interest 89.8 71.6 Hybrid interest expense 10.9 23.2 Underlying Group profit attributable to TUI shareholders of TUI AG 577.5 437.3 Number of shares (pro forma) No. million 586.6 586.6 Pro forma underlying earnings per share 0.98 0.75 * The underlying effective tax rate is calculated based on the underlying profit before tax (excluding separately disclosed items, acquisition related expenses and impairment charges). Business development by segments Current and future trading in Tourism available for bookings is seasonally adjusted to actual and expected demand. In Tourism, travel products are booked on a seasonal basis with different lead times. The release of bookings for individual seasons At the end of financial year 2014 / 15, current trading by our source takes place at different points in time, depending on the design of markets for the winter season 2015 / 16 was as follows as compared the booking and reservation systems in each source market. Moreover, with the prior year. load factor management ensures that the tour operator capacity C U R R E N T T R A D I N G1 Winter season 2015 / 16 Average Total Var. % selling price2 Total sales 2 customers2 Northern Region +4 +6 +2 UK +2 +6 +4 Nordics +8 +6 –2 Central Region +5 +5 flat Germany +5 +4 –1 Western Region +1 –1 –2 Benelux +2 +1 –1 Total source markets +4 +4 flat Accommodation Wholesaler3 +8 + 19 + 11 1 As at 29 November 2015 (on a constant currency basis) 2 These statistics relate to all customers whether risk or non-risk. 3 Sales refer to total transaction value ( T T V ) and customers refer to roomnights. 128 MANAGEMENT REPORT Report on economic position For the 2016 summer season, already available for bookings in the Disclosures on current trading are regularly published on TUI ’s webUK , current trading was 11 % ahead of the prior year in Novemsite in the framework of the TUI Group’s quarterly reporting. ber 2015. Average selling prices were flat year-on-year. Trading by the Hotels & Resorts segment largely mirrors customer www.tuigroup.com/en-en/investors/news numbers in the source markets, as a high proportion of the Groupowned hotel beds are taken up by TUI tour operators. In the Cruises Our key operating indicators developed as follows in our main segment, advance bookings were up year-on-year at the balance source markets: sheet date with sound demand levels, primarily due to the fleet expansion effected in the period under review. Source markets D I R E C T D I S T R I B U T I O N M I X 1 in % O N L I N E M I X 2 in % C U S T O M E R S 3 in ’000 2014 / 15 2014 / 15 2014 / 15 2013 / 14 2013 / 14 2013 / 14 SOURCE MARKETS 70 41 19,142 68 38 18,844 NORTHERN REGION 91 58 6,943 91 56 6,781 CENTRAL REGION 44 15 7,168 39 12 7,115 WESTERN REGION 68 48 5,031 66 45 4,948 1 Share of sales via own channels (retail and online) 2 Share of online sales 3 Germany customers restated to include seat only sales distributed by TUI fly.com. Excl. guest numbers from our joint ventures in Canada and Russia Report on economic position MANAGEMENT REPORT 129 Northern Region Northern Region comprises TUI ’s tour operators and airlines and also comprises the strategic stake held in Sunwing in Canada and the cruise business in the UK , Ireland and the Nordics. The segment TUI Russia, operating in the CIS countries. NORTHERN REGION – KEY FIGURES € million 2014 / 15 2013 / 14 Var. % Turnover 7,014.9 6,200.8 + 13.1 Underlying EBITA 530.3 398.3 + 33.1 EBITA 505.3 428.3 + 18.0 In financial year 2014 / 15 the Northern Region recorded an increase In the Nordics we also delivered an improvement in underlying EBITA , in customer numbers of 2.4 % year-on-year, with particularly strong with an improvement in trading margins (particularly to the Canaries, growth in the UK . Turnover grew by 13.1 %, on a constant currency Thailand and Greece) as a result of capacity rationalisation and debasis the increase was 4.6 %. Northern Region underlying EBITA imlivery of further operational efficiencies. Direct distribution remains proved by € 132.0 m in the year. This included € 7 m impact from in excess of 90 %, with online distribution at 72 %, up two percentTunisia for the UK in June and € 49 m positive foreign exchange age points. translation. In Canada, our strategic venture Sunwing delivered further expansion In the UK we delivered a strong trading performance. Customer volof its differentiated offering, in particular through its subsidiary Blue umes grew by 5 % in the year, driven by further growth in our unique Diamond Resorts which manages and builds hotels in the Caribbean offering. The Winter season saw the first full Winter operations of and Mexico. Sensatori in Jamaica, followed by the opening of two new Sensatori units in Ibiza and Turkey during the Summer, and the addition of In October 2015 we reduced our shareholding in the Russia & CIS Robinson to the portfolio. Long-haul customer volumes grew by joint venture from 50 % to 25 %. 13 % in the year, enabled by the expansion of our 787 fleet, with Mexico up 19 % and Jamaica up 39 %. We also saw strong short-haul growth to Mainland Spain and Balearics. We have broadened our Central Region customer offering to include third party flights, giving our customers more choice on departure time and duration for our unique package Central Region comprises the TUI tour operators in Germany, holidays. Over 50,000 customers took advantage of this during ­Austria, Switzerland and Poland and the TUI fly airline. 2014 / 15. Direct distribution remains in excess of 90 %, we continue to drive growth in online, with that channel accounted for 54 % of holidays in the year, up three percentage points. CENTRAL REGION – KEY FIGURES € million 2014 / 15 2013 / 14 Var. % Turnover 5,601.8 5,426.0 + 3.2 Underlying EBITA 103.5 163.0 – 36.5 EBITA 72.9 140.3 – 48.0 The increase in customer numbers of 0.7 % in fiscal year 2014 / 15 tions during Winter, we have experienced further pressure in the resulted in turnover growth of 3.2 %. Central Region underlying EBITA Summer due to additional capacity in the market to destinations decreased by € 59.5 m in the year, including € 1 m positive foreign such as Majorca, which in turn has continued to impact margins. This exchange translation. This was primarily driven by Germany, where was compounded by the impact during the early Summer of weaker in spite of a 1 % increase in volumes, trading has been challenging. trading to Greece, and by the impact of lower demand for Turkey. In Following margin pressure in the Canaries and long-haul destinaaddition, we have made additional investment in distribution this 130 MANAGEMENT REPORT Report on economic position year, and have had one-off costs of € 8 m in relation to the TUI fly Western Region pension scheme. Direct distribution for Germany has continued to improve, to 44 % for the year (up five percentage points), with online Western Region combines TUI tour operators and Group-owned distribution at 15 % (up three percentage points). airlines in Belgium, the Netherlands and tour operators in France. WESTERN REGION – KEY FIGURES € million 2014 / 15 2013 / 14 Var. % Turnover 2,903.4 2,970.2 – 2.2 Underlying EBITA 68.8 81.7 – 15.8 EBITA 56.6 61.6 – 8.1 In fiscal year 2014 / 15, turnover by the Western Region declined by Hotels & Resorts 2.2 % despite an increase in customer numbers of 1.7 %. Western Region underlying EBITA was down € 12.9 m on prior year. In spite of The Hotels & Resorts segment comprises all hotels and hotel coma 5 % increase in volumes, Benelux delivered a broadly flat result, panies of the TUI Group including the hotel business of former TUI including € 2 m impact from Tunisia in June, costs in association with Travel. They include subsidiaries, joint ventures with local partners, the delayed entry into service of an aircraft, and the initial costs for associates over which significant influence is held, and hotels operthe rebranding of Arke in the Netherlands to TUI . In France, we are ated under management contracts. continuing to remix capacity towards Mediterranean destinations and have delivered significant further restructuring savings. However, the continued unpopularity of North African destinations for this source market means that the result of the year was down on prior year. HOTELS & RESORTS – KEY FIGURES € million 2014 / 15 2013 / 14 Var. % Total turnover 1,252.5 1,164.5 + 7.5 Turnover 574.8 515.9 + 11.4 Underlying EBITA 234.6 202.8 + 15.7 EBITA 195.7 199.1 – 1.7 Total turnover by the Hotels & Resorts segment rose by 7.5 % to In the period under review, underlying earnings by the Hotels & Re€ 1.3 bn year-on-year. Due to closer cooperation with the Group tour sorts segment improved by € 31.8 m to € 234.6 m. They included a operators and overall sound demand on slightly lower capacity yearbook profit of around € 16 m from the sale of the Riu Waikiki hotel, on-year, occupancy grew versus the prior year. Average revenues synergies worth around € 10 m from a post-merger increase in hotel per bed also benefited from closer cooperation with the Group tour occupancy of 2 percentage points, and positive foreign exchange operators, achieving a very positive result, in particular in the peak effects of around € 7 m. Earnings were adversely affected by an season. Turnover with non-Group third parties grew by 11.4 % yearamount of around € 43 m incurred to cover the repercussions of the on-year to € 574.8 m in financial year 2014 / 15. attack in Tunisia, including € 23 m for accomodation commitments (leased hotels), € 3 m for lower management fees, and € 17 m provisions against prepayments. Report on economic position MANAGEMENT REPORT 131 Due to stronger integration of Group-owned hotels with TUI tour effected in the framework of the merger, this corresponds to an operators, occupancy of owned hotels was increased by 1.7 percentimprovement in underlying EBITA of around € 10 m. age points in the period under review. Based on the calculations HOTELS & RESORTS C A P A C I T Y 1 in ’000 O C C U P A N C Y R A T E 2 in % A V E R A G E R E V E N U E P E R B E D 3 in € 2014 / 15 2014 / 15 2014 / 15 2013 / 14 2013 / 14 2013 / 14 H OT E L S TOTA L 4 23,973 82.3 59.10 23,715 80.6 53.95 RIU 17,272 85.9 57.13 17,242 84.7 50.53 ROBINSON 2,898 72.6 90.67 2,845 74.1 88.93 I B E R OT E L 2,485 67.1 43.57 2,362 58.1 41.44 1 Group owned or leased hotel beds multiplied by opening days per annum 2 Occupied beds dividied by capacity 3 Arrangement revenue divided by occupied beds 4 Adjusted for KPI s of Grecotel; excl. former TUI Travel hotels RIU Riu hotels in the Canaries recorded a year-on-year decline in occuRiu, one of Spain’s leading hotel chains, operated a total of 104 (pripancy of 0.7 percentage points to 92.5 %. The Canaries continued to or year: 103) hotels in the period under review. Capacity increased benefit from strong demand, which resulted in an above-average slightly by 0.2 % year-on-year to 90,187 hotel beds in financial year increase in average revenues per bed of 9.7 %. 2014 / 15. At 85.9 %, average occupancy of Riu hotels rose by 1.2 percentage points year-on-year. Average revenues per bed grew signifi­ Riu hotels in the Balearics recorded a year-on-year increase in occucantly by 13.1 %. pancy of 3.9 percentage points to 82.6 %. Average revenues per bed grew by 5.5 % on the prior year. In mainland Spain, average occupancy of Riu hotels matched the prior year’s level at 85.5 %. Average revenues per bed rose by 2.9 % year-on-year. 132 MANAGEMENT REPORT Report on economic position In the long-haul business, Riu hotels recorded average occupancy of IBEROTEL 82.4 %, up by 1.9 percentage points on the high level reported in the In financial year 2014 / 15, as in the prior year, Iberotel had 24 hotels prior year. Riu hotels in Mexico and Jamaica, in particular, continued with a total of 13,406 beds in Egypt, the United Arab Emirates, Turto record strong demand from the USA . key, Italy and Germany. Overall occupancy of Iberotels grew yearon-year by 9.0 percentage points to 67.1 %. This positive developROBINSON ment was above all driven by closer cooperation with the Group’s In financial year 2014 / 15, Robinson, market leader in the premium club tour operators and a recovery in demand for hotels in Egypt. Hotels holiday segment, operated a total of 24 club facilities with 14,442 beds in Turkey posted occupancy of 99.2 %. Average revenues per bed in eleven countries, as in the prior year. Capacity declined due to the rose by 5.1 % year-on-year. sale of three Club resorts in Switzerland and Austria. All three Club resorts continue to be operated under the Robinson brand as manOTHER HOTELS agement operations. Robinson Clubs in Morocco, Italy and Portugal Other hotels primarily comprise the Grupotel Group, located in the achieved year-on-year growth in occupancy. Clubs in Turkey and the Balearics, and the hotels previously managed in the former TUI Maldives fell short of the prior year’s levels. Overall, occupancy for Travel sector. the Robinson Group was 1.5 percentage points down year-on-year. Adjusted for the portfolio changes, however, occupancy grew by 0.4 percentage points. Average revenues per bed improved by 2.0 % Cruises year-on-year to € 90.67. As before, the Cruises segment comprises Hapag-Lloyd Cruises and the joint venture TUI Cruises. CRUISES – KEY FIGURES € million 2014 / 15 2013 / 14 Var. % Turnover 273.3 281.0 – 2.7 Underlying EBITA 80.5 9.7 + 729.9 EBITA 80.5 24.2 + 232.6 TURNOVER AND E ARNINGS in the operating performance of Hapag-Lloyd Cruises, the overall At € 273.3 m in financial year 2014 / 15 turnover by Hapag-Lloyd positive performance by the segment was driven by a fall of around Cruises was down 2.7 % on the prior year result. This was attributa€ 14 m in financing costs due to the acquisition of Europa 2. TUI ble to the decommissioning of Columbus 2 from the fleet in Cruises continued the consolidation of its competitive position and April 2014. No turnover is carried for TUI Cruises as the joint venits extremely effective performance during the period under review ture is measured at equity in the consolidated financial statements. with the successful market launch of Mein Schiff 3 in June 2014 and Mein Schiff 4 in June 2015. Cruises underlying EBITA increased by € 70.8 m during the financial year 2014 / 15 to € 80.5 m. Apart from a considerable improvement Report on economic position MANAGEMENT REPORT 133 CRUISES PA S S E N G E R DAY S O C C U P A N C Y in % A V E R A G E D A I L Y R A T E S * in € 2014 / 15 2014 / 15 2014 / 15 2013 / 14 2013 / 14 2013 / 14 H A PA G L L O Y D C R U I S E S 348,145 76.2 536 401,027 68.2 450 TUI CRUISES 2,678,464 102.7 173 1,681,281 102.3 171 * Per day and passenger H A PA G L L O Y D C R U I S E S In July 2015, TUI Cruises published further details of its plans to In financial year 2014 / 15, Hapag-Lloyd Cruises continued its posiexpand and announced that two more cruise ships had been ordered tive operating performance. Occupancy of its fleet increased by in addition to Mein Schiff 5 and Mein Schiff 6. The two newbuilds will 8.0 percentage points versus the previous year to 76.2 %. The cumulikewise be constructed at the Meyer Turku shipyard in Finland. lative average daily rate rose considerably by 19.1 % to € 536. Due to They will join the TUI Cruises fleet in 2018 and 2019, further consolthe Hapag-Lloyd fleet focusing on luxury and expedition cruises and idating TUI ’s leadership in the premium segment. It is anticipated the decommissioning of Columbus 2 from the fleet as per April 2014, that Mein Schiff 1 and 2 will then be redeployed to Thomson Cruises, passenger cruise days declined by 13.2 % year-on-year to 348,145 in order to continue with the modernisation of that fleet. in 2014 / 15. TUI CRUISES Specialist Travel In financial year 2014 / 15, TUI Cruises recorded a further improvement in its operating indicators versus the prior year. Occupancy of the Specialist Travel comprises the segments Specialist Group and Hotel­ enlarged fleet rose by 0.4 percentage points year-on-year to 102.7 % beds Group. These are operated separately from the Tourism business (calculated on the basis of two-bed occupancy), reflecting continued as they have different business models. strong demand for our cruise products. This was also documented by the 1.2 % improvement in the average daily rate per passenger to SPECIALIST GROUP € 173. In financial year 2014 / 15, TUI Cruises recorded a total of The Specialist Group segment combines the specialist and adventure 2,678,464 passenger days. tour operators in Europe, North America and Australia. 134 MANAGEMENT REPORT Report on economic position SPECIALIST GROUP – KEY FIGURES € million 2014 / 15 2013 / 14 Var. % Turnover 1,835.1 1,625.5 + 12.9 Underlying EBITA 56.2 45.5 + 23.5 EBITA 38.5 26.6 + 44.7 In financial year 2014 / 15 turnover by the segment rose by 12.9 % to the non-consolidation of Summer profits from Intrepid in our un€ 1.8 bn. Specialist Group underlying EBITA increased by € 10.7 m in derlying EBITA result, however, this is offset by a reduction in mithe financial year 2014 / 15 to € 56.2 m. This included € 8 m favouranority interest below underlying EBITA . After adjusting the EBITA ble foreign exchange impact. Underlying performance improved in for minority ­interests, Specialist Group’s result has improved by all divisions. 18 %. In July 2015 we announced with the founders of Intrepid Travel that HOTELBEDS GROUP we would end the PE AK strategic venture, enabling us to focus on The Hotelbeds Group segment pools the online services and incoming our adventure travel offering more effectively. This has resulted in agencies. HOTELBEDS GROUP – KEY FIGURES € million 2014 / 15 2013 / 14 Var. % Turnover 1,227.1 999.7 + 22.7 Underlying EBITA 116.8 101.7 + 14.8 EBITA 82.3 29.1 + 182.8 Turnover by the segment rose by 22.7 % to € 1.2 bn in the financial All other segments year 2014 / 15. At € 116.8 m Hotelbeds Group underlying EBITA was up € 15.1 m for the year, including € 4 m favourable foreign exchange All other segments comprises, in particular, the corporate centre impact. The bedbank delivered 26 % T T V increase and 18 % roomfunctions of TUI AG and the intermediate holdings as well as the night increase, with a strong volume performance in all destinations, Group’s real estate companies. particularly Europe, Asia Pacific and the Middle East and Africa. The segment currently includes the result of our Inbound Services division, which is being separated and transferred to Tourism during 2015 / 16 by calendar year end 2015 or beginning of 2016. ALL OTHER SEGMENTS – KEY FIGURES € million 2014 / 15 2013 / 14 Var. % Turnover 85.1 39.3 + 116.5 Underlying EBITA – 100.6 – 110.5 + 9.0 EBITA – 140.1 – 104.4 – 34.2 All other segments underlying EBITA cost reduced by € 9.9 m to € 100.6 m, including € 2 m favourable foreign exchange impact. This was driven by the delivery of € 10 m merger-related corporate streamlining synergies in the year, mainly in relation to headcount reductions and savings in professional fees. Report on economic position MANAGEMENT REPORT 135 REPORT ON ECONOMIC POSITION Group net assets DEVELOPMENT OF THE GROUP’S ASSET STRUCTURE € million 30 Sep 2015 30 Sep 2014 Var. % Fixed assets 8,902.7 8,312.4 + 7.1 Non-current receivables 711.3 679.8 + 4.6 Non-current assets 9,614.0 8,992.2 + 6.9 Inventories 134.5 126.3 + 6.5 Current receivables 2,623.1 2,474.8 + 6.0 Cash and cash equivalents 1,672.7 2,258.0 – 25.9 Assets held for sale 42.2 155.9 – 72.9 Current assets 4,472.5 5,015.0 – 10.8 Assets 14,086.5 14,007.2 + 0.6 Equity 2,417.3 2,530.2 – 4.5 Liabilities 11,669.2 11,477.0 + 1.7 Equity and liabilities 14,086.5 14,007.2 + 0.6 The Group’s balance sheet total increased by 0.6 % as against decreased by € 585.3 m year-on-year to € 1,672.7 m. They thus 30 September 2014 to € 14.1 bn. ­accounted for 11.9 % of total assets, as against 16.1 % in the ­previous year. Vertical structural indicators Horizontal structural indicators Non-current assets accounted for 68.2 % of total assets, compared with 64.2 % in the previous year. The intensity of investments (ratio At the balance sheet date, the ratio of equity to non-current assets of fixed assets to total assets) increased from 59.3 % to 63.2 %. was 25.1 %, as against 28.1 % in the previous year. The ratio of equity to fixed assets was 27.2 % (previous year 30.4 %). The ratio of Current assets accounted for 31.8 % of total assets, compared with equity plus non-current financial liabilities to fixed assets was 35.8 % in the previous year. The Group’s cash and cash equivalents 105.1 %, compared with 111.9 % in the previous year. STRUCTURE OF THE GROUP’S NON-CURRENT ASSETS € million 30 Sep 2015 30 Sep 2014 Var. % Goodwill 3,220.4 3,136.2 + 2.7 Other intangible assets 911.5 933.4 – 2.3 Investment property 7.2 7.7 – 6.5 Property, plant and equipment 3,629.6 2,836.0 + 28.0 Companies measured at equity 1,077.8 1,336.4 – 19.4 Financial assets available for sale 56.2 62.7 – 10.4 Fixed assets 8,902.7 8,312.4 + 7.1 Receivables and assets 380.6 443.9 – 14.3 Deferred tax claims 330.7 235.9 + 40.2 Non-current receivables 711.3 679.8 + 4.6 Non-current assets 9,614.0 8,992.2 + 6.9 136 MANAGEMENT REPORT Report on economic position Development of the Group’s non-current assets P R O P E R T Y, P L A N T A N D E Q U I P M E N T Property, plant and equipment increased to € 3,629.6 m in the periGOODWILL od under review, primarily driven by the acquisition of cruise ship Goodwill rose by € 84.2 m to € 3,220.4 m. The increase in the carryEuropa 2, previously chartered, and the capitalisation of seven airing amount is essentially due to the translation of goodwill not mancraft, partly under finance lease agreements. Property, plant and aged in the TUI Group’s functional currency into euros. In the period equipment also comprised leased assets in which Group companies under review, no adjustments were required as a result of impairheld economic ownership. At the balance sheet date, these finance ment tests. leases had a carrying amount of € 1,010.0 m, up 82.6 % year-on-year. D E V E L O P M E N T O F P R O P E R T Y, P L A N T A N D E Q U I P M E N T € million 30 Sep 2015 30 Sep 2014 Var. % Real estate with hotels 971.2 949.7 + 2.3 Other land 163.0 152.4 + 7.0 Aircraft 1,166.0 635.7 + 83.4 Ships 706.7 432.8 + 63.3 Machinery and fixtures 391.9 378.5 + 3.5 Assets under construction, payments on accounts 230.8 286.9 – 19.6 Total 3,629.6 2,836.0 + 28.0 C O M PA N I E S M E A S U R E D AT E Q U I T Y Nineteen associated companies and 33 joint ventures were measured at equity. At € 1,077.8 m, their value decreased by 19.4 % yearon-year as at the balance sheet date. STRUCTURE OF THE GROUP’S CURRENT ASSETS € million 30 Sep 2015 30 Sep 2014 Var. % Inventories 134.5 126.3 + 6.5 Financial assets available for sale 334.9 300.0 + 11.6 Trade accounts receivable and other assets* 2,229.7 2,080.9 + 7.2 Current tax assets 58.5 93.9 – 37.7 Current receivables 2,623.1 2,474.8 + 6.0 Cash and cash equivalents 1,672.7 2,258.0 – 25.9 Assets held for sale 42.2 155.9 – 72.9 Current assets 4,472.5 5,015.0 – 10.8 * incl. receivables from derivative financial instruments Development of the Group’s current assets F I N A N C I A L A S S E T S AVA I L A B L E F O R S A L E Financial assets available for sale increased by 11.6 % to € 334.9 m. INVENTORIE S As at 30 September 2014, the item current other securities comAt € 134.5 m, inventories increased by 6.5 % year-on-year. In the peprised money market fund shares worth € 300.0 m. They representriod under review, impairments worth € 0.5 m (previous year none) ed the issuance proceeds from the high-yield bond issued in conwere effected on inventories in order to carry them at the lower net nection with the merger and were sold after the completion of the realisable value. As in the previous year, no material reversals of merger with TUI Travel PLC when the restriction on disposal was write-downs on inventories were effected in the year just completed. lifted. Current financial assets available for sale comprised the remaining shares in Hapag-Lloyd AG worth € 334.9 m as at 30 September 2015. Report on economic position MANAGEMENT REPORT 137 C U R R E N T R E C E I VA B L E S Unrecognised assets Current receivables comprise trade accounts receivable and other receivables, effective income tax assets and claims from derivative In carrying out their business operations, Group companies used financial instruments. At € 2,623.1 m, current receivables increased assets of which they were not the economic owner according to the by 6.0 % year-on-year. IASB rules. Most of these assets were aircraft, hotel complexes or ships for which operating leases, i.e. rental, lease or charter agreeC A S H A N D C A S H E Q U I VA L E N T S ments, were concluded under the terms and conditions customary At € 1,672.7 m, cash and cash equivalents decreased by 25.9 % yearin the sector. on-year. ASSETS HELD FOR SALE Assets held for sale decreased by € 113.7 m to € 42.2 m. The decline is primarily attributable to the reclassification of the stake in ­Hapag-Lloyd AG to fiancial assets available for sale. O P E R AT I N G R E N TA L , L E A S E A N D C H A R T E R C O N T R A C T S € million 30 Sep 2015 30 Sep 2014 Var. % Aircraft 2,144.7 2,036.1 + 5.3 Hotel complexes 793.6 873.3 – 9.1 Travel agencies 263.7 278.0 – 5.1 Administrative buildings 327.5 371.7 – 11.9 Ships, Yachts and motor boats 195.0 519.3 – 62.4 Other 118.8 88.8 + 33.8 Total 3,843.3 4,167.2 – 7.8 Fair value 3,540.6 3,821.2 – 7.3 The fair value of financial liabilities from operating rental, lease and Information on other intangible, non-recognised assets in terms of charter agreements decreased by € 280.6 m to € 3,540.6 m. At 55.8 %, brands, customer and supplier relationships and organisational and aircraft accounted for the largest portion, with hotel complexes acprocess benefits is provided in the section on The TUI Group; relacounting for 20.6 %. tionships with investors and capital markets are outlined in the section on The TUI Share. Further explanations as well as the structure of the remaining terms of the financial liabilities from operating rental, lease and charter agreements are provided in the section Other financial liabilities in The TUI Group fundamentals see page 80 the Notes to the consolidated financial statements. The TUI share from page 73 138 MANAGEMENT REPORT Report on economic position Financial position of the Group Principles and goals of financial management LIMITING FINANCIAL RISKS The Group companies operate on a global scale. This gives rise to PRINCIPLES financial risks for the TUI Group, mainly from changes in exchange The TUI Group’s financial management is centrally operated by rates, commodity prices and interest rates. TUI AG , which acts as the Group’s internal bank. Financial management covers all Group companies in which TUI AG directly or indiThe key operating financial transaction risks relate to the Euro, USD , rectly holds an interest of more than 50 %. It is based on policies GBP, and to fuel. They mainly result from cost items in foreign curcovering all cash flow-oriented aspects of the Group’s business acrencies held by individual Group companies, e. g. hotel procurement, tivities. In the framework of a cross-border division of tasks within aircraft leasing, aircraft fuel and bunker oil invoices or ship handling the organisation, TUI AG has outsourced some of the operational costs. treasury activities to First Choice Holidays Finance Ltd, TUI Travel’s former treasury company. However, the operational treasury and The Group has entered into derivative hedges in a number of forfinancing activities are carried out on a coordinated and centralised eign currencies in order to limit its exposure to risks from changes in basis. exchange rates for the hedged items. Changes in commodity prices affect the TUI Group, in particular in procuring fuels such as aircraft GOAL S fuel and bunker oil. The price risks relating to fuel procurement are TUI ’s financial management goals include ensuring sufficient liquidilargely hedged with the aid of derivative instruments. Where price ty for TUI AG and its subsidiaries and limiting financial risks from increases can be passed on to customers due to contractual agreefluctuations in currencies, commodity prices and interest rates. ments, this is also reflected within the Group’s hedging behaviour. In order to control risks related to interest rates arising on liquidity LIQUIDIT Y SAFEGUARDS procurement in the international money and capital markets and The Group’s liquidity safeguards consist of two components: investments of liquid funds, the Group uses derivative interest hedges on a case-by-case basis as part of its interest rate risk man• In the course of the annual Group planning process, TUI draws up agement. a multi-annual finance budget, and long-term financing and refinancing requirements are derived from this. By drawing on this The TUI Group does not enter into any contracts or deals in derivainformation and observing the financial markets to identify refitive financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. nancing opportunities, decisions can be taken promptly about entering into appropriate financing instruments for the long-term More detailed information on hedging and risk management as well funding of the Company. as financial transactions and the scope of such transactions at the • TUI uses syndicated and bilateral credit facilities, as well as its balance sheet date is provided in the Risk Report within the Manliquid funds to secure sufficient short-term cash reserves. agement Report and the section Financial Instruments in the Notes Through intra-Group cash pooling, the cash surpluses of individto the consolidated financial statements. ual Group companies are used to finance the cash requirements of other Group companies. Planning of bank transactions is based on a monthly rolling liquidity planning system. See from page 97 and 262 Report on economic position MANAGEMENT REPORT 139 Capital structure C A P I TA L S T R U C T U R E O F T H E G R O U P € million 30 Sep 2015 30 Sep 2014 Var. % Non-current assets 9,614.0 8,992.2 + 6.9 Current assets 4,472.5 5,015.0 – 10.8 Assets 14,086.5 14,007.2 + 0.6 Subscribed capital 1,499.6 732.6 + 104.7 Reserves including net profit available for distribution 413.8 1,392.4 – 70.3 Hybrid capital – 294.8 n. a. Non-controlling interest 503.9 110.4 + 356.4 Equity 2,417.3 2,530.2 – 4.5 Non-current provisions 1,860.8 1,844.0 + 0.9 Current provisions 495.8 503.1 – 1.5 Provisions 2,356.6 2,347.1 + 0.4 Non-current financial liabilities 1,653.3 1,748.4 – 5.4 Current financial liabilities 233.1 217.2 + 7.3 Financial liabilities 1,886.4 1,965.6 – 4.0 Other non-current financial liabilities 456.1 394.5 + 15.6 Other current financial liabilities 6,938.6 6,769.8 + 2.5 Other financial liabilities 7,394.7 7,164.3 + 3.2 Debt related to assets held for sale 31.5 – n. a. Liabilities 14,086.5 14,007.2 + 0.6 C A P I TA L R AT I O S € million 30 Sep 2015 30 Sep 2014 Var. % Non-current capital 6,387.5 6,517.1 – 2.0 Non-current capital in relation to balance sheet total % 45.3 46.5 – 1.2 * Equity ratio % 17.2 18.1 – 0.9 * Equity and non-current financial liabilities 4,070.6 4,278.6 – 4.9 Equity and non-current financial liabilities in relation to balance sheet total % 28.9 30.5 – 1.6 * Gearing% 48.7 44.5 + 4.2 * * percentage points Overall, non-current capital decreased by 2.0 % to € 6,387.5 m. In The gearing, i. e. the ratio of average net debt to average equity, moved relation to the balance sheet total it amounts to 45.3 % (previous to 48.7 % from 44.5 % in the previous year. year 46.5 %). The equity ratio was 17.2 % (previous year 18.1 %). Equity and non-current financial liabilities accounted for 28.9 % (previous year 30.5 %) of the balance sheet total at the cut-off date. 140 MANAGEMENT REPORT Report on economic position EQUITY COMPOSITION OF EQUITY € million 30 Sep 2015 30 Sep 2014 Var. % Subscribed capital 1,499.6 732.6 + 104.7 Capital reserves 4,187.7 1,056.3 + 296.4 Revenue reserves – 3,773.9 336.1 n. a. Hybrid capital – 294.8 n. a. Non-controlling interest 503.9 110.4 + 356.4 Equity 2,417.3 2,530.2 – 4.5 In the year under review subscribed capital and the capital reserve PROVISIONS increased mainly due to the contribution in kind in connection with Provisions mainly comprised provisions for pension obligations, curthe merger of TUI AG and TUI Travel PLC . To the contrary revenue rent and deferred tax provisions and provisions for typical operating reserves declined by € 4,095.6 m to – € 3,773.9 m. The hybrid bond risks classified as current or non-current, depending on expected included in last year’s equity was redeemed in the year under reoccurrence. At the balance sheet date, they accounted for a total of view. Non-controlling interests accounted for € 503.9 m of equity. € 2,356.6 m and were thus € 9.5 m or 0.4 % up year-on-year. LIABILITIES COMPOSITION OF LIABILITIES € million 30 Sep 2015 30 Sep 2014 Var. % Bonds 293.7 1,114.1 – 73.6 Liabilites to banks 494.1 260.7 + 89.5 Liabilites from finance leases 982.0 500.6 + 96.2 Other financial liabilities 116.6 90.2 + 29.3 Financial liabilities 1,886.4 1,965.6 – 3.6 STRUCTUR AL CHANGES IN FINANCIAL LIABILITIES CONVERSIONS AND REDEMPTIONS UNDER THE The Group’s financial liabilities decreased by a total of € 79.2 m to € 2 17. 8 M C O N V E R T I B L E B O N D O F T U I A G € 1,866.4 m. The structure of the financial liabilities changed, in parAfter € 192.3 m of the € 217.8 m convertible bond of TUI AG had ticular, due to the reduction in liabilities from bonds following the been converted into new shares in TUI AG in prior years, further redemption of convertible bonds by TUI AG and TUI Travel in the conversions were effected in financial year 2014 / 15 so that the recompleted financial year. On the other hand, liabilities to banks inmaining nominal volume of the convertible bond totalled € 2.4 m, creased, in particular due to the adoption of a ship financing and the redeemed at its maturity date on 17 November 2014. finance lease liabilities resulting from additional aircraft financings. CONVERSIONS AND REDEMPTIONS UNDER THE € 339.0 M CONVE RTIBLE BOND OF TUI AG The convertible bond with a nominal value of € 339.0 m issued by TUI AG on 24 March 2011 was terminated ahead of its maturity date in the completed financial year and was almost fully converted by the end of the conversion period on 20 March 2015. The bonds outstanding worth € 2.4 m were redeemed at nominal value plus interest on 7 April 2015. Report on economic position MANAGEMENT REPORT 141 CONVERSIONS AND REDEMPTIONS OF A £ 400.0 M CONVERTIen out by the previous owner as a collateralised ship financing was B L E B O N D O F T U I T R AV E L L I M I T E D assumed by TUI as part of the purchase price payment. The bank The third-party investors’ portion amounting to £ 200.0 m of the loan will fall due in April 2025; at the date of the transfer it amountconvertible bond worth £ 400.0 m issued by TUI Travel Limited on ed to € 211.0 m and it will be repaid in semi-annual instalments over 22 April 2010 was almost fully converted in financial year 2014 / 15. the term of the loan. In the course of the merger between TUI AG and TUI Travel Limited, the bondholders were granted a special termination right, which was NEW FINANCE LEASES subsequently exercised by a large number of bondholders for conAcquisitions in the completed financial year included six new Boeing version. The bonds outstanding were cancelled ahead of the mat­ aircraft (four Boeing 787-8 and two Boeing 738-800), refinanced by urity date by TUI Travel Limited on 3 March 2015. By the end of the means of finance leases based on sale-and-lease-back agreements. cancellation period on 17 April 2015, all bonds still outstanding were converted by the bondholders. OVERVIE W OF TUI’S LISTED BONDS The tables below list the maturities, nominal volumes and annual A S S U M P T I O N O F A € 2 11 . 0 M S H I P F I N A N C I N G interest coupons of the listed bonds. In accordance with IAS 32, the In January 2015, the TUI Group took ownership of cruise ship Euhybrid bond worth € 300.0 m was not shown under financial liabiliropa 2, replacing a respective charter agreement. The bank loan takties but carried in equity until the redemption decision was taken. LISTED BONDS Amount Amount initial outstanding Interest rate Capital measures Issuance Maturity € million € million % p. a. Senior Notes September 2014 October 2019 300.0 300.0 4.500 Convertible bond November 2009 November 2014 217.8 – 5.500 Convertible bond March 2011 March 2016 339.0 – 2.750 Hybrid bond December 2005 Perpetual 300.0 – 7.353 * Convertible bond TUI Travel PLC October 2009 October 2014 GBP 350.0 GBP – 6.000 Convertible bond TUI Travel PLC April 2010 April 2017 GBP 400.0 GBP – 4.900 Amounts are stated in € million, respectively GBP million. * Floating (as of 31 March 2015) ISSUE OF A € 30 0.0 M BOND BY TUI AG ADDITIONAL BANK LOANS In September 2014, TUI AG issued high-yield bonds worth € 300.0 m Apart from these bonds and the ship financing outlined above, the maturing on 1 October 2019. With the completion of the merger beHotels & Resorts segment, in particular, but also other segments tween TUI AG and TUI Travel PLC , the conditions for transferring took out separate bank loans, primarily in order to finance investthe proceeds from the bond from fiduciary custody to TUI AG were ments by these companies. fulfilled. More detailed information, in particular on the remaining terms, is R E PAY M E N T O F A € 3 0 0 . 0 M H Y B R I D B O N D O F T U I A G provided under Financial liabilities in the Notes to the consolidated TUI AG redeemed its perpetual subordinated bond (“hybrid bond”) financial statements. with a nominal value of € 300.0 m by 30 April 2015. Due to the redemption, the hybrid bond was reclassified from equity to financial liabilities in March 2015. It was redeemed at nominal value plus acSee Notes, page 252 crued interest at the end of April 2015. OTHER FINANCIAL LIABILITIES Totalling € 7,394.7 m, other financial liabilities were up € 230.4 m respectively 3.2 % on previous year. 142 MANAGEMENT REPORT Report on economic position Off-balance sheet financial instruments and with the operation of tourism services in order to ensure that Group key credit facilities companies are able to meet, in particular, the requirements of European oversight and regulatory authorities on the provision of guarO P E R AT I N G L E A S E S antees and warranties. The guarantees granted usually have a term The development of operating rental, leasing and charter contracts of 12 to 18 months. The issued guarantees carry bonding fees in the is presented in the section Net assets in the Management Report. form of a fixed percentage of the maximum guarantee amount. At the balance sheet date, the bonding facilities were utilised by an amount of £ 70.2 m. See page 135 More detailed explanations and information on the structure of the Commitments from finance leases remaining terms of the associated financial liabilities are provided in the section Other financial liabilities in the Notes to the consolidated The € 300.0 m bond and the credit and guarantee facilities of TUI AG financial statements. There were no contingent liabilities related to comprise a number of obligations. special-purpose vehicles. TUI AG has a duty to comply with certain financial covenants (as S Y N D I C AT E D C R E D I T F A C I L I T I E S O F T U I A G A N D defined in the respective contracts) from its syndicated credit facilT U I T R AV E L PLC ity worth € 1.75 bn and a number of bilateral bonding facilities reIn September 2014, in preparation for the planned merger between quiring (a) compliance with an EBITDAR -to-net interest expense TUI AG and TUI Travel PLC , TUI AG signed a syndicated credit facilratio, measuring the Group’s relative charge from the interest result ity worth € 1.75 bn maturing in June 2018. This credit facility reand the lease and rental expenses; and (b) compliance with a net placed the credit facility of TUI Travel PLC worth £ 1.4 bn at the debt-toEBITDA ratio, calculating the TUI Group’s relative charge completion of the merger between TUI AG and TUI Travel PLC on from financial liabilities. The EBITDAR -to-net interest expense ratio 11 December 2014. This syndicated credit facility is available for has to have a coverage ratio of at least 1.5 times; net debt must not general corporate financing purposes (in particular in the winter exceed 3.0 times EBITDA . The financial covenants are determined months). It carries a floating interest rate which is based on the semi-annually. They restrict, inter alia, TUI ’s scope for encumbering short-term interest rate level (EURIBOR or LIBOR ) plus a margin. or selling assets, acquiring other companies or shareholdings and At the balance sheet date, an amount of € 135.7 m from this credit effecting mergers. facility was used for the issuance of bank guarantees. The bond worth € 300.0 m and the credit and bonding facilities of B I L AT E R A L B O N D I N G F A C I L I T I E S O F T U I A G W I T H I N S U R A N C E TUI AG also contain additional contractual clauses typical for financC O M PA N I E S ing instruments of this type. Non-compliance with these obligations In the completed financial year, TUI AG concluded several bilateral awards the lenders the right to call in the facilities or terminate the bonding facilities with various insurance companies with a total volfinancing schemes for immediate repayment. ume of £ 112.5 m. These bonding facilities are required in connection Ratings by Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s T U I A G R AT I N G S 2010 / 11 2011 / 12 2012 / 13 2013 / 14 2014 / 15 Outlook Standard & Poor’s B– B– B B+ BB – stable Moody’s Caa1 B3 B3 B2 Ba3 positive In preparation for the merger with TUI Travel PLC , both rating agenlifted its outlook to “positive” due to improvements to the operating cies acknowledged the potential synergies to be delivered and the performance and a revised credit metrics methodology. simplification of the Group structure. In December 2014, Moody’s upgraded its corporate rating from “B2” to “Ba3”, and Standard & The bonds worth € 300.0 m of TUI AG are assigned a “ BB –” rating Poor’s lifted their rating from “B+” to “ BB –”. In August 2015, Moody’s by Standard & Poor’s and a “Ba3” rating by Moody’s. The syndicated Report on economic position MANAGEMENT REPORT 143 credit facility worth € 1.75 bn of TUI AG was assigned a “ BB -” rating Quoted credit margins (CDS levels) for corporates in the so-called by Standard & Poor’s. high-yield territory rose slightly year-on-year, showing strong fluctuations in some cases. While demand for CDS paper declined overall, quotations were at a very low level for TUI AG . Refinancing opFinancial stability targets tions were available against the backdrop of the very receptive capital market environment. TUI considers a stable credit rating to be a prerequisite for the further development of the business. In response to the merger beIn September 2014, in preparation for the merger between TUI AG tween TUI AG and TUI Travel, Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s both and TUI Travel PLC , TUI AG issued a five-year bond worth € 300.0 m lifted their TUI ratings. We are seeking further improvements so as and signed a syndicated credit facility worth € 1.75 bn maturing in to ensure better access to the debt capital markets even in difficult June 2018. The assumption of debt from a ship financing worth macroeconomic situations. The financial stability ratios we have de€ 211.0 m was effected on the basis of the existing terms and condifined are leverage ratio and coverage ratio, based on the following tions. In the completed financial year, no major new large-volume basic definitions: financing schemes were taken out apart from collateralised aircraft financings. Leverage ratio = (gross financial liabilities + fair value of financial commitments from lease, rental and leasing agreements + pension provisions and similar obligations) / (reported EBITDA + long-term Liquidity analysis leasing and rental expenses) LIQUIDIT Y RESERVE Coverage ratio = (reported EBITDA + long-term leasing and rental In the completed financial year, the TUI Group’s solvency was seexpenses) / (net interest expenses + ⅓ of long-term leasing and cured at all times by means of cash inflows from operating activities, rental expenses) liquid funds, and bilateral and syndicated credit agreements with banks. These basic definitions are subject to specific adjustments in order to reflect current circumstances. At the balance sheet date, cash and cash equivalents of TUI AG , the TUI Group’s parent company, totaled € 833.7 m. For the completed financial year, the leverage ratio was 3.0(x), while the coverage ratio was 4.7(x). Our business performance reflects RESTRICTIONS ON THE TRANSFER OF LIQUID FUNDS constant improvements in these indicators. We aim to achieve a levAt the balance sheet date, there were restrictions worth around erage ratio between 3.50(x) and 2.75(x) and a coverage ratio be€ 0.2 bn on the transfer of liquid funds within the Group that might tween 4.50(x) and 5.5.(x) for financial year 2015 / 16. We intend to significantly impact the Group’s liquidity, such as restrictions on capiadjust these target corridors further in subsequent financial years tal movements and restrictions due to credit agreements concluded. to support our goal of improving our credit rating. CHANGE OF CONTROL Significant agreements taking effect in the event of a change of control Interest and financing environment due to a takeover bid are outlined in the chapter on Information required under takeover law. Throughout the financial year, short-term interest rates have remained at extremely low levels compared with historical rates. Some central bank deposit rates are now negative, which has had a knockInformation required under takeover law see page 157 on effect on bank deposit rates. Therefore, yields on the investment of liquid funds have been impacted, as well as refinancing costs in case of variable interest rates. 144 MANAGEMENT REPORT Report on economic position Cash flow statement S U M M A R Y C A S H F L O W S TAT E M E N T 2014 / 15 2013 / 14 € million revised Net cash inflow from operating activities + 790.5 + 1,074.5 Net cash outflow from investing activities – 216.8 – 586.3 Net cash outflow from financing activities – 1,116.7 – 318.8 Change in cash and cash equivalents with cash effects – 543.0 + 169.4 The cash flow statement shows the flow of cash and cash equivaoperators and airlines, € 173.3 m for Hotels & Resorts, € 88.5 m for lents on the basis of a separate presentation of cash inflows and the Cruises segment and € 85.3 m for Specialist Travel. The cash outflows from operating, investing and financing activities. The effects outflows for capital expenditure in property, plant and equipment of changes in the group of consolidated companies are eliminated. and intangible assets and the corresponding cash inflows do not match the additions and disposals shown in the development of N E T C A S H I N F L O W F R O M O P E R AT I N G A C T I V I T I E S fixed assets, as these also include the non-cash investments and In the financial year under review, the cash inflow from operating disposals. activities amounted to € 790.5 m (previous year € 1,074.5 m). It included interest of € 18.6 m and dividends of € 84.3 m in the reportNE T C A SH OUTFLOW FROM FINANCING AC TIVITIE S ing period. A cash outflow of € 148.4 m resulted from income tax In the period under review, the cash outflow from financing activipayments. ties rose by € 797.9 m year-on-year to € 1,116.7 m. NE T C ASH FLOW FROM INVESTMENT Major cash outflows resulted from the repayment of a financing In the financial year under review, the cash outflow from investing scheme in connection with a convertible bond of former TUI ­Travel PLC activities totalled € 216.8 m (previous year € 586.3 m). Payments re(€ 195.3 m), the cancellation and repayment of the hybrid bond of ceived, in particular from the sale of the shares in a money market TUI AG (€ 300.0 m), dividend payments to the hybrid bondholders fund acquired in the prior year and sold after the completion of the and shareholders of TUI AG (€ 109.3 m) and to minority shareholdmerger between TUI AG and TUI Travel PLC , went hand in hand ers, primarily former TUI Travel PLC and RIUSA II S.A. (€ 197.0 m) with a cash outflow for capital expenditure related to property, and interest payments (€ 92.0 m). plant and equipment and intangible assets of € 462.1 m for the tour CHANGE IN C A SH AND C A SH EQUIVALE NT S € million 2014 / 15 2013 / 14 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of period + 2,258.0 + 2,674.0 Changes due to changes in exchange rates – 33.1 – 1.7 Change in cash and cash equivalents due to changes in the group of consolidated companies + 0.3 + 3.8 Cash changes – 543.0 + 169.4 Non cash changes – – 587.5 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of period + 1,682.2 + 2,258.0 Cash and cash equivalents comprise all liquid funds, i.e. cash in hand, bank balances and cheques. They declined by 25.9 % year-onyear to € 1,682.2 m. Cash and cash equivalents include an amount of € 9.5 m shown under assets held for sale. Report on economic position MANAGEMENT REPORT 145 The detailed cash flow statement and additional explanations are Analysis of investments provided in the consolidated financial statements and in the section Notes to the cash flow statement in the Notes to the consolidated The development of fixed assets, including property, plant and financial statements. equipment, intangible assets, shareholdings and other investments, is presented in the section on Net assets in the Management Report. Additional explanatory information is provided in the Notes to See pages 168 and 252 the consolidated financial statements. A D D I T I O N S T O P R O P E R T Y, P L A N T A N D E Q U I P M E N T The table below lists the cash investments in intangible assets and property, plant and equipment. This indicator does not include financing processes such as the taking out of loans and finance leases. C APE X BY SEGMENT € million 2014 / 15 2013 / 14 Var. % Northern Region 65.3 70.5 – 7.4 Central Region 23.6 24.9 – 5.2 Western Region 23.6 22.3 + 5.8 Hotels & Resorts 167.3 133.6 + 25.2 Cruises 86.7 10.4 + 733.7 Other Tourism 82.5 39.0 + 111.5 Tourism 449.0 300.7 + 49.3 Specialist Group 35.7 32.7 + 9.2 Hotelbeds Group 38.4 27.8 + 38.1 All other segments 60.0 12.7 + 372.4 TUI Group 583.1 373.9 + 56.0 Discontinued operations 11.2 11.8 – 5.1 Sum of the segments 594.3 385.7 + 54.1 Investments in other intangible assets and property, plant and Essential investments in TUI Hotels & Resorts related in particular equipment totalled € 594.3 m in the period under review, up 54.1 % to the construction of hotels in Jamaica, Mauritius and Tuscany. Inon the prior year. vestments were also effected for the renovation and maintenance of existing hotel facilities. In the period under review, investments mainly related to the develop­ ment and launch of new booking and reservation systems, down The table below shows a reconciliation of investments to additions payments on ordered aircraft, and the acquisition of MS Europa 2. to the TUI Group’s other intangible assets and property, plant and equipment. R E C O N C I L I AT I O N O F C A P I TA L E X P E N D I T U R E 2014 / 15 2013 / 14 € million restated Capital expenditure 594.3 385.7 Debt financed investments 211.0 – Finance leases 477.4 161.5 Advance payments 232.1 216.5 Additions to the group of consolidated companies 8.6 39.2 Additions to other intangible assets, investment property and property, plant and equipment 1,523.4 802.9 146 MANAGEMENT REPORT Report on economic position A M O R T I S AT I O N O F O T H E R I N TA N G I B L E A S S E T S A N D D E P R E C I AT I O N O F P R O P E R T Y, P L A N T A N D E Q U I P M E N T B Y S E C T O R € million 2014 / 15 2013 / 14 Var. % Northern Region 103.1 103.8 – 0.7 Central Region 28.3 22.5 + 25.8 Western Region 22.0 23.3 – 5.6 Hotels & Resorts 113.0 81.2 + 39.2 Cruises 17.1 13.1 + 30.5 Other Tourism 50.6 24.7 + 104.9 Tourism 334.1 268.6 + 24.4 Specialist Group 47.5 43.5 + 9.2 Hotelbeds Group 39.4 34.8 + 13.2 All other segments 75.7 39.5 + 91.6 TUI Group 496.7 386.4 + 28.5 Discontinued operations 56.0 11.8 + 374.6 Sum of the segments 552.7 398.2 + 38.8 Investment obligations At the balance sheet date, order commitments for aircraft comprised 64 planes (4 B787s and 60 B737s), to be delivered by the end ORDER COMMITMENTS of financial year 2022 / 23. Delivery of one aircraft has been schedDue to agreements concluded in financial year 2014 / 15 or in prior uled for financial year 2015 / 16. years, order commitments for investments totalled € 3,927.7 m at the balance sheet date; this total includes an amount of € 275.1 m for scheduled deliveries in financial year 2015 / 16. More detailed information is provided in the section Other financial liabilities in the Notes to the consolidated financial statements. Sustainable development Commitment to sustainability: Responsibility for tries and at our own locations. At the same time, we consistently aim the environment, society and our people. to avoid or reduce any negative impacts our business operations might have on our natural and social environment. In order to acFor the TUI Group, economic, environmental and social sustainabiltively help shape the future of sustainable tourism, TUI aim to exity is a fundamental management principle and a cornerstone of our tend its investments in youth, tourism skills and education and colstrategy for continually enhancing the value of our Company. This is laboration with the holiday destinations. the way we create the conditions for long-term economic success and assume responsibility for future generations. In September 2015, the TUI Group presented its new 2020 sustainability strategy. Under the title “Better Holidays, Better World”, the sustainability efforts of the world’s leading tourism business comprise three major ambitions: “step lightly”, “make a difference” and “lead the way”. More detailed information on TUI ’s sustainability strategy at www.tuigroup.com/BHBW strategy Our goal is to make a positive contribution to sustainable development in environmental and social respects, both in the host counReport on economic position MANAGEMENT REPORT 147 T U I ’ S S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y S T R AT E G Y 2 0 15 – 2 0 2 0 betterholidays betterworld step TUI sustainability strategy lightly 2015 – 2020 Reducing the environmental impact of holidays through our own operations make a difference Creating positive change for people and communities through our value chain and customers lead the way Pioneering sustainable tourism ­influencing the wider industry and beyond In its Magazine, the TUI Group provides detailed information about The environment sustainability targets, activities, milestones and indicators. Current projects and initiatives are, moreover, regularly published on our Respecting the environment in our products, services and processes website at www.tui-sustainability.com. TUI Group companies also is an essential feature of our quality standards. Conserving natural offer detailed information about their sustainability activities on resources and mitigating negative environmental impacts secure their local websites. TUI ’s success. We place priority on carbon reduction, resource efficiency and biodiversity. TUI Magazine online at annualreport2014-15.tui-group.com G R O U P W I D E E N V I R O N M E N TA L M O N I T O R I N G Group-wide processes to monitor environmental performance and determine meaningful indicators were further pursued in financial Details about sustainability in the TUI Group: www.tui-sustainability.com year 2014 / 15. These are based on internationally acknowledged standards such as the Greenhouse Gas Protocol and the current Since 21 September 2015, TUI AG has once again been listed in the Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI ). Group-wide renowned Dow Jones Sustainability Index Europe, where it is the monitoring focuses on those business activities which most impact only travel group. In this year’s review of the index composition, the the environment and is actively used to improve environmental perCompany achieved particularly high scores in the categories Climate formance. Strategy and Corporate Citizenship. TUI AG is also represented in the sustainability indexes F TSE 4Good, Detailed information about the TUI Group’s environmental footprint will be STOX X Global ESG Leaders Index, Ethibel Excellence Index and found in the accompanying Magazine. ECPI Ethical Index €uro. TUI is featured in the Climate Disclosure Leadership Index (CDLI ) in the UK and Germany for its approach to To establish the relevant indicators, our businesses use an internal carbon disclosure. system to report their consumption and activities on an annual basis. The quantitative data is then consolidated at Group level and aggregated into metrics. In the period under review, a web-based system was used across the board for the first time to further enhance data quality and increase the efficiency of the data capture process. 148 MANAGEMENT REPORT Report on economic position FOCUS ON CARBON AND EMISSIONS Our specific focus is on improving carbon emissions, in particular by the TUI Group’s airlines, which account for a large proportion of our CO 2 emissions. C A R B O N D I O X I D E E M I S S I O N S ( C O2 ) tons 2014 / 15 2013 / 14 Var. % Airlines & Aviation 5,615,386 5,520,695 + 1.7 Hotels & Resorts 510,492 658,568 – 22.5 Cruises 639,119 576,741 + 10.8 Major Premises / Shops 38,115 35,110 + 8.6 Ground Transport 17,761 24,974 – 28.9 Scope 3 (Other) 68,403 63,888 + 7.1 Total 6,889,276 6,879,976 + 0.1 In the financial year 2014 / 15, the TUI Group’s total emissions inReducing the weight of the aircraft in the TUI fleet also helps to cut creased slightly year-on-year in absolute terms. This is mainly a refuel consumption and thus reduce carbon emissions. The commissult of increased activity in the Airline & Aviation segment. sioning of Boeing 787 Dreamliners by Thomson Airways, Arkefly and Jetairfly has led to cuts in fuel consumption, as these aircraft are The increase of 10.8 % in absolute CO 2 emissions from cruise opermore lightweight and aerodynamic because the airframe is made of ations mainly resulted from the introduction of TUI Cruises Mein carbon fibre reinforced plastic. The use of lighter equipment, such Schiff 4. as seats and trolleys, also helps to reduce aircraft weight, jet fuel consumption and hence emissions. Climate protection measures taken by TUI airlines TUI airlines achieved their 2014 target of reducing absolute and specific CO 2 emissions by 9 % versus the 2007 / 08 baseline well ahead TUI airlines have launched more than 30 measures to steadily enof schedule. In September 2015 TUI Group launched its sustainabilhance the efficiency of aircraft and cut emissions. They include onity strategy, Better Holidays, Better World 2015 – 2020. going fleet renewal, regularly washing engines and mounting winglets. Aircraft operated by TUI airlines are gradually being fitted with We aim to continue to operate Europe’s most carbon-efficient airsplit scimitar winglets, generating further improvements in aircraft lines and reduce the carbon intensity of our global operations by aerodynamics. 10 % by 2020. We will reduce TUI airlines carbon emissions per passenger km (g CO 2 / RPK ) by 10 % (against the baseline of 2013 / 14). Report on economic position MANAGEMENT REPORT 149 T U I A I R L I N E S – F U E L C O N S U M P T I O N A N D R E L AT E D E M I S S I O N S 2014 / 15 2013 / 14 Var. % Specific fuel consumption l / 100 rpk* 2.62 2.68 – 2.3 Carbon dioxide (CO 2) – absolute t 5,034,264 5,014,068 + 0.4 Carbon dioxide (CO 2) – specific kg / 100 rpk* 6.60 6.76 – 2.3 Nitrogen oxide ( NO X ) – absolute t 30,754 31,651 – 2.8 Nitrogen oxide ( NO X ) – specific g / 100 rpk* 41.38 44.13 – 6.2 Carbon monoxide (CO ) – absolute t 1,523 1,440 + 5.8 Carbon monoxide (CO ) – specific g / 100 rpk* 2.05 2.01 + 2.0 Hydrocarbon (HC ) – absolute t 130 131 – 0.8 Hydrocarbon (HC ) – specific g / 100 rpk* 0.17 0.18 – 5.6 * rpk = Revenue Passenger Kilometre Fuel consumption, relative CO 2 emissions and other emissions deongoing fleet renewal and highly efficient load factors and flight opclined in 2015 thanks to continued deployment of new technology, erations. TUI AIRLINES – CARBON INTENSITY 2014 / 15 2013 / 141 Var. % g CO 2e / rpk 2 TUI Airline fleet g CO 2 / rpk 66.0 67.6 – 2.3 66.7 ArkeFly g CO 2 / rpk 63.8 69.0 – 7.5 64.4 Corsair International g CO 2 / rpk 79.8 82.3 – 3.0 80.6 Jetairfly g CO 2 / rpk 69.6 70.0 – 0.6 70.3 Thomson Airways g CO 2 / rpk 63.7 64.8 – 1.7 64.3 TUI fly g CO 2 / rpk 63.4 63.8 – 0.6 64.0 TUI fly Nordic g CO 2 / rpk 60.6 62.6 – 3.2 61.2 We have requested PwC (the Company’s auditors) to provide assurance on the carbon intensity metrics displayed in the table “ TUI Airlines – Carbon intensity” above. To read our airline carbon data methodology document and PwC’s Assurance Report in full, please visit www.tuigroup.com/en-en/sustainability/reporting-downloads 1 In F Y 2014 / 15 TUI Group adopted the European Standard ( EN 16258-2012) to reflect the methodology used by airlines to comply with the EU ’s Emissions Trading Scheme ­requirements. Therefore, TUI has restated previous year’s KPI s using the same methods. 2 rpk = Revenue Passenger Kilometre To enhance the information content, specific emissions are also that impact the climate as listed in the Kyoto Protocol: methane shown in the form of CO 2 equivalents (CO 2e). Apart from carbon (CH 4), nitrous oxide (N2O), hydrofluorocarbons (HFC s), perfluorodioxide (CO 2), they include the other five greenhouse gas emissions carbons (PFC s) and sulphur hexafluoride (SF 6). 150 MANAGEMENT REPORT Report on economic position Human resources Changes in headcount On 30 September 2015, the TUI Group’s worldwide headcount was in particular in hotel companies and incoming agencies. Tourism em76,036, 1.3 % down year-on-year. In the period under review, the ployed the lion’s share of Group personnel. headcount strongly reflected the seasonality of the tourism business, PERSONNEL BY SEGMENT 30 Sep 2015 30 Sep 2014 Var. % restated* Northern Region 14,102 14,872 – 5.2 Central Region 12,247 12,045 + 1.7 Western Region 5,700 5,500 + 3.6 Hotels & Resorts 24,373 23,990 + 1.6 Cruises 232 228 + 1.8 Other Tourism 1,436 1,553 – 7.5 Tourism 58,090 58,188 – 0.2 Specialist Group 4,267 6,068 – 29.7 Hotelbeds Group 12,342 11,358 + 8.7 All other segments 1,071 983 + 9.0 TUI Group 75,770 76,597 – 1.1 Discontinued operation 266 431 – 38.3 Total 76,036 77,028 – 1.3 * Previous year’s figures restated to the deconsolidation of two companies TOURISM WESTERN REGION At the end of financial year 2014 / 15, the headcount in Tourism totalled Western Region saw an increase in headcount of 3.6 % to 5,700, pri58,090, almost flat year-on-year. The individual segments recorded marily due to the inclusion of additional entities. different trends. HOTELS & RESORTS NORTHERN REGION At the balance sheet date, Hotels & Resorts reported 24,373 employNorthern Region reported a year-on-year decline in headcount of ees, up 1.6 % on the prior year. This growth was mainly attributable 5.2 % to 14,102. This decrease mainly resulted from the reduction in to the opening of new hotel resorts and the optimisation of the sales by retail shops in the UK and lower staffing numbers in the hotel portfolio. It was driven, above all, by Riu hotels, the largest destinations. hotel company in the portfolio, reporting an increase of 2.7 % to 10,829 employees. Due to new acquisitions, Robinson also posted an CENTRAL REGION increase of 7.6 % to 3,385. In financial year 2015 / 16, Hotels & Resorts Central Region recorded a headcount of 12,247, a decline of 1.7 % will see a substantial rise in headcount due to the growth strategy, year-on-year. The headcount increased in the retail segment in Gerin particular the launch of hotels under the new brand TUI Blue. many and at TUI Services, while staffing numbers in Austria and in tour operation in Germany decreased due to ongoing restructuring CRUISES programmes. The Cruises segment recorded a year-on-year increase in headcount of 1.8 % to 232, driven by the reactivation of dormant work contracts. Report on economic position MANAGEMENT REPORT 151 S PE C I A L I S T T R AV E L ALL OTHER SEGMENTS The Specialist Group reported a decline in headcount of 29.7 % to All other segments recorded an increase in headcount of 9 % to 4,267, primarily attributable to the sale of Peak Travel. The Hotelbeds 1,071 year-on-year. In TUI AG , the headcount rose by 18.9 % to 126, Group recorded an increase of 8.7 % to 12,342 employees year-onmainly due to the creation of new functions. The headcount growth year, mainly due to the creation of new jobs at Intercruises, the proin other segments was also driven by the first-time inclusion of TUI vider of cruise handling services. Spain with 103 employees while, on the other hand, restructuring measures continued in the real estate companies. GLOBAL HE ADCOUNT PERSONNEL BY REGION 30 Sep 2015 30 Sep 2014 Var. % restated Germany 10,094 9,914 + 1.8 Great Britain 14,925 15,972 – 6.6 Spain 11,172 10,556 + 5.8 Rest of Europe 20,170 20,391 – 1.1 North and South America 9,289 8,563 + 8.5 Other regions 10,120 11,201 – 9.7 TUI Group 75,770 76,597 – 1.1 Discontinued operation 266 431 – 38.3 Total 76,036 77,028 – 1.3 P E R S O N N E L B Y R E G I O N * AS AT 30 SEPT 2015 0.8 % to 56,361, or 74.4 % of the Group’s overall headcount. Due to a reduction in the number of employees working in other regions, the headcount in non-European countries declined by 1.8 % to 19,409, North and South America Rest of Europe or 25.6 % of the overall headcount. The year-on-year changes were 27 (26) 12 (11) driven by staff reductions in the UK and the sale of PE AK Travel. Germany Mixed leadership 13 (13) As at 30 September 2015, the balance sheet date, the share of women % Other regions as a proportion of the overall headcount grew by around 1 percentage points to 56.2 %. The proportion of women in leadership posiGreat Britain 13 (15) tions grew slightly by 29.5 % to 31.3 %. The proportion of women on our German supervisory bodies con20 (21) Spain tinued to rise in the period under review. On 30 September 2015, 15 (14) women accounted for 29.8 % of members, up around 2 percentage points year-on-year. Within TUI AG , women already made up 30 % of Supervisory Board members. * Excl. employees of the discontinued operations In brackets: previous year In Germany, advantage was taken of the self-commitment mechanism provided for under the German Stock Corporation Act (AktG) and the Act on Limited Liability Companies (GmbHG ) to fix specific tarAs a global player, the TUI Group has over 76,000 employees in gets for TUI AG , TUI Deutschland and TUI fly in the period under 57 countries. The number of employees working in Germany increased review – now we are heading for achieving these targets until by 1.8 % to 10,094. The Group’s headcount in Europe declined by 30 June 2017. 152 MANAGEMENT REPORT Report on economic position P R O P O R T I O N O F W O M E N I N M A N A G E R I A L P O S I T I O N S AS AT 30 SEPT. 2015 TUI AG TUI DEUTSCHLAND T U I F LY Executive Board actual target actual target actual target 0% At least 1 female* 0 % 20 % 0 % 20 % First management level actual target actual target actual target ­below Executive Board 13 % 20 % 33 % 30 % 33 % 30 % Second management level actual target actual target actual target below Executive Board 20 % 30 % 39 % 40 % 46 % 40 % * Target has been achieved mid of October 2015 with Dr Elke Eller as Group HR / Labour Director Other staff indicators AGE STRUC TURE OF GROUP EMPLOYEE S AV E R A G E C O M PA N Y A F F I L I AT I O N up to 20 years more than 30 years 6 (5) more than 2 (2) 21 – 30 years 6 21 – 30 years 50 years 29 (31) 14 (13) (6) 6 – 10 years up to 5 years 17 (18) % 57 (57) % 41 – 50 years 11 – 20 years 31 – 40 years 23 (22) 18 (17) 28 (29) In brackets: previous year Around two thirds of Group employees were aged between 21 and 40, to 51 %. The only age bracket reporting growth was the 50+ age with initial signs of demographic change gradually becoming visible. group, with an increase of 1.3 percentage points to 14.3 % of the total At Group level, the proportion of employees under 30 declined by headcount, while in Germany 20.1 % of employees fell into the 50+ 0.6 percentage points to 34.7 %. The proportion of employees in the age group. medium age bracket between 31 and 50 fell by 0.7 percentage points Report on economic position MANAGEMENT REPORT 153 Around 57 % have been with the Company for up to five years. In ponents. The TUI Group uses these variable factors as incentives to Germany the figure for this group is significantly lower at around staff to pursue strategic and long-term corporate objectives. The 33 %. By contrast, around 17.8 % of Group employees have a comkey components are designed to honour performance and to enable pany affiliation of 11 to 20 years, compared with around 32.5 % of employees to participate in the Company’s long-term success. Senior employees in Germany. management have share options and are thus able to benefit directly when the Company grows in value. TUI also pays social benefits The seasonality of employment structures is also reflected in the such as company pensions or specific retirement benefits. types of employment contract held by our staff. At the balance sheet date, around 31 % of the Group headcount had temporary In the period under review, the TUI Group’s personnel costs rose by contracts, while in Germany the proportion of staff with temporary 11 % to € 2,715.6 m. The year-on-year increase in expenses for wages contracts was only around 16 %. and salaries was mainly attributable to foreign exchange effects and, in particular, expenses incurred in connection with restructuring measures. Personnel costs Social security contributions and expenses for pensions and other The compensation package offered by the TUI Group reflects the benefits declined in the prior year due to income of € 81.0 m from appropriateness of compensation and customary market rates. It the change in pension plans carried in the cost of sales. Apart from varies in its composition, as it is influenced by framework conditions that effect and the restructuring expenses incurred in financial year in different countries and companies. Depending on the function 2014 / 15, the development of the euro exchange rate caused higher concerned, a fixed basic salary may go hand in hand with variable comyear-on-year expenses due to translation effects. PERSONNEL COSTS 2014 / 15 2013 / 14 Var. % € million restated Wages and salaries 2,233.6 2,083.7 + 7.2 Social security contributions 482.0 362.5 + 33.0 Total 2,715.6 2,466.2 + 11.0 PENSION SCHEMES PA R T-T I M E E A R LY R E T I R E M E N T The companies in the TUI Group offer their employees benefits In order to further increase the flexibility of their company HR and from the company-based pension schemes funded by the employer. succession planning, Group companies in Germany are able to make Options for the employees include pension schemes, direct insurance use of the opportunities provided under the German Part-Time Early contracts and individual or direct commitments to build up a private Retirement Act to shift gradually from employment to retirement. pension. These schemes were devised so as to take advantage of At the balance sheet date, € 9.4 m was provided through a capital fiscal and social security co-sponsorship opportunities. TUI AG investment model for the 183 employees working under part-time companies also have a statutory obligation to enable their employees early retirement contracts in order to hedge their accrued assets to convert their gross pay into pension contributions. To this end, against employer insolvency. TUI AG has concluded advantageous collective contracts with an established insurance undertaking, and all our German employees can sign up to these. 154 MANAGEMENT REPORT Annual financial statements of TUI AG A N N U A L F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S OF TUI AG Condensed version according to German Commercial Code (HGB ) Earnings position of TUI AG Internet at www.tuigroup.com and can be requested in print from TUI AG . The annual financial statements of TUI AG were prepared in accordance with the provisions of the German Commercial Code (HGB ), taking account of the complementary provisions of the German Stock Annual financial statements TUI AG 2014 / 15 online at Corporation Act (AktG), and audited by the auditors Pricewaterhousewww.tuigroup.com/en-en/investors Coopers Aktiengesellschaft Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft, Hanover. They are published in the electronic federal gazette. The annual fiIn the present Annual Report, the Management Report of TUI AG nancial statements have been made permanently available on the has been combined with the Management Report of the TUI Group. I N C O M E S TAT E M E N T O F T U I A G € million 2014 / 15 2013 / 14 Var. % Other operating income 508.8 83.1 + 512.3 Personnel costs 37.8 34.1 + 10.9 Depreciation 0.6 0.6 – Other operating expenses 568.6 164.0 + 246.7 Net income from investments 1,420.0 64.7 n. a. Write-downs of investments 24.6 5.0 + 392.0 Net interest – 28.9 – 61.1 + 52.7 Profit on ordinary activities 1,268.3 – 117.1 n. a. Taxes 11.6 – 7.7 n. a. Net profit / loss for the year 1,256.7 – 109.4 n. a. The earnings position of TUI AG , the Group’s parent company, is P E R S O N N E L C O S T S A N D O T H E R O P E R AT I N G E X P E N S E S primarily determined by the appropriation of profits by its Group Personnel costs rose in financial year 2014 / 15, mainly due to the companies, either directly associated with TUI AG via profit and loss conclusion of a collective agreement, a slight increase in restructuring transfer agreements or distributing their profits to TUI AG based on costs and the recruitment of new staff. appropriate resolutions. Other operating expenses comprise, in particular, the cost of financial O T H E R O P E R AT I N G I N C O M E and monetary transactions, charges, fees, services, transfers to imThe increase in other operating income was mainly driven by a signifi­ pairments and other administrative costs as well as expenses for cant year-on-year increase in gains on exchange. This income was exchange losses. Apart from the increase in expenses for exchange offset by expenses for exchange losses of a similar amount, carried losses mentioned above, other operating expenses also rose due to in other operating expenses. Apart from the increase in gains on the elimination of intercompany services. exchange, the increase in other operating income was attributable to the first-time elimination of intercompany services, carried alongNE T INCOME FROM INVESTMENTS side expenses of almost the same amount rebilled to TUI AG by In the financial year under review, net income from investments was other Group companies, shown in other operating expenses. This driven, in particular, by the considerable year-on-year increase in item also included intra-Group gains on disposal from shareholdings dividend payments by TUI Travel Ltd (previously TUI Travel PLC ). and income from the sale of securities held as fixed assets. Moreover, TUI Cruises GmbH distributed profits for the first time in Annual financial statements of TUI AG MANAGEMENT REPORT 155 the completed financial year. Net income from investments also inin the interest result also resulted from lower interest expenses due cluded income from profit transfers from hotel companies and comto the redemption and repayment of bonds and bank loans. panies allocable to central operations. It also comprised expenses for loss transfers from Group companies, resulting in a corresponding TA X E S reduction in net income from investments. In the period under review, In the period under review, taxes related to income taxes and other the transfer of the loss from the impairment of the interests in Hapag-­ taxes. They did not include deferred taxes. In the previous year, taxes Lloyd Aktiengesellschaft, to TUI -Hapag Beteiligungs GmbH, had a were affected by the reversal of unused tax provisions. particularly negative effect. NET PROFIT FOR THE YE AR WRITE-DOWNS OF INVESTMENTS For financial year 2014 / 15, TUI AG posted a net profit for the year In the period under review, write-downs of investments related, in of € 1,256.7 m. particular, to interests in TUI Beteiligungs GmbH and write-downs of hotel investments. Net assets of TUI AG I N T E R E S T R E S U LT Due to the assumption of the internal Group financing function followTUI AG ’s net assets and financial position as well as its balance sheet ing the merger with TUI Travel PLC , interest income from Group structure reflect its function as the TUI Group’s parent company. companies rose in the financial year under review. The improvement The balance sheet total rose by 41.9 % to € 7.4 bn in financial year 2014 / 15. A B B R E V I AT E D B A L A N C E S H E E T O F T U I A G ( F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T A C C O R D I N G T O G E R M A N C O M M E R C I A L C O D E ) € million 30 Sep 2015 30 Sep 2014 Var. % Intangible assets / property, plant and equipment 13.7 17.7 – 22.6 Investments 5,662.1 4,179.6 + 35.5 Fixed assets 5,675.8 4,197.3 + 35.2 Inventories / Receivables / Trade securities 912.7 662.9 + 37.7 Cash and cash equivalents 833.7 370.2 + 125.2 Current assets 1,746.4 1,033.1 + 69.0 Prepaid expenses 0.8 0.3 + 166.7 Assets 7,423.0 5,230.7 + 41.9 Equity 4,995.4 2,791.6 + 78.9 Special non-taxed items 0.5 0.6 – 16.7 Provisions 405.6 399.3 + 1.6 Bonds 300.0 964.4 – 68.9 Financial liabilities – 194.4 n. a. Other liabilities 1,721.5 880.3 + 95.6 Liabilities 2,021.5 2,039.1 – 0.9 Deferred income – 0.1 n. a. Liabilities 7,423.0 5,230.7 + 41.9 FIXED ASSETS by TUI AG . The TUI Travel PLC shareholders with the exception of At the balance sheet date, fixed assets almost exclusively consisted TUI AG received 0,399 new shares in TUI AG for each share in of investments. The increase in investments was mainly attributable TUI Travel PLC . An opposite effect was caused by the disposal of to the acquisition of Leibniz Service GmbH and the merger of shareholdings, a capital decrease, the repayment of TUI Travel’s TUI AG and TUI Travel PLC . This merger was effected by means of the convertible bond and impairments of interests in Group companies acquisition of the minority interests outstanding in TUI Travel PLC and shareholdings. 156 MANAGEMENT REPORT Annual financial statements of TUI AG CURRENT ASSETS deduction of the dividend total of € 328.5 m, forward on new acThe increase in receivables in financial year 2014 / 15 mainly resulted count. The equity ratio rose to 67.3 % (previous year 53.4 %). from the assumption of the internal Group financing function for the TUI Travel Group companies in the framework of the merger PROVISIONS between TUI AG and TUI Travel PLC . Provisions increased by € 6.3 m to € 405.6 m. They consisted of pension provisions worth € 139.0 m (previous year € 131.7 m) and other Due to the redemption of the money market fund, carried under provisions worth € 266.6 m (previous year € 267.6 m). current assets in the prior year, cash and cash equivalents increased in the period under review. Other provisions decreased year-on-year, in particular due to the use of provisions formed in the prior year for outstanding invoices. T U I A G ’ S C A P I TA L S T R U C T U R E Provisions also declined year-on-year due to the reversal of a provision EQUITY formed for typical operating risks, the adjustment of insurance tax TUI AG ’s equity increased by € 2,203.8 m to € 4,995.4 m. The suband the measurement of hedges on behalf of tourism companies. scribed capital of TUI AG consists of no-par value shares, each repThe decline was partly offset by additions to the provisions for the resenting an equal portion in the capital stock. The proportionate Executive Board members. share in the capital stock per share is around € 2.56. At the end of the financial year under review, the subscribed capital of TUI AG LIABILITIES rose by a total of € 767.0 m to around € 1,499.6 m due to the capital TUI AG ’s liabilities totalled € 2,021.5 m, a decline of € 17.6 m or 0.9 %. increase against non-cash contribution in connection with the merger of TUI AG and TUI Travel PLC , the issue of employee shares and In September 2014, TUI AG issued an unsecured bond worth conversions from the 2009 / 14 and 2011 / 16 convertible bonds and a € 300.0 m maturing on 1 October 2019. Due to the repayment of TUI convertible bond issued by TUI Travel PLC . At the end of the financial Travel’s convertible bond and the conversion of bonds into shares in year under review, subscribed capital comprised 586,603,217 shares. TUI AG , liabilities from bonds declined significantly year-on-year. In financial year 2014 / 15, the capital reserve rose by a total of The increase in other liabilities was also associated with the assump€ 274.7 m due to the conversion of bonds into shares and the issue tion of the internal Group financing function and mainly reflected an of employee shares. Revenue reserves exclusively consisted of other increase in liabilities to Group companies. revenue reserves. The Articles of Association do not contain any provisions concerning the formation of reserves. Pursuant to section 58 TUI ’s net financial position improved substantially year-on-year, (2) of the German Stock Corporation Act an amount of € 314.0 m of amounting to a positive position of € 533.7 m in the period under the profit of the year were transferred to the revenue reserves. review. The profit for the year amounted to € 1,256.7 m. Taking account of the C A P I TA L A U T H O R I S AT I O N R E S O L U T I O N S transfer to other revenue reserves of € 314.0 m and the profit carried Information on new or existing resolutions concerning capital authorforward of € 66.7 m, net profit available for distribution totalled isation, adopted by Annual General Meetings, is provided in the next € 1,009.4 m. A proposal will be submitted to the Annual General chapter on Information Required under Takeover Law. Meeting to use the net profit available for distribution for the financial year under review to distribute a dividend of € 0.56 per no-par value share and to carry the amount of € 680.9 m, remaining after Information Required under Takeover Law see page 157 Information required under takeover law MANAGEMENT REPORT 157 I N F O R M AT I O N R E Q U I R E D U N D E R TA K E O V E R L A W pursuant to sections 289 (4) and 315 (4) of the German Commercial Code (HGB ) and explanatory report Composition of subscribed capital SHAREHOLDER STRUCTURE AS AT 30 SEPT 2015 The subscribed capital of TUI AG consists of no-par value shares, each representing an equal share of the capital stock. The proportionate share in the capital stock per share is around € 2.56. Riu Hotels S.A. The subscribed capital of TUI AG , registered in the commercial regis­ Institutional 3 Private investors ters of the district courts of Berlin-Charlottenburg and Hanover, consisted of 586,603,217 shares at the end of financial year 2014 / 15 investors 6 Alexey (previous year 286,561,143 shares) and totalled € 1,499,627,312. Each 78 ­Mordashov share confers one vote at the Annual General Meeting. 13 RE STRIC TIONS ON VOTING RIGHTS OR THE TR ANSFER OF SHARES The Executive Board of TUI AG is not aware of any restrictions on % voting rights or the transfer of shares. EQUIT Y INTE RE ST S E XCE E DING 10 % OF THE VOTING RIGHT S The Executive Board of TUI AG has been notified of the following direct or indirect equity interests reaching or exceeding 10 % of the voting rights: In a notification pursuant to section 21 (1) of the German Securities Trading Act (WpHG ), Alexey Mordashov, Russia, notified us that 13.72 % (73,222,346 voting rights) of the voting shares in TUI AG At the end of financial year 2014 / 15, around 87 % of the TUI shares were attributable to him on 19 December 2014. He also informed us were in free float. Around 6 % of all TUI shares were held by private in a notification pursuant to section 25a (1) of the German Securities shareholders, around 78 % by institutional investors, and around Trading Act that 12.84 % (74,967,030 voting rights) of the voting 16 % by strategic investors. According to an analysis of the share shares in TUI AG were attributable to him on 20 March 2015. register these were mainly investors from EU countries. Shares with special control rights There have not been any shares, nor are there any shares, with ­special control rights. 158 MANAGEMENT REPORT Information required under takeover law System of voting right control of any employee In the financial year under review, the conditional capital amounting share scheme where the control rights are not in each case to € 100 m, resolved in 2008 and 2009, expired with the ­exercised directly by the employees conversion and repayment of the bonds worth approximately € 218 m and € 339 m issued in 2009 and 2011 on the basis of these Where TUI AG grants shares to employees under its employee share resolutions. The 2014 conditional capital worth around € 62 m, used programme, the shares are directly transferred to the employees in exchange for corresponding subscription rights to TUI Travel PLC with a lock-up period. Beneficiaries are free to directly exercise the for the issue of TUI shares to the holders of the convertible bonds control rights to which employee shares entitle them, in just the issued by TUI Travel PLC in 2010, also served out its purpose. same way as other shareholders, in line with legal requirements and the provisions of the Articles of Association. Significant agreements associated with a change of control in the Company following a takeover bid Appointment and removal of Executive Board and their consequences members and amendments to the Articles of ­A ssociation Some of the outstanding financing instruments contain change of control clauses. A change of control occurs in particular if a third The appointment and removal of Executive Board members is based party directly or indirectly acquires control over at least 50 % or the on sections 84 et seq. of the German Stock Corporation Act in commajority of the voting shares in TUI AG . bination with section 31 of the German Codetermination Act. Amendments to the Articles of Association are based on the proviIn the event of a change of control, the holders of the fixed-interest sions of sections 179 et seq. of the German Stock Corporation Act in bond with an outstanding volume of € 300.0 m must be offered a combination with section 24 of the Articles of Association of TUI AG . buyback. For the syndicated credit line worth € 1.75 bn, of which € 135.7 m had Powers of the Executive Board to issue or buy been drawn down at the balance sheet date through the use of bank back shares guarantees, a right of termination by the lenders has been agreed in the event of a change of control. A similar right has also been agreed The Annual General Meeting of 10 February 2015 authorised for several bilateral guarantee lines with a total volume of £ 112.5 m, TUI AG ’s Executive Board to acquire own shares of up to 5 % of the concluded with various insurance companies, of which £ 70.2 m had capital stock existing as at the date of the resolution. The authorisabeen drawn down as at the balance sheet date. tion will expire on 9 August 2016. To date, the option to acquire own shares has not been exercised. Beyond this, there are no agreements in guarantee, leasing, option or other financial contracts that might cause material early redempThe Extraordinary General Meeting of 28 October 2014 adopted a tion obligations that would be of significant relevance for the resolution to create authorised capital for the issue of new shares Group’s liquidity. against non-cash contributions worth € 18.0 m in order to be able to satisfy TUI Travel share awards granted by TUI Travel to its employApart from the financing instruments mentioned above, a frameees by means of the issue of new shares in TUI AG . The authorisawork agreement between the Riu family and TUI AG includes a tion for this authorised capital will expire on 27 October 2019. change of control clause. A change of control occurs if a shareholder group represents a predefined majority of AGM attendees or if one The Annual General Meeting of 13 February 2013 resolved two third of the shareholder representatives on the Supervisory Board ­authorisations to increase the capital stock by a total of € 74.5 m by are attributable to a shareholder group. In the event of a change of 12 February 2018. This includes authorised capital for the issue of control, the Riu family is entitled to acquire at least 20 % and at new shares, with the option to exclude the shareholders’ subscripmost all shares held by TUI in RIUSA II S.A. tion rights, worth € 64.5 m and authorised capital to issue employee shares worth € 10 m. A similar agreement concerning a change of control at TUI AG has been concluded with the El Chiaty Group. Here, too, a change of Conditional capital of € 120 m was resolved by the Annual General control occurs if a shareholder group represents a predefined Meeting of 15 February 2012. Accordingly, bonds with conversion ­majority of AGM attendees or if one third of the shareholder repreoptions or warrants as well as profit-sharing rights and income sentatives on the Supervisory Board are attributable to a sharebonds of up to a nominal amount of € 1.0 bn may be issued up to holder group. In that case, the El Chiaty Group is entitled to acquire 14 February 2017. This authorisation has not yet been exercised. at least 15 % and at most all shares held by TUI in the joint hotel companies in Egypt and the United Arab Emirates. The Annual General Meeting of 9 February 2011 adopted a resolution to authorise capital for the issue of new shares against cash A change of control agreement has also been concluded for the joint contributions worth € 246 m by 8 February 2016. venture TUI Cruises between Royal Caribbean Cruises Ltd and Information required under takeover law, Report on subsequent events MANAGEMENT REPORT 159 TUI AG . It gives the other partner the right to demand termination specifically accorded for this event, to resign from office and termiof the joint venture and to purchase the stake held by TUI AG at a nate their service contract as a Board member, a Board member is price which is lower than the selling price of their own stake. entitled to receive remuneration for his or her financial entitlements for the remaining period of the service contract up to a maximum period of two or three years, respectively. Compensation agreements between the Company and Executive Board members or employees in the The annual management bonus and the entitlements from the longevent of a takeover bid term incentive programme for the remaining term of the service contract are based on the average remuneration received in the past CHANGE OF CONTROL AGREEMENT two financial years for Mr Joussen and the average in the past three In the event of a loss of Executive Board membership through a financial years for Mr Baier. change of control or exercise of the right granted to Board m ­ embers, REPORT ON SUBSEQUENT E VENTS On 6 October 2015, TUI entered a contract for the sale of LateRooms tinue to be jointly determined by TUI and Oscrivia Limited, so that Ltd. for a consideration of 8.5 GBP (€ 11.6 m). The completion of the Togebi Holdings Limited remains to be classified as a joint venture. sale took place on 6 October 2015. The transaction does not require regulatory approval. The LateRooms segment was presented as a On 6 November 2015 the initial public offering of Hapag-Lloyd AG discontinued operation as at 30 September 2015. occurred. Hapag-Lloyd’s gross issuing proceeds through the placing of 13,228,677 new shares at an issue price of € 20.00 per HL AG On 23 October 2015, TUI and Oscrivia Limited entered contractual share amounted to approximately € 265.0 m. Since then, the shares agreements to reorganise the equity of Togebi Holdings Limited. In of Hapag-Lloyd AG are traded in the regulated market (prime standparticular, a cash capital increase of USD 20 m was agreed, in which ard) of the Frankfurt stock exchange. Due to this capital increase TUI participates with a USD 3 m contribution. Following the compleTUI ’s stake in Hapag-Lloyd AG ’s capital has reduced from 13.9 % to tion of the agreements, TUI Group’s stake in Togebi Holdings Limit12.3 %. Had the investment, contrary to the requirements of ed, within the segment region north, reduces from 49 % to 25 %. At IFRS 13, been measured at the issue price of € 20.00 per share at the same time Oscrivia Limited increases its stake from 51 % to the balance sheet date, an additional impairment of € 43.7 m had 75 %. Furthermore the joint venture agreement closed in 2009 was arisen. For fair value measurements of the investment at future amended to reflect the new voting rights proportions. Due to these measurement dates the quoted price of the Hapag-Lloyd share is amendments, the relevant activities of Togebi Holdings Limited conrelevant as a level 1 input. Climb the Pico del Teide through its lunar lava landscape and exotic vegetation. This is authentic Tenerife. TUI offers guests diverse ways to experience their destination first hand – not only on the Canary Islands, but all over the world. » R  EAD MORE ABOUT TUI ON TENERIFE IN OUR MAGAZINE U N D E R “ S U I TC A S E I N H A N D ” CONSOLIDATED ­F INANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES CO N T E N T S 162  C ONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL 201 Segment Reporting STATEMENTS 207 Notes to the Consolidated Income 162 Income Statement Statement 163 Statement of Comprehensive 217 Notes on the consolidated ­Income statement of financial position 164 Financial Position 282 Notes on the Cash Flow Statement 166 Statement of Changes in 284 Other Notes Group ­Equity 168 Cash Flow Statement 303 Responsibility ­statement by management 169 N O T E S 304 Independent Auditor’s Report 169 Principles and Methods underlying 313 Forward-looking Statements the Consolidated Financial Statements 162 C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Income Statement C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S I N C O M E S TAT E M E N T O F T H E T U I G R O U P F O R T H E P E R I O D F R O M 1 O C T O B E R 2 0 14 T O 3 0 S E P T E M B E R 2 0 15 Notes 2014 / 15 2013 / 14 € million restated Turnover (1) 20,011.6 18,536.8 Cost of sales (2) 17,616.3 16,300.8 Gross profit 2,395.3 2,236.0 Administrative expenses (2) 1,715.4 1,533.8 Other income (3) 51.2 35.9 Other expenses (3) 8.0 2.1 Financial income (5) 37.9 36.8 Financial expenses (6) 370.1 300.9 Share of result of joint ventures and associates (7) 144.5 26.8 Earnings before income taxes * 535.4 498.7 Income taxes (8) 87.0 212.5 Result from continuing operations 448.4 286.2 Result from discontinued operation (9) – 68.8 – 15.4 Group profit for the year 379.6 270.8 Group profit for the year attributable to shareholders of TUI AG (10) 340.4 90.4 Group profit for the year attributable to non-controlling interest (11) 39.2 180.4 * T he financial performance indicators EBITA and underlying EBITA of the TUI Group, formerly reconciled on the face of the income statement of the TUI Group, are outlined in the segment reporting within the Group notes now. EARNINGS PER SHARE Notes 2014 / 15 2013 / 14 € restated Basic earnings per share (12) 0.64 0.26 from continuing operations 0.77 0.29 from discontinued operation – 0.13 – 0.03 Diluted earnings per share (12) 0.63 0.26 from continuing operations 0.76 0.29 from discontinued operation – 0.13 – 0.03 Statement of Comprehensive Income C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S 163 S TAT E M E N T O F C O M P R E H E N S I V E I N C O M E O F T U I G R O U P F O R T H E P E R I O D F R O M 1 O C T O B E R 2 0 14 T O 3 0 S E P T E M B E R 2 0 15 Notes 2014 / 15 2013 / 14 € million restated Group profit 379.6 270.8 Remeasurements of pension provisions and related fund assets 82.2 – 286.0 Changes in the measurement of companies measured at equity 0.1 – 2.5 Income tax related to items that will not be reclassified (13) – 24.2 70.4 Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss 58.1 – 218.1 Foreign exchange differences – 221.7 – 115.1 Foreign exchange differences – 220.2 – 111.5 Reclassification / adjustments – 1.5 – 3.6 Financial instruments available for sale – – 0.9 Changes in the fair value 7.1 – 0.9 Reclassification / adjustments – 7.1 – Cash flow hedges – 221.0 119.1 Changes in the fair value 360.1 – 30.8 Reclassification / adjustments – 581.1 149.9 Changes in the measurement of companies measured at equity 22.0 16.8 Changes in the measurement outside profit or loss 21.6 18.5 Reclassification / adjustments 0.4 – 1.7 Income tax related to items that may be reclassified (13) 27.1 – 20.8 Items that may be reclassified to profit or loss – 393.6 – 0.9 Other comprehensive income – 335.5 – 219.0 Total comprehensive income 44.1 51.8 attributable to shareholders of TUI AG 9.5 4.6 attributable to non-controlling interest 34.6 47.2 Allocation of share of shareholders of TUI AG of total comprehensive income: Continuing operations 82.0 11.5 Discontinued operation – 72.5 – 6.9 164 C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Financial Position F I N A N C I A L P O S I T I O N O F T H E T U I G R O U P A S AT 3 0 S E P 2 0 15 Notes 30 Sep 2015 30 Sep 2014 1 Oct 2013 € million restated restated Assets Goodwill (14) 3,220.4 3,136.2 2,976.4 Other intangible assets (15) 911.5 933.4 866.0 Investment property (16) 7.2 7.7 58.0 Property, plant and equipment (17) 3,629.6 2,836.0 2,681.4 Investments in joint ventures and associates (18) 1,077.8 1,336.4 1,390.2 Financial assets available for sale (19) 56.2 62.7 71.4 Trade receivables and other assets (20) 332.5 368.1 342.8 Derivative financial instruments (21) 48.1 75.8 37.9 Deferred tax assets (22) 330.7 235.9 223.1 Non-current assets 9,614.0 8,992.2 8,647.2 Inventories (23) 134.5 126.3 115.1 Financial assets available for sale (19) 334.9 300.0 – Trade receivables and other assets (20) 1,948.7 1,911.2 1,872.6 Derivative financial instruments (21) 281.0 169.7 49.1 Current tax assets (22) 58.5 93.9 53.7 Cash and cash equivalents (24) 1,672.7 2,258.0 2,674.0 Assets held for sale (25) 42.2 155.9 11.6 Current assets 4,472.5 5,015.0 4,776.1 14,086.5 14,007.2 13,423.3 Financial Position C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S 165 F I N A N C I A L P O S I T I O N O F T H E T U I G R O U P A S AT 3 0 S E P 2 0 15 Notes 30 Sep 2015 30 Sep 2014 1 Oct 2013 € million restated restated Equity and liabilities Subscribed capital (26) 1,499.6 732.6 645.2 Capital reserves (27) 4,187.7 1,056.3 957.7 Revenue reserves (28) – 3,773.9 336.1 116.3 Hybrid capital (30) – 294.8 294.8 Equity before non-controlling interest 1,913.4 2,419.8 2,014.0 Non-controlling interest (31) 503.9 110.4 – 20.3 Equity 2,417.3 2,530.2 1,993.7 Pension provisions and similar obligations (32) 1,114.5 1,242.4 1,102.2 Other provisions (33) 746.3 601.6 575.0 Non-current provisions 1,860.8 1,844.0 1,677.2 Financial liabilities (34) 1,653.3 1,748.4 1,834.1 Derivative financial instruments (36) 78.5 20.7 30.6 Current tax liabilities (37) 115.7 98.5 107.8 Deferred tax liabilities (37) 125.7 144.8 107.8 Other liabilities (38) 136.2 130.5 93.6 Non-current liabilities 2,109.4 2,142.9 2,173.9 Non-current provisions and liabilities 3,970.2 3,986.9 3,851.1 Pension provisions and similar obligations (32) 32.4 32.1 33.8 Other provisions (33) 463.4 471.0 447.5 Current provisions 495.8 503.1 481.3 Financial liabilities (34) 233.1 217.2 937.3 Trade payables (35) 3,224.2 3,292.1 3,041.9 Derivative financial instruments (36) 388.2 241.9 177.3 Current tax liabilities (37) 78.9 101.2 132.5 Other liabilities (38) 3,247.3 3,134.6 2,808.2 Current liabilities 7,171.7 6,987.0 7,097.2 Liabilities related to assets held for sale (39) 31.5 – – Current provisions and liabilities 7,699.0 7,490.1 7,578.5 14,086.5 14,007.2 13,423.3 166 C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Statement of Changes in Group Equity S TAT E M E N T O F C H A N G E S I N G R O U P E Q U I T Y O F T H E T U I G R O U P F O R T H E P E R I O D F R O M 1 O C T O B E R 2 0 14 T O 3 0 S E P T E M B E R 2 0 15 Foreign Financial Subscribed Capital Other revenue exchange instruments capital reserves reserves differences available for sale € million (26) (27) Balance as at 30 Sep 2013 645.2 957.7 897.0 – 753.0 0.5 Adoption of IFRS 10 and IFRS 11 – – – 2.6 – 0.6 – Balance as at 1 October 2013 (restated) 645.2 957.7 894.4 – 753.6 0.5 Dividends – – – 37.8 – – Hybrid capital dividend – – – 23.2 – – Share based payment schemes of TUI Travel PLC – – 17.3 – – Conversion of convertible bonds 87.1 97.9 271.9 – – Issue of employee shares 0.3 0.7 – – – First-time consolidation – – – – – Deconsolidation – – – – – Written option on non controlling interests – – – 2.6 – – Effects on the acquisition of non-controlling interests – – – 22.7 – – Effects on the transfer to non-controlling interests – – 14.0 – 1.8 – Group profit for the year – – 90.4 – – Foreign exchange differences – – – 33.4 14.4 – Financial instruments available for sale – – – – – 0.5 Cash flow hedges – – – – – Remeasurements of pension provisions and related fund assets – – – 177.4 – – Changes in the measurement of companies measured at equity – – 13.6 – – Taxes attributable to other comprehensive income – – 45.1 – – Other comprehensive income – – – 152.1 14.4 – 0.5 Total comprehensive income – – – 61.7 14.4 – 0.5 Balance as at 30 September 2014 (restated) 732.6 1,056.3 1,049.6 – 741.0 – Dividends – – – 94.5 – – Hybrid capital dividend – – – 10.9 – – Share based payment schemes of TUI Travel PLC – – 24.2 – – Conversion of convertible bonds 146.1 453.4 – – – Issue of employee shares 0.3 1.2 – – – Capital increase 620.6 2,676.8 – – – Deconsolidation – – – – – Effects on the acquisition of non-controlling interests – – – 3,776.3 – 260.2 – Redemption hybrid capital – – – 5.2 – – Group profit for the year – – 340.4 – – Foreign exchange differences – – – 67.7 – 128.0 – Cash flow hedges – – – – – Remeasurements of pension provisions and related fund assets – – 82.1 – – Changes in the measurement of companies measured at equity – – 22.1 – – Taxes attributable to other comprehensive income – – – 24.2 – – Other comprehensive income – – 12.3 – 128.0 – Total comprehensive income – – 352.7 – 128.0 – Balance as at 30 September 2015 1,499.6 4,187.7 – 2,460.4 – 1,129.2 – Statement of Changes in Group Equity C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S 167 Equity before Cash flow Revaluation Revenue non-controlling Non-controlling hedges reserve reserves Hybrid capital interest interest Total (28) (30) (31) – 47.5 21.7 118.7 294.8 2,016.4 – 19.6 1,996.8 0.8 – – 2.4 – – 2.4 – 0.7 – 3.1 – 46.7 21.7 116.3 294.8 2,014.0 – 20.3 1,993.7 – – – 37.8 – – 37.8 – 91.2 – 129.0 – – – 23.2 – – 23.2 – – 23.2 – – 17.3 – 17.3 14.2 31.5 – – 271.9 – 456.9 193.8 650.7 – – – – 1.0 – 1.0 – – – – – 1.6 1.6 – – – – – – 1.8 – 1.8 – – – 2.6 – – 2.6 – 2.1 – 4.7 – – – 22.7 – – 22.7 – 18.7 – 41.4 0.1 – 12.3 – 12.3 – 12.3 – – – 90.4 – 90.4 180.4 270.8 – 3.2 – 1.2 – 23.4 – – 23.4 – 91.7 – 115.1 – – – 0.5 – – 0.5 – 0.4 – 0.9 69.3 – 69.3 – 69.3 49.8 119.1 – – – 177.4 – – 177.4 – 108.6 – 286.0 – – 13.6 – 13.6 0.7 14.3 – 12.5 – 32.6 – 32.6 17.0 49.6 53.6 – 1.2 – 85.8 – – 85.8 – 133.2 – 219.0 53.6 – 1.2 4.6 – 4.6 47.2 51.8 7.0 20.5 336.1 294.8 2,419.8 110.4 2,530.2 – – – 94.5 – – 94.5 – 197.1 – 291.6 – – – 10.9 – – 10.9 – – 10.9 – – 24.2 – 24.2 1.9 26.1 – – – – 599.5 – 599.5 – – – – 1.5 – 1.5 – – – – 3,297.4 – 3,297.4 – – – – – – 9.5 – 9.5 3.2 0.2 – 4,033.1 – – 4,033.1 563.6 – 3,469.5 – – – 5.2 – 294.8 – 300.0 – – 300.0 – – 340.4 – 340.4 39.2 379.6 – 12.8 – 0.9 – 209.4 – – 209.4 – 12.3 – 221.7 – 231.0 – – 231.0 – – 231.0 10.0 – 221.0 – – 82.1 – 82.1 0.1 82.2 – – 22.1 – 22.1 – 22.1 29.5 – 5.3 – 5.3 – 2.4 2.9 – 214.3 – 0.9 – 330.9 – – 330.9 – 4.6 – 335.5 – 214.3 – 0.9 9.5 – 9.5 34.6 44.1 – 204.1 19.8 – 3,773.9 – 1,913.4 503.9 2,417.3 168 C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Cash Flow Statement C A S H F L O W S TAT E M E N T Notes 2014 / 15 2013 / 14 Var. € million restated Group profit 379.6 270.8 108.8 Depreciation, amortisation and impairments (+) / write-backs (–) 700.5 398.7 301.8 Other non-cash expenses (+) / income (–) – 118.7 6.1 – 124.8 Interest expenses 207.7 254.0 – 46.3 Dividends from joint ventures and associates 81.3 38.2 43.1 Profit (–) / loss (+) from disposals of non-current assets – 23.3 – 30.4 7.1 Increase (–) / decrease (+) in inventories – 6.1 9.2 – 15.3 Increase (–) / decrease (+) in receivables and other assets – 233.6 – 34.2 – 199.4 Increase (+) / decrease (–) in provisions – 85.3 – 215.0 129.7 Increase (+) / decrease (–) in liabilities (excl. financial liabilities) – 111.6 377.1 – 488.7 Cash inflow from operating activities (46) 790.5 1,074.5 – 284.0 Payments received from disposals of property, plant and equipment, investment property and intangible assets 341.6 334.3 7.3 Payments from disposals of consolidated companies (excl. disposals of cash and cash equivalents due to divestments) – 27.6 13.5 – 41.1 Payments received from the disposals of other non-current assets 325.5 39.4 286.1 Payments made for investments in property, plant and equipment, investment property and intangible assets – 826.4 – 601.2 – 225.2 Payments made for investments in consolidated companies (excl. cash and cash equivalent received due to acquisitions) – 5.1 – 24.1 19.0 Payments made for investments in other non-current assets – 24.8 – 348.2 323.4 Cash outflow from investing activities (47) – 216.8 – 586.3 369.5 Payments received from and made for capital increases – 9.8 – 7.0 – 2.8 Payments made for interest increase in consolidated companies – 128.2 – 50.6 – 77.6 Dividend payments TUI AG – 109.3 – 60.9 – 48.4 subsidiaries to non-controlling interest – 197.0 – 108.2 – 88.8 Payments received from the issue of bonds and the raising of financial liabilities 79.3 309.7 – 230.4 Payments made for redemption of hybrid capital – 300.0 – – 300.0 Payments made for redemption of loans and financial liabilities – 359.7 – 263.9 – 95.8 Interest paid – 92.0 – 137.9 45.9 Cash outflow from financing activities (48) – 1,116.7 – 318.8 – 797.9 Net change in cash and cash equivalents – 543.0 169.4 – 712.4 Development of cash and cash equivalents (49) Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 2,258.0 2,674.0 – 416.0 Change in cash and cash equivalents due to exchange rate fluctuations – 33.1 – 1.7 – 31.4 Change in cash and cash equivalents due to changes in the group of consolidated companies 0.3 3.8 – 3.5 Change in cash and cash equivalents with cash effects – 543.0 169.4 – 712.4 Change in cash and cash equivalents without cash effects – – 587.5 587.5 Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 1,682.2 2,258.0 – 575.8 of which included in the balance sheet as assets held for sale 9.5 – 9.5 Principles and Methods underlying the Consolidated Financial Statements NOTES 169 NOTE S Principles and Methods underlying the Consolidated Financial Statements General The TUI Group with its major subsidiaries and shareholdings operates in tourism. TUI AG , based in Karl-Wiechert-Allee 4, Hanover is the TUI Group’s parent company and a listed corporation under German law. The Company is registered in the commercial registers of the district courts of Berlin-Charlottenburg (HRB 321) and Hanover (HRB 6580). The shares in the company are traded on the London Stock Exchange and the Hanover and Frankfurt Stock Exchanges. These consolidated financial statements of TUI AG were prepared for the business year from 1 October 2014 to 30 September 2015. Where any of TUI ’s subsidiaries have deviating financial years, financial statements were prepared as at 30 September in order to include these subsidiaries in TUI AG ’s consolidated financial statements. The members of the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board are listed in the section on “Corporate Governance” in the Management Report, along with details of other board positions held. The Executive Board and the Supervisory Board have submitted a Declaration of Compliance with the German Corporate Governance Code required pursuant to section 161 of the German Stock Corporation Act (AktG) and made it permanently available to the general public on the Company’s website (www.tuigroup.com). The consolidated financial statements are prepared in euros. Unless stated otherwise, all amounts are indicated in million euros (€m). The consolidated financial statements were approved for publication by TUI AG ’s Executive Board on 8 December 2015. Accounting principles D E C L A R AT I O N O F C O M P L I A N C E Pursuant to Regulation EEC No. 1606 / 2002 of the European Parliament and Council, TUI AG ’s consolidated financial statements as at 30 September 2015 were prepared in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS ) as applicable in the European Union. Moreover, the commercial-law provisions listed in section 315a (1) of the German Commercial Code (HGB ) and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the UK Financial Conduct Authority were also observed in preparing the consolidated financial statements. The accounting and measurement methods and the explanatory information and Notes to these annual financial statements for financial year 2014 / 15 are consistent in every respect with those followed in preparing the previous consolidated financial statements for financial year 2013 / 14 with the exceptions of standards and interpretations applicable from 1 October 2014 for the first time. 170 NOTES Principles and Methods underlying the Consolidated Financial Statements NEW SEGMENT STRUCTURE Due to the merger with TUI Travel PLC , the TUI Group has changed its organisational structure. In line with IFRS 8, the previously used reporting structure was adjusted as at 31 March 2015 to reflect the management structure of the TUI Group. The new segment structure is presented and explained in the segment reporting within this report. N E W LY A P P L I E D S TA N D A R D S The following standards and interpretations revised or newly issued by the IASB have been mandatory since the beginning of financial year 2014 / 15: • IFRS 10: Consolidated Financial Statements • IFRS 11: Joint Arrangements • IFRS 12: Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities • Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 11 and IFRS 12: Transition Guidance • Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27: Investment Entities • Amendments to IAS 27: Separate Financial Statements • Amendments to IAS 28: Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures • Amendments to IAS 32: Financial Instruments – Presentation: Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities • IFRIC 21: Levies In addition, the following standards amended by the IASB and endorsed by the European Union were early adopted as of the beginning of financial year 2014 / 15: • Annual Improvements Project (2010 – 2012) • Annual Improvements Project (2011 – 2013) • Amendments to IAS 19: Employee Benefits – Defined Benefit Plans: Employee Contributions Due to the first-time adoption of IFRS 10 and IFRS 11, including the transition guidance and the amendments to IAS 28, the prior-year numbers were restated. The restatements are summarised in the section on “Restatement of prior reporting period”. The other announcements had no significant impact on the presentation of the TUI Group’s net assets, financial position and results of operations. I F R S 1 0 : C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S IFRS 10 supersedes the provisions of IAS 27 “Consolidated Financial Statements and Accounting for Investments in Subsidiaries”, relevant for consolidated financial statements, and SIC-12 “Consolidation – Special Purpose Entities” with a uniform model to consolidate entities based on the concept of control of a parent company over a subsidiary. According to IFRS 10, control requires power over the relevant activities of an investee, exposure to variable returns and the ability to affect those variable returns through power over an investee. Upon the first-time adoption of the standard, two companies transitioned from full consolidation to the equity method as the other shareholders have a right to co-determine the definition and exercise of the relevant activities via management or supervisory bodies. The reallocation does not have a material effect on the TUI Group. I F R S 11 : J O I N T A R R A N G E M E N T S IFRS 11 supersedes SIC-13 “Jointly Controlled Entities – Non-Monetary Contributions by Venturers” and the previous IAS 31 “Interests in Joint Ventures”. The standard governs the classification and accounting for joint operations and joint ventures. The classification as a joint arrangement is effected based on subsidiarity in relation to control under IFRS 10. In the event of a joint arrangement, further classification as either a joint operation or a joint venture depends on the rights and obligations of the partners. Accounting for jointly controlled assets is subject to the rules for joint operations, which continue to be recognised on a proportionate basis. By contrast, proportionate consolidation, which was admissible in the past, will no longer apply to joint ventures under IFRS 11; they must now be consolidated on the basis of the equity method alone. Application of IFRS 11 does not have a material effect on the consolidated financial statements. Upon the first-time adoption of the standard, three companies have been reallocated to joint ventures. One of the companies had already been accounted for using the equity method. The elimination of proportionate consolidation for joint ventures does not have an impact on the TUI Principles and Methods underlying the Consolidated Financial Statements NOTES 171 Group as joint ventures have already been included in the TUI Group’s consolidated financial statements using the equity method. I F R S 12 : D I S C L O S U R E O F I N T E R E S T S I N O T H E R E N T I T I E S This new standard pools the disclosure requirements regarding an entity’s interests in subsidiaries, associates, joint arrangements and unconsolidated structured entities. Some of the disclosures required under IFRS 12 go far beyond previous disclosure requirements. In particular, the type of interest, the risks associated with the interest and their impact on the Group’s net assets, financial position and results of operations must be made evident. First-time application of IFRS 12 leads to extended disclosure requirements. T R A N S I T I O N G U I D A N C E F O R I F R S 1 0 , I F R S 11 A N D I F R S 12 The transition guidance published in June 2012 includes relief for first-time adopters of the new standards. Restated comparative information now only has to be provided for the immediately preceding comparative period. The requirement to disclose comparative information for unconsolidated structured entities for periods prior to first-time application of IFRS 12 has been removed. A M E N D M E N T S T O I F R S 1 0 , I F R S 12 A N D I A S 2 7 : I N V E S T M E N T E N T I T I E S The amendments, issued in October 2012, free many investment entities from the future requirement to consolidate the subsidiaries in their consolidated financial statements. Instead, they measure the interests held for investing at fair value. Moreover, new disclosure requirements have been introduced for investment entities. These amendments are of no relevance to TUI Group. A M E N D M E N T S T O I A S 2 7 : S E PA R AT E F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S The amendments to IAS 27 exclusively govern the accounting for investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures and the related notes in the shareholder’s separate financial statements. The previous consolidation rules are now part of the newly published IFRS 10. The amendments are of no relevance to TUI Group as TUI AG does not prepare IFRS -based separate financial statements according to section 325 (2a) of the German ­Commercial Code. A M E N D M E N T S T O I A S 2 8 : I N V E S T M E N T S I N A S S O C I AT E S A N D J O I N T V E N T U R E S The amendments to IAS 28 were issued in June 2011 and require application of the equity method in accounting for investments in associates and joint ventures. This is in line with the TUI Group’s accounting method used to date. The amendment also requires that in the event of a partial sale only the part intended to be sold may be shown as held for sale. Accounting for the remaining part has to be based on the equity method until the date when the investment ceases to be an associate. First-time application of these amendments leads to changes in the accounting for the investment in container shipping line Hapag-Lloyd AG since, as a result, only a 30 % stake of the investment met the “held for sale” criterion retrospectively for financial year 2013 / 14. A M E N D M E N T S T O I A S 3 2 : F I N A N C I A L I N S T R U M E N T S – P R E S E N TAT I O N The amendments to IAS 32, issued in December 2011, specify that financial assets and financial liabilities should be offset in the statement of financial position when, and only when, the entity’s current right to set-off is not contingent on a future event and is legally enforceable in the normal course of business but also in the event of default, insolvency or bankruptcy of a counterparty. They also clarify that a gross settlement system is equivalent to net settlement if it has features that eliminate credit and liquidity risk and process receivables and payables in a single settlement process. The amendments do not have a material effect on the presentation of the consolidated financial statements. I F R I C 21: L E V I E S This interpretation, issued by IFRIC in May 2013, sets out how and when to recognise a liability for a levy imposed by a government other than income taxes under IAS 12. It clarifies that an obligation to pay a levy is to be recognised as soon as the obligating event that triggers the payment of the levy occurs. The interpretation does not have a material effect on the TUI Group’s financial statements. 172 NOTES Principles and Methods underlying the Consolidated Financial Statements A M E N D M E N T S T O I A S 19 : D E F I N E D B E N E F I T P L A N S – E M P L O Y E E C O N T R I B U T I O N S These amendments, published in November 2013, make it clear that contributions paid by employees (or third parties) themselves for defined benefit pension plans and not linked to the length of service may be recognised as a reduction in the service cost in the period in which the related service was rendered. They include, for instance, contributions determined as a fixed percentage of the annual remuneration. The amendment does not have a material impact on TUI Group’s consolidated financial statements. A N N U A L I M P R O V E M E N T S P R O J E C T 2 0 1 0 – 2 0 12 Improvements from the Annual Improvements Project were published in December 2013. They contain amendments to the following seven standards: IFRS 2, IFRS 3, IFRS 8, IFRS 13, IAS 16, IAS 38 and IAS 24. The amendments are largely clarifications of the presentation, recognition and measurement requirements within the standards. The amendments do not have a material effect on the presentation of the financial statements. A N N U A L I M P R O V E M E N T S P R O J E C T 2 0 11 – 2 0 13 Improvements from the Annual Improvements Project were published in December 2013. They contain amendments to four standards including IFRS 3, IFRS 13 and IAS 40. The amendments are largely clarifications of the presen­ tation, recognition and measurement requirements within the standards. The amendments do not impact TUI Group’s consolidated the financial statements. S TA N D A R D S A N D I N T E R P R E TAT I O N S N O T Y E T E F F E C T I V E The following table provides an overview of the new standards and amendments to existing standards, which do not have to be applied by the TUI Group for the current financial statements. S U M M A R Y O F N E W S TA N D A R D S N O T Y E T A P P L I E D /A P P L I C A B L E Applicable Standard / for financial Endorsement by the Interpretation years from EU commission Standard IA S 16 & IA S 41 Agriculture: Bearer Plants 1.1.2016 Yes IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements: Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations 1.1.2016 Yes IA S 16 & IA S 38 Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation 1.1.2016 Yes IA S 1 Presentation of Financial Statements: Disclosure Intitiative 1.1.2016 No IA S 27 Separate Financial Statements: Equity Method in Separate Financial Statements 1.1.2016 No IA S 28 & Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its IFRS 10 Associate or Joint Venture 1.1.2016 No IAS 28, IFRS 10 & Investment Entities applying the Consolidation Exception IFRS 12 1.1.2016 No various Annual Improvements Project (2012 – 2014) 1.1.2016 No IFRS 9 Financial Instruments 1.1.2018 No IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers 1.1.2018 No TUI Group does not generally intend to voluntarily apply these standards or the resulting amendments ahead of their effective dates. Principles and Methods underlying the Consolidated Financial Statements NOTES 173 Information on the contents of and potential effects on future periods of these standards is presented under other disclosures in Note 55. G O I N G C O N C E R N R E P O R T I N G A C C O R D I N G T O T H E U K C O R P O R AT E G O V E R N A N C E C O D E The Executive Board remains satisfied with the Group’s funding and liquidity position. At 30 September 2015 the main sources of debt funding included: • An external revolving credit facility of € 1,535.0 m maturing in June 2018, used to manage the seasonality of the Group’s cash flows and liquidity • a high-yield bond with a nominal value of € 300.0 m, maturing in October 2019 • € 982.0 m of drawn finance lease obligations and • Bank liabilities of € 494.1 m, being mainly loans used to acquire property, plant and equipment The revolving credit facility requires compliance with certain financial covenants and these covenants were all complied with at the balance sheet date. In accordance with provision C1.3 of the 2014 revision of the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Executive Board confirms that it is considered appropriate to prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis. Restatement of prior reporting period The following restatements were made for financial year 2013 / 14. R E S TAT E M E N T C A U S E D B Y I F R S 1 0 A N D I F R S 11 In accordance with the transition guidance, the prior year values of the items impacted by the reclassifications were restated throughout the financial statements upon the first-time application of these standards. R E S TAT E M E N T C A U S E D B Y I A S 2 8 The impact of the amendment to IAS 28 was that 70 % of the TUI Group’s investment in Hapag-Lloyd AG , worth € 327.4 m no longer met the criteria to be classified as held for sale, so was restated to be consolidated using the equity method. This resulted in assets held for sale declining by € 327.4 m as at 30 September 2014. The 30 % share of the stake, worth € 140.2 m, continued to be carried under assets held for sale. The carrying value of joint ventures and associates increases by € 344.4 m as at 30 September 2014, whilst Revenue reserves were restated to reflect the total income from the at equity measurement of € 17.0 m from 1 April 2014. 174 NOTES Principles and Methods underlying the Consolidated Financial Statements The prior year numbers in the consolidated income statement and the statement of other comprehensive income were restated to reflect the profit contributions of the stake in Hapag-Lloyd AG , measured using the equity method, for the period from 29 April 2014 until 30 September 2014. R E S TAT E M E N T C A U S E D B Y D I S C O N T I N U E D O P E R AT I O N Due to the planned sale of the LateRooms Group segment in October 2015 the segment was reported as a discontinued operation as at 30 September 2015 in line with IFRS 5. In the consolidated income statement, the result from this discontinued operation is shown separately as result from discontinued operation. The prior year consolidated income statement was restated accordingly. The restatements are shown in the tables below. R E S TAT E D I T E M S O F T H E I N C O M E S TAT E M E N T O F T H E T U I G R O U P F O R T H E P E R I O D F R O M 1 O C T 2 0 13 TO 3 0 S E P 2 0 14 Restatements Adoption of before IFRS 10 and Adoption of Discontinued € million restatement IFRS 11 IA S 28, new operation restated Turnover 18,714.7 – 103.1 – – 74.8 18,536.8 Cost of sales 16,436.6 – 93.1 – – 42.7 16,300.8 Gross profit 2,278.1 – 10.0 – – 32.1 2,236.0 Administrative expenses 1,577.3 – 6.7 – – 36.8 1,533.8 Financial income 36.2 – 0.1 – 0.7 36.8 Financial expenses 305.2 – 4.3 – – 300.9 Share of result of joint ventures and associates 40.0 2.1 – 15.3 – 26.8 Earnings before income taxes from continuing operations 505.6 3.0 – 15.3 5.4 498.7 Income taxes 221.7 0.8 – – 10.0 212.5 Result from continuing operations 283.9 2.2 – 15.3 15.4 286.2 Result from discontinued operation – – – – 15.4 – 15.4 Group profit for the year 283.9 2.2 – 15.3 – 270.8 Group profit for the year attributable to shareholders of TUI AG 104.7 1.0 – 15.3 – 90.4 Group profit for the year attributable to non-controlling interest 179.2 1.2 – – 180.4 Principles and Methods underlying the Consolidated Financial Statements NOTES 175 R E S TAT E D I T E M S I N T H E S TAT E M E N T O F C O M P R E H E N S I V E I N C O M E O F T H E T U I G R O U P F O R T H E P E R I O D F R O M 1 O C T 2 0 13 TO 3 0 S E P 2 0 14 Restatements Adoption of before IFRS 10 and Adoption of € million restatement IFRS 11 IAS 28, new restated Group profit 283.9 2.2 – 15.3 270.8 Changes in the measurement of companies measured at equity 1.4 – – 3.9 – 2.5 Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss – 214.2 – – 3.9 – 218.1 Foreign exchange differences – 150.1 – 1.5 36.5 – 115.1 Cash Flow Hedges 122.7 – 3.6 – 119.1 Changes in the measurement of companies measured at equity 15.5 1.3 – 16.8 Income tax related to items that may be reclassified – 21.3 0.5 – – 20.8 Items that may be reclassified to profit or loss – 34.1 – 3.3 36.5 – 0.9 Other comprehensive income – 248.3 – 3.3 32.6 – 219.0 Total comprehensive income 35.6 – 1.1 17.3 51.8 attributable to shareholders of TUI AG – 12.2 – 0.5 17.3 4.6 attributable to non-controlling interest 47.8 – 0.6 – 47.2 176 NOTES Principles and Methods underlying the Consolidated Financial Statements R E S TAT E D I T E M S I N T H E B A L A N C E S H E E T O F T H E T U I G R O U P A S AT 1 O C T 2 0 13 A N D 3 0 S E P 2 0 14 1 Oct 2013 30 Sep 2014 before Adoption of Adoption of restatement IFRS 10 and before IFRS 10 and Amendment € million 2014 / 15* IFRS 11 restated restatement IFRS 11 IA S 28 restated Assets Other intangible assets 866.2 – 0.2 866.0 933.5 – 0.1 – 933.4 Property, plant and equipment 2,682.0 – 0.6 2,681.4 2,836.6 – 0.6 – 2,836.0 Investments in joint ventures and associates 1,386.4 3.8 1,390.2 988.0 4.0 344.4 1,336.4 Financial assets available for sale 71.5 – 0.1 71.4 62.7 – – 62.7 Derivative financial instruments 37.9 – 37.9 76.3 – 0.5 – 75.8 Deferred tax assets 224.6 – 1.5 223.1 238.1 – 2.2 – 235.9 Non-current assets 8,645.8 1.4 8,647.2 8,647.2 0.6 344.4 8,992.2 lnventories 115.4 – 0.3 115.1 126.5 – 0.2 – 126.3 Trade receivables and other assets 1,876.8 – 4.2 1,872.6 1,917.8 – 6.6 – 1,911.2 Derivative financial instruments 49.1 – 49.1 171.4 – 1.7 – 169.7 Current tax assets 53.9 – 0.2 53.7 94.0 – 0.1 – 93.9 Cash and cash equivalents 2,701.7 – 27.7 2,674.0 2,286.0 – 28.0 – 2,258.0 Assets held for sale 11.6 – 11.6 483.3 – – 327.4 155.9 Current assets 4,808.5 – 32.4 4,776.1 5,379.0 – 36.6 – 327.4 5,015.0 13,454.3 – 31.0 13,423.3 14,026.2 – 36.0 17.0 14,007.2 * As reported in the annual report as at 30 September 2014 Principles and Methods underlying the Consolidated Financial Statements NOTES 177 R E S TAT E D I T E M S I N T H E B A L A N C E S H E E T O F T H E T U I G R O U P A S AT 1 O C T 2 0 13 A N D 3 0 S E P 2 0 14 1 Oct 2013 30 Sep 2014 before Adoption of Adoption of restatement IFRS 10 and before IFRS 10 and Amendment € million 2014 / 15* IFRS 11 restated restatement IFRS 11 IA S 28 restated Equity and liabilities Revenue reserves 118.7 – 2.4 116.3 321.7 – 2.6 17.0 336.1 Equity before non-controlling interest 2,016.4 – 2.4 2,014.0 2,405.4 – 2.6 17.0 2,419.8 Non-controlling interest – 19.6 – 0.7 – 20.3 111.7 – 1.3 – 110.4 Equity 1,996.8 – 3.1 1,993.7 2,517.1 – 3.9 17.0 2,530.2 Derivative financial instruments 30.7 – 0.1 30.6 20.7 – – 20.7 Deferred tax liabilities 109.2 – 1.4 107.8 147.3 – 2.5 – 144.8 Other liabilities 98.4 – 4.8 93.6 134.9 – 4.4 – 130.5 Non-current liabilities 2,180.2 – 6.3 2,173.9 2,149.8 – 6.9 – 2,142.9 Non-current provisions and liabilities 3,857.4 – 6.3 3,851.1 3,993.8 – 6.9 – 3,986.9 Other provisions 449.2 – 1.7 447.5 472.0 – 1.0 – 471.0 Current provisions 483.0 – 1.7 481.3 504.1 – 1.0 – 503.1 Financial liabilities 935.5 1.8 937.3 214.5 2.7 – 217.2 Trade payables 3,049.2 – 7.3 3,041.9 3,301.2 – 9.1 – 3,292.1 Derivative financial instruments 178.8 – 1.5 177.3 242.0 – 0.1 – 241.9 Current tax liabilities 134.0 – 1.5 132.5 101.5 – 0.3 – 101.2 Other liabilities 2,819.6 – 11.4 2,808.2 3,152.0 – 17.4 – 3,134.6 Current liabilities 7,117.1 – 19.9 7,097.2 7,011.2 – 24.2 – 6,987.0 Current provisions and liabilities 7,600.1 – 21.6 7,578.5 7,515.3 – 25.2 – 7,490.1 13,454.3 – 31.0 13,423.3 14,026.2 – 36.0 17.0 14,007.2 * As reported in the annual report as at 30 September 2014 A detailed presentation of the impact on the equity items is shown in the statement of changes in equity. R E S TAT E D I T E M S I N T H E C A S H F L O W S TAT E M E N T O F T H E T U I G R O U P F O R T H E P E R I O D F R O M 1 O C T 2 0 13 TO 3 0 S E P 2 0 14 Adoption of before IFRS 10 and € million restatement IFRS 11 restated Cash inflow from operating activities 1,074.7 – 0.2 1,074.5 Cash outflow from investing activities – 586.2 – 0.1 – 586.3 Cash outflow from financing activities – 318.9 0.1 – 318.8 Net change in cash and cash equivalents 169.6 – 0.2 169.4 Change in cash and cash equivalents due to exchange rate fluctuation – 1.6 – 0.1 – 1.7 Change in cash and cash equivalents due to changes in the group of consolidated companies 3.8 – 3.8 Change in cash and cash equivalents without cash effects – 587.5 – – 587.5 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 2,701.7 – 27.7 2,674.0 Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 2,286.0 – 28.0 2,258.0 178 NOTES Principles and Methods underlying the Consolidated Financial Statements Principles and methods of consolidation PRINCIPLES The consolidated financial statements include all significant subsidiaries directly or indirectly controlled by TUI AG . Control exists where TUI AG has power over the relevant activities, is exposed to variable returns or has rights to the returns, and has the ability to affect those variable returns through power over the investee. As a rule, the control is exercised by means of a direct or indirect majority of voting rights. If the TUI Group holds less than the majority of voting rights in a shareholding, it may exercise control due to contractual agreements or similar arrangements. In assessing control, the existence and effect of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are taken into account. Consolidation of subsidiaries starts from the date TUI gains control. When TUI ceases to control the corresponding companies, they are removed from the group of consolidated companies. The consolidated financial statements are prepared from the separate or single-entity financial statements of TUI AG and its subsidiaries, drawn up on the basis of uniform accounting, measurement and consolidation methods and usually exclusively audited or reviewed by auditors. Associates for which the TUI Group is able to exert significant influence over the financial and operating policy decisions within these companies are accounted for using the equity method. As a rule, significant influence is assumed if TUI AG directly or indirectly holds voting rights of 20 to less than 50 per cent. Stakes in joint ventures are also measured using the equity method. A joint venture is a company managed jointly by the TUI Group with one or several partners based on a contractual agreement, in which the parties that jointly exercise control have rights to the company’s net assets. Joint ventures also include companies in which the TUI Group holds a majority or minority of voting rights but in which decisions about the relevant activities may only be taken on an unanimous basis due to contractual agreements. The dates as of which associates and joint ventures are included in or removed from the group of companies measured at equity are determined in a manner consistent with that applied to subsidiaries. At equity measurement in each case is based on the last annual financial statements available or the interim financial statements as at 30 September if the balance sheet dates differ from TUI AG ’s balance sheet date. This affects 33 companies with a financial year from 1 January to 31 December, four companies with a financial year from 1 November to 31 October of the following year and two companies with a financial year from 1 April to 31 March of the following year. Principles and Methods underlying the Consolidated Financial Statements NOTES 179 G R O U P O F C O N S O L I D AT E D C O M PA N I E S In financial year 2014 / 15, the consolidated financial statements included a total of 532 subsidiaries besides TUI AG . 77 subsidiaries were not included in the consolidated financial statements. Even when taken together, these companies are not significant for the presentation of a true and fair view of the net assets, financial position and results of operations of the Group. D E V E L O P M E N T O F T H E G R O U P O F C O N S O L I D AT E D C O M PA N I E S * A N D T H E G R O U P C O M PA N I E S M E A S U R E D AT E Q U I T Y Additions due to Disposals due to Balance Balance Adoption of Adoption of 1 Oct 2014 Balance 30 Sep 2014 IFRS 10 and IFRS 11 IFRS 10 and IFRS 11 restated Additions Disposals 30 Sep 2015 Consolidated subsidiaries 622 – 2 620 21 109 532 Associates 22 – 1 21 – 2 19 Joint ventures 35 3 – 38 1 6 33 * Excl. TUI AG Due to the first-time application of IFRS 10 and IFRS 11 from 1 October 2014, the number of companies included in consolidation and measured at equity reported as at 30 September 2014 was restated. Due to the first-time application of the standards, two companies previously included in consolidation were classified as joint ventures and are now measured at equity; they are therefore no longer consolidated. Moreover, one company previously included as an associate is now classified as a joint venture, resulting in the removal of one company from associates and the addition of one company to joint ventures. Apart from the retrospective changes resulting from the first-time application of IFRS 10 and IFRS 11, a total of 21 companies have been newly included as consolidated subsidiaries since 1 October 2014, with 14 companies newly established, four companies added due to the purchase of additional stakes and three companies added due to an expansion of their business operations. Since 1 October 2014 (restated), a total of 109 companies have been removed from consolidation. 58 of the companies were removed from consolidation due to liquidation, 41 due to divestment and five companies due to mergers. In addition, five companies were removed from consolidation due to the discontinuation of their business operations. 38 of the companies sold relate to the PE AK Group. For more detailed information about the sale of the PE AK Group, please refer to the section on “Acquisitions – Divestments – Discontinued operations”. 19 associated companies and 33 joint ventures are measured at equity as at the balance sheet date. The number of companies measured at equity has decreased by two since 1 October 2014 (restated), with one disposal and one addition to the group of consolidated companies. The number of joint ventures measured at equity has decreased by a total of five since 1 October 2014 (restated) due to the addition of one newly established company and the removal of six companies, three joint ventures of which were sold with the remaining three companies now included in consolidation due to the acquisition of additional stakes. The major direct and indirect subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures of TUI AG are listed under “Other Notes – TUI Group Shareholdings”. 180 NOTES Principles and Methods underlying the Consolidated Financial Statements The effects of the changes in the group of consolidated companies in financial year 2014 / 15 on financial years 2014 / 15 and 2013 / 14 are outlined below. While the value of companies deconsolidated in financial year 2014 / 15 posted in the statement of financial position is carried as per the closing date for the previous period, items in the income statement are also shown for a part year period of financial year 2014 / 15. I M PA C T O F C H A N G E S I N T H E G R O U P O F C O N S O L I D AT E D C O M PA N I E S O N T H E S TAT E M E N T O F F I N A N C I A L P O S I T I O N Additions Disposals € million 30 Sep 2015 30 Sep 2014 Non-current assets 7.1 61.2 Current assets 0.2 50.9 Non-current financial liabilities 4.4 11.9 Current financial liabilities 0.4 0.1 Non-current other liabilities 0.4 4.4 Current other liabilities 0.4 48.3 I M PA C T O F C H A N G E S I N T H E G R O U P O F C O N S O L I D AT E D C O M PA N I E S O N T H E C O N S O L I D A T E D I N C O M E S T A T E M E N T Additions Disposals € million 2014 / 15 2014 / 15 2013 / 14 Turnover with third parties 2.2 108.3 152.1 Turnover with consolidated Group companies – 8.1 7.1 Cost of sales and administrative expenses 2.0 120.4 159.7 Other income / other expenses – 14.1 – Share of result of joint ventures and associates – – 7.0 – 53.0 Financial expenses – – 17.2 – 11.6 Earnings before income taxes 0.2 20.3 – 41.9 Income taxes – – 1.1 4.5 Group profit for the year 0.2 21.4 – 46.4 M E RG E R O F T U I AG A N D T U I T R AV E L PLC On 28 October 2014 the shareholders of TUI AG and the minority shareholders of TUI Travel PLC created the essential prerequisites for the merger between the two companies at General Meetings held in Hanover and London. The capital increase in exchange for non-cash contribution, resolved by the Extraordinary General Meeting of TUI AG , took effect on 11 December 2014 upon registration in the Berlin and Hanover commercial registers. Due to the issue of 242,764,546 new shares, subscribed capital rose by € 620.6 m with a proportionate share in the capital stock per share of around € 2.56. In the consolidated financial statements according to IFRS , the difference between the value of these shares, measured at the stock market share price on the day of registration in the commercial register, and the proportionate share in the capital stock had to be transferred to the capital reserve as a premium worth € 2,693.1 m. The associated after-tax issuance costs of € 16.3 m were deducted from the capital reserve. The merger between TUI AG and TUI Travel PLC was executed through the acquisition of the outstanding minority interests in TUI Travel PLC by TUI AG . The shareholders of TUI Travel PLC with the exception of TUI AG received 0,399 new shares in TUI AG for each TUI Travel share that they held. As this share swap constituted a transaction with non-controlling interests in accordance with IFRS , the negative shares in equity attributable to them of € 606.2 m had to be eliminated against the revenue reserves. Principles and Methods underlying the Consolidated Financial Statements NOTES 181 TUI Travel PLC was re-registered as a private company and became TUI Travel Ltd. with effect from 19 January 2015. The following table shows the impact of the merger on TUI AG ’s equity before non-controlling interest in the period under review. EFFECTS ON EQUITY BEFORE NON-CONTROLLING INTEREST € million 2014 / 15 Effects on subscribed capital 620.6 Increase in capital reserves 2,693.1 Transaction costs – 16.3 Effects on capital reserves 2,676.8 Carrying amount of non-controlling interest acquired – 606.2 Consideration for non-controlling interest acquired – 3,313.7 Transaction costs – 46.0 Amount recognised in retained earnings – 3,965.9 Effects on equity before non-controlling interest – 668.5 Due to this transaction, TUI AG is now the beneficial owner of all shares in TUI Travel PLC . The Extraordinary General Meeting (EGM) of TUI AG on 28 October 2014 resolved to create conditional capital in order to facilitate the future transfer of TUI Travel PLC shares that may arise from conversions of convertible bonds of TUI Travel PLC . Due to the conversion of the convertible bonds of TUI Travel PLC completed to date, 23,640,450 new shares in TUI AG were created. The EGM also resolved to create authorised capital in order to secure the share-based payment schemes granted in 2012 and 2013 in the former Travel Sector. The General Meeting of TUI Travel PLC on 28 October 2014 resolved to amend the Articles of Association accordingly, stipulating that all entitlements to shares in TUI Travel PLC arising in future from these schemes will have to be converted into TUI AG shares at an exchange ratio of 1:0,399. These arrangements excluded £ 200.0 m of convertible bonds issued by TUI Travel PLC , acquired by Deutsche Bank in 2010. TUI AG exercised economic control over these bonds through a financing agreement. In connection with the completion of the merger, Deutsche Bank and TUI AG agreed in December 2014 to terminate this financing scheme early, with redemption of the remaining amount of £ 150.0 m to take place in two steps. Accordingly, a payment of £ 83.3 m (or € 105.8 m) was made in December 2014. On 27 January 2015, TUI AG paid the amount of £ 66.7 m (or € 89.4 m) still outstanding at that point in time and a compensation of around £ 3 m for the early repayment as consideration for the transfer of the bonds. In March 2015, TUI Travel Ltd. redeemed the convertible bonds early by paying £ 200.0 m to TUI AG . In the wake of the merger, the Group’s funding was also revised. The credit facility previously granted to TUI ­Travel PLC was replaced by corresponding financing agreements of TUI AG . The newly negotiated funding scheme consists of a revolving credit line of € 1,535.0 m and a facility to grant bank guarantees of € 215.0 m, maturing on 30 June 2018. Total transaction costs amounted to € 16.8 m. They are included as prepaid expenses in the statement of financial position and charged to expenses on a straight-line basis over the term of the credit facility. Moreover, due to the completion of the merger, the restrictions on the proceeds of € 300.0 m from the issuance of a high-yield bond in September 2014 were lifted. In the prior year, these amounts had been invested in a money market fund on a fiduciary basis on behalf of TUI AG . Due to the disposal of the shares in the money market fund, financial assets available for sale decreased by € 300.0 m. 182 NOTES Principles and Methods underlying the Consolidated Financial Statements A C Q U I S I T I O N S – D I V E S T M E N T S – D I S C O N T I N U E D O P E R AT I O N ACQUISITIONS In financial year 2014 / 15, 11 travel agencies were acquired in the form of asset deals. Moreover, further interests were acquired in aQi Hotel Schladming GmbH and aQi Hotelmanagement GmbH, previously measured at equity. Due to the acquisitions, the TUI Group now holds 100 % of the shares in each of these companies. The consideration transferred by the TUI Group for the acquisitions exclusively comprises purchase price payments and totals € 3.4 m. The acquisitions did not have a material effect on turnover or the Group result for the reporting period. No major acquisitions were carried out after the balance sheet date. The purchase price allocations of the following companies and businesses acquired in financial year 2013 / 14 were finalised within the twelve-month timeframe provided under IFRS 3 in the present annual financial statements without having a major impact on the consolidated statement of financial position: • Le Passage to India Tours & Travels pvt. Ltd, New Delhi, India • Global Obi S.L, Palma de Mallorca, Spain • 6 travel agencies in Germany • OF T REISEN GmbH, Rengsdorf, Germany • Carlson Saint Martin SAS (Group), Anse Marcel, Saint Martin • Voukouvalides Tours Tourism S.A., Kos, Greece DIVESTMENTS In May 2015, the decision was taken to split up the adventure travel portfolio, pooled in the Australian subsidiary PE AK Adventure Travel Group Ltd between TUI AG and the then non-controlling shareholders in PE AK . On 31 July 2015, an agreement was executed with the non-controlling shareholders to retain, in particular, the activities in Europe and North America in the Group and to transfer the remaining business to the non-controlling shareholders. Upon execution, the companies to be transferred, previously included in the Specialist Group segment had to be derecognised. In return, TUI AG received the non-controlling stakes in the companies remaining within the Group. The transaction generated a profit of € 4.4 m, included under Other income. This profit includes the amounts reclassified from equity. The effects of the other divestments on the TUI Group’s net assets, financial position and results of operations were immaterial. D I S C O N T I N U E D O P E R AT I O N TUI AG has decided to exit the LateRooms Group segment. The LateRooms Group consists of the online hotel portals LateRooms, AsiaRooms and MalaPronta, which provide accommodation services to final customers, in particular in the UK , Asia and Brazil. The operating business of AsiaRooms was discontinued in the second quarter of 2014 / 15. Expenses of € 17.2 m arose in connection with the closure. The discontinuation of the operating business of MalaPronta took place in the fourth quarter of 2014 / 15, resulting in expenses of € 5.4 m. On 6 October 2015, LateRooms was sold. The measurement of LateRooms as at 30 September 2015, based on the agreed purchase price less costs to sell, resulted in impairment charges of € 36.0 m. Principles and Methods underlying the Consolidated Financial Statements NOTES 183 The result from this discontinued operation is reported separately from the income and expenses of continuing operations in the consolidated income statement, shown in a separate line under Result from discontinued operation. The income statements of the consolidated interim financial statements of the prior year were restated accordingly. I N C O M E S TAT E M E N T O F T H E D I S C O N T I N U E D O P E R AT I O N L AT E R O O M S G R O U P F O R T H E P E R I O D F R O M 1 O C T 2 0 14 TO 3 0 S E P 2 0 15 € million 2014 / 15 2013 / 14 Turnover 69.7 74.8 Cost of sales 51.4 42.7 Gross profit 18.3 32.1 Administrative expenses 43.2 36.8 Other expenses 7.3 – Financial expenses 0.7 0.7 Earnings before income taxes from the discontinued operation – 32.9 – 5.4 Income taxes – 0.1 10.0 Result from the discontinued operation – 32.8 – 15.4 Result from the measurement of the discontinued operation – 36.0 – Result from the discontinued operation – 68.8 – 15.4 Group loss for the year attributable to shareholders of TUI AG – 67.0 – 8.3 Group loss for the year attributable to non-controlling interest – 1.8 – 7.1 Earnings before income taxes declined year-on-year in financial year 2014 / 15 due to expenses incurred in connection with the closure of AsiaRooms and MalaPronta. The result from the measurement of the discontinued operation based on the purchase price less costs to sell does not include any income taxes. The assets and liabilities are shown separately in the consolidated statement of financial position under “Assets held for sale” and “Liabilities related to assets held for sale”. The table below presents the key asset and liability groups of the discontinued operation. 184 NOTES Principles and Methods underlying the Consolidated Financial Statements A S S E T S A N D L I A B I L I T I E S O F T H E D I S C O N T I N U E D O P E R AT I O N L AT E R O O M S G R O U P A S AT 3 0 S E P 2 0 15 € million 30 Sep 2015 Assets Other intangible assets 3.9 Property, plant and equipment 7.5 Deferred tax assets 7.8 Non-current assets 19.2 Trade receivables and other assets 10.2 Cash and cash equivalents 9.5 Current assets 19.7 38.9 € million 30 Sep 2015 Equity and liabilities Revenue reserves 7.3 Equity before non-controlling interest 7.3 Non-controlling interest 0.1 Equity 7.4 Deferred tax liabilities 4.0 Non-current liabilities 4.0 Trade payables to third-parties 10.6 Current tax liabilities 11.5 Other liabilities 5.4 Current liabilities 27.5 38.9 Receivables from and payables to the Group’s continuing operations are eliminated in the consolidated statement of financial position and are therefore not included in the items “Assets held for sale” and “Liabilities related to assets held for sale”. R E C O N C I L I AT I O N T O A S S E T S H E L D F O R S A L E I N T H E F I N A N C I A L P O S I T I O N O F T H E T U I G R O U P A S AT 3 0 S E P 2 0 15 € million 30 Sep 2015 Current and non-current assets of the LateRooms Group 38.9 Elimination of receivables from continuing operations – 0.1 Assets held for sale 38.8 Principles and Methods underlying the Consolidated Financial Statements NOTES 185 R E C O N C I L I AT I O N T O L I A B I L I T I E S R E L AT E D T O A S S E T S H E L D F O R S A L E I N T H E F I N A N C I A L P O S I T I O N O F T H E T U I G R O U P A S AT 3 0 S E P 2 0 15 € million 30 Sep 2015 Current and non-current liabilities of the LateRooms Group 31.5 Elimination of liabilities against continuing operations – Liabilities related to assets held for sale 31.5 The consolidated cash flow statement shows the cash flows of the overall Group including the discontinued operation. The table below provides a separate presentation of the cash flows of the discontinued operation. C O N D E N S E D C A S H F L O W S TAT E M E N T O F T H E D I S C O N T I N U E D O P E R AT I O N L AT E R O O M S G R O U P € million 2014 / 15 2013 / 14 Cash outflow from operating activities – 13.6 – 10.6 Cash outflow from investing activities – 8.3 – 9.3 Cash inflow from financing activities 16.3 11.4 Change in cash and cash equivalents due to exchange rate fluctuation – 0.9 – Net change in cash and cash equivalents of the discontinued operation – 6.5 – 8.5 F O R E I G N E X C H A N G E T R A N S L AT I O N Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into the functional currency at the foreign exchange rates at the date of the transaction. Any gains and losses resulting from the execution of such transactions and the translation of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the foreign exchange rate at the date of the transaction are shown in the income statement, with the exception of gains and losses to be recognised in equity as qualifying cash flow hedges. The annual financial statements of companies are prepared in the respective functional currency. The functional currency of a company is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the company operates. With the exception of a small number of companies, the functional currencies of all subsidiaries correspond to the currency of the country of incorporation of the respective subsidiary. Where subsidiaries prepare their financial statements in functional currencies other than the euro, being the Group’s reporting currency, the assets, liabilities and notes to the statement of financial position are translated at the average rate of exchange applicable at the balance sheet date (closing rate). Goodwill allocated to these companies and adjustments of the fair value arising on the acquisition of a foreign company are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign company and also translated at the average rate of exchange applicable at the balance sheet date. The items of the income statement and hence the result for the year shown in the income statement are translated at the average rate of the month in which the respective transaction takes place. Differences arising on the translation of the annual financial statements of foreign subsidiaries are reported outside profit and loss and separately shown as foreign exchange differences in the consolidated statement of changes in equity. When a foreign company or operation is sold, any foreign exchange differences previously included in equity outside profit and loss are recognised as a gain or loss from disposal in the income statement through profit and loss. 186 NOTES Principles and Methods underlying the Consolidated Financial Statements Translation differences relating to non-monetary items with changes in their fair values eliminated through profit and loss (e. g. equity instruments measured at their fair value through profit and loss) are included in the income statement. In contrast, translation differences for non-monetary items with changes in their fair values taken to equity (e. g. equity instruments classified as available for sale) are included in revenue reserves. The TUI Group did not hold any subsidiaries operating in hyperinflationary economies in the financial year under review, nor in the previous year. The translation of the financial statements of foreign companies measured at equity follows the same principles for adjusting carrying amounts and translating goodwill as those used for consolidated subsidiaries. N E T I N V E S T M E N T I N A F O R E I G N O P E R AT I O N Monetary items receivable from or payable to a foreign operation, the settlement of which is neither planned nor likely in the foreseeable future, essentially constitute part of a net investment in this foreign operation. Foreign exchange differences from the translation of these monetary items are recognised in other comprehensive income. E XC H A N G E R AT E S O F C U R R E N C I E S O F R E L E VA N C E T O T H E T U I G R O U P Closing rate Annual average rate 1 € equivalent 30 Sep 2015 30 Sep 2014 2014 / 15 2013 / 14 Sterling 0.74 0.78 0.74 0.82 US dollar 1.12 1.26 1.15 1.36 Swiss franc 1.09 1.21 1.10 1.22 Swedish krona 9.41 9.15 9.35 9.00 C O N S O L I D AT I O N M E T H O D S The recognition of the net assets of acquired businesses is based on the acquisition method. Accordingly all identifiable assets and all liabilities assumed are measured at fair value as of the acquisition date. Subsequently, the consideration for the stake is measured at fair value and eliminated against the acquiree’s revalued equity attributable to the acquired share. As in the prior year, the option to measure the non-controlling interests at their fair value (full goodwill method) was not used. Any excess of acquisition costs over net assets acquired is capitalised as goodwill and recognised as an asset for the acquired subsidiary in accordance with the provisions of IFRS 3. Any negative goodwill is recognised immediately in profit and loss and presented as other income. When additional shares are purchased after obtaining control, the difference between the purchase price and the carrying amount of the stakes acquired is recognised directly in equity. The effects from sales of stakes not entailing a loss of control are also recognised directly in equity. By contrast, when control is obtained or lost, gains or losses are recognised in profit and loss. In the case of business combination achieved in stages (where the acquirer held an equity interest before he obtained control), the equity stake previously held in the acquired company is revalued at the fair value applicable at the acquisition date and the resulting gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss. For transactions involving a loss of control, the profit or loss does not only comprise the difference between the carrying amounts of the disposed stakes and the consideration received but also the result from the revaluation of the remaining shares. Principles and Methods underlying the Consolidated Financial Statements NOTES 187 On loss of control of a subsidiary the gain or loss on derecognition will be calculated as the difference of the fair value of the consideration plus the fair value of any investment retained in the former subsidiary less the share of the book value of the net assets of the subsidiary. Any gains or losses previously recognised in other comprehensive income from currency translations or the valuation of financial assets and liabilities will be reclassified to the profit or loss statement. When a subsidiary is sold, any goodwill allocated to the respective subsidiary is taken into account in the calculation of the profit or loss of disposal. The Group’s associates and joint ventures are measured at equity and included at the cost to purchase as at the acquisition date. The Group’s stake in associates and joint ventures includes the goodwill arising from the respective acquisition. The Group’s share in profits and losses of associates and joint ventures is carried in the income statement as from the date of acquisition (Share of result from joint ventures and associates), while the Group’s share in changes in reserves is shown in its revenue reserves. The accumulated changes arising after the acquisition are shown in the carrying amount of the participation. When the share in the loss of an associated company or joint venture equals or exceeds the Group’s original stake in this company, including other unsecured receivables, no further losses are recognised. Any losses exceeding that stake are only recognised to the extent that obligations have been assumed or payments have been made for the associated company or joint venture. Where the accounting and measurement methods applied by associates and joint ventures differ from the uniform accounting rules applied in the Group, the differences are adjusted. Intercompany receivables and payables or provisions are eliminated. Intercompany turnover and other income as well as the corresponding expenses are eliminated. Intercompany results from intercompany deliveries and services are reversed through profit and loss, taking account of deferred taxes. However, intercompany losses are an indicator that an asset may be impaired. Intercompany profits from transactions with companies measured at equity are eliminated in relation to the Group’s stake in the company. Intercompany transactions are provided at arm’s length. Accounting and measurement methods The consolidated financial statements were prepared according to the historical cost principle, with the exception of certain financial instruments such as financial assets and derivatives held for trading or available for sale as well as plan assets from externally funded defined-benefit obligations held at fair value at the balance sheet date. The financial statements of the consolidated subsidiaries are prepared in accordance with uniform accounting and measurement principles. The amounts recognised in the consolidated financial statements are not determined by tax regulations but solely by the commercial presentation of the net assets, financial position and results of operations as set out in the rules of the IASB . 188 NOTES Principles and Methods underlying the Consolidated Financial Statements TURNOVER RECOGNITION Turnover comprises the fair value of the consideration received or to be received for the sale of products and services in the course of ordinary business activities. Turnover is stated excluding value-added tax, returns, discounts and price rebates and after elimination of intra-Group sales. Turnover and other income is recognised upon delivery of the service or assets and hence upon transfer of the risk. The commission fees received by travel agencies for package tours are recognised once the travel agencies have performed their contractual obligations towards the tour operator. As a rule, this condition is met upon payment by the customers or, at the latest, at the date of departure. The services of tour operators mainly consist in organising and coordinating package tours. Turnover from the organisation of tours is therefore recognised in full when the customer departs. Turnover from individual travel modules booked by the customer directly with airlines, hotel companies or incoming agencies is recognised when the customers use the services concerned. Income from non-completed cruises is recognised according to the proportion of contract performance at the balance sheet date. The percentage of completion is determined as the ratio between travel days completed by the balance sheet date and overall travel days. Interest income is reported on a prorated basis according to the effective interest method. Dividends are recognised when the legal entitlement has arisen. G O O D W I L L A N D O T H E R I N TA N G I B L E A S S E T S Acquired intangible assets are carried at cost. Self-generated intangible assets, primarily software for use by the Group itself, are capitalised at cost where an inflow of future economic benefits for the Group is probable and can be reliably measured. The cost to produce comprises direct costs and directly allocable overheads. Intangible assets with a finite service life are amortised over the expected useful life. Intangible assets acquired as a result of business combinations, such as order book, customer base or trademark rights, are included at their fair value as at the date of acquisition and are amortised on a straight-line basis. U S E F U L L I V E S O F I N TA N G I B L E A S S E T S Useful lives Concessions, property rights and similar rights up to 20 years Trademarks at acquisition date 15 to 20 years Order book as at acquisition date until departure date Software 3 to 10 years Customer base as at acquisiton date up to 15 years If there are any events or indications suggesting potential impairment, the amortised carrying amount of the intangible asset is compared with the recoverable amount. Any losses in value going beyond wear-and-tear depreciation are taken into account through the recognition of impairments. Principles and Methods underlying the Consolidated Financial Statements NOTES 189 Depending on the functional area of the intangible asset, depreciation, amortisation and impairments are included under cost of sales or administrative expenses. If the original cause of a prior year impairment no longer applies, the impairment is written back to other income. Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are not amortised but are tested for impairment at least annually. In addition, impairment tests are conducted if there are any events or indications suggesting potential impairment. The TUI Group’s intangible assets with an indefinite useful life consist exclusively of goodwill. Impairment tests for goodwill are conducted on the basis of cash generating units. According to the IASB rules, cash generating units are the smallest identifiable group of assets that generates cash inflows from continuing use that are largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets or groups of assets. Impairments are recognised where the carrying amount of the tested units plus the allocated goodwill exceeds the recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs of disposal and the present value of future cash flows based on continued use (value in use). The fair value less costs of disposal corresponds to the amount that could be generated between knowledgeable, willing, independent business partners after deduction of the costs of disposal. Due to the restrictions applicable to the determination of cash flows when deriving the value in use, e. g. the requirement not to account for earnings effects from investments in expansions or from restructuring activities for which no provision was formed according to IAS 37, the fair value less costs of disposal usually exceeds the value in use and therefore represents the recoverable amount. Impairments of goodwill required are shown separately in the consolidated income statement. In accordance with IAS 36, reversals of impairment losses for goodwill are prohibited. P R O P E R T Y, P L A N T A N D E Q U I P M E N T Property, plant and equipment are measured at amortised cost. The costs to purchase comprise the costs to purchase an asset and to place it in a working condition. The costs to produce are determined on the basis of direct costs and directly attributable indirect costs and depreciation. Borrowing costs directly associated with the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets are included in the costs to acquire or produce these assets until the assets are ready for their intended use. The capitalisation rate is 4.00 % for the current financial year and 6.00 % for the previous year. In financial year 2014 / 15, borrowing costs of € 8.8 m (previous year € 10.1 m) were capitalised as part of the costs to purchase and costs to produce. Other borrowing costs are recognised as current expenses. To the extent that funds are borrowed specifically for the purpose of obtaining a qualifying asset, the underlying capitalisation rate is determined on the basis of the specific borrowing cost; in all other cases the weighted average of the borrowing costs applicable to the borrowings outstanding is applied. 190 NOTES Principles and Methods underlying the Consolidated Financial Statements Depreciation of property, plant and equipment is based on the straight-line method, based on the customary useful lives. Use-related depreciation and amortisation is based on the following useful lives. U S E F U L L I V E S O F P R O P E R T Y, P L A N T A N D E Q U I P M E N T Useful lives Hotel buildings 30 to 40 years Other buildings up to 50 years Cruise ships 20 to 30 years Yachts 5 to 15 years Motorboats 15 to 24 years Aircraft Fuselages and engines up to 18 years Engine overhaul depending on intervals, up to 5 years Major overhaul depending on intervals, up to 5 years Spare parts 12 years Other machinery and fixtures up to 40 years Operating and business equipment up to 10 years Moreover, the level of depreciation is determined by the residual amounts recoverable at the end of the useful life of an asset. The residual value assumed in first-time recognition for cruise ships and hotel complexes is 30 % of the acquisition costs. The determination of the depreciation of aircraft fuselages, aircraft engines and spare parts in first-time recognition is based on a residual value of 20 % of the cost of acquisition. Both the useful lives and residual values are reviewed on an annual basis when preparing the annual financial statements. The review of the residual values is based on comparable assets at the end of their useful lives as at the current point in time. Any adjustments required are recognised as a correction of depreciation over the remaining useful life of the asset. The adjustment of depreciation is recognised retrospectively for the entire financial year in which the review has taken place. Where the review results in an increase in the residual value so that it exceeds the remaining net carrying amount of the asset, depreciation is suspended. In this case, the amounts are not written back. Any losses in value going beyond wear-and-tear depreciation are taken into account through the recognition of impairment losses. If there are any events or indications suggesting impairment, the required impairment test is performed to compare the carrying amount of an asset with the recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less costs of disposal and the value of future cash flows attributable to the asset (value in use). Investment grants received are shown as reductions in the costs to purchase or produce items of property, plant or equipment where these grants are directly allocable to individual items. Where a direct allocation of grants is not possible, the grants and subsidies received are included as deferred income under other liabilities and reversed in accordance with the use of the investment project. Principles and Methods underlying the Consolidated Financial Statements NOTES 191 LEASES FINANCE LEASES In accordance with IAS 17, leased property, plant and equipment in which the TUI Group assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership is capitalised. Capitalisation is based on the fair value of the asset or the present value of the minimum lease payments, if lower. Depreciation is charged over the useful life or the lease term, if shorter, on the basis of the depreciation method applicable to comparable purchased or manufactured assets. Payment obligations arising from future lease payments are disclosed as liabilities, excluding future interest expenses. Every lease payment is broken down into an interest portion and a redemption portion so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability. The interest portion is disclosed in the income statement through profit or loss. Where companies of the TUI Group are lessors in finance leases, receivables equivalent to the net investment value are included for the leases. The periodic distribution of the income from finance leases results in constant interest payments on the outstanding net investment volume of the leases over the course of time. O P E R AT I N G L E A S E S Both expenses incurred and income received under operating leases are recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the corresponding leases. SALE-AND-LE A SE-BACK TR ANSAC TIONS Gains from sale-and-lease-back transactions resulting in a finance lease are recognised in income over the term of the lease. If a sale-and-lease-back transaction results in an operating lease, a gain or loss is recognised immediately if the transaction has demonstrably been carried out at fair value. If a loss is compensated for by future lease payments at below-market price, this loss is deferred and amortised over the term of the lease agreement. If the agreed purchase price exceeds fair value, the gain arising from the difference between these two values is also deferred and amortised. INVESTMENT PROPERT Y Property not occupied for use by subsidiaries and exclusively held to generate rental income and capital gains is recognised at amortised cost. This property is amortised over a period of up to 50 years. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Financial instruments are contractual rights or obligations that will lead to an inflow or outflow of financial assets or the issue of equity rights. They also comprise derivative rights or obligations derived from primary assets. In accordance with IAS 39, financial instruments are broken down into financial assets or liabilities to be measured at fair value through profit and loss, loans and receivables, financial assets available for sale, financial assets held to maturity and other liabilities. In terms of financial instruments measured at fair value through profit and loss, the TUI Group holds derivative financial instruments mainly to be classified as held for trading as they do not meet the balance sheet-related criteria as hedges in the framework of a hedging relationship. The fair value option is not exercised. Moreover, the TUI Group holds financial assets in the loans and receivables and available for sale categories. However, the present financial statements do not include any assets held to maturity. 192 NOTES Principles and Methods underlying the Consolidated Financial Statements In financial year 2014 / 15, no major reclassifications were recognised within the individual measurement categories as in the previous year. PRIMARY FINANCIAL A SSE TS AND FINANCIAL LIABILITIE S Primary financial assets are recognised at the value as at the trading date on which the Group commits to buy the asset. Primary financial assets are classified as loans and receivables or as financial assets available for sale when recognised for the first time. Loans and receivables as well as financial assets available for sale are initially recognised at fair value plus transaction costs. Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or fixable contractual payments not listed in an active market. They are shown under trade accounts receivable and other assets in the statement of financial position and classified as current receivables if they mature within twelve months of the balance sheet date. In the framework of follow-up measurement, loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost based on the effective interest method. Value adjustments are made to account for identifiable individual risks. Where objective information indicates that impairments are required, e. g. substantial financial difficulties of the counterparty, payment delays or adverse changes in regional industry conditions expected to impact the Group’s borrowers in the light of past experience, impairments are recognised at an amount corresponding to the expected loss. Impairments and reversals of impairments are included under cost of sales, administrative expenses or financial expenses, depending on the nature of the transaction. Financial assets available for sale are non-derivative financial assets either individually expressly allocated to this category or not allocable to any other category of financial assets. In the TUI Group, they consist of stakes in companies and securities. They are allocated to non-current assets unless management intends to sell them within twelve months of the balance sheet date. Financial assets available for sale are measured at their fair value upon initial recognition. Changes in the fair value are included in equity outside profit or loss until the disposal of the assets. If there is objective evidence of impairment, an impairment loss is taken through profit and loss. Objective evidence may, in particular, be substantial financial difficulties of the counterparty and significant changes in the technological, market, legal or economic environment. Moreover, for equity instruments held, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value below its cost is also objective evidence of impairment. The TUI Group concludes that a significant decline exists if the fair value falls by more than 20 % below cost. A decline is assessed as prolonged if the fair value remains below cost for more than twelve months. In the event of subsequent reversal of the impairment, the impairment included in profit or loss is not reversed for equity instruments but recognised in other comprehensive income. Where a listed market price in an active market is not available for shares held in companies and other methods to determine an objective market value are not applicable, these equity instruments are measured at cost. A derecognition of assets is primarily recognised as at the date on which the rights for payments from the asset expire or are transferred and therefore as at the date essentially all risks and rewards of ownership are transferred. Primary financial liabilities are included in the consolidated statement of financial position if an obligation exists to transfer cash and cash equivalents or other financial assets to another party. First-time recognition of a primary liability is recognised at its fair value. For loans taken out, the nominal amount received is reduced by discounts obtained and borrowing costs paid. In the framework of follow-up measurement, primary financial liabilities are measured at amortised cost based on the effective interest method. Principles and Methods underlying the Consolidated Financial Statements NOTES 193 D E R I V AT I V E F I N A N C I A L I N S T R U M E N T S A N D H E D G I N G In the framework of initial measurement, derivative financial instruments are measured at the fair value attributable to them on the date the contract is entered into. The follow-up measurement is also recognised at the fair value applicable at the respective balance sheet date. Where derivative financial instruments are not part of a hedge in connection with hedge accounting, they have to be classified as held for trading in accordance with IAS 39. The method used to recognise profits and losses depends on whether the derivative financial instrument has been classified as a hedge and on the type of underlying hedged item. Changes in the fair values of derivative financial instruments are recognised in profit and loss unless they are classified as a hedge in accordance with IAS 39. If they are classified as an effective hedge in accordance with IAS 39, the transaction is recognised as a hedge. The TUI Group applies the hedge accounting provisions relating to hedging of balance sheet items and future cash flows. Depending on the nature of the underlying transaction, the Group classifies derivative financial instruments either as fair value hedges against exposure to changes in the fair value of assets or liabilities or as cash flow hedges against variability in cash flows from highly probable future transactions. Upon conclusion of the transaction, the Group documents the hedge relationship between the hedge and the underlying item, the risk management goal and the underlying strategy. In addition, a record is kept of the assessment, both at the beginning of the hedge relationship and on a continual basis, as to whether the derivatives used for the hedge are highly effective in compensating for the changes in the fair values or cash flows of the underlying transactions. Changes in the fair value of derivatives used as fair value hedges for the recognised assets or liabilities are recognised through profit and loss. Moreover, the carrying amounts of the underlying transactions are adjusted through profit and loss for the gains or losses resulting from the hedged risk. The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives forming cash flow hedges is recognised in equity. Any ineffective portion of such changes in the fair value, by contrast, is recognised immediately in the income statement through profit and loss. Amounts taken to equity are reclassified to the income statement and included as income or expenses in the period in which the hedged item has an effect on results. If a hedge expires, is sold or no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, the cumulative gain or loss remains in equity and is only recognised in the income statement through profit and loss when the originally hedged future transaction occurs. If the future transaction is no longer expected to take place, the cumulative gains or losses recognised directly in equity are recognised immediately through profit and loss. INVENTORIE S Inventories are measured at the lower of cost or net realisable value. Net realisable value is the estimated selling price less the estimated cost incurred until completion and the estimated variable costs required to sell. All inventories are written down individually where the net realisable value of inventories is lower than their carrying amounts. Where the original causes of inventory write-downs no longer apply, the write-downs are reversed. The measurement method applied to similar inventory items is the weighted average cost formula. C A S H A N D C A S H E Q U I VA L E N T S Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash, call deposits, other current highly liquid financial assets with an original term of a maximum of three months and current accounts. Overdrawn current accounts are shown as liabilities to banks under current financial liabilities. 194 NOTES Principles and Methods underlying the Consolidated Financial Statements NON-CURRENT ASSETS HELD FOR SALE Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale if the associated carrying amount will be recovered principally through sale rather than through continued use. The reclassification is made at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs of disposal. Depreciation and at equity measurements are suspended. Impairment charges are recognised in profit and loss, with any gains on subsequent remeasurement resulting in the recognition of profits of up to the amount of the cumulative impairment cost. EQUITY Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Costs directly allocable to the issue of new shares or conversion options are taken to equity on a net after-tax basis as a deduction from the issuance proceeds. OWN SHARES The group’s holdings in its own equity instruments are shown as deductions from shareholders’ equity at cost, including directly attributable transaction costs. Own equity instruments are held by an employee benefit trust of TUI Travel Ltd. No gain or loss is recognised in the income statement on the purchase or sale of shares by the employee benefit trust. Any difference between the proceeds from sale and the original cost are being taken to reserves. PROVISIONS Other provisions are formed when the Group has a current legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event and where in addition it is probable that assets will be impacted by the settlement of the obligation and the level of the provision can be reliably determined. Provisions for restructuring comprise severance payments to employees and payments for the early termination of rental agreements. Provisions for environmental protection measures, in particular the disposal of legacy industry waste, are recognised if future cash outflows are likely due to legal and public obligations to implement safeguarding or restoration measures, if the cost of these measures can be reliably estimated and the measures are not expected to lead to a future inflow of benefits. Provisions for onerous losses are formed if the unavoidable costs of meeting contractual obligations exceed the expected economic benefit. Any assets concerned are impaired, if necessary, prior to forming the appropriate provision. No provisions are recognised for future operating losses. Where a large number of similar obligations exist, the probability of a charge over assets is determined on the basis of this group of obligations. A provision is also recognised if the probability of a charge over assets is low in relation to an individual obligation contained in this group. Provisions are measured at the present value of the expected expenses, taking account of a pre-tax interest rate, reflecting current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the liability. Risks already taken into account in estimating future cash flows do not affect the discount rate. Increases in provisions due to accretion of interest are recognised as interest expenses through profit or loss. The pension provision recognised for defined benefit plans corresponds to the net present value of the defined benefit obligations (DBO s) as at the balance sheet date less the fair value of the plan assets. Measurement of any pension assets is limited to the net present value of the value in use in the form of reimbursements from the plan or reductions in future contribution payments. The DBO s are calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method. The net present value of the DBO s is calculated by discounting the expected future outflows of cash at a rate based on the interest rate of top-rated corporate bonds. Principles and Methods underlying the Consolidated Financial Statements NOTES 195 Past service cost is immediately recognised through profit or loss. Remeasurements (in particular actuarial gains and losses) arising from the regular adjustment of actuarial parameters are eliminated against equity outside profit and loss in full when they occur. For defined contribution plans, the Group pays contributions to public or private pension insurance plans on the basis of a statutory or contractual obligation or on a voluntary basis. The Group does not have any further payment obligations on top of the payment of the contributions. The contributions are recognised under staff costs when they fall due. LIABILITIES Liabilities are always recognised at the date on which they arise at fair value less borrowing and transaction costs. Over the course of time, liabilities are measured at amortised cost based on application of the effective interest method. When issuing bonds comprising a debt component and a second component in the form of conversion options or warrants, the proceeds obtained for the respective components are recognised in accordance with their character. At the issuing date, the debt component is included as a bond at a value that would have been generated for the issue of this debt instrument without corresponding conversion options or warrants on the basis of current market terms. If the conversion options or warrants have to be classified as equity instruments, the difference over the issuing proceeds generated is transferred to the capital reserve with deferred taxes taken into account. As a matter of principle, the foreign exchange differences resulting from the translation of trade accounts payable are reported as a correction of the cost of sales. Foreign exchange differences from the translation of liabilities not resulting from normal operating processes are reported under other income / other expenses, financial expenses / income or administrative expenses, depending on the nature of the underlying liability. D E F E R R E D TA X E S In accordance with IAS 12, deferred taxes are determined using the balance sheet liability method. Accordingly, probable future tax assets and liabilities are recognised for all temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes. Expected tax savings from the use of losses carried forward assessed as recoverable in the future are recognised as deferred tax assets. Regardless of the unlimited ability to carry German losses forward which continues to exist, the annual utilisation is limited by the minimum taxation. Foreign losses carried forward frequently have to be used within a given country-specific time limit and are subject to restrictions concerning the use of these losses carried forward for profits on ordinary activities, which are taken into account accordingly in the measurement. Income tax is directly charged or credited to equity if the tax relates to items directly credited or charged to equity in the same period or some other period. Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the temporary difference or an unused tax loss can be utilised. 196 NOTES Principles and Methods underlying the Consolidated Financial Statements Deferred taxes are measured at the tax rates and tax provisions applicable at the balance sheet date or adopted by law and expected to be applicable at the date of recognition of the deferred tax asset or the payment of the deferred tax liability. C U R R E N T I N C O M E TA X E S The German companies of the TUI Group have to pay trade income tax of 15.2 % (previous year 15.2 % or 15.7 % depending on the applicable rate). As in the prior year, the corporation tax rate is 15.0 %, plus a 5.5 % solidarity surcharge on corporation tax. The calculation of foreign income taxes is based on the laws and provisions applicable in the individual countries. The income tax rates applied to foreign companies vary from 0.0 % to 40.0 %. Deferred and current income tax liabilities are offset against the corresponding tax assets if they exist in the same fiscal territory and have the same nature and maturity. S H A R E B A S E D PAY M E N T S All share-based payment schemes in the Group are payment schemes paid in cash or via equity instruments. For transactions with cash compensation, the resulting liability for the Group is charged to expenses at its fair value as at the date of the performance of the service by the beneficiary. Until payment of the liability, the fair value of the liability is remeasured at every closing date and all changes in the fair value are recognised through profit and loss. For equity settled transactions the fair value of the awards granted is recognised under staff costs with a corresponding direct increase in equity. The fair value is determined at the point when the awards are granted and spread over the vesting period during which the employees become entitled to the awards. The fair value of the awards granted is measured using option valuation models, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the awards were granted. The amount to be included under staff costs is adjusted to reflect the actual number of share options that vest except where forfeiture is due only to market-based performance conditions not meeting the thresholds for vesting. Principles and Methods underlying the Consolidated Financial Statements NOTES 197 SUMMARY OF SELEC TED ACCOUNTING AND ME A SUREMENT ME THODS The table below lists the key accounting and measurement methods used by the TUI Group. SUMMARY OF SELECTED MEASUREMENT BASES Item in the statement of financial position Measurement base Assets Goodwill At cost (subsequent measurement: impairment test) Other intangible assets with indefinite useful lives At cost (subsequent measurement: impairment test) Other intangible assets with definite useful lives At amortised cost Property, plant & equipment At amortised cost Equity accounted investments At cost as adjusted for post-acquisition changes in the Group’s share of the investment’s net assets Financial assets Loans and receivables At amortised cost Held to maturity Not applicable Held for trading / Derivatives At fair value Available for sale Fair value (with gains or losses recognised within other comprehensive income) or at cost Inventory Lower of cost and net realisable value Trade and other receivables At amortised cost Cash and cash equivalents At cost Assets held for sale Lower of cost and fair value less cost of disposal Liabilities and Provisions Loans and borrowings At amortised cost Provision for pensions Projected unit credit method Other provisions Present value of the settlement amount Financial liabilities Non-derivative financial liabilities At amortised cost Derivative financial liabilities At fair value Payables, trade and other liabilities At amortised cost 198 NOTES Principles and Methods underlying the Consolidated Financial Statements Key estimates and judgements The presentation of the assets, liabilities, provisions and contingent liabilities shown in the consolidated financial statements is based on estimates and judgements. Any uncertainties are appropriately taken into account in determining the values. All estimates and judgements are based on the conditions and assessments as at the balance sheet date. In evaluating the future development of business, reasonable assumptions were made regarding the expected future economic environment in the business areas and regions in which the Group operates. Estimates and judgements that may have a material impact on the amounts reported for assets and liabilities in the TUI Group are mainly related to the following balance sheet-related facts and circumstances: • Establishment of assumptions in the framework of impairment tests, in particular for goodwill • Determination of the fair values in the framework of acquisitions of companies and determination of the useful lives of acquired intangible assets • Determination of useful lives and residual carrying amounts of property, plant and equipment • Determination of actuarial aerumptions to measure pension obligations • Recognition and measurement of other provisions • Recoverability of future tax savings from tax losses carried forward and tax-deductible temporary differences • Measurement of tax risks • Recoverable amounts of touristic prepayments Other estimates and judgements relate to the determination of the recoverable amount in the framework of impairment tests for equity accounted investments and the determination of the fair value of financial instruments, in particular the investment in Hapag-Lloyd AG . Details of the fair value measurement of the investment in Hapag-Lloyd AG and a sensitivity analysis are disclosed in Note 44. Details of the impairment are given in Note 19. Despite careful preparation of the estimates, actual developments may deviate from these. In such cases, the assumptions and the carrying amounts of the assets and liabilities concerned, if necessary, are adjusted accordingly. As a matter of principle, changes in estimates are taken into account in the financial year in which the changes have occurred and in future periods. GOODWILL The goodwill reported as at 30 September 2015 had a carrying amount of € 3,220.4 m (previous year € 3,136.2 m). Following the merger of TUI AG and TUI Travel PLC , the goodwill that was allocated to the former TUI Travel sector was reallocated to the newly created segments. In reallocating goodwill, judgement have been made regarding the methodology and valuation assumptions used to determine the relative values of the newly created segments. The determination of the recoverable amount of a CGU for the annual impairment test requires estimates and judgement with regard to the methodology used and the assumptions, which may have a considerable effect on the recoverable amount and the level of a potential impairment. They relate, in particular, to the weighted average cost of capital ( WACC ) after income taxes, used as the discounting basis, the growth rate in perpetuity and the forecasts for future cash flows including the underlying budget assumptions based on corporate planning. Changes in these assumptions may have a substantial impact on the recoverable amount and the level of a potential impairment. Detailed disclosures about the reallocation of the goodwill of the former TUI Travel sector and the impairment testing and the methods and assumptions used are provided in the section on “Goodwill and other intangible assets” in the section on “Accounting and measurement methods”. Principles and Methods underlying the Consolidated Financial Statements NOTES 199 A C Q U I S I T I O N O F C O M PA N I E S A N D I N TA N G I B L E A S S E T S In accounting for business combinations, the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired have to be measured at their fair values. In this context, cash flow-based methods are regularly used. Depending on the assumptions underlying such methods, different results may be produced. In particular, some judgement is required in estimating the economic useful lives of intangible assets and determining the fair values of contingent liabilities. Detailed information on acquisitions of companies or useful lives of intangible assets is provided in the section “Acquisitions – divestments – discontinued operation” in the chapter on “Principles and methods of consolidation” and in the section on “Goodwill and other intangible assets” of the section “Accounting and measurement methods”. P R O P E R T Y, P L A N T A N D E Q U I P M E N T The measurement of wear-and-tear property, plant and equipment items entails estimates. The carrying amount of property, plant and equipment as at 30 September 2015 totals € 3,629.6 m (previous year € 2,836.0 m). In order to review the amounts carried, an evaluation is carried out on an annual basis to assess whether there are any indications of a potential impairment. These indications relate to a number of areas and factors, e. g. the market-related or technical environment but also physical condition. If any such indication exists, management must estimate the recoverable amount on the basis of expected cashflows and appropriate interest rates. More­over, essential estimates and judgements relate to the definition of economic useful lives as well as the residual amounts of items of property, plant and equipment which may be recovered. More detailed information on the useful lives and residual values of property, plant and equipment items is provided in the section “Property, plant and equipment” in the chapter on “Accounting and measurement methods”. PENSION PROVISIONS As at 30 September 2015, the carrying amount of the provisions for pensions and similar obligations totals € 1,146.9 m (previous year € 1,274.5 m). For those pension plans, where the plan assets exceed the obligation, other assets amounting to € 15.2 m are shown as at 30 September 2015 (prior year € Nil). In order to determine the obligations under defined benefit pension schemes, actuarial calculations are used which depend on underlying assumptions concerning life expectancy and the discount rate. In terms of the estimation of the discount rate used, there has been a change as at 30 September 2015 that is explained in the section “Changes in estimates”. At the balance sheet date, plan assets total € 2,302.1 m (previous year € 1,980.0 m). As assets classified as plan assets are never available for short-term sale, the fair values of these plan assets may change significantly up to the realisation date. The interest rate used to discount the liability is also used to determine the expected return on plan assets. Detailed information on actuarial assumptions is provided in Note 32. OTHER PROVISIONS As at 30 September 2015, other provisions of € 1,209.7 m (previous year € 1,072.6 m) are shown. When recognising and measuring provisions, assumptions are required about probability of occurrence, maturity and level of risk. Provisions are recognised if a past event has resulted in a current legal or constructive obligation, if an outflow of assets is probable in order to meet that obligation, and if a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the liability. 200 NOTES Principles and Methods underlying the Consolidated Financial Statements Determining whether a current obligation exists is usually based on estimates by internal or external experts. The amount of provisions is based on expected expenses, and is either calculated by assessing the specific case in the light of empirical values, outcomes from comparable facts and circumstances or potential bandwidths, or else estimated by experts. Due to the uncertainties associated with assessment, actual expenses may deviate from estimates so that unexpected charges may result. More detailed information on other provisions is offered in the Notes to the statement of financial position under Note 33. D E F E R R E D TA X A S S E T S As at 30 September 2015, deferred tax assets totalling € 330.7 m (previous year € 235.9 m) were recognised. Prior to offsetting against deferred tax liabilities, deferred tax assets total € 682.7 m, including an amount of € 239.4 m (previous year € 135.0 m) for capitalised losses carried forward. The assessment of the usability of deferred tax assets is based on the ability of the respective Group company to generate sufficient taxable income. TUI therefore assesses as at every balance sheet date whether the recoverability of expected future tax savings is sufficiently probable in order to recognise deferred tax assets. The assessment is based on various factors including internal forecasts regarding the future tax asset situation of the Group company. If the assessment of the recoverability of future deferred tax claims changes, impairments may be recognised, if necessary, for the deferred tax assets. More detailed information on deferred tax assets is available in the Notes to the statement of financial position under Note 22. C U R R E N T I N C O M E TA X E S The Group is liable to pay income taxes in various countries. Key estimates are required when determining income tax liabilities, including the probability, the timing and the size of any amounts that may become payable. For certain transactions and calculations the final tax charge cannot be determined during the ordinary course of business. After taking appropriate external advise, the Group makes provisions or discloses contingencies for uncertain tax positions based on the probable or possible level of additional taxes that might be incurred. The level of obligations for expected tax audits is based on an estimation of whether and to what extent additional income taxes will be due. Judgements are corrected, if necessary, in the period in which the final tax charge is determined. Detailed information on the contingency due to German trade tax is available in the Notes to the statement of financial position under Note 40. R E C O V E R A B L E A M O U N T S O F T O U R I S T I C P R E PAY M E N T S At 30 September 2015, trade receivables and other assets include touristic prepayments of €966.6m (previous year € 895.8m). The assessment of the recoverable amounts of touristic prepayments made to hoteliers requires judgement about the volumes of future trading with hoteliers and the credit worthiness of those hoteliers. To assess the recoverablity of touristic prepayments, TUI considers the financial strength of those hoteliers, the quality of the hotels as well as the demand for each hotel and the touristic destination during the past and in coming seasons. C H A N G E S I N E S T I M AT E S The discount rate used for discounting pension obligations is based on an index of first-class corporate bonds. This far, the yield structure resulting from that index has been extrapolated on the basis of the yield curves for various almost risk-free bonds, taking account of an appropriate risk mark-up reflecting the term of the obligation. The risk-free bonds were German government bonds and zero-coupon euro-denominated interest rate swaps. Against the backdrop of strongly diverging interest rates in the Eurozone in the period under review, the yield structures of these bonds currently vary strongly. However, taking account of the fact that a large majority of pension obligations within the Eurozone are held in Germany, the extrapolation of the yield structure will exclusively be based on German government bonds from 30 September 2015. The change in this estimate will cause the discount rate to rise by 25 basis points. As a result, provisions for pensions and similar obligations will decline by € 30.6 m, while deferred tax assets will decrease by € 9.5 m and equity will rise by € 21.1 m outside profit and loss. Segment Reporting NOTES 201 Due to the higher discount rate, the net interest on the net defined benefit liability for the next financial year will increase accordingly. Applying the same estimates as in the past, the net interest for the pension plans concerned would have been € 12.7 m for the financial year 2015 / 16. Using the changed estimates, the expected net interest for these plans increases to € 13.9 m for the next financial year. Segment Reporting Notes on the segments The identification of operating segments is based on the internal organisational and reporting structure primarily built around the different products and services as well as a geographical structure within the TUI Group. Allocation of individual organisational entities to operating segments is exclusively based on economic criteria, irrespective of the participation structure under company law. The segments are independently managed by those in charge, who regularly receive separate financial information for each segment. They regularly report to the Group Executive Committee, which consists of seven Executive Board members and five other executives. The legally binding decision regarding the use of resources is taken by the Executive Board. The TUI Group Executive Board has therefore been identified as the Chief Operating Decision Maker (CODM ) in accordance with IFRS 8. Due to the merger between TUI AG and TUI Travel PLC , the TUI Group changed its organisational structure in financial year 2014 / 15. With effect from 31 March 2015, the previously used reporting structure according to IFRS 8 was adjusted to reflect the changed control concept of the new TUI Group. Prior to the merger with TUI Travel PLC , TUI Travel was a reportable segment, managed as a separate entity from TUI Group’s perspective. After the merger, the services offered by TUI AG and TUI Travel PLC were integrated and a new organisational structure was created. The previous segments TUI Travel (comprised of the four businesses Mainstream, Specialist & Activity, Accommodation & Destinations and Other), TUI Hotels & Resorts and Cruises have been replaced by the following segments: • Northern Region • Central Region • Western Region • Hotels & Resorts • Cruises • Other Tourism • Specialist Group • Hotelbeds Group • LateRooms Group The Northern Region segment comprises the tour operators and airlines as well as the cruise business in the UK , Ireland and the Nordic countries. This segment also comprises the strategic Canadian venture Sunwing and the joint venture TUI Russia. The Central Region segment comprises the tour operators and airlines in Germany and tour operators in Austria, Poland and Switzerland. 202 NOTES Segment Reporting The Western Region segment comprises the tour operators and airlines in Belgium and the Netherlands and tour operators in France. The Hotels & Resorts segment comprises all Group-owned hotels and hotel shareholdings of the TUI Group. The hotel activities of the former Travel Sector have also been allocated to the Hotels & Resorts segment. The Cruises segment consists of Hapag-Lloyd Kreuzfahrten and the joint venture TUI Cruises, as before. The Other Tourism segment comprises the French commercial airline Corsair and, in particular, central tourism functions such as the flight control and information technology. The Specialist Group segment comprises the specialist tour operators previously carried under the designation Specialist & Activity. The Hotelbeds Group segment was previously included in the Accommodation & Destinations business and comprises the B2B hotel portals and incoming agencies. Apart from the segments listed above, the “All other segments” category continues to be shown. It carries, in particular, the corporate centre functions of TUI AG and the interim holdings as well as the Group’s real estate companies. The corporate centre functions of TUI Travel PLC , previously included in TUI Travel, have also been allocated to this segment. The segments Northern Region, Central Region, Western Region, Hotels & Resorts, Cruises and Other Tourism constitute the Tourism Business. The segments Specialist Group, Hotelbeds Group and Other segments comprise other, non-core businesses not related to Tourism. The LateRooms Group operates the online hotel portals ­L ateRooms, AsiaRooms and MalaPronta, offering accommodation services to final consumers. It has been classified as a discontinued operation. For more detailed information, we refer to the section on “Discontinued operation” under “Accounting principles” and the chapter on “Acquisitions, divestments and discontinued operations”. The prior year numbers have been restated to reflect the new reporting structure. Notes to the segment data The selection of segment data presented is based on the regular internal reporting of segmented financial indicators to the Executive Board. Segment reporting discloses in particular the performance indicators EBITA and underlying EBITA , since these indicators are used for value-oriented corporate management and thus represent the consolidated performance indicator within the meaning of IFRS 8. The TUI Group defines EBITA as earnings before interest, income taxes and goodwill impairments. EBITA includes amortisation of other intangible assets. EBITA does not include measurement effects from interest hedges and the proportionate result and measurement effects from container shipping, as the stake in Hapag-Lloyd AG is a financial investment rather than an operative stake from TUI AG ’s perspective. Segment Reporting NOTES 203 In contrast to EBITA , the underlying EBITA has been adjusted for gains on disposal of financial investments, expenses in connection with restructuring measures according to IAS 37, all effects of purchase price allocations, ancillary acquisition cost and conditional purchase price payments and other expenses for and income from one-off items. The one-off items carried as adjustments are income and expense items impacting or distorting the assessment of the operating profitability of the segments and the Group due to their levels and frequencies. These one-off items include, in particular, major restructuring and integration expenses not meeting the criteria of IAS 37, major expenses for litigation, profits and losses from the sale of aircraft and other material business transactions with a one-off character. Alongside this indicator, segment reporting is voluntarily extended to include EBITDA and EBITDAR . In the TUI Group EBITDA is defined as earnings before interest, income taxes, goodwill impairments and amortisation and write-ups of other intangible assets, depreciation and write-ups of property, plant and equipment and investments. The amounts of amortisation and depreciation represent the net balance including write-backs. For the reconciliation from EBITDA to the indicator EBITDAR , long-term leasing and rental expenses are eliminated. Internal and external turnover, depreciation and amortisation, impairments on other intangible assets (excluding goodwill), property, plant and equipment and investments as well as the share of result of joint ventures and associates are likewise shown for each segment, as these amounts are included when measuring EBITA . As a rule, inter-segment business transactions are based on the arm’s length principle, as applied in transactions with third parties. No single external customer accounts for 10 % or more of turnover. Assets and liabilities per segment are not included in the reporting to the Executive Board and are therefore not shown in segment reporting. The only asset-related segmental indicator reported to the Executive Board is capital expenditure, which therefore is also disclosed in this segment reporting. The amounts shown represent cash capital expenditure in intangible assets and property, plant and equipment in line with the indicator reported internally. Financing, like taken loans and finance lease agreements, are not included in this indicator. Therefore the amount of the capital expenditure does not coincide with the additions to intangible assets and property, plant and equipment. A reconciliation of the investments is presented in a separate table. Depreciation, amortisation and write-backs relate to non-current assets that are split geographically and do not include goodwill impairments. The non-current assets, which are split geographically, contain other intangible assets, investment property, property, plant and equipment and other non-current assets that do not meet the definition of financial instruments. 204 NOTES Segment Reporting Segment indicators TURNOVER BY SEGMENT 2014 / 15 2013 / 14 External Group Total € million External Group Total restated restated restated Northern Region 7,014.9 130.3 7,145.2 6,200.8 98.5 6,299.3 Central Region 5,601.8 49.6 5,651.4 5,426.0 64.5 5,490.5 Western Region 2,903.4 9.2 2,912.6 2,970.2 24.6 2,994.8 Hotels & Resorts 574.8 677.4 1,252.2 515.9 648.6 1,164.5 Cruises 273.3 – 273.3 281.0 1.0 282.0 Other Tourism 496.1 3.5 499.6 478.4 14.0 492.4 Consolidation – – 734.7 – 734.7 – – 721.2 – 721.2 Tourism 16,864.3 135.3 16,999.6 15,872.3 130.0 16,002.3 Specialist Group 1,835.1 – 1,835.1 1,625.5 – 1,625.5 Hotelbeds Group 1,227.1 173.2 1,400.3 999.7 220.8 1,220.5 All other segments 85.1 77.7 162.8 39.3 71.2 110.5 Consolidation – – 386.2 – 386.2 – – 422.0 – 422.0 Continuing operations 20,011.6 – 20,011.6 18,536.8 – 18,536.8 Discontinued operations 69.7 – 69.7 74.8 – 74.8 Total 20,081.3 – 20,081.3 18,611.6 – 18,611.6 E B I TA A N D U N D E R LY I N G E B I TA B Y S E G M E N T EBITA Underlying EBITA 2014 / 15 2013 / 14 2014 / 15 2013 / 14 € million restated restated Northern Region 505.3 428.3 530.3 398.3 Central Region 72.9 140.3 103.5 163.0 Western Region 56.6 61.6 68.8 81.7 Hotels & Resorts 195.7 199.1 234.6 202.8 Cruises 80.5 24.2 80.5 9.7 Other Tourism – 26.4 – 27.6 – 21.1 – 22.3 Tourism 884.6 825.9 996.6 833.2 Specialist Group 38.5 26.6 56.2 45.5 Hotelbeds Group 82.3 29.1 116.8 101.7 All other segments – 140.1 – 104.4 – 100.6 – 110.5 Continuing operations 865.3 777.2 1,069.0 869.9 Discontinued operations – 68.1 – 4.7 – 8.5 – 2.8 Total 797.2 772.5 1,060.5 867.1 Segment Reporting NOTES 205 R E C O N C I L I AT I O N T O E A R N I N G S B E F O R E I N C O M E TA X E S O F T H E C O N T I N U I N G O P E R AT I O N S OF THE TUI GROUP 2014 / 15 2013 / 14 € million restated Underlying EBITA of continuing operations 1,069.0 869.9 Result on disposal * 5.2 3.7 Restructuring expense * – 64.8 – 43.6 Expense from purchase price allocation * – 76.2 – 71.8 Expense (previous year income) from other one-off items * – 67.9 19.0 EBITA of continuing operations 865.3 777.2 Profit (previous year loss) on Container Shipping measured at equity 0.9 – 54.2 Loss on measurement of financial investment in Container Shipping – 147.1 – Net interest expense and expense from measurement of interest hedges – 183.7 – 224.3 Earnings before income taxes of continuing operations 535.4 498.7 * For a description of the adjustments please refer to the management report. EBITDA AND EBITDAR BY SEGMENT Long-term leasing and EBITDA rental expenses EBITDAR 2014 / 15 2013 / 14 2014 / 15 2013 / 14 2014 / 15 2013 / 14 € million restated restated Northern Region 608.4 532.1 365.0 341.7 973.4 873.8 Central Region 101.2 162.8 206.5 139.9 307.7 302.7 Western Region 78.6 84.9 144.5 128.6 223.1 213.5 Hotels & Resorts 308.7 280.3 116.8 110.1 425.5 390.4 Cruises 97.6 37.3 10.7 38.8 108.3 76.1 Other Tourism 24.2 – 2.9 29.1 26.2 53.3 23.3 Consolidation – – – 5.6 – 15.9 – 5.6 – 15.9 Tourism 1,218.7 1,094.5 867.0 769.4 2,085.7 1,863.9 Specialist Group 86.0 70.1 60.7 49.4 146.7 119.5 Hotelbeds Group 121.7 63.9 18.0 16.3 139.7 80.2 All other segments – 64.4 – 64.9 374.4 320.0 310.0 255.1 Consolidation – – – 451.9 – 357.4 – 451.9 – 357.4 Continuing operations 1,362.0 1,163.6 868.2 797.7 2,230.2 1,961.3 Discontinued operations – 12.1 7.1 1.0 1.0 – 11.1 8.1 Total 1,349.9 1,170.7 869.2 798.7 2,219.1 1,969.4 206 NOTES Segment Reporting O T H E R S E G M E N TA L I N F O R M AT I O N Amortisation (+) / write-backs (–) of intangible assets and depreciation (+) / write-backs (–) of property, plant and equipment Thereof impairments (+) / Share of result of joint and investments write-backs (–) ventures and associates Capital expenditure 2014 / 15 2013 / 14 2014 / 15 2013 / 14 2014 / 15 2013 / 14 2014 / 15 2013 / 14 € million restated restated restated Northern Region 103.1 103.8 5.3 18.3 23.7 – 0.3 65.3 70.5 Central Region 28.3 22.5 4.4 0.3 3.1 3.1 23.6 24.9 Western Region 22.0 23.3 0.4 – – – 23.6 22.3 Hotels & Resorts 113.0 81.2 25.6 0.3 44.0 40.7 167.3 133.6 Cruises 17.1 13.1 – – 68.1 31.3 86.7 10.4 Other Tourism 50.6 24.7 23.2 – – – 0.2 82.5 39.0 Tourism 334.1 268.6 58.9 18.9 138.9 74.6 449.0 300.7 Specialist Group 47.5 43.5 1.0 0.2 – 0.6 35.7 32.7 Hotelbeds Group 39.4 34.8 – 0.2 4.7 5.6 38.4 27.8 All other segments 75.7 39.5 0.6 – 6.4 – 0.2 60.0 12.7 Continuing operations 496.7 386.4 60.5 12.9 143.6 81.0 583.1 373.9 Discontinued operations 56.0 11.8 49.1 – – – 11.2 11.8 Total 552.7 398.2 109.6 12.9 143.6 81.0 594.3 385.7 R E C O N C I L I AT I O N O F C A P I TA L E X P E N D I T U R E 2014 / 15 2013 / 14 € million restated Capital expenditure 594.3 385.7 Debt financed investments 211.0 – Finance leases 477.4 161.5 Advance payments 232.1 216.5 Additions to the group of consolidated companies 8.6 39.2 Additions to other intangible assets, investment property and property, plant and equipment 1,523.4 802.9 KE Y FIGURES BY REGION Thereof external Thereof non-current External turnover turnover from assets from discontinued by customer discontinued operation Non-current assets operation 2014 / 15 2013 / 14 2014 / 15 2013 / 14 2014 / 15 2013 / 14 2014 / 15 2013 / 14 € million restated restated Germany 5,033.0 4,860.6 0.3 0.5 581.3 374.4 – – Great Britain 6,824.3 6,010.3 63.1 63.1 2,054.7 1,474.6 11.4 27.1 Spain 483.4 164.4 0.2 0.3 604.4 581.2 – – Other Europe 6,148.4 6,222.8 1.9 2.9 499.3 552.6 – – North and South America 972.8 875.1 1.2 1.9 533.8 500.9 – – Rest of the world 619.4 478.4 3.0 6.1 462.9 495.6 – 9.8 Total 20,081.3 18,611.6 69.7 74.8 4,736.4 3,979.3 11.4 36.9 Notes to the Consolidated Income Statement NOTES 207 Notes to the Consolidated Income Statement The financial year 2014 / 15 showed a strong growth in the TUI Group’s earnings position. Operating growth was driven by the very good performance of Northern Region, Hotels & Resorts and Cruises. The significant increase in the result from continuing operations reflected an improved operating performance, favourable effects of foreign exchange conversion, a better interest result and lower tax charges following the merger with TUI Travel PLC . (1) Turnover Group turnover is mainly generated from tourism services. A breakdown of turnover into the segments is shown in the segment reporting. (2) Cost of sales and administrative expenses The cost of sales relates to the expenses incurred in the rendering of tourism services. In addition to the expenses for personnel, depreciation, amortisation, rental and leasing, they include all costs incurred by the Group in connection with the provision and delivery of airline services, hotel accommodation and cruises as well as distribution costs. Administrative expenses comprise all expenses incurred in connection with activities by the administrative ­functions and break down as follows: A D M I N I S T R AT I V E E X P E N S E S 2014 / 15 2013 / 14 € million restated Staff cost 971.2 878.7 Lease, rental and leasing expenses 78.3 72.3 Depreciation, amortisation and impairments 106.5 90.6 Others 559.4 492.2 Total 1,715.4 1,533.8 Apart from foreign exchange effects, the year-on-year increase in administrative expenses in financial year 2014 / 15 mainly results from reorganisation and restructuring measures implemented in the reporting period, in particular as a result of the rationalisation of the corporate head office, the planned integration of incoming agencies into the source market organisations and the aggregation of the airlines. The reorganisation schemes in the Germany, Benelux and Nordic source markets also resulted in higher administrative expenses compared to the prior year. Further expenses particularly relate to impairments of VAT claims in an Italian subsidiary and the recognition of provision for pending litigation in connection with the acquisition of the business of a Turkish hotel management company. 208 NOTES Notes to the Consolidated Income Statement The cost of sales and administrative expenses include the following expenses for rent and leasing, personnel and depreciation / amortisation: L E A S E , R E N TA L A N D L E A S I N G E X P E N S E S 2014 / 15 2013 / 14 € million restated Lease, rental and leasing expenses 929.6 860.0 thereof cost of sales 851.3 787.7 thereof administrative expenses 78.3 72.3 Where rental and lease expenses for operating leases are directly related to the turnover generating activities, these expenses are shown under the cost of sales. However, where rental and lease expenses are incurred in respect of administrative buildings, they are shown under administrative expenses. The year-on-year increase in lease, rental and leasing expenses mainly relates to lease expenses for aircraft. As the lease agreements for aircraft have been denominated in US dollars, leasing expenses have risen due to the exchange rates movements. Moreover, lease payments for aircraft have increased slightly year-on-year due to changes in the composition of the aircraft fleet. This increase offsets the decline in leasing expenses for cruise ships driven by the acquisition of Europa 2, which had previously been leased. S TA F F C O S T S 2014 / 15 2013 / 14 € million restated Wages and salaries 2,233.6 2,083.7 thereof cost of sales 1,426.6 1,351.2 thereof administrative expenses 807.0 732.5 Social security contributions, pension costs and benefits 482.0 362.5 thereof cost of sales 317.8 216.3 thereof administrative expenses 164.2 146.2 Total 2,715.6 2,446.2 Pension costs include among others service cost for defined benefit obligations. The net interest expense from the defined benefit obligations is included under financial expenses due to its financing nature. A detailed presentation of pension obligations is provided in Note 32. Beside foreign exchange effects, the increase in the expenses for wages and salaries versus the prior year mainly results from expenses in connection with the restructuring measures outlined in the explanatory information on administrative expenses. In the prior year, social security contributions, pension costs and other benefits were reduced by an income amounting to € 81.0 m from the curtailment of pension plans, included within cost of sales. Apart from that effect and the restructuring expenses incurred in financial year 2014 / 15, primarily the development of the Euro exchange rate caused a year-on-year increase in expenses due to translation effects. Notes to the Consolidated Income Statement NOTES 209 The average annual headcount (excluding apprentices) developed as follows: AVE R AGE ANNUAL HE ADCOUNT IN THE FINANCIAL YE AR (E XCL . APPRE NTICE S) 2013 / 14 2014 / 15 restated Average annual – Continuing operations 70,943 70,143 Average annual – Discontinued operations 399 552 Total 71,342 70,695 D E P R E C I AT I O N /A M O R T I S AT I O N / I M PA I R M E N T 2013 / 14 € million 2014 / 15 restated Depreciation and amortisation 436.3 373.4 thereof cost of sales 331.5 282.9 thereof administrative expenses 104.8 90.5 Impairment of other intangible assets, property, plant and equipment and investment property 59.2 21.6 thereof cost of sales 57.5 21.5 thereof administrative expenses 1.7 0.1 Total 495.5 395.0 Depreciation and amortisation includes the amortisation of other intangible assets, depreciation of property, plant and equipment as well as write-downs of investment property. The uniform Group-wide useful lives that drive depreciation and amortisation and the principles for impairment are outlined in the section “Accounting and measurement”. The impairment charge mainly comprises an impairment of € 26.4 on property, plant and equipment in Tenuta di Castelfalfi S.p.A. The main impairment of intangible assets included an impairment charge of € 24.9 m for software. In the previous year, a major component of the impairment of property, plant and equipment of € 18.2 m related to the impairment of the cruise ship Island Escape. (3) Other income / other expenses OTHER INCOME/OTHER EXPENSES € million 2014 / 15 2013 / 14 Other income 51.2 35.9 Other expenses 8.0 2.1 Total 43.2 33.8 210 NOTES Notes to the Consolidated Income Statement In the financial year 2014 / 15, other income mainly results from the profit that arose from the sale of a Riu Group hotel (€ 16.9 m) sold in Q1 2014 / 15 and from the sale of two Greek hotel companies in Q3 2014 / 15 (€ 10.1 m). Income was also generated from the sale of the companies in the PE AK Adventure Travel Group (€ 4.4 m) and the sale of two hotels in the Specialist Group as well as sale-and-lease-back transactions of aircraft. Further income relates to the recycling of cumulative foreign exchange gains previously carried in equity outside profit and loss resulting from a capital reduction in a subsidiary. Other income recognised in the prior year mainly related to profits from sale-and-lease-back transactions of aircraft and profits from the disposal of real estate. Additional income resulted from the sale of a hotel company in Switzerland and from gains on disposal from the sale of investments. Other expenses recognised in the financial year 2014 / 15 mainly resulted from foreign exchange losses in connection with capital reductions and liquidations of subsidiaries and from losses from the sale of aircraft assets. (4) Goodwill impairment In financial year 2014 / 15, and also in the prior year, the implementation of impairment tests according to IAS 36 did not result in any goodwill impairments for the TUI Group’s cash generating units. (5) Financial income FINANCIAL INCOME 2014 / 15 2013 / 14 € million restated Income from non-consolidated Group companies including income from profit transfer agreements 1.6 2.0 Income from other investments 1.5 0.4 Income from investments 3.1 2.4 Other interest and similar income 20.3 25.3 Income from the measurement of interest rate hedges 1.0 – Interest income 21.3 25.3 Income from the measurement of other financial instruments 3.9 9.1 Foreign exchange gains on financial items 9.6 – Total 37.9 36.8 Notes to the Consolidated Income Statement NOTES 211 (6) Financial expenses FINANCIAL EXPENSES 2014 / 15 2013 / 14 € million restated Net interest expenses from defined benefit pension plans 34.4 38.6 Other interest and similar expenses 153.4 207.1 Expenses relating to the measurement of interest rate hedges 17.2 3.9 Interest expenses 205.0 249.6 Expenses relating to the measurement of the investment in Hapag-Lloyd AG 147.1 – Expenses relating to the measurement of other financial instruments 6.6 43.6 Foreign exchange losses on financial items 11.4 7.7 Total 370.1 300.9 The year-on-year reduction in other interest and similar expenses is attributable to changes in the structure of financial liabilities. All convertible bonds were fully converted in financial year 2014 / 15. Accordingly, the interest expense for convertible bonds declined by € 95.9 m. TUI AG also repaid a bank loan of € 100.0 m in August 2014. As a result, the interest expense declined by a further € 12.9 m. The reduction was partly offset by the impacts of the new funding scheme in connection with the merger between TUI AG and TUI Travel PLC . The credit facility granted to TUI Travel was replaced by a credit facility granted to TUI AG . The issuance costs for the credit facility of TUI Travel PLC previously carried as prepaid expenses of € 14.2 m were fully taken through profit and loss in the first quarter of 2014 / 15. The high-yield bond worth € 300.0 m issued by TUI AG in September 2014 resulted in interest expenses of € 13.5 m. In addition, the acquisition of Europa 2 led to an increase in financial liabilities and a rise in interest expenses of € 9.9 m. Interest expenses also rose by € 10.3 m due to the increase in finance lease liabilities. In financial year 2014 / 15, expenses for the measurement of financial instruments mainly include an impairment of the stake in Hapag-Lloyd AG , shown in a separate line in the table. For further details please refer to note 19. In the previous year, expenses for the measurement of other financial instruments mainly resulted from the impairment of loans to TUI Russia. (7) Share of results of joint ventures and associates S H A R E O F R E S U LT O F J O I N T V E N T U R E S A N D A S S O C I AT E S 2014 / 15 2013 / 14 € million restated Income from associated companies measured at equity 36.5 29.9 Expenses for associated companies measured at equity 7.6 59.5 Share of result of associates 28.9 – 29.6 Income from joint ventures measured at equity 127.4 80.4 Expenses for joint ventures measured at equity 11.8 24.0 Share of result of joint ventures 115.6 56.4 Total 144.5 26.8 212 NOTES Notes to the Consolidated Income Statement The share of results of joint ventures and associates comprises the net profit for the year attributable to TUI Group. The considerable increase in the share of results of joint ventures and associates is due to the commissioning of cruise ships Mein Schiff 3 and Mein Schiff 4 by TUI Cruises in June 2014 and June 2015 and the improvement in the operating performance of Riu Hotels and Sunwing Travel Group. Moreover, the prior year comparative figure included losses generated by TUI Russia (€ 21.4 m) and container shipping (€ 38.9 m). In financial year 2014 / 15, no losses were recognised for TUI Russia as this would have resulted in a negative carrying amount for the interests in TUI Russia. Hapag-Lloyd AG , which had a negative profit contribution in the prior year, has been included under financial assets available for sale since 2 December 2014. In the financial year under review, and also in the prior year the share of results of joint ventures and associates did not include any impairment charges. (8) Income taxes B R E A K D O W N O F I N C O M E TA X E S 2014 / 15 2013 / 14 € million restated Current tax expense in Germany 17.5 16.8 abroad 170.1 96.7 Deferred tax income (previous year tax expense) – 100.6 99.0 Total 87.0 212.5 The increase in the current tax expenses is largely attributable to income taxes related to prior periods, which created tax expenses of € 33.0 m in financial year 2014 / 15 whereas tax income of € 39.2 m had been generated in the prior year. The deferred tax income is mainly driven by a revaluation of deferred tax assets on losses carried forward in Germany. TUI AG and Leibniz-Service GmbH entered a profit and loss transfer agreement which resulted in an enlargement of the German tax group for income tax purposes. This led to an increase in the recoverability of domestic losses carried forward of € 144.9 m. An offsetting effect amounting to € 30.7 m arose from the impairment of deferred tax assets on losses carried forward in the UK mainly due to the reassessment of planned reorganisation measures following the merger. In financial year 2014 / 15, total income taxes of € 87.0 m (previous year € 212.5 m) were derived from an “expected” income tax expense that would have arisen if the statutory income tax rate of TUI AG as the parent company (aggregate income tax rate) had been applied to earnings before tax as follows: Notes to the Consolidated Income Statement NOTES 213 R E C O N C I L I AT I O N O F E X P E C T E D T O A C T U A L I N C O M E TA X E S 2014 / 15 2013 / 14 € million restated Earnings before income taxes 535.4 498.7 Expected income tax (current year 31.0 %, previous year 31.5 %) 166.0 157.1 Variation from the difference between actual and expected tax rates – 44.5 – 44.0 Changes in tax rates and tax law – 6.9 – 1.9 Income not taxable – 130.0 – 74.8 Expenses not deductible 165.4 93.7 Effects from loss carryforwards – 110.5 65.9 Temporary differences for which no deferred taxes were recognised 6.8 23.5 Deferred and current tax relating to other periods (net) 39.7 – 7.5 Other differences 1.0 0.5 Income taxes 87.0 212.5 The increase in non-taxable income reflects the non-taxable positive results of joint ventures and associates. Expenses which are not deductible increased, in particular, due to one-off effects in Germany such as the impairment of the interests in container shipping. The effects of losses carried forward mainly result from the enlargement of the German tax group for income tax purposes. An offsetting effect arises from the impairment of deferred tax assets on losses carried forward in the UK . (9) Result from discontinued operation The result from discontinued operation shows the after tax result of the LateRooms Group, which is classified as a discontinued operation. For further information please refer to the section “discontinued operation” within “Acquisitions, divestments and discontinued operations”. (10) Group profit for the year attributable to shareholders of TUI AG The share in Group profit attributable to the TUI AG shareholders improved from € 90.4 m in the prior year to € 340.4 m in financial year 2014 / 15. Apart from the general improvement in the Group’s result, the increase is attributable to the fact that non-controlling interests in TUI Travel PLC were only held until the merger between TUI AG and TUI Travel PLC in December 2014. 214 NOTES Notes to the Consolidated Income Statement (11) Group profit for the year attributable to non-controlling interests G R O U P P R O F I T F O R T H E Y E A R AT T R I B U TA B L E T O N O N C O N T R O L L I N G I N T E R E S T 2014 / 15 2013 / 14 € million restated Central Region 2.3 2.5 Western Region – 0.1 – Hotels & Resorts 88.8 66.7 Tourism 91.0 69.2 Specialist Group – 3.1 0.7 Hotelbeds Group 1.8 1.6 All other segments 0.1 0.1 Formerly Travel ( TUI Travel PLC – Group) – 50.6 108.8 Total 39.2 180.4 Since the merger of TUI AG and TUI Travel PLC in December 2014 the result of TUI Travel PLC – Group is no longer attributable to non-controlling interests. Accordingly only the losses of the winter season have been attributed to minorities in the current year. The Group result for the year attributable to non-controlling interests in the Hotels & Resorts segment mainly relates to the RIUSA II Group. (12) Earnings per share In accordance with IAS 33, basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing the Group profit for the year attributable to TUI AG shareholders by the weighted average number of registered shares outstanding during the financial year under review. The average number of shares is derived from the total number of shares at the beginning of the financial year (286,561,143 shares), the shares resulting from the capital increase (195,412,121 shares on a pro rata temporis basis), the employee shares issued on a pro rata temporis basis (121,251 new shares for 331 days) and the conversion of bonds into new shares (33,263,465 shares on a pro rata temporis basis). The prorated effect of 2,243,264 own shares, held by an employee benefit trust of TUI Travel Ltd., was deducted. The dividend on the hybrid capital is deducted from Group profit for the year attributable to shareholders of TUI AG until cancellation as of 24 March 2015, since the hybrid capital represents equity but does not constitute Group profit attributable to TUI AG shareholders until cancellation. Notes to the Consolidated Income Statement NOTES 215 EARNINGS PER SHARE 2014 / 15 2013 / 14 restated Group profit for the year attributable to shareholders of TUI AG  € million 340.4 90.4 Dividend effect on hybrid capital € million – 10.9 – 23.2 = Adjusted Group profit for the year attributable to shareholders of TUI AG  € million 329.5 67.2 Weighted average number of shares 513,114,716 262,595,131 Basic earnings per share € 0.64 0.26 – Basic earnings per share from continuing operations € 0.77 0.29 – Basic earnings per share from discontinued operation € – 0.13 – 0.03 DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE 2014 / 15 2013 / 14 restated Adjusted Group profit for the year attributable to shareholders of TUI AG  € million 329.5 67.2 Interests savings from convertible bonds  € million – 43.6 Diluted and adjusted share in Group profit for the year attributable to shareholders of TUI AG  € million 329.5 110.8 Weighted average number of shares 513,114,716 262,595,131 Diluting effect from assumed exercise of conversion inputs – 57,163,090 Diluting effect from assumed exercise of share awards 6,384,006 – Weighted average number of shares (diluted) 519,498,722 319,758,221 Diluted earnings per share € 0.63 0.26 – Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations € 0.76 0.29 – Diluted earnings per share from discontinued operation € – 0.13 – 0.03 As a rule, a dilution of earnings per share occurs when the average number of shares increases due to the addition of the issue of potential shares. In the period under review, these effects are driven by share-based payment schemes. The conversion rights held in previous years fully expired in financial year 2014 / 15. The potential shares from convertible bonds, which had to be taken into account in financial year 2013 / 14, did not create a dilution effect in the prior year as they would have increased earnings per share. Basic and diluted earnings per share were therefore identical in the prior year. 216 NOTES Notes to the Consolidated Income Statement (13) Taxes attributable to other results TA X E F F E C T S R E L AT I N G T O O T H E R C O M P R E H E N S I V E I N C O M E 2014 / 15 2013 / 14 restated € million Gross Tax effect Net Gross Tax effect Net Foreign exchange differences – 221.7 – – 221.7 – 115.1 – – 115.1 Available for sale financial instruments – – – – 0.9 – – 0.9 Cash flow hedges – 221.0 27.1 – 193.9 119.1 – 20.8 98.3 Remeasurements of pension provisions and related fund assets 82.2 – 24.2 58.0 – 286.0 70.4 – 215.6 Changes in the measurement of companies measured at equity outside profit or loss 22.1 – 22.1 14.3 – 14.3 Other comprehensive income – 338.4 2.9 – 335.5 – 268.6 49.6 – 219.0 In addition, income taxes worth € 17.7 m (previous year € 35.4 m) included outside profit and loss were generated in the period under review. They were recognised directly in equity. Notes on the consolidated statement of financial position NOTES 217 Notes on the consolidated statement of financial position (14) Goodwill GOODWILL € million 2014 / 15 2013 / 14 Historical cost Balance as at 1 Oct 3,590.6 3,421.6 Exchange differences 95.6 146.5 Additions 1.6 27.0 Disposals* – 4.5 Reclassification as assets held for sale – 9.0 – Balance as at 30 Sep 3,678.8 3,590.6 Impairment Balance as at 1 Oct 454.4 445.2 Exchange differences 3.9 11.2 Disposals* – 2.0 Reclassification as assets held for sale 0.1 – Balance as at 30 Sep 458.4 454.4 Carrying amounts as at 30 Sep 3,220.4 3,136.2 * Of which no disposals from changes in the group of consolidated companies The increase in the carrying amount is mainly attributable to the translation of goodwill not reported in the TUI Group’s functional currency into Euros. In accordance with the rules of IAS 21, goodwill allocated to the individual segments and sectors was recognised in the functional currency of the subsidiaries and subsequently translated when preparing the consolidated financial statements. As with the treatment of other differences from the translation of annual financial statements of foreign subsidiaries, differences due to exchange rate movements between the exchange rate at the date of acquisition of the subsidiary and the exchange rate at the balance sheet date are taken directly to equity outside profit and loss and are disclosed as a separate item. In financial year 2014 / 15, the carrying amount of goodwill increase by € 91.7 m (previous year increase of € 135.3 m) as a result of foreign exchange differences. Prior to the merger of TUI AG with TUI Travel PLC , goodwill was allocated to the former TUI Travel Sector as a whole. Due to the reorganisation of the reporting structure following the merger between TUI AG and TUI ­Travel PLC , that goodwill was allocated to the newly created segments based on their relative values. The relative values were calculated as the ratios of the fair values of each newly created segment to the total amount of the fair values of the newly created segments. The calculation of the fair values was based on the discounted cash flows, calculated on the basis of the medium-term plan for TUI Travel PLC , prepared as at 30 September 2014. The reorganisation of the reporting structure did not affect the cash generating units allocated to the Hotels & Resorts segment prior to the merger between TUI AG and TUI Travel PLC . The goodwill allocated to these units therefore remained unchanged. 218 NOTES Notes on the consolidated statement of financial position The following table provides a breakdown of the carrying amounts of goodwill by cash generating unit (CGU ): G O O D W I L L P E R C A S H G E N E R AT I N G U N I T € million 30 Sep 2015 30 Sep 2014 Northern Region 1,736.1 – Central Region 505.7 – Western Region 338.4 – Specialist Group 70.5 – Hotelbeds Group 202.1 – formerly TUI Travel ( TUI Travel PLC Group) – 2,767.5 Riu 351.7 351.7 Robinson 9.7 9.7 Iberotel 6.2 7.3 Total 3,220.4 3,136.2 Impairment charges are recognised if the carrying amount of the tested unit plus the allocated goodwill exceeds the recoverable amount. Goodwill was tested for impairment as at 30 June 2015, whilst in previous years it was as at 30 September. The changed date for the goodwill impairment test is mainly attributable to the realignment of the organisational structure due to the merger with TUI Travel PLC . For all cash generating units, the recoverable amount was determined on the basis of fair value less costs of disposal. The fair value was determined by discounting expected future cash inflows. This was based on the budget for Q4 of the financial year under review, the medium-term plan for the entity under review, prepared as at 30 September 2015, following deduction of income tax payments. Budgeted turnover and EBITA margins are based on empirical values from prior financial years and expectations with regard to the future development of the market. The cash inflows after the planning period are extrapolated on the basis of individual growth rates based on long-term business expectations. The discount rates are calculated as the weighted average cost of capital, taking account of the risks associated with the cash generating unit on the basis of external capital market information. The cost of equity included in the determination reflects the return expected by investors. The cost of borrowing is derived from the long-term financing terms of comparable companies in the peer group. The table below provides an overview of the assumptions used for determinating the fair values per CGU . It shows the timeframe for the cash flow forecast, the growth rates used to extrapolate the cash flow forecast, and the relevant valuation hierarchy according to IFRS 13. The table lists the main cash generating units to which goodwill has been allocated. In the prior year, the fair value of the former CGU TUI Travel was determined on the basis of the closing price of the TUI Travel share in its primary market, the London Stock Exchange. Notes on the consolidated statement of financial position NOTES 219 A S S U M P T I O N S F O R C A L C U L AT I O N O F FA I R VA L U E I N F I N A N C I A L Y E A R 2 0 14 /15 Planning Growth rate EBITA -­ ­period in revenues Margin Growth rate after years in % in % planning period in % WACC in % Level Northern Region 3.25 4.3 6.8 0.5 7.25 3 Central Region 3.25 8.2 2.8 0.5 7.25 3 Western Region 3.25 9.3 3.1 0.5 7.25 3 Riu 3.25 2.4 24.1 0.5 6.75 3 Robinson 3.25 17.9 17.3 0.5 6.75 3 Iberotel 3.25 5.9 18.4 0.5 6.75 3 Specialist Group 3.25 2.3 2.8 0.5 7.25 3 Hotelbeds Group 3.25 11.3 6.0 0.5 7.25 3 A S S U M P T I O N S F O R C A L C U L AT I O N O F FA I R VA L U E I N F I N A N C I A L Y E A R 2 0 13 /14 Planning Growth rate EBITA -­ ­period in revenues Margin Growth rate after years in % in % planning period in % WACC in % Level formerly TUI Travel ( TUI Travel PLC Group) 1 Riu 3 3.6 22.9 1.0 7.25 3 Robinson 3 4.2 15.7 1.0 7.25 3 Iberotel 3 3.4 22.1 1.0 7.25 3 Goodwill was tested for impairment as at 30 June 2015. The test did not result in a requirement to recognise an impairment. Neither an increase in WACC of 50 basis points nor a reduction in the growth rate in perpetuity of 50 basis points would have led to an impairment of goodwill. 220 NOTES Notes on the consolidated statement of financial position (15) Other intangible assets O T H E R I N TA N G I B L E A S S E T S Concessions, industrial SelfTransport property rights and similar ­generated and leasing Customer Payments € million rights and values software contracts base on account Total Historical cost Balance as at 1 Oct 2013 1,116.1 117.4 99.5 242.3 – 1,575.3 Adoption of IFRS 10 and IFRS 11 – 0.6 – – – 0.1 – – 0.7 Balance as at 1 Oct 2013 (restated) 1,115.5 117.4 99.5 242.2 – 1,574.6 Exchange differences 55.6 2.7 7.6 5.8 – 71.7 Additions due to changes in the group of consolidated companies 10.4 – – 4.2 – 14.61 Additions 122.2 22.8 – 0.3 0.4 145.7 Disposals 22.6 5.5 – 0.1 – 28.22 Reclassification as assets held for sale – 0.4 – – – – – 0.4 Reclassifications – 4.7 4.7 – – – – Balance as at 30 Sep 2014 (restated) 1,276.0 142.1 107.1 252.4 0.4 1,778.0 Exchange differences 48.8 4.8 6.4 6.5 – 66.5 Additions due to changes in the group of consolidated companies 0.8 – – 0.2 – 1.03 Additions 165.7 23.9 – 1.6 0.3 191.5 Disposals 35.4 17.0 – 2.2 – 54.64 Reclassification as assets held for sale – 73.1 – 44.7 – – 3.6 – – 121.4 Reclassifications – 111.9 114.4 – 3.0 0.7 – 0.2 – Balance as at 30 Sep 2015 1,270.9 223.5 110.5 255.6 0.5 1,861.0 Amortisation Balance as at 1 Oct 2013 516.4 57.9 31.7 103.1 – 709.1 Adoption of IFRS 10 and IFRS 11 – 0.4 – – – 0.1 – – 0.5 Balance as at 1 October 2013 (restated) 516.0 57.9 31.7 103.0 – 708.6 Exchange differences 29.3 – 0.8 2.5 2.9 – 33.9 Amortisation for the current year 86.2 21.2 3.5 17.1 – 128.0 Disposals 20.2 5.3 – 0.1 – 25.62 Reclassification as assets held for sale – 0.3 – – – – – 0.3 Reclassifications 15.6 – 15.6 – – – – Balance as at 30 Sep 2014 (restated) 626.6 57.4 37.7 122.9 – 844.6 Exchange differences 20.4 1.9 2.1 3.5 – 27.9 Amortisation for the current year 96.5 27.9 0.5 18.2 – 143.1 Impairments for the current year 7.2 29.2 – – – 36.4 Disposals 29.0 17.0 – 2.2 – 48.24 Reclassification as assets held for sale – 27.5 – 25.0 – – 1.8 – – 54.3 Reclassifications – 35.8 31.6 4.2 – – 0.0 Balance as at 30 Sep 2015 658.4 106.0 44.5 140.6 – 949.5 Carrying amounts as at 30 Sep 2014 (restated) 649.4 84.7 69.4 129.5 0.4 933.4 Carrying amounts as at 30 Sep 2015 612.5 117.5 66.0 115.0 0.5 911.5 1 Of which additions due to first-time consolidation of non-consolidated companies of € 0.9 m 2 Of which disposals due to changes in the group of consolidated companies of € 1.2 m (historical cost) and € 1.0 m (amortisation), respectively 3 Of which additions due to first-time consolidation of non-consolidated companies of € 0.2 m 4 Of which disposals due to changes in the group of consolidated companies of € 1.5 m (historical cost) and € 0.8 m (amortisation), respectively Notes on the consolidated statement of financial position NOTES 221 Self-generated software consists of computer programmes for tourism applications exclusively used internally by the Group. Other intangible assets mainly consist of trademarks and customer relationships, and are amortised over their useful lives. Impairments primarily relate to various modules of an internet platform solution for joint use in Northern, Western and Central Region of € 21.8 m. The review of the carrying amount was based on a strategic decision to discontinue the use of these modules. These modules have been fully impaired as there is no possibility to sell them externally. The impairments were recognised within cost of sales. As at the balance sheet date, the carrying amount of intangible assets subject to ownership restrictions or pledged as security totals € 109.1 m (previous year € 112.3 m). (16) Investment property INVESTMENT PROPERTY € million 2014 / 15 2013 / 14 Historical cost Balance as at 1 Oct 23.2 95.1 Additions 0.6 1.6 Disposals 0.6 0.6 Reclassifications – 1.4 – 72.9 Balance as at 30 Sep 21.8 23.2 Depreciation Balance as at 1 Oct 15.5 37.1 Depreciation for the current year 0.4 0.9 Impairments for the current year 0.1 0.1 Disposals 0.3 0.4 Reclassifications – 1.1 – 22.2 Balance as at 30 Sep 14.6 15.5 Carrying amounts as at 30 Sep 7.2 7.7 Real estate owned by the Group is usually occupied for use in the course of the Group’s ordinary business activities. In addition, the Group owns commercial property which meets the definition of investment property under IAS 40. The carrying amount of this investment property shown in fixed assets totals € 7.2 m (previous year € 7.7 m). The fair values totalling € 10.1 m (previous year € 11.3 m) were calculated by the Group’s own real estate company, without consulting an external expert, on the basis of comparable market rents (Level 3 valuation). Investment property generated total income of € 5.3 m (previous year € 8.5 m). The generation of this income was associated with expenses of € 4.9 m (previous year € 7.3 m) in financial year 2014 / 15. The reclassifications made in the completed financial year relate to property in Bremen and Salzgitter, which were sold in the course of the year. In the prior year, reclassifications related to the science park in Kiel and an industrial park in Berlin-Tempelhof, initially reclassified to assets held for sale and subsequently sold. 222 NOTES Notes on the consolidated statement of financial position (17) Property, plant and equipment P R O P E R T Y, P L A N T A N D E Q U I P M E N T Other real estate, land rights and buildings incl. Real estate buildings on third-party € million with hotels properties Aircraft Historical cost Balance as at 1 Oct 2013 1,315.2 189.3 968.6 Adoption of IFRS 10 and IFRS 11 – – – Balance as at 1 Oct 2013 (restated) 1,315.2 189.3 968.6 Exchange differences 11.0 6.4 50.7 Additions due to changes in the group of consolidated companies 21.5 0.8 – Additions 58.7 11.3 182.0 Disposals 13.9 4.0 51.0 Reclassification as assets held for sale – 74.1 – 17.5 – Reclassifications 14.7 45.9 10.0 Balance as at 30 Sep 2014 (restated) 1,333.1 232.2 1,160.3 Balance as at 1 Oct 2014 1,333.1 232.2 1,160.3 Adoption of IFRS 10 and IFRS 11 – – – Balance as at 1 Oct 2014 (restated) 1,333.1 232.2 1,160.3 Exchange differences – 11.7 – 1.5 77.0 Additions due to changes in the group of consolidated companies 6.5 – – Additions 41.9 41.4 525.9 Disposals 1.5 8.3 42.2 Reclassification as assets held for sale 6.9 – 0.7 – 45.0 Reclassifications 26.3 – 3.4 58.4 Balance as at 30 Sep 2015 1,401.5 259.7 1,734.4 Depreciation Balance as at 1 Oct 2013 407.7 56.8 477.1 Adoption of IFRS 10 and IFRS 11 – – – Balance as at 1 Oct 2013 (restated) 407.7 56.8 477.1 Exchange differences 10.1 1.7 15.0 Depreciation for the current year 34.1 4.3 76.7 Impairments for the current year – – 0.1 Disposals 7.8 2.6 44.3 Reclassification as assets held for sale – 54.3 – 10.7 – Reclassifications – 6.4 30.3 – Balance as at 30 Sep 2014 (restated) 383.4 79.8 524.6 Balance as at 1 Oct 2014 383.4 79.8 524.6 Adoption of IFRS 10 and IFRS 11 – – – Balance as at 1 Oct 2014 (restated) 383.4 79.8 524.6 Exchange differences – 3.6 3.7 13.8 Depreciation for the current year 38.8 6.2 101.0 Impairments for the current year 0.2 19.8 0.6 Disposals 1.1 6.2 35.6 Reclassification as assets held for sale 1.4 – 0.1 – 36.0 Reclassifications 11.2 – 6.5 – Balance as at 30 Sep 2015 430.3 96.7 568.4 Carrying amounts as at 1 Oct 2014 (restated) 949.7 152.4 635.7 Carrying amounts as at 30 Sep 2015 971.2 163.0 1,166.0 1 Of which additions due to first-time consolidation of non-consolidated companies of € 0.3 m 2 Of which disposals due to changes in the group of consolidated companies of € 0.3 m (historical cost) and € 0.2 m (depreciation), respectively 3 Of which additions due to first-time consolidation of non-consolidated companies of € 0.2 m 4 Of which disposals due to changes in the group of consolidated companies of € 0.8 m (historical cost) and € 0.7 m (depreciation), respectively Notes on the consolidated statement of financial position NOTES 223 Other plants, operating Machinery and office equipment Assets under Payments Ships and fixtures ­revised construction on account Total 747.9 238.4 955.8 100.3 229.0 4,744.5 – – – 3.3 – – – 3.3 747.9 238.4 952.5 100.3 229.0 4,741.2 36.2 0.2 16.5 0.7 12.8 134.5 – – 2.3 – – 24.61 32.5 11.8 84.3 24.5 211.3 616.4 23.6 0.7 56.3 1.7 229.4 380.6 2 – – 2.0 – 12.6 – – – 106.2 – 4.6 7.2 – 0.9 – 58.6 – 2.0 11.7 788.4 254.9 985.8 65.2 221.7 5,041.6 788.4 255.0 989.0 65.2 221.7 5,044.9 – – 0.1 – 3.2 – – – 3.3 788.4 254.9 985.8 65.2 221.7 5,041.6 29.3 – 1.1 1.0 1.1 16.5 110.6 – – 1.1 – – 7.63 314.9 23.7 83.0 59.7 232.2 1,322.7 24.6 4.7 65.8 4.0 236.4 387.54 – – – 14.5 – 6.5 – 7.6 – 67.4 2.1 4.2 16.2 – 60.5 – 50.6 – 7.3 1,110.1 277.0 1,006.8 55.0 175.8 6,020.3 298.8 165.3 656.8 – – 2,062.5 – – – 2.7 – – – 2.7 298.8 165.3 654.1 – – 2,059.8 14.3 0.4 8.0 – – 49.5 44.2 13.2 83.7 – – 256.2 18.2 – 3.2 – – 21.5 16.5 0.7 49.4 – – 121.3 2 – – 1.8 – 11.2 – – – 78.0 – 3.4 4.4 – 7.0 – – 17.9 355.6 180.8 681.4 – – 2,205.6 355.6 180.8 684.1 – – 2,208.3 – – – 2.7 – – – 2.7 355.6 180.8 681.4 – – 2,205.6 13.7 – 0.6 1.0 – – 28.0 52.8 15.1 85.8 – – 299.7 2.9 4.8 0.4 2.2 – 30.9 19.2 4.4 56.9 1.7 – 125.14 – – – 10.5 – 0.5 – – 45.7 – 2.4 – 1.5 – 3.5 – – – 2.7 403.4 194.2 697.7 0.0 – 2,390.7 432.8 74.1 304.4 65.2 221.7 2,836.0 706.7 82.8 309.1 55.0 175.8 3,629.6 224 NOTES Notes on the consolidated statement of financial position In the period under review, cruise ship Europa 2 was acquired for a contractual purchase price of € 291.7 m. Following deduction of lease payments of € 13.5 m made in advance, the remaining acquisition cost totalled € 278.2 m. The transaction replaces the previous charter agreement for the cruise liner commissioned in 2013. Moreover, seven aircraft worth € 556.6 m were capitalised in the period under review, six of which were operated under finance leases with one aircraft owned by the Group. In addition, advance payments for further aircraft to be delivered in the future amounting to € 224.4 m were capitalised. In the period under review, impairment charges mainly related to buildings and technical systems at Tenuta di Castelfalfi S.p.A in the segment Hotels & Resorts. An impairment test required due to planning updates, recognised as at the balance sheet date, resulted in an impairment of € 26.4 m. The fair value of € 28.8 m was determined by discounted cashflow valuations based on the current budget by applying a discount rate of 6.5 % p. a. Any cashflows for periods after the budgeting period have been extrapolated with a constant growth rate of 0.5 % p. a. As the calculations were based on internal budgets, the fair values have to be assigned to level 3 under the IFRS 13 hierarchy. In the previous year, impairment charges were mainly recognised in relation to the Island Escape cruise ship (€ 18.2 m). The impairment charges were included within cost of sales. At the balance sheet date, the carrying amount of property, plant and equipment subject to restraints on ownership or pledged as security amounts to € 700.4 m (previous year € 347.3 m). Property, plant and equipment also includes leased assets in which Group subsidiaries have assumed substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the assets. COMPOSITION OF FINANCE LEASED ASSETS Net carrying amounts € million 30 Sep 2015 30 Sep 2014 Other real estate, land rights and buildings incl. buildings on third-party properties 24.2 15.2 Aircraft 871.0 418.6 Ships, yachts and boats 96.3 101.8 Machinery and fixtures 0.1 0.8 Other plants, operating and office equipment 18.4 16.8 Total 1,010.0 553.2 The payment obligations resulting from future lease payments are included as liabilities, with future interest expenses not reflected in the carrying amount of the financial liabilities. Total payments due in future periods under finance leases amount to € 1,216.6 m (previous year € 612.7 m). Group companies have not accepted any guarantees for the residual values of the leased assets, as in the prior year. Notes on the consolidated statement of financial position NOTES 225 R E C O N C I L I AT I O N O F F U T U R E L E A S E PAY M E N T S T O L I A B I L I T I E S F R O M F I N A N C E L E A S E S 30 Sep 2015 30 Sep 2014 Remaining term Remaining term more than more than € million up to 1 year 1 – 5 years 5 years Total up to 1 year 1 – 5 years 5 years Total Total future lease payments 103.3 396.4 716.9 1,216.6 64.9 196.3 351.5 612.7 Interest portion 34.4 115.8 84.4 234.6 18.1 59.3 34.7 112.1 Liabilities from finance leases 68.9 280.6 632.5 982.0 46.8 137.0 316.8 500.6 (18) Investments in joint ventures and associates The table below presents the TUI Group’s significant joint arrangements and associates. All joint arrangements and associates are listed in the list of TUI Group Shareholdings in Note 56. All joint arrangements are joint ventures. There are no joint operations within the definition of IFRS 12. S I G N I F I C A N T A S S O C I AT E S A N D J O I N T V E N T U R E S Capital share in % Voting rights share in % Name and headquarter of company Nature of business 30 Sep 2015 30 Sep 2014 30 Sep 2015 30 Sep 2014 Associates Sunwing Travel Group Inc., Toronto, ­C anada Tour operator 49.0 49.0 25.0 25.0 Blue Diamond Hotels and Resorts Inc., St. Michael, Barbados Hotel operator 49.0 49.0 49.0 49.0 Hapag-Lloyd Aktiengesellschaft, Container shipping ­Hamburg, Germany company –* 22.0 –* 22.0 Joint ventures Riu Hotels S.A., Palma de Mallorca, Spain Hotel operator 49.0 49.0 49.0 49.0 TUI Cruises GmbH, Hamburg, Germany Cruise ship operator 50.0 50.0 50.0 50.0 Togebi Holdings Limited, Nicosia, Cyprus Tour operator 49.0 49.0 49.0 49.0 * Not measued at equity, significant influence lost in December 2014 All companies shown in the table are accounted for using the equity method. The financial years of Sunwing Travel Group Inc. and Blue Diamond Hotels and Resorts Inc. correspond to the TUI Group’s financial year. The financial years of the other associates and joint ventures end on 31 December of each year. In order to update at equity measurement as at the TUI Group’s balance sheet date, interim financial statements for the period ending 30 September are prepared for these companies. 226 NOTES Notes on the consolidated statement of financial position S I G N I F I C A N T A S S O C I AT E S In 2009, the Sunwing Travel Group entered into a partnership with TUI Group. Sunwing Travel Group Inc. is a vertically integrated travel company that encompasses tour operators, an airline and retail travel agencies. The company has different classes of shares. TUI Group holds 25 % of the voting shares. Blue Diamond Hotels and Resorts Inc., a hotel operation and development company, operates a chain of luxury beach holiday resorts and hotels in the Caribbean and Mexico. Hapag-Lloyd AG is a container shipping group. In accordance with the amendments to IAS 28, applicable for the TUI Group from financial year 2014 / 15, 70 % of the overall TUI Group interest – corresponding to 15.4 % of the issued share capital – is recognised retrospectively as an associate using the equity method. The remaining 30 % of the overall TUI Group interest – representing 6.6 % of issued share capital with a carrying amount of € 140.2 m – is recognised as an asset held for sale, as before, due to the expected merger between Hapag-Lloyd AG and Compañia Sud Americana de Vapores S.A. (CSAV ) and the associated reduction in the interest held in Hapag-­Lloyd AG to 15.4 %. This resulted in a restatement of the prior year amounts. See the section “Restatement of the prior reporting period”. C H A N G E S I N T H E G R O U P ’ S I N T E R E S T I N S I G N I F I C A N T A S S O C I AT E S In the prior year, the TUI Group held a stake of 22.0 % in Hapag-Lloyd AG located in Hamburg. On 2 December 2014, the merger between Hapag-Lloyd AG and Compañia Sud Americana de Vapores S.A. (CSAV ), contractually agreed in April 2014, was completed. In the framework of this transaction, CSAV transferred its container shipping activities to Hapag-Lloyd AG as a non-cash contribution, in exchange for a 30 % stake in the combined entity. TUI Group’s stake in post-merger Hapag-Lloyd declined from 22.0 % to 15.4 % due to the transaction. As a result, TUI lost its significant influence over the company. In accordance with IAS 28, the stake in the interest measured at equity of € 344.4 m and the stake included as assets held for sale of € 140.2 m were derecognised, and the remaining interest, whose fair value totalled € 481.9 m at the closing date of the transaction, was recognised as a financial asset available for sale. The interest in Hapag-Lloyd AG declined from 15.4 % to 13.9 % due to non-participation in a cash capital increase carried out in mid-December 2014. As at 30 September 2015, the remaining interest in Hapag-Lloyd AG is carried as a financial asset available for sale, as before. SIGNIFICANT JOINT VENTURES Riu Hotels S.A. is a hotel company owning and operating 4to 5-star hotels. The hotels of the company established in 1976 are mainly located in Spain and Central America. TUI Cruises is a joint venture with the US shipping line Royal Caribbean Cruises Ltd. established in 2008. The Hamburg-based company offers German-speaking cruises for the premium market. Since the commissioning of Mein Schiff 4 in June 2015, TUI Cruises has operated four cruise ships in this market. Togebi Holdings Limited is a joint venture with Oscrivia Limited, a company owned by the Russian S-Group Capital Management Limited. The business purpose of this joint venture, established in 2009, is to develop the tour operation business, in particular in Russia and Ukraine. The company owns tour operation subsidiaries and retail chains in these countries. F I N A N C I A L I N F O R M AT I O N O N A S S O C I AT E S A N D J O I N T V E N T U R E S The following tables provide summarised financial information for the significant associates and joint ventures of the TUI Group. The information disclosed reflects the full amounts presented in the consolidated financial statements of the relevant associates and joint ventures (100 per cent) and not TUI Group’s share of those amounts. Notes on the consolidated statement of financial position NOTES 227 C O M B I N E D F I N A N C I A L I N F O R M AT I O N O F M AT E R I A L A S S O C I AT E S Blue Diamond Hapag-Lloyd AG , Sunwing Travel Group Inc., Hotels and R­ esorts Inc., Hamburg, Germany ­Toronto, Canada St. Michael, Barbados (until December 2014)2 30 Sep 2015 / 30 Sep 2014 / 30 Sep 2015 / 30 Sep 2014 / 30 Sep 2015 / 30 Sep 2014 / € million 2014 / 15 2013 / 14 2014 / 15 2013 / 14 2014 / 15 2013 / 14 Non-current assets 163.1 160.8 314.7 212.3 – 5,326.9 Current assets 368.9 315.5 84.1 38.9 – 1,289.5 Non-current provisions and liabilities 44.9 40.5 114.9 76.7 – 3,064.2 Current provisions and liabilities 285.7 265.4 170.8 87.5 – 1,471.9 Revenues 1,557.3 1,231.4 201.9 97.2 1,168.0 6,547.6 Profit / loss1 45.2 36.3 17.5 15.3 – 51.9 – 275.8 Other comprehensive income – – – 1.6 – 3.9 15.2 89.3 Total comprehensive income 45.2 36.3 15.9 11.4 – 36.7 – 186.5 1 Solely from continuing operations 2 Until classification of investment in Hapag-Lloyd AG as available for sale financial asset C O M B I N E D F I N A N C I A L I N F O R M AT I O N O F M AT E R I A L J O I N T V E N T U R E S Riu Hotels S.A., TUI Cruises GmbH, Togebi Holdings Limited, Palma de Mallorca, Spain Hamburg, Germany ­Nicosia, ­Cyprus 30 Sep 2015 / 30 Sep 2014 / 30 Sep 2015 / 30 Sep 2014 / 30 Sep 2015 / 30 Sep 2014 / € million 2014 / 15 2013 / 14 2014 / 15 2013 / 14 2014 / 15 2013 / 14 Non-current assets 829.7 720.5 1,569.4 1,107.0 5.2 30.3 Current assets 72.1 72.8 195.7 175.9 19.0 41.8 thereof cash and cash equivalents 27.4 27.0 109.0 128.0 3.4 6.1 Non-current provisions and liabilities 101.7 81.5 860.4 585.1 157.0 105.2 thereof financial liabilities 73.2 79.8 860.4 538.8 146.1 98.6 Current provisions and liabilities 160.6 145.6 367.9 204.6 35.5 74.6 thereof financial liabilities 104.6 145.5 – – 27.3 49.0 Turnover 276.9 228.6 614.1 381.3 200.9 397.9 Depreciation of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment 24.9 22.3 42.0 28.8 4.7 1.1 Interest income 0.1 0.4 5.8 7.6 – – Interest expenses 2.6 3.2 11.4 7.2 5.0 5.0 Income taxes 26.1 22.8 – – – – 0.2 Profit / loss1 70.9 53.4 136.2 62.6 – 44.1 – 72.5 Other comprehensive income 69.1 19.5 – 22.6 15.8 – – Total comprehensive income 140.0 72.9 113.6 78.4 – 44.1 – 72.5 1 Solely from continuing operations 228 NOTES Notes on the consolidated statement of financial position In the financial year 2014 / 15, TUI Group received dividends of € 35.0 m from TUI Cruises and € 34.3 m from Riu Hotels S.A. In total dividends amounting to € 76.4 m were paid by all joint ventures to the TUI Group (previous year € 24.2 m, thereof € 9.8 m from Riu Hotels S.A.). In the financial year 2014 / 15 the TUI Group received dividends amounting to € 2.6 m from all associates in total, thereof no dividends from any of the major associates (previous year € 12.3 m in total, thereof € 8.4 m from Sunwing Travel Group). In addition to the material associates and joint ventures, TUI Group has interests in a number of equity accounted associates and joint ventures that are individually not considered as significant. The tables below provide information on TUI Group’s share of the profit / loss, other income and other comprehensive income of the material associates and joint ventures as well as the aggregated amount of the share of these earnings figures for the immaterial associates and joint ventures. S H A R E O F F I N A N C I A L I N F O R M AT I O N O F M AT E R I A L A N D O T H E R A S S O C I AT E S Blue Diamond Hapag-Lloyd AG , Sunwing Travel Group Inc., Hotels and Resorts Inc., ­Hamburg, Germany Toronto, Canada St. Michael , Barbados (until December 2014) Other ­associates Associates Total 30 Sep 30 Sep 30 Sep 30 Sep 30 Sep 30 Sep 30 Sep 30 Sep 30 Sep 30 Sep 2015 / 2014 / 2015 / 2014 / 2015 / 2014 / 2015 / 2014 / 2015 / 2014 / 2014 / 15 2013 / 14 2014 / 15 2013 / 14 2014 / 15 2013 / 14 2014 / 15 2013 / 14 2014 / 15 2013 / 14 € million restated TUI ’s share of Profit / loss 22.1 17.8 8.6 7.5 0.9 – 54.2 – 2.7 – 0.7 28.9 – 29.6 Other comprehensive income / loss – – 0.1 – 0.8 – 1.9 – 0.1 – 4.9 – 0.1 – 0.9 – 6.8 Total comprehensive income / loss 22.1 17.7 7.8 5.6 0.8 – 59.1 – 2.7 – 0.6 28.0 – 36.4 S H A R E O F F I N A N C I A L I N F O R M AT I O N O F M AT E R I A L A N D O T H E R J O I N T V E N T U R E S Riu Hotels S.A., Palma de TUI Cruises GmbH, Togebi Holdings Limited, Other joint Mallorca, Spain ­Hamburg, Germany Nicosia, Cyprus ventures Joint ventures Total 30 Sep 30 Sep 30 Sep 30 Sep 30 Sep 30 Sep 30 Sep 30 Sep 30 Sep 30 Sep 2015 / 2014 / 2015 / 2014 / 2015 / 2014 / 2015 / 2014 / 2015 / 2014 / 2014 / 15 2013 / 14 2014 / 15 2013 / 14 2014 / 15 2013 / 14 2014 / 15 2013 / 14 2014 / 15 2013 / 14 € million restated TUI ’s share of Profit / loss 34.7 26.3 68.1 31.3 – – 21.3 12.8 20.1 115.6 56.4 Other comprehensive income / loss 33.6 9.6 – 11.3 7.9 – – – 0.8 1.5 21.5 19.0 Total comprehensive income / loss 68.3 35.9 56.8 39.2 – – 21.3 12.0 21.6 137.1 75.4 Notes on the consolidated statement of financial position NOTES 229 N E T A S S E T S O F T H E M AT E R I A L A S S O C I AT E S Blue Diamond Hotels Hapag-Lloyd AG , Sunwing Travel Group and Resorts Inc., ­Hamburg, Germany € million Inc., Toronto, Canada St. Michael, Barbados (until December 2014) Net assets as at 1 Oct 2013 152.1 69.3 2,266.8 Profit / loss 36.3 15.3 – 275.8 Other comprehensive income – – 3.9 – 31.7 Dividends – 17.2 – – Capital increase – 1.0 – – Foreign exchange effects 0.2 6.3 121.0 Net assets as at 30 Sep 2014 170.4 87.0 2,080.3 Net assets as at 1 Oct 2014 170.4 87.0 2,080.3 Profit / loss 45.2 17.5 – 51.9 Other comprehensive income – – 1.6 – 0.6 Dividends payable – – – Capital increase – – – Foreign exchange effects – 14.2 10.2 15.8 Net assets as at 30 Sep 2015* 201.4 113.1 2,043.6 * In case of Hapag-Lloyd AG the net assets are shown as at 2 Dec 2014 R E C O N C I L I AT I O N T O T H E C A R R Y I N G A M O U N T O F T H E A S S O C I AT E S I N T H E G R O U P B A L A N C E S H E E T Blue Diamond Hotels Hapag-Lloyd AG , Sunwing Travel Group and Resorts Inc., ­Hamburg, Germany Associates Total € million Inc., Toronto, Canada St. Michael, Barbados (until December 2014)* Other ­associates restated Share of TUI in % as at 30 Sep 2014 49.0 49.0 15.4 – – TUI ’s share of the net assets as at 30 Sep 2014 83.5 42.6 233.6 21.4 381.1 Goodwill as at 30 Sep 2014 53.6 – 110.7 10.9 175.2 Carrying value as at 30 Sep 2014 137.1 42.6 344.3 32.3 556.3 Share of TUI in % as at 30 Sep 2015 49.0 49.0 – – – TUI ’s share of the net assets as at 30 Sep 2015 98.7 55.4 – 25.5 179.6 Goodwill as at 30 Sep 2015 50.1 – – 4.0 54.1 Carrying value as at 30 Sep 2015 148.8 55.4 – 29.5 233.7 * Only the equity accounted part 230 NOTES Notes on the consolidated statement of financial position N E T A S S E T S O F T H E M AT E R I A L J O I N T V E N T U R E S Riu Hotels S.A., Palma TUI Cruises GmbH, Togebi Holdings € million de Mallorca, Spain Hamburg, Germany ­Limited, Nicosia, Cyprus Net assets as at 1 Oct 2013 491.6 394.9 – 44.8 Profit / loss 53.4 62.6 – 72.5 Other comprehensive income 19.5 15.7 – Dividends – 20.0 – – Capital increase – 20.0 19.6 Foreign exchange effects 20.0 – – 10.0 Net assets as at 30 Sep 2014 564.5 493.2 – 107.7 Net assets as at 1 Oct 2014 564.5 493.2 – 107.7 Profit / loss 70.9 136.2 – 44.1 Other comprehensive income 69.1 – 22.6 – Dividends payable – 70.0 – 70.0 – Capital increase – – – Foreign exchange effects 3.2 – – 16.7 Net assets as at 30 Sep 2015 637.7 536.8 – 168.5 R E C O N C I L I AT I O N T O T H E C A R R Y I N G A M O U N T O F T H E J O I N T V E N T U R E S I N T H E G R O U P B A L A N C E S H E E T Joint ventures Riu Hotels S.A., Palma TUI Cruises GmbH, Togebi Holdings Other joint Total € million de Mallorca, Spain Hamburg, Germany ­Limited, Nicosia, Cyprus ventures restated Share of TUI in % as at 30 Sep 2014 49.0 50.0 49.0 – – TUI ’s share of the net assets as at 30 Sep 2014 276.8 246.6 – 52.8 225.7 696.3 Unrecognised share of losses – – 14.8 – 14.8 Goodwill as at 30 Sep 2014 1.7 – 38.0 29.3 69.0 Carrying value as at 30 Sep 2014 278.5 246.6 – 255.0 780.1 Share of TUI in % as at 30 Sep 2015 49.0 50.0 49.0 – – TUI ’s share of the net assets as at 30 Sep 2015 312.7 268.4 – 82.6 228.1 726.6 Unrecognised share of losses – – 39.9 – 39.9 Goodwill as at 30 Sep 2015 1.7 – 42.7 33.2 77.6 Carrying value as at 30 Sep 2015 314.4 268.4 – 261.3 844.1 UNRECOGNISED LOSSE S BY JOINT VENTURE S Unrecognised cumulative losses of € 39.9 m relate to the joint venture Togebi Holdings Limited ( TUI Russia), operating in the source markets of Russia and Ukraine. Due to the recognition of the share of losses in the previous years the carrying amount of the joint venture was already fully written off in financial year 2013 / 14. Further losses of € 25.1 m (previous year € 14.8 m) have not been recognised as the TUI Group has no obligation to cover the losses. Recognition of these losses would have reduced the carrying amount of the joint venture to below zero. Notes on the consolidated statement of financial position NOTES 231 R I S K S A S S O C I AT E D W I T H T H E S TA K E S I N A S S O C I AT E S A N D J O I N T V E N T U R E S No contingent liabilities existed in respect of associates as at 30 September 2015 (previous year € 235.9 m). Contingent liabilities of € 125.4 m (previous year € 125.8 m) exist in respect of joint ventures. In addition, financial liabilities from investments of € 877.2 m and from lease, charter and rental agreements worth € 9.3 m are in place in respect of joint ventures. (19) Financial assets available for sale Financial assets available for sale consist of stakes in non-consolidated Group companies, interests and other securities. FINANCIAL A SSE T S AVAIL ABLE FOR S ALE 30 Sep 2015 30 Sep 2014 Remaining Remaining term more term more € million than 1 year Total than 1 year Total Shares in non-consolidated Group companies 5.9 5.9 8.3 8.3 Investments 38.5 373.4 37.1 37.1 Other securities 11.8 11.8 17.3 317.3 Total 56.2 391.1 62.7 362.7 As at 30 September 2014, other current securities comprised shares in a money market fund worth € 300.0 m, representing the issuance proceeds from the high-yield bond issued in the framework of the merger that were sold upon the completion of the merger with TUI Travel PLC when the restriction on disposal was lifted. As at 30 September 2015, investments comprise the remaining 13.9 % stake in Hapag-Lloyd AG . The investment is carried at its fair value of € 334.9 m at the balance sheet date. For the fair value measurement of the stake in Hapag-Lloyd AG , we refer to the section “Level 3 financial instruments“ in Note 44. Testing the carrying amounts of available for sale financial assets for objective evidence that the assets may be impaired resulted in an impairment of the stake in Hapag-Lloyd AG of € 147.1 m. In management judgement, the decline in fair value below the cost of the investment is significant. The investment was, therefore, written-off to its fair value of € 334.9 through profit and loss. The impairment charge of € 147.1 m was included in financial expenses. Past increases of the fair value deferred in other comprehensive income of € 7.1 m were derecognised. In financial year 2014 / 15, financial assets classified as available for sale under IAS 39 of € 155.6 m (previous year € 1.9 m) were impaired. Where a listed market price in an active market is not available and other methods to determine an objective market value do not produce any reliable results, the shares are measured at cost. 232 NOTES Notes on the consolidated statement of financial position (20) Trade receivables and other assets TR ADE RECE IVABLE S AND OTHE R A SSE T S 30 Sep 2015 30 Sep 2014 restated Remaining Remaining term more term more € million than 1 year Total than 1 year Total Trade receivables – 740.1 – 693.9 Advances and loans 243.2 1,086.5 232.6 1,004.1 Other receivables and assets 89.3 454.6 135.5 581.3 Total 332.5 2,281.2 368.1 2,279.3 AGEING STRUCTURE OF THE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS INCLUDED IN TR ADE RECE IVABLE S AND OTHE R A SSE T S of which not impaired and overdue in the following periods Carrying amount of of which not between between ­financial impaired but less than 30 and 91 and more than € million ­instruments overdue 30 days 90 days 180 days 180 days Balance as at 30 Sep 2015 Trade receivables 740.1 190.0 94.1 66.0 15.1 14.8 Advances and loans 118.5 17.7 – 0.7 0.3 16.7 Other receivables and assets 206.1 18.2 12.2 3.9 0.4 1.7 Total 1,064.7 225.9 106.3 70.6 15.8 33.2 Balance as at 30 Sep 2014 (restated) Trade receivables 693.9 176.6 100.7 52.3 16.7 6.9 Advances and loans 107.1 22.8 0.3 0.6 0.6 21.3 Other receivables and assets 312.8 23.3 5.7 3.7 3.5 10.4 Total 1,113.8 222.7 106.7 56.6 20.8 38.6 For financial assets which are neither past due nor impaired, the TUI Group assumes that the borrower concerned has a good credit standing. As at 30 September 2015, trade receivables and other receivables worth € 99.7 m (previous year € 100.3 m) were impaired. The table below provides a maturity analysis of the impairments. Notes on the consolidated statement of financial position NOTES 233 AG E ING S T RUC T URE O F IMPA IRME N T S O F F IN A NCIA L IN S T RUME N T S INCLUDE D IN TR ADE RECE IVABLE S AND OTHE R A SSE T S 30 Sep 2015 30 Sep 2014 restated € million Gross value Impairment Net value Gross value Impairment Net value Trade receivables and other assets Not overdue 859.7 20.9 838.8 915.2 24.1 891.1 Overdue up to 30 days 107.1 0.8 106.3 107.7 1.0 106.7 Overdue 30 – 90 days 75.9 5.3 70.6 58.1 1.5 56.6 Overdue 90 – 180 days 22.3 6.5 15.8 23.1 2.3 20.8 Overdue more than 180 days 99.4 66.2 33.2 110.0 71.4 38.6 Total 1,164.4 99.7 1,064.7 1,214.1 100.3 1,113.8 Impairments of trade receivables and other receivables developed as follows: IMPA IRME N T S ON A S SE T S O F T HE T R A DE R ECE IVA BL E S A ND OT HE R A S SE T S C AT E G O R Y A C C O R D I N G T O I F R S 7 € million 2014 / 15 2013 / 14 Balance at the beginning of period 100.3 135.9 Additions 16.1 11.5 Disposals 5.9 15.5 Other changes – 10.8 – 31.6 Balance at the end of period 99.7 100.3 In financial year 2014 / 15 no cash inflow was recorded from impaired interest-bearing trade receivables and other assets (previous year € 1.5 m). Trade receivables, advances and loans as well as other receivables and assets comprise the following items: TR ADE RECE IVABLE S 30 Sep 2015 30 Sep 2014 € million ­restated From third parties 712.4 652.9 From non-consolidated Group companies 1.5 2.6 From affiliates 26.2 38.4 Total 740.1 693.9 234 NOTES Notes on the consolidated statement of financial position ADVANCE S AND LOANS 30 Sep 2015 30 Sep 2014 restated Remaining Remaining term more term more € million than 1 year Total than 1 year Total Advances to non-consolidated Group companies 0.4 17.4 0.6 16.4 Advances to affiliates 0.1 0.9 0.2 1.5 Loans to affiliates 39.6 40.7 42.1 44.0 Advances to third parties 1.4 24.5 7.3 30.9 Loans to third parties 34.9 36.4 13.6 15.5 Payments on account to affiliates 3.0 11.7 – 25.9 Payments on account to third parties 163.8 954.9 168.8 869.9 Total 243.2 1,086.5 232.6 1,004.1 Payments on account mainly relate to advance payments for future tourism services, in particular future hotel services to be received by tour operators, which is customary in the industry. OTHE R RECE IVABLE S AND A SSE T S 30 Sep 2015 30 Sep 2014 restated Remaining Remaining term more term more € million than 1 year Total than 1 year Total Other receivables from non-consolidated Group companies 1.5 1.7 1.9 1.9 Other receivables from affiliates 6.2 18.0 35.7 54.9 Interest deferral – 1.9 – 1.4 Other tax refund claims 9.9 90.4 33.4 96.1 Other assets 71.7 342.6 64.5 427.0 Total 89.3 454.6 135.5 581.3 (21) Derivative financial instruments D E R I VAT I V E F I N A N C I A L I N S T R U M E N T S 30 Sep 2015 30 Sep 2014 restated Remaining Remaining term more term more € million than 1 year Total than 1 year Total Third party receivables from derivative financial instruments 48.1 329.1 75.8 245.5 Derivative financial instruments are included at their fair value (market value). They are mainly used to hedge our future operating business and their nature is outlined in detail in the explanatory information on financial instruments. Notes on the consolidated statement of financial position NOTES 235 (22) Deferred and current tax assets The measurement of deferred and current taxes is detailed in the section “Accounting and measurement methods”. I N C O M E TA X A S S E T S 30 Sep 2015 30 Sep 2014 € million ­restated Deferred tax assets 330.7 235.9 Current tax assets 58.5 93.9 Total 389.2 329.8 Deferred income tax assets include € 287.6 m (previous year € 197.9 m) that is expected to be realised after more than twelve months. I N D I V I D U A L I T E M S O F D E F E R R E D TA X A S S E T S A N D L I A B I L I T I E S R E C O G N I S E D I N T H E F I N A N C I A L P O S I T I O N 30 Sep 2015 30 Sep 2014 ­restated € million Asset Liability Asset Liability Finance lease transactions – 2.2 – 2.3 Recognition and measurement differences for property, plant and equipment and other non-current assets 110.7 317.7 145.2 333.2 Recognition differences for receivables and other assets 4.4 40.0 12.4 42.2 Measurement of financial instruments 53.5 22.1 24.9 36.6 Measurement of pension provisions 143.2 0.8 157.0 0.4 Recognition and measurement differences for other provisions 67.4 14.1 60.0 14.3 Other transactions 64.1 80.8 59.1 73.5 Capitalised tax savings from recoverable losses carried forward 239.4 – 135.0 – Netting of deferred tax assets and liabilities – 352.0 – 352.0 – 357.7 – 357.7 Balance sheet amount 330.7 125.7 235.9 144.8 No deferred tax assets are recognised for deductible temporary differences of € 128.2 m (previous year € 110.9 m). No deferred tax liabilities are recognised for temporary differences of € 49.5 m (previous year € 43.0 m) between the net assets and the respective taxable carrying amounts of subsidiaries since these temporary differences are not expected to be reversed in the near future. 236 NOTES Notes on the consolidated statement of financial position C A P I TA L I S E D L O S S E S C A R R I E D F O R WA R D A N D T I M E L I M I T S F O R N O N C A P I TA L I S E D L O S S E S C ARRIED FORWARD 30 Sep 2015 30 Sep 2014 € million ­restated Capitalised losses carried forward 1,184.4 677.0 Non-capitalised losses carried forward 4,449.8 5,328.8 of which losses carried forward forfeitable within one year 2.7 14.0 of which losses carried forward forfeitable within 2 to 5 years 62.3 7.8 of which losses carried forward forfeitable within more than 5 years (excluding non-forfeitable loss carryforwards) 6.0 1.6 Non-forfeitable losses carried forward 4,378.8 5,305.4 Total unused losses carried forward 5,634.2 6,005.8 Losses carried forward for German companies comprise the cumulative amount of trade tax and corporation tax as well as interest carried forward in relation to the German interest barrier. Potential tax savings totalling € 907.2 m (previous year € 1,037.9 m) were not capitalised since the use of the underlying losses carried forward is unlikely to be utilised within the planning period. In the financial year 2014 / 15, the use of losses carried forward previously assessed as non-recoverable and for which no deferred tax asset had been recognised as at 30 September 2014 led to tax reductions of € 24.0 m (previous year €Nil). As in the prior year, no tax reductions were realised by means of losses carried back. D E V E L O P M E N T O F D E F E R R E D TA X A S S E T S F R O M L O S S E S C A R R I E D F O R WA R D 2014 / 15 2013 / 14 € million ­restated Capitalised tax savings at the beginning of the year 135.0 160.5 Use of losses carried forward – 14.4 – 22.8 Capitalisation of tax savings from tax losses carried forward 150.1 12.6 Write-down of capitalised tax savings from tax losses carried forward – 36.1 – 21.1 Reclassification to discontinued operation – 0.3 – Exchange adjustments and other items 5.1 5.8 Capitalised tax savings at financial year-end 239.4 135.0 Capitalised deferred tax assets from temporary differences and losses carried forward that are assessed as recoverable of € 203.3 m (previous year € 10.5 m) are covered by expected future taxable income even for companies that generated losses in the period under review or the prior year. In the financial year 2014 / 15, the recoverability of these deferred tax assets results from the enlargement of the German tax Group for income tax purposes. Notes on the consolidated statement of financial position NOTES 237 (23) Inventories INVENTORIES 30 Sep 2015 30 Sep 2014 € million ­restated Marine inventory 33.2 24.2 Airline spares and operating equipment 28.6 30.0 Real estate for sale 32.8 31.2 Other inventories 39.9 40.9 Total 134.5 126.3 Other inventories included an amount of € 16.6 m for consumables used in hotels (previous year € 16.5 m). No major reversals of inventory provisions were recognised in the financial year 2014 / 15, nor in the prior year. (24) Cash and cash equivalents C A SH AND C A SH EQUIVALE NT S 30 Sep 2015 30 Sep 2014 € million ­restated Bank deposits 1,641.8 2,222.8 Cash in hand and cheques 30.9 35.2 Total 1,672.7 2,258.0 At 30 September 2015, cash and cash equivalents of € 198.5 m (previous year € 180.3 m) was subject to restriction on disposal. This included an amount of € 116.3 m for cash collateral received, which was deposited in a Belgian subsidiary by the Belgian tax authorities in the financial year 2012 / 13 relating to long-standing litigation over VAT refunds for the years 2001 to 2011. Without prejudice to the outcome, the purpose was to suspend the accrual of interest for both parties. In order to collateralise a potential repayment, the Belgian government was granted a bank guarantee. Due to the bank guarantee, TUI Group’s ability to dispose of the cash and cash equivalents has been restricted. 238 NOTES Notes on the consolidated statement of financial position (25) Assets held for sale ASSETS HELD FOR SALE 30 Sep 2015 30 Sep 2014 € million ­restated Investment Hapag-Lloyd AG – 140.2 Discontinued Operation LateRooms Group 38.8 – Property and hotel facilities 0.4 13.0 Other assets 3.0 2.7 Total 42.2 155.9 In the reporting period, the LateRooms Group segment was reclassified to assets held for sale as a discontinued operation. As at 30 September 2015, there were assets of € 38.8 m in connection with this discontinued operation. For further information, please refer to the section “Discontinued operations”. In accordance with IFRS 5, the assets and liabilities of LateRooms Ltd. which were included in the discontinued operation LateRooms Group were written down to their fair value less costs of disposal of € 11.6 m. This is a non-­ recurring fair value measurement, for which current purchase offers of potential buyers were used as non-observable inputs. The measurement is therefore categorised within level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. The impairment charge of € 36.0 m was recognised in the “Result from discontinued operations”. Cumulative expenses related to assets held for sale, directly carried in equity, total € 5.5 m. (26) Subscribed capital The merger between TUI AG and TUI Travel PLC had a major impact on the Group’s equity capital position. For a more detailed presentation, we refer to the section on the “Merger between TUI AG and TUI Travel PLC ” in this report. The subscribed capital of TUI AG consists of no-par value shares, each representing an identical share in the capital stock. The proportionate share in the capital stock per no-par value share is around € 2.56. Since the switch in July 2005, the shares have been registered shares, whose owners have been listed by name in the share register. The subscribed capital of TUI AG is registered in the commercial registers of the district courts of Berlin-­ Charlottenburg and Hanover. In the financial year under review, it rose by a total of 242,764,546 shares due to the capital increase as a result of non-cash contribution in connection with the merger between TUI AG and TUI ­Travel PLC . A further 133,340 shares were issued as employee shares. Conversions of bonds into shares under TUI AG ’s 2009 / 14 and 2011 / 16 convertible bonds and conversions of a convertible bond issued by TUI ­Travel PLC gave rise to 57,144,188 shares. Subscribed capital thus consisted of 586,603,217 shares at the end of the financial year. It rose by € 767.0 m to € 1,499.6 m. As at 30 September 2015, 2,745,990 shares in TUI AG were held by an employee benefit trust of TUI Travel Limited. Notes on the consolidated statement of financial position NOTES 239 The Annual General Meeting on 10 February 2015 authorised the Executive Board of TUI AG to acquire its own shares up to 5 % of the capital stock. The authorisation will expire on 9 August 2016. The authorisation to acquire own shares has not been used to date. C O N D I T I O N A L C A P I TA L The Annual General Meetings of 7 May 2008 and 13 May 2009 created conditional capital of € 100.0 m each and authorised the Company to issue bonds. The two conditional capital authorisations expired in the financial year 2014 / 15 due to conversion and repayment, respectively, of the convertible bonds issued in 2009 and 2011. Using the conditional capital of 13 May 2009, TUI AG issued an uncollateralised, non-subordinated convertible bond of € 217.8 m, on 17 November 2009, maturing on 17 November 2014. The bond was issued in denominations of € 56.30. The last conversion price was € 5.5645 per no-par value share due to the cash dividend paid on 13 February 2014. By the end of the conversion period, 3,425,345 bonds had been converted into 38,697,895 new shares in TUI AG (including 4,143,061 bonds in the financial year under review). The remaining nominal value of € 2.4 m was repaid at maturity on 17 November 2014. Using the conditional capital of 7 May 2008, TUI AG issued a further uncollateralised non-subordinated convertible bond of € 339.0 m on 24 March 2011, maturing on 24 March 2016. The bond was issued in denominations of € 59.26. Due to the cash dividend paid on 11 February 2015, the last conversion price was € 11.4634 per non-par value share. The convertible bond was redeemed early in the period under review. Until the end of the conversion period, 5,680,079 bonds were converted into 29,362,361 new shares in TUI AG (including 29,360,677 shares in the financial year under review). The remaining nominal value of € 2.4 m was repaid at maturity on 7 April 2015. The General Meeting of 28 October 2014 created conditional capital of € 62.0 m for the granting of new shares to the holders of a convertible bond with a nominal value of £ 400.0 m issued by TUI Travel PLC in April 2010. In the framework of the merger between TUI AG and TUI Travel PLC , these bondholders had special early redemption rights; the ratio for exchanging the shares in TUI Travel PLC resulting from the conversion into TUI AG shares was fixed at 1:0.399. When a large majority of external bondholders had used the right to convert their pieces of bonds into shares and the bonds held within the Group had been redeemed, TUI Travel Ltd. announced the early redemption of the remaining bonds on 3 March 2015. While a part of the convertible bond with a nominal value of € 200.0 m, held by TUI AG , was redeemed, all other convertible bonds were converted. This led to the creation of 23,640,450 new shares in TUI AG . Further conditional capital for the issue of bonds of € 120.0 m was approved at the Annual General Meeting on 15 February 2012. The authorisation to issue bonds with conversion options and warrants as well as profit-sharing rights and income bonds (with and without fixed terms) has been limited to a total nominal amount of € 1.0 bn and will expire on 14 February 2017. Overall, TUI AG has total conditional capital of € 120.0 m as at 30 September 2015 (previous year € 231.7 m). A U T H O R I S E D C A P I TA L The Annual General Meeting of 9 February 2011 resolved to create additional authorised capital of € 246.0 m for the issue of new shares for cash. This authorisation will expire on 8 February 2016. The Annual General Meeting of 13 February 2013 resolved to issue new registered shares for cash for up to a maximum of € 64.5 m. This authorisation will expire on 12 February 2018. The Annual General Meeting of 13 February 2013 also resolved new authorised capital for the issue of employee shares worth € 10.0 m. The Executive Board of TUI AG has been authorised to use this authorised capital in one or several transactions to issue employee shares against cash contribution by 12 February 2018. 99,800 new employee shares were issued in financial year 2014 / 15 so that authorised capital totals around € 9.4 m at the balance sheet date. 240 NOTES Notes on the consolidated statement of financial position The General Meeting of 28 October 2014 resolved to create authorised capital to issue new shares against non-cash contribution of € 18.0 m in order to be able to service TUI Travel PLC share awards granted by TUI Travel PLC to its employees. This authorisation will expire on 27 October 2019. Unused authorised capital thus totals around € 337.9 m as at 30 September 2015 (previous year € 320.2 m). (27) Capital reserves The capital reserves reflect transfers of premiums. In addition, amounts entitling the holders to acquire shares in TUI AG in the context of bonds issued for conversion options and warrants have to be transferred to the capital reserves if the conversion options and warrants are classified as equity instruments in accordance with IAS 32. Premiums from the issue of shares due to the exercise of conversion options and warrants are also transferred to the capital reserve. Transaction costs for the issue of conversion options and warrants and for the capital increase by means of an issue of new shares against cash or non-cash contribution were deducted from the additions to capital reserves resulting from these transactions. Capital reserves rose by € 2,676.8 m due to the capital increase against non-cash contribution in connection with the merger between TUI AG and TUI Travel PLC . Capital reserves also rose by € 1.2 m due to the issue of employee shares and by € 453.4 m from the conversion of TUI AG bonds into shares. Overall, TUI AG ’s capital reserves increased by € 3,131.4 m to € 4,187.7 m. (28) Revenue reserves In the financial year 2014 / 15, TUI AG paid a dividend of € 0.33 per no-par value share; the total amount paid was € 94.5 m. Moreover, the interest paid on the hybrid capital issued by TUI AG recognised as a dividend in accordance with IFRS rules until its cancellation effective 24 March 2015. Existing equity-settled share-based payment transactions resulted in an increase in equity of € 26.1 m. Disclosures on these long-term incentive programmes are given under Note 43 in the section on “Share-based payments in accordance with IFRS 2”. Effects of the acquisition of non-controlling interests principally reflect the merger between TUI AG and TUI ­Travel PLC . The consideration including ancillary acquisition costs for the purchase of the non-controlling interests totalled € 3,359.7 m, while the book value of the acquired interests accounted for € – 606.2 m. In this regard, please refer to the section on “Merger between TUI AG and TUI Travel PLC ” in this report. In addition, an employee benefit trust of TUI Travel PLC acquired shares in TUI Travel PLC in the first quarter in order to use them for stock option plans. The amounts used for this purpose had to be offset against revenue reserves as an acquisition of non-controlling interests. Equity therefore declined by € 85.1 m. As almost all shares were issued due to the stock option plans, non-controlling interests remained unchanged overall. The split of the Peak Adventure Travel Group Ltd, Australia, presented in the section on “Principles and methods of consolidation”, is reflected as an acquisition of non-controlling interests. The consideration paid for the acquisition totalled € 23.4 m, while the non-controlling interests acquired totalled € 42.0 m. Notes on the consolidated statement of financial position NOTES 241 Furthermore, non-controlling interests in Global Obi S.L., Spain, in Wonder Holding AB , Sweden and in TUI Leisure airport sales GmbH, Germany, were acquired in financial year 2014 / 15. The consideration paid for the acquisition amounted to € 1.3 m, the acquired carrying amounts of the non-controlling interests totalled € 0.6 m. Foreign exchange differences comprise differences from the translation of the financial statements of foreign subsidiaries as well as differences from the translation of goodwill denominated in foreign currencies. The proportion of gains and losses from hedges used as effective hedges of future cash flows is included in equity in other comprehensive income outside profit and loss. A reversal of this item through profit and loss takes place in the same period in which the hedged item has an effect on profit and loss or is no longer assessed as probable. The remeasurements of pension obligations (arising from actuarial gains and losses) are also included in other income in equity outside profit and loss. The revaluation reserve formed in accordance with IAS 27 (old version) in the framework of step acquisitions of companies is retained until the date of deconsolidation of the company concerned. In accordance with revised IAS 27, requiring prospective application, no new revaluation reserves are formed for step acquisitions since the changes in the fair values of the assets and liabilities of an acquired company arising in between the individual acquisition dates are taken through profit and loss based on the stake which had not yet triggered consolidation of the company concerned. (29) Use of Group profit available for distribution In accordance with the German Stock Corporation Act, the Annual General Meeting decides the use of the profit available for distribution included in TUI AG ’s commercial-law annual financial statements. The annual profit of TUI AG amounted to € 1,256.7 m. After a transfer to the revenue reserves of € 314.0 m and retained profits carried forward of € 66.7 m, the profit available for distribution amounts to € 1,009.4 m. A proposal will be submitted to the Annual General Meeting to use the profit available for distribution for the financial year 2014 / 15 to pay a dividend of € 0.56 per no-par value share or € 328.5 m in total and carry forward the remaining amount of € 680.9 m The final dividend total will depend on the number of dividend-bearing no-par value shares at the date on which the resolution regarding the use of Group profit available for distribution is adopted by the Annual General Meeting. (30) Hybrid capital The subordinated hybrid capital issued by TUI AG in December of financial year 2005 with a nominal volume of € 300.0 m was cancelled on 24 March 2015 with effect from 30 April 2015. The borrowing costs incurred for the issue of the hybrid capital were offset against revenue reserves upon redemption. 242 NOTES Notes on the consolidated statement of financial position (31) Non-controlling interests Non-controlling interests mainly relate to the companies presented in the table below. SUBSIDIARIES WITH SIGNIFICANT NON-CONTROLLING INTERESTS Capital share non-controlling Capital share TUI in % interests in % Name and headquarter of company Nature of business 30 Sep 2015 30 Sep 2014 30 Sep 2015 30 Sep 2014 RIUSA II S.A., Palma de Mallorca, Spain Hotel operator 50.0 50.0 50.0 50.0 TUI Travel Ltd., Crawley, Great Britain Tour operator 100.0 54.1 – 45.9 The financial year of RIUSA II S.A. differs from the financial year of TUI Group and ends at 31 December. This reporting date was determined at the creation of the company. For the preparation of the consolidated financial statements of TUI Group as at 30 September consolidated financial statements of the RIUSA II Group are prepared as at TUI Group’s balance sheet date 30 September. The financial year of TUI Travel Ltd. corresponds to the financial year of TUI Group. The RIUSA II Group, allocated to Hotels & Resorts, operates owned and leased hotels and hotels operated under management contracts in tourism destinations of the TUI Group. Based on the contractual agreements between the shareholders and the framework agreements with the TUI Group as well as the considerable importance of tour operation business for the economic success of the RIUSA II Group, the TUI Group is able to direct the decisions on the mostrelevant activities. The RIUSA II Group is therefore fully consolidated although the TUI Group only holds a 50% equity stake. Following the merger of TUI AG and TUI Travel PLC there are no non-controlling interests in TUI Travel Ltd. remaining. For a detailed description of the transaction please refer to the section „Merger of TUI AG and TUI Travel PLC “ within the principles and methods of consolidation. The following table provides summarised financial information for subsidiaries with material non-controlling interests. The information disclosed reflects the amounts presented in the consolidated financial statements of the respective sub groups. Notes on the consolidated statement of financial position NOTES 243 S U M M A R I S E D F I N A N C I A L I N F O R M AT I O N O N S U B S I D I A R I E S W I T H M AT E R I A L N O N C O N T R O L L I N G I N T E R E S T S RIUSA II S.A., TUI Travel Ltd., Palma de Mallorca, Spain1 Crawley, Great Britain1 30 Sep 2015 / 30 Sep 2014 / 30 Sep 2015 / 30 Sep 2014 / € million 2014 / 15 2013 / 14 2014 / 15 2 2013 / 14 Current assets 294.5 232.3 – 3,674.3 Non-current assets 1,242.1 1,172.9 – 6,145.4 Current liabilities 110.3 129.4 – 6,988.8 Non-current liabilities 86.4 84.8 – 2,588.4 Revenues 715.9 630.8 2,335.7 17,865.7 Profit / loss 177.2 133.8 – 109.8 239.4 Total comprehensive income – 8.4 16.2 – 20.5 – 221.6 Cash inflow / outflow from operating activities 232.6 179.0 – 1,605.7 425.6 Cash inflow / outflow from investing activities – 99.0 – 94.3 – 35.7 – 220.8 Cash inflow / outflow from financing activities – 64.9 – 44.1 524.3 – 533.3 Accumulated non-controlling interests 494.1 419.4 – – 310.8 Profit / loss attributable to non-controlling interests 88.6 – 66.9 – 49.6 113.7 Dividends attributable to non-controlling interests 10.0 5.0 183.0 85.9 1 Consolidated Subgroup 2 Until the merger of TUI AG with TUI Travel PLC (32) Pension provisions and similar obligations A number of defined contribution plans and defined benefit pension plans are operated for Group employees. Pension obligations vary, reflecting the different legal, fiscal and economic conditions in each country of operation, and usually depend on employees’ length of service and pay levels. All defined contribution plans are funded by the payment of contributions to external insurance companies or funds. German employees enjoy benefits from a statutory defined contribution plan paying pensions as a function of employees’ income and the contributions paid in. Several additional industry pension organisations exist for companies of the TUI Group. Once the contributions to the state-run pension plans and private pension insurance organisations have been paid, the Company has no further payment obligations. One major private pension fund is Aegon Levensverzekering N.V. operating the defined contribution pension plans for the main Dutch subsidiaries of the TUI Group. Contributions paid are expensed for the respective period. In the period under review, the expenses for all defined contribution plans totalled € 85.8 m (previous year € 85.3 m). Apart from these defined contribution pension plans, the TUI Group operates defined benefit plans, which usually entail the formation of provisions within the Company or investments in funds outside the Company. Within this group, the MER -Pensionskasse V V aG, a private pension fund, in which German companies of the tourism industry are organised, represents a multi-employer plan, that is classified as a defined benefit plan. In accordance with the statutes of the plan, the plan participants and the employers pay salary based contributions into the plan. There are no further obligations pursuant to the statutes of the plan, an additional funding obligation of the participating companies is excluded explicitly. The paid-in contributions are invested in accordance with the policies of the pension plan unless they are used within a short term for the rendering of benefits. As the investments are pooled and not kept separately per participating employer, an allocation of the plan assets to the individual participating employer is not possible. The risk of investment as well as the biometric risk are jointly shared by all plan participants. Moreover, the pension fund does not provide any information to participating companies that 244 NOTES Notes on the consolidated statement of financial position would allow the allocation of any overor underfunding or the extent of TUI ’s participation in the plan. Due to these restrictions, an accounting of the plan in accordance with the requirements of IAS 19 is not possible and the plan is therefore recognised as if it was a defined contribution plan. In the fiscal year contributions made to MER -Pensionskasse VvaG amounted to € 5.5 m (previous year € 5.6 m). For the next fiscal year, contributions are expected to remain stable at this level. The major pension plans recognised as defined benefit plans exist in particular in Germany and the UK . By far the largest pension plans are operated by the Group’s tour operators in the UK , accounting for a proportion of 75.3 % (previous year 74.0 %) of the Group’s total obligations at the balance sheet date. German plans account for a further 20.2 % (previous year 21.6 %). In the UK , the following major pension schemes in which pension payments are linked to final salary and length of service are operated. The final remuneration to be taken into account is capped. M AT E R I A L D E F I N E D B E N E F I T P L A N S I N G R E AT B R I TA I N Scheme name Status Britannia Airways Limited Superannuation and Life Assurance Scheme closed TUI Pension Scheme (UK ) closed Thomson Airways Pension Scheme closed Almost all defined benefit plans in the UK are funded externally. Under UK law, the employer is obliged to ensure sufficient funding so that plan assets cover the pension payments to be made and the administrative costs of the funds. The pension funds are managed by independent trustees. The trustees comprise independent members but also beneficiaries of the plan and employer representatives. The trustees are responsible for the investment of fund assets, taking account of the interests of plan members, but they also negotiate the level of the contributions to the fund to be paid by the employers, which constitute minimum contributions to the fund. To this end, actuarial valuations are made every two years by actuaries commissioned by the trustees. These valuations serve as a basis to determine the annual contributions to be paid to the fund in order to cover any shortfalls in coverage, last defined in July 2015. On top of a fixed annual contribution, a certain percentage of the pensionable remuneration of the plan members has to be paid to the scheme. Additionally, the current agreement replaced formerly existing result-based additional payments in favour of higher fixed contributions. By contrast, the defined benefit plans in Germany are unfunded. The obligations entail payments of company pensions when the beneficiaries reach the legal retirement age. The amount of the pension paid usually depends on the remuneration received by the staff member at the retirement date. The pension obligations regularly also comprise surviving dependants’ benefits and invalidity benefits. Notes on the consolidated statement of financial position NOTES 245 M AT E R I A L D E F I N E D B E N E F I T P L A N S I N G E R M A N Y Scheme name Status Versorgungsordnung TUI AG closed Versorgungsordnung Hapag-Lloyd Fluggesellschaft GmbH open Versorgungsordnung TUI Deutschland GmbH closed Versorgungsordnung TUI Beteiligungs GmbH closed Versorgungsordnung Preussag Immobilien GmbH closed In the period under review, defined benefit pension obligations created total expenses of € 90.9 m for the Group. Compared to last year, there were no gains from transactions to optimise pension schemes in the current year to offset the regular expenses for current service costs and interests. Last year, firstly pensioners and later on active plan members in the UK were offered to exchange promised higher pension increases in the future against immediate higher pension payments with only limited increases of pensions in the future. These transactions resulted in negative past service cost of € 75.9 m. P E N S I O N C O S T S F O R D E F I N E D B E N E F I T O B L I G AT I O N S 2014 / 15 2013 / 14 € million ­restated Current service cost for employee service in the period 59.1 43.8 Curtailment gains 1.7 4.7 Net interest on the net defined benefit liability 34.4 38.6 Past service cost – 0.9 – 76.6 Total 90.9 1.1 Provisions for pension obligations are established for benefits payable in the form of retirement, invalidity and surviving dependants’ benefits. Provisions are exclusively formed for defined benefit schemes under which the Company guarantees employees a specific pension level. It also includes arrangements for early retirement and temporary assistance benefits. D E F I N E D B E N E F I T O B L I G AT I O N R E C O G N I S E D O N T H E B A L A N C E S H E E T 30 Sep 2015 30 Sep 2014 € million Total Total Present value of funded obligations 2,711.0 2,523.5 Fair value of external plan assets 2,302.1 1,980.0 Deficit of funded plans 408.9 543.5 Present value of unfunded pension obligations 722.8 731.0 Defined benefit obligation recognised on the balance sheet 1,131.7 1,274.5 Overfunded plans in Other assets 15.2 – Provisions for pensions and similar obligations 1,146.9 1,274.5 of which current 32.4 32.1 of which non-current 1,114.5 1,242.4 246 NOTES Notes on the consolidated statement of financial position Remeasurements (in particular actuarial gains and losses) are immediately offset against equity in the year in which they arise. The total pension obligations, net of fund assets, of the TUI Group are therefore fully recognised in the statement of financial position. Where the defined benefit pension obligations are not unfunded, they are funded externally. This type of funding of pension obligations is common in the UK . For funded pension plans, the provision carried only covers the shortfall in coverage between the plan assets and the present value of the benefit obligations. Where plan assets exceed funded pension obligations, taking account of a difference due to past service cost, and where at the same time there is an entitlement to reimbursement or reduction of future contributions to the fund, the excess is recognised in conformity with the cap defined by IAS 19. D E V E L O P M E N T O F D E F I N E D B E N E F I T O B L I G AT I O N S Present value Fair value of € million of obligation plan assets Total Balance as at 1 Oct 2014 3,254.5 – 1,980.0 1,274.5 Current service cost 59.1 – 59.1 Past service cost – 0.9 – – 0.9 Curtailments and settlements – 2.1 0.4 – 1.7 Interest expense (+) / interest income (-) 114.4 – 80.0 34.4 Pensions paid – 132.7 99.6 – 33.1 Contributions paid by employer – – 149.8 – 149.8 Contributions paid by employees 1.2 – 1.2 – Remeasurements – 6.6 – 75.6 – 82.2 due to changes in financial assumptions 20.5 – 20.5 due to changes in demographic assumptions – 30.2 – – 30.2 due to experience adjustments 3.1 – 3.1 due to return on plan assets not included in group profit for the year – – 75.6 – 75.6 Exchange differences 146.9 – 115.5 31.4 Changes in the group of consolidated companies – – – Balance as at 30 Sep 2015 3,433.8 – 2,302.1 1,131.7 Notes on the consolidated statement of financial position NOTES 247 D E V E L O P M E N T O F D E F I N E D B E N E F I T O B L I G AT I O N S Fair value of Present value plan assets Total € million of obligation (restated) (restated) Balance as at 1 Oct 2013 2,752.3 – 1,616.6 1,135.7 Current service cost 43.8 – 43.8 Past service cost – 76.6 – – 76.6 Curtailments and settlements – 9.9 5.2 – 4.7 Interest expense (+) / interest income (-) 111.8 – 73.2 38.6 Pensions paid – 116.0 80.6 – 35.4 Contributions paid by employer – – 145.8 – 145.8 Contributions paid by employees 1.2 – 1.2 – Remeasurements 383.7 – 97.7 286.0 due to changes in financial assumptions 341.3 – 341.3 due to changes in demographic assumptions – – – due to experience adjustments 42.4 – 42.4 due to return on plan assets not included in group profit for the year – – 97.7 – 97.7 Exchange differences 164.1 – 131.3 32.8 Changes in the group of consolidated companies 0.1 – 0.1 Balance as at 30 Sep 2014 3,254.5 – 1,980.0 1,274.5 The present value of the pension obligation rose by € 179.3 m to € 3,433.8 m in the financial year under review, primarily due to foreign exchange effects. The TUI Group’s fund assets rose even more substantially by € 322.1 m in the period under review. Apart from foreign exchange effects and contributions made by a UK subsidiary in order to reduce the existing shortfall in coverage, the considerable increase in fund assets was also driven by the positive investment performance. C O M P O S I T I O N O F P E N S I O N A S S E T S AT T H E B A L A N C E S H E E T D AT E 30 Sep 2015 30 Sep 2014 Quoted market price Quoted market price in an active market in an active market € million yes no yes no Fair value of fund assets at end of period 1,560.2 741.9 1,398.5 581.5 of which equities 692.0 – 696.4 – of which government bonds 292.0 – 228.8 – of which corporate bonds 274.8 – 193.6 – of which liability driven investments 250.0 – 203.9 – of which property – 138.0 – 114.6 of which growth funds – 89.3 – 81.3 of which insurance policies – 63.7 – 66.2 of which catastrophe bonds – 63.0 – 52.6 of which cash – 246.4 – 146.7 of which other 51.4 141.5 75.8 120.1 248 NOTES Notes on the consolidated statement of financial position At the balance sheet date, as well as in the previous year, there is no direct investment in financial instruments issued by TUI AG or any of its consolidated subsidiaries or in any property occupied by the group. For funded plans, investment in passive index tracker funds may hold a proportionate investment in TUI AG financial instruments. Pension obligations are measured on the basis of actuarial calculations and assumptions. The obligations under defined benefit plans are calculated on the basis of the internationally accepted projected unit credit method, taking account of expected future increases in salaries and pensions. ACTUARIAL ASSUMPTIONS 30 Sep 2015 Percentage p. a. Germany Great Britain Other countries Discount rate 2.25 3.8 1.9 Projected future salary increases 2.5 2.7 1.9 Projected future pension increases 1.75 3.6 1.4 30 Sep 2014 Percentage p. a. Germany Great Britain Other countries Discount rate 2.25 3.9 1.8 Projected future salary increases 2.5 2.7 2.0 Projected future pension increases 2.0 3.3 2.1 Determination of the interest rate applicable in discounting the provision for pensions is based on an index for corporate bonds adjusted for securities already downgraded and under observation by rating agencies as well as subordinate bonds in order to meet the criterion for high quality bonds required under IAS 19 (bonds with a rating of A A or higher). In order to cover a correspondingly broad market, an index based on shorter-terms bonds is used (e. g. iBoxx € Corporates A A 7 – 10 for the Eurozone). The resulting yield structure is extrapolated on the basis of the yield curves for almost risk-free bonds, taking account of an appropriate risk mark-up reflecting the term of the obligation. For pension plans outside of Germany, actuarial calculations are based on country-specific parameters. Apart from the parameters described above, a further key assumption relates to life expectancy. In Germany, the Heubeck reference tables 2005G are used to determine life expectancy. In the UK , the S1NxA base tables are used, which are adjusted to future expected increases on the basis of the CMI 2013. The pension in payment escalation formulae depends primarily on the pension scheme concerned. Apart from fixed rates of increase, there are also a number of inflation-linked pension adjustment mechanisms in different countries. Changes in the key actuarial assumptions mentioned above would lead to the changes in defined benefit obligations presented below. The methodology used to determine sensitivity corresponds to the method used to calculate the defined benefit obligation. The assumptions were amended in isolation each time; actual interdependencies between the assumptions were not taken into account. The effect of the increase in life expectancy by one year is calculated by means of a reduction in mortality due to the use of the Heubeck tables 2005G for pension plans in Germany. In the UK , an extra year is added to the life expectancy determined on the basis of the mortality tables. Notes on the consolidated statement of financial position NOTES 249 S E N S I T I V I T Y O F T H E D E F I N E D B E N E F I T O B L I G AT I O N D U E T O C H A N G E D A C T U A R I A L A S S U M P T I O N S 30 Sep 2015 30 Sep 2014 € million + 50 Basis points – 50 Basis points + 50 Basis points – 50 Basis points Discount rate – 292.5 + 330.5 – 287.6 + 331.5 Salary increase + 23.8 – 23.0 + 20.0 – 18.7 Pension increase + 110.3 – 103.5 + 96.8 – 78.4 + 1 year + 1 year Life expectancy + 114.6 – + 107.7 – The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligations totalled 18.5 years (previous year 18.9 years) for the overall Group. In the UK , the weighted duration was 19.7 years (previous year 20.7 years), while it stood at 15.1 years (previous year 15.8 years) in Germany. Fund assets are determined on the basis of the fair values of the funds invested as at 30 September 2015. The interest rate used to determine the interest income from the assets of external funds is identical to the discount rate used for the defined benefit obligation. For the forthcoming financial year, the companies of the TUI Group are expected to contribute around € 128.5 m (previous year € 108.8 m) to the pension schemes and pay pensions worth € 32.4 m (previous year € 32.1 m) for unfunded plans. For funded schemes, payments to the recipients are fully made from fund assets to that the TUI Group does not record a cash outflow as a result. The TUI Group’s defined benefit plans entail various risks, some of which may have substantial effects on the Company. INVESTMENT RISK The investment risk plays a major role, in particular for the large funded plans in the UK . Although shares usually outperform bonds in terms of producing higher returns, they also entail stronger volatility of balance sheet items and the risk of short-term shortfalls in coverage. In order to limit this risk, the trustees have built a balanced investment portfolio to limit the concentration of risks. I N T E R E S T R AT E R I S K The interest rate influences in particular unfunded schemes in Germany as a decline in interest rates leads to an increase in the defined benefit obligations. Accordingly, an increase in the interest rate leads to a reduction in the defined benefit obligations. Funded plans are less strongly affected by this development as the performance of the interest-bearing assets included in plan assets regularly dampens the effects. I N F L AT I O N R I S K An increase in the inflation rate regularly increases the obligation in pension schemes linked to the final salary of beneficiaries as inflation causes an increase in the assessment basis in the form of salary increases. At the same time, inflation-based pension increases included in the plan also rise. The inflation risk is reduced through the use of caps and collars. Moreover, the large pension funds in the UK hold inflation-linked assets, which also partly reduce the risk from a significant rise in inflation. 250 NOTES Notes on the consolidated statement of financial position LONGE VIT Y RISK An increasing life expectancy increases the expected benefit duration of the pension obligation. This risk is countered by using regularly updated mortality data in calculating the present values of the obligation. CURRENCY RISK For the TUI Group, the pension schemes entail a currency risk as most pension schemes are operated in the UK and therefore denominated in sterling. The risk is limited as the currency effects on the obligation and the assets partly offset each other. The currency risk only relates to the excess of pension obligations over scheme assets. (33) Other provisions D E V E L O P M E N T O F P R OV I S I O N S I N T H E F I N A N C I A L Y E A R 2 0 14 /15 Balance as at Changes with 30 Sep 2014 no effect on Balance as at € million ­restated profit and loss* Usage Reversal Additions 30 Sep 2015 Maintenance provisions 482.1 40.3 78.3 31.7 151.3 563.7 Risks from onerous contracts 57.9 1.0 19.4 1.7 10.3 48.1 Restructuring provisions 39.4 – 0.2 28.7 0.4 31.8 41.9 Provisions for other personnel costs 41.4 – 5.1 12.0 0.1 13.9 38.1 Provisions for other taxes 69.1 – 51.2 1.4 0.8 11.7 27.4 Provisions for environmental protection 39.9 – 3.5 0.3 4.4 40.5 Provision for Litigation 103.2 – 18.7 1.3 5.0 30.9 109.1 Miscellaneous provisions 239.6 94.4 77.0 17.9 101.8 340.9 Other provisions 1,072.6 60.5 221.6 57.9 356.1 1,209.7 * Reclassifications, transfers, exchange differences and changes in the group of consolidated companies Provisions for external maintenance primarily relate to contractual maintenance, overhaul and repair requirements for aircraft, engines and other specific components arising from aircraft operating lease contracts. The measurement of these provisions is based on the expected cost of the next maintenance event, estimated on the basis of current prices, expected price increases and manufacturers’ data sheets. In line with the arrangements of the individual contracts and the aircraft model concerned, additions are recognised on a prorated basis in relation to flight hours, the number of flights or the length of the complete maintenance cycle. Provisions for onerous contracts principally relate to unfavourable lease contracts. The decrease in the current financial year is mainly driven by the utilisation of these provisions. The restructuring provisions primarily relate to restructuring projects within the Northern and Central Region segments for which detailed, formal restructuring plans have been drawn up and communicated to the parties concerned. The restructuring provisions included at the balance sheet date of € 41.9 m (previous year € 39.4 m) largely relate to benefits for employees in connection with the termination of employment contracts. Provisions for personnel costs comprise provisions for jubilee benefits as well as provisions for share-based payment schemes with cash compensation in accordance with IFRS 2. Information on these long-term incentive programmes is presented under Note 43 in the section on “Share-based payments in accordance with IFRS 2”. Notes on the consolidated statement of financial position NOTES 251 The provisions for environmental protection measures primarily relate to statutory obligations to remediate sites contaminated with legacy waste from former mining and metallurgical activities. Estimating the future cost of remediating contaminated sites entails many uncertainties, which may also impact the amount of provisions. The measurement is based on assumptions about future costs derived from empirical values, conclusions from environ­ mental expert reports and the legal assessment of the Group as well as the expected duration of the remediation measures. Unwinding these obligations under environmental law takes a long time and constitutes a technically complex process. Accordingly, there are considerable uncertainties about the actual timeframe and the specific amount of expenses required so that actual costs may exceed the provisions carried. Provisions for litigation are established in relation to existing lawsuits. The recognised provisions mainly relate to the demand for compensation received from the container terminal at Zeebrugge as well as to claims for damages in relation to hotel lease contracts. Overall the future financial position is unlikely to be substantially affected by each of these claims. The changes with no effect on profit and loss primarily relate to foreign exchange translation impacts as well as to movements within the other provisions. Where the difference between the present value and the settlement value of a provision is material for the measurement of a non-current provision as at the balance sheet date, the provision is recognised at its present value in accordance with IAS 37. The discount rate to be applied should take account of the specific risks of the provision and of future price increases. This criterion applies to some items contained in the TUI Group’s other provisions. Additions to other provisions comprise an interest portion of € 4.6 m (previous year € 5.9 m), recognised as an interest expense. T E R M S T O M AT U R I T Y O F I N C O M E TA X P R O V I S I O N S A N D O T H E R P R O V I S I O N S 30 Sep 2015 30 Sep 2014 restated Remaining Remaining term more term more € million than 1 year Total than 1 year Total Maintenance provisions 455.8 563.7 359.1 482.1 Risks from onerous contracts 23.3 48.1 30.8 57.9 Restructuring provisions 0.2 41.9 0.5 39.4 Provisions for other personnel costs 23.6 38.1 23.2 41.4 Provisions for other taxes 22.3 27.4 20.8 69.1 Provisions for environmental protection 38.4 40.5 36.3 39.9 Provisions for litigation 50.5 109.1 77.7 103.2 Miscellaneous provisions 132.2 340.9 53.2 239.6 Other provisions 746.3 1,209.7 601.6 1,072.6 252 NOTES Notes on the consolidated statement of financial position (34) Financial liabilities FINANCIAL LIABILITIES 30 Sep 2015 30 Sep 2014 restated Remaining term Remaining term more than more than € million up to 1 year 1– 5 years 5 years Total up to 1 year 1– 5 years 5 years Total Convertible bonds – – – – 28.2 793.5 – 821.7 Other bonds – 293.7 – 293.7 – – 292.4 292.4 Liabilities to banks 61.0 207.3 225.8 494.1 53.0 135.2 72.5 260.7 Liabilities from finance leases 68.9 280.6 632.5 982.0 46.8 137.0 316.8 500.6 Financial liabilities due to non-consolidated Group companies 5.2 – – 5.2 5.6 – – 5.6 Financial liabilities due to affiliates 8.0 – – 8.0 – – – – Other financial liabilities 90.0 13.4 – 103.4 83.6 1.0 – 84.6 Total 233.1 795.0 858.3 1,886.4 217.2 1,066.7 681.7 1,965.6 Non-current financial liabilities decreased year-on-year by € 94.9 m to € 1,653.3 m as at the balance sheet date. The decline primarily resulted from the conversion of two convertible bonds totaling € 793.5 m, largely offset by an increase in non-current liabilities to banks of € 225.4 m and an increase in liabilities from finance leases of € 459.3 m to € 913.1 m. The increase in non-current liabilities to banks to € 433.1 m arises from debt finance associated with the acquisition of the cruise ship Europa 2 and the acquisition of an aircraft. The increase in liabilities from finance leases mainly results from financing of aircraft. Current financial liabilities rose by € 15.9 m to € 233.1 m year-on-year as at 30 September 2015. Notes on the consolidated statement of financial position NOTES 253 FA I R VA L U E S A N D C A R RY I N G A M O U N T S O F T H E B O N D S I S S U E D ( 3 0 S E P 2 0 15 ) 30 Sep 2015 30 Sep 2014 Stock Stock Volume Volume Interest ­market Carrying ­market Carrying € million Issuer initial outstanding rate % p. a. ­value amount ­v alue amount 2009 / 14 ­convertible bond TUI AG 217.8 – 5.500 – – 54.3 25.2 2011 / 16 ­convertible bond TUI AG 338.9 – 2.750 – – 388.7 317.1 2014 / 19 bond TUI AG 300.0 300.0 4.500 314.4 293.7 306.0 292.4 2009 / 14 ­convertible bond TUI Travel PLC GBP 350.0 GBP – 6.000 GBP – – GBP 2.3 3.0 2010 / 17 ­convertible bond TUI Travel PLC GBP 400.0 GBP – 4.900 GBP – – GBP 474.4 476.4 Total 314.4 293.7 1,362.3 1,114.1 2005 / -3M EURIBOR hybrid capital TUI AG 300.0 – plus 7.300 – – 308.2 294.8 On 17 November 2009, TUI AG issued a five-year convertible bond worth € 217.8 m. This bond carried a fixed-­ interest coupon of 5.5 % per annum. It was issued at denominations of € 56.30. As at 30 September 2014, the nominal volume outstanding totalled € 25.5 m. In the period under review, € 23.1 m of that total were converted, while the remaining amount of € 2.4 m plus accumulated interest was repaid at maturity on 17 November 2014. The convertible bond with a nominal value of € 339.0 m issued by TUI AG on 24 March 2011 was called early in the period under review and was almost fully converted by the end of the conversion period on 20 March 2015. The remaining bonds worth € 2.4 m were repaid at their nominal value plus interest on 7 April 2015. On 26 September 2014, TUI AG issued a high-yield bond with a coupon of 4.5 % p. a. with a nominal volume of € 300.0 m. The bond was issued in denominations of € 100,000 each. It will mature on 1 October 2019. On 1 October 2009, TUI Travel PLC issued a convertible bond with a nominal value of £ 350.0 m with a fixed-­ interest coupon of 6.0 % per annum and a conversion price of £ 3.493 per no-par value share, maturing on 5 October 2014. The bond was issued in denominations of £ 100,000. Following the end of the conversion period, the volume of the bond outstanding as at 30 September 2014 was £ 2.3 m. Non-converted bonds were repaid at their nominal amount plus accumulated interest at final maturity. The convertible bond with a nominal volume of £ 400.0 m, issued by TUI Travel PLC on 22 April 2010 was almost fully converted in financial year 2014 / 15. In the framework of the merger between TUI Travel PLC and TUI AG , the bondholders had a special redemption right, subsequently used for conversion by many of the external bondholders. Further convertible bonds with a nominal value of £ 200 m were early redeemed by TUI AG . TUI AG had obtained the legal title on these bonds with the early redemption of a financing agreement in January 2015. On 3 March 2015, TUI Travel Ltd. announced early redemption of the remaining bonds. All bonds still outstanding were converted by the bondholders by the end of the conversion period on 17 April 2015. 254 NOTES Notes on the consolidated statement of financial position With effect from 30 April 2015, TUI AG cancelled its perpetual subordinated bond (“hybrid bond”) with a nominal value of € 300.0 m. Due to the cancellation, the hybrid bond was reclassified from equity to financial liabilities in March 2015. The bond was repaid at nominal value plus accrued interest at the end of April 2015. (35) Trade accounts payable T R A D E PAYA B L E S 30 Sep 2015 30 Sep 2014 € million ­restated To third parties 3,181.2 3,224.4 To non-consolidated Group companies 5.8 6.0 To affiliates 37.2 61.7 Total 3,224.2 3,292.1 (36) Derivative financial instruments D E R I VAT I V E F I N A N C I A L I N S T R U M E N T S 30 Sep 2015 30 Sep 2014 restated Remaining term Remaining term more than more than € million up to 1 year 1– 5 years 5 years Total up to 1 year 1– 5 years 5 years Total Liabilities from derivative financial ­instruments to third parties 388.2 78.5 – 466.7 241.9 20.7 – 262.6 Derivative financial instruments are included at their fair values (market values). They mainly serve to hedge future business operations and are detailed in the explanatory information on financial instruments. (37) Deferred and current tax liabilities D E F E R R E D A N D C U R R E N T TA X L I A B L I T I E S 30 Sep 2015 30 Sep 2014 € million ­restated Deferred tax liabilities 125.7 144.8 Current tax liabilities 194.6 199.7 Total 320.3 344.5 Deferred tax liabilities include an amount of € 105.5 m (previous year € 119.1.m) to be realised after more than twelve months. Notes on the consolidated statement of financial position NOTES 255 (38) Other liabilities OTHER LIABILITIES 30 Sep 2015 30 Sep 2014 restated Remaining term Remaining term € million up to 1 year 1– 5 years Total up to 1 year 1– 5 years Total Other liabilities due to non-consolidated Group companies 3.6 – 3.6 5.0 – 5.0 Other liabilities due to affiliates 29.1 8.0 37.1 38.0 0.3 38.3 Other liabilities relating to other taxes 41.9 – 41.9 48.3 – 48.3 Other liabilities relating to social security 47.2 – 47.2 44.2 – 44.2 Other liabilities relating to employees 273.4 13.8 287.2 282.0 10.5 292.5 Other liabilities relating to members of the Boards 4.2 – 4.2 0.3 – 0.3 Advance payments received 2,568.3 13.5 2,581.8 2,435.7 11.8 2,447.5 Other miscellaneous liabilities 205.0 25.7 230.7 215.2 63.2 278.4 Other liabilities 3,172.7 61.0 3,233.7 3,068.7 85.8 3,154.5 Deferred income 74.6 75.2 149.8 65.9 44.7 110.6 Total 3,247.3 136.2 3,383.5 3,134.6 130.5 3,265.1 (39) Liabilities related to assets held for sale In the period under review, liabilities related to assets held for sale amounted to € 31.5 m (previous year none). They related to the discontinued operation LateRooms Group. (40) Contingent liabilities As at 30 September 2015, contingent liabilities amount to € 364.4 m (previous year € 375.1 m). Contingent liabilities are reported at an amount representing the best estimate of the potential expenditure that would be required to meet the potential obligation as at the balance sheet date. Contingent liabilities as at 30 September 2015 are principally attributable to the granting of guarantees for the benefit of Hapag-Lloyd AG and TUI Cruises GmbH for collateralised ship financing schemes. The year-on-year decline versus 30 September 2014 mainly results from the return of guarantees and from redemption payments, which more than offset the increase resulting from contingent liabilities newly entered into. In the course of financial year 2011 / 12, the German tax administration issued a decree on the interpretation of the trade tax act, amended with effect from financial year 2008. This decree, only binding for the tax administration, is interpreted by the German tax administration as indicating that expenses of German tour operators for the purchase of hotel beds are not fully deductible in determining the basis for the assessment of trade tax. TUI Group does not share that view, in particular as hotel purchasing contracts are mixed contracts also covering catering, cleaning, entertaining guests and other services characterising the purchase service. 256 NOTES Notes on the consolidated statement of financial position As the Group has concluded many different contracts to purchase the same service, quantifying this risk in the event the tax administration enforces its view entails a significant element of uncertainty. Should TUI Group’s legal interpretation be adopted, there is no risk. Should TUI Group’s legal interpretation be rejected, a risk of around € 42 m (previous year € 113 m) might arise for the period since 2008. This change reflects the reassessment of the risk. (41) Litigation Neither TUI AG nor any of its subsidiaries have been involved in pending or foreseeable court or arbitration proceedings which might have a significant impact on their economic position as at 30 September 2015. This also applies to actions claiming warranty, repayment or any other compensation brought forward in connection with the divestment of subsidiaries and business units over the past few years. In 1999, the operator of the container terminal in Zeebrugge in Belgium filed an action for damages against CP Ships Ltd. – still part of TUI Group – and some of its subsidiaries due to an alleged breach of contract in connection with switching the Belgian port of call from Zeebrugge to Antwerp. Following first oral proceedings in September 2013, the court ruled against two subsidiaries of CP Ships Ltd. in October 2013 and dismissed the action against all other defendants (including CP Ships Ltd.). Both parties have appealed so that the action is now only pending against the two subsidiaries of CP Ships Ltd. and CP Ships Ltd. itself. Moreover, the CP Ships companies would have rights of recourse against solvent third parties in the event of an adverse final judgment. As in previous years, the respective Group companies recognised adequate provisions, partly covered by expected insurance benefits, to cover all potential financial charges from court or arbitration proceedings. Overall, the future financial position is therefore unlikely to be substantially affected by such charges. (42) Other financial commitments NOMINAL AND FAIR VALUE S OF OTHE R FINANCIAL COMMIT ME NT S 30 Sep 2015 30 Sep 2014 Remaining term Remaining term more than more than € million up to 1 year 1– 5 years 5 years Total up to 1 year 1– 5 years 5 years Total Order commitments in respect of capital expenditure 275.1 1,969.8 1,682.8 3,927.7 589.8 1,603.6 967.5 3,160.9 Other financial commitments 39.2 75.2 – 114.4 56.1 154.6 – 210.7 Total 314.3 2,045.0 1,682.8 4,042.1 645.9 1,758.2 967.5 3,371.6 Fair value 307.5 1,912.9 1,399.5 3,619.9 631.7 1,644.7 809.7 3,086.1 The fair value of other financial commitments was determined by means of discounting future expenses using a customary market interest rate of 2.25 % per annum (previous year 2.25 % p. a.). Notes on the consolidated statement of financial position NOTES 257 Order commitments in respect of capital expenditure relating almost exclusively to Tourism increased by € 766.8 m year-on-year as at 30 September 2015. This was primarily due to new order commitments for cruise ships arising under finance leases entered into by a subsidiary of the TUI Group with TUI Cruises GmbH, a joint venture of TUI AG . Order commitments for aircraft decreased slightly in the financial year under review due to the commissioning of additional aircraft and aircraft equipment offset by deliveries and current down payments. The decline was partly offset by foreign exchange effects for liabilities denominated in non-functional currencies. F I N A N C I A L C O M M I T M E N T S F R O M O P E R AT I N G L E A S E , R E N TA L A N D C H A R T E R C O N T R A C T S 30 Sep 2015 30 Sep 2014 restated Remaining term Remaining term up to more than up to more than € million 1 year 1– 5 years 5– 10 years 10 years Total 1 year 1– 5 years 5– 10 years 10 years Total Aircraft 401.4 1,219.5 508.6 15.2 2,144.7 363.8 1,090.4 523.7 58.2 2,036.1 Hotel complexes 231.9 462.4 90.9 8.4 793.6 225.1 537.6 102.1 8.5 873.3 Travel agencies 74.1 143.1 38.7 7.8 263.7 74.1 148.8 45.6 9.5 278.0 Administrative buildings 54.6 129.7 76.1 67.1 327.5 58.9 149.2 96.0 67.6 371.7 Yachts and motor boats 96.9 97.6 0.5 – 195.0 118.2 248.3 135.2 17.6 519.3 Other 26.8 26.9 8.8 56.3 118.8 29.0 33.9 4.5 21.4 88.8 Total 885.7 2,079.2 723.6 154.8 3,843.3 869.1 2,208.2 907.1 182.8 4,167.2 Fair value 866.1 1,944.9 605.7 123.9 3,540.6 850.0 2,065.6 759.2 146.4 3,821.2 The fair value of financial commitments from lease, rental and charter agreements was determined by means of discounting future expenses using a standard market interest rate of 2.25 % p. a. (previous year 2.25 % p. a.). The commitments from lease, rental and charter agreements exclusively relate to leases that do not transfer all the risks and rewards of ownership of the assets to the companies of the TUI Group in accordance with IFRS rules (operating leases). Operating leases for aircraft do not include a purchase option. Current lease payments usually do not include any maintenance costs. The basic lease term is usually around 8 years on average. The decrease in commitments compared to 30 September 2014 arises mainly from the acquisition of Europa 2, which had been leased under a lease agreement until January 2015. An opposite effect resulted from the commissioning of several aircraft, causing an increase in lease obligations for aircraft. (43) Share-based payments in accordance with IFRS 2 M U LT I A N N U A L B O N U S PAY M E N T The long-term incentive programme for Board members is based on phantom shares. In each financial year, a new period of performance measurements commences, spanning the current plus the following three financial years. As a result, each performance measurement period has a general term of four years. All Board members have their individual target amount defined in their contract of employment; which is translated at the beginning of each performance measurement period into phantom shares on the basis of the average price of TUI AG shares (‘preliminary number of phantom shares’). The average share price is determined on the basis of share prices during the 20 days prior to the beginning of any financial year. The entitlement under the long-term incentive programme arises upon completion of the four-year performance period. 258 NOTES Notes on the consolidated statement of financial position Upon the completion of the four-year performance period, the preliminary number of phantom shares is multiplied by the degree of target achievement. This degree is determined by the rank achieved by TUI AG when comparing the total shareholder return ( TSR ) of companies listed in the “Dow Jones Stoxx 600 Travel & Leisure” index. The rank is subsequently translated into a percentage, which is the degree of target achievement. If the degree of target achievement is less than 25 %, no preliminary phantom shares are remunerated. If the degree of target achievement exceeds 25 %, it is multiplied by the number of preliminary phantom shares granted; however, a cap of 175 % applies. At the end of the four-year performance period, the number of phantom shares determined in this way is multiplied by the average price (20 trading days) of TUI AG shares, and the resulting amount is paid out in cash. The maximum amount payable under the long-term incentive programme has been capped for each individual. If the condition mentioned above is met, upon expiry of the performance period, the awards are automatically exercised. If the conditions are not met, the awards are forfeited. The service period will be restricted to the end of the employment period if plan participants leave the Company, as long as employment is not terminated due to significant reason within the sphere of responsibility of the participant or by the participant without cause. The fair value of the phantom shares granted in financial year 2014 / 15 is recognised as remuneration for the current financial year based on a degree of target achievement of 100 %. STOCK OPTION PL AN Bonuses are granted to Group executives entitled to receive a bonus; the bonuses are also translated into phantom shares in TUI AG on the basis of an average share price. For Executive Board members, the stock option plan was terminated upon the introduction of the multi-annual bonus. The phantom shares are calculated on the basis of Group earnings before interest, taxes and amortisation of goodwill (EBITA ). The translation into phantom shares is based on the average share price of the TUI share on the 20 trading days following the Supervisory Board meeting at which the annual financial statements are approved. The number of phantom shares granted in a financial year is therefore only determined in the subsequent year. Following a lock-up period of two years, the individual beneficiaries are free to exercise their right to cash payment from this bonus within three years. Following significant corporate news, the entitlements have to be exercised within defined timeframes. The lock-up period is not applicable if a beneficiary leaves the Company; in that case, the entitlements have to be exercised in the next time window. The level of the cash payment depends on the average share price of the TUI share over a period of 20 trading days after the exercise date. There are no absolute or relative return or share price targets. A cap has been agreed for exceptional, unforeseen developments. Since the strike price is € 0.0 and the incentive programme does not entail a vesting period, the fair value corresponds to the intrinsic value and hence the market price at the balance sheet date. Accordingly, the fair value of the obligation is determined by multiplying the number of phantom shares with the share price at the respective reporting date. Notes on the consolidated statement of financial position NOTES 259 Phantom shares developed as follows for the two remuneration schemes: DEVELOPMENT OF PHANTOM SHARES Number Present value of shares € million Balance as at 30 Sep 2013 1,724,055 15.1 Phantom shares granted 357,484 4.2 Phantom shares exercised 900,497 9.3 Measurement results – 4.0 Balance as at 30 Sep 2014 1,181,042 14.0 Phantom shares granted 779,616 9.7 Phantom shares exercised 497,970 8.3 Phantom shares forfeited 69,116 0.8 Measurement results – 8.2 Balance as at 30 Sep 2015 1,393,572 22.8 The multi-annual bonus and the stock option plan are recognised as payments with cash compensation. As at 30 September 2015 provisions relating to entitlements under these long-term incentive programmes totaled € 15.2 m and further € 1.5 m were included as liabilities (previous year provisions of € 13.2 m and no liabilities). Within the stock option plan 182,438 phantom shares (value equivalent to € 3.0 m) vested as at 30 September 2015. In financial year 2014 / 15, personnel expenses due to share-based payment schemes with cash compensation of € 8.0 m (previous year € 7.8 m) were recognised through profit and loss. E MPLOYE E SHARE S TUI AG offers shares at preferential conditions for purchase by eligible employees in Germany and some Euro­pean countries. The purchase entails a lock-up period of two years. In financial year 2014 / 15, a total of 133,340 employee shares that employees had subscribed to in the prior year were issued. The subscription period for employee shares in financial year 2014 / 15 expired on 23 September 2015. Employees subscribed to 181,280 employee shares, to be issued in the following financial year. Personnel costs recognised through profit and loss, i.e. the difference between the current share price as at the balance sheet date and the reduced purchase price, amount to € 0.9 m. S H A R E B A S E D PAY M E N T S C H E M E S I N T U I A G S U B S I D I A R I E S After completion of the merger between TUI Travel PLC and TUI AG on 11 December 2014 all members of the TUI Group Executive Board received new contracts of employment. With retroactive effect to 1 October 2014 all members of the TUI Group Executive Board are participating in the above-mentioned scheme of multi-annual bonus payment. Therefore, since the beginning of the financial year, the remuneration schemes described below are no longer granted to former TUI Travel PLC executive directors that now form part of the TUI AG board of executives. In the scheme of arrangement of the merger TUI AG committed to fulfil existing entitlements to share-based payments (‘roll-over’). Therefore outstanding awards of Executive Board members based on former TUI Travel PLC contracts of employment will be remunerated at maturity. Equity-settled share-based payments will be made in TUI AG shares converted from the TUI Travel entitlements at the conversion rate of 0.399 new TUI AG shares for each TUI Travel share as agreed in the merger documentation. Certain beneficiaries (except for the Executive Board members) are still eligible to receive awards under the three remuneration schemes described below. Prior to the merger between TUI Travel PLC and TUI AG , the schemes operated by TUI Travel PLC businesses were equity-settled and all outstanding awards remain equity-settled. All awards granted under the schemes after the merger will be settled in cash. 260 NOTES Notes on the consolidated statement of financial position The three principal share-based payment schemes linking executive remuneration to the future performance of the company are: a Performance Share Plan (PSP ), a Deferred Annual Bonus Scheme (DABS ) and a Deferred Annual Bonus Long-Term Incentive Scheme (DABLIS ). These incentive schemes are offered to participants free of charge and entail both lock-up periods and performance conditions. The share awards of all remuneration schemes will only vest if the average annual return on invested capital (ROIC ) is at least equal to the average weighted average cost of capital ( WACC ) over a period of three years. If this condition is fulfilled, the number of vesting awards are determined as a function of the fulfilment of the following performance conditions. PERFORMANCE SHARE PL AN (PSP) Up to 50 % of these awards granted will vest based on growth in the Group’s reported earnings per share (EPS ) in excess of growth in the UK Retail Price Index. Up to 25 % of the awards will vest based on the Group’s total shareholder return ( TSR ) performance relative to an average of the TSR performance of an index of other capital market-orientated travel and tourism companies. Likewise, up to 25 % of the awards vest if the Group’s average return on invested capital (ROIC ) meets predefined targets. DEFERRED ANNUAL BONUS SCHEME (DABS) The awards granted under this scheme vest upon completion of a three-year period at the earliest. Up to 50 % of the granted awards will vest based on growth in earnings per share (EPS ) relative to the UK Retail Price Index (RPI ). 25 % of the awards will vest based on total shareholder return ( TSR ) performance relative to the TSR performance of other capital market-oriented travel and tourism companies. Likewise, up to 25 % of the awards will vest if the average return on invested capital (ROIC ) meets certain targets. D E F E R R E D A N N U A L B O N U S L O N G -T E R M I N C E N T I V E S C H E M E ( D A B L I S ) The Deferred Annual Bonus Long-Term Incentive Scheme (DABLIS ), for executive staff (except for the Executive Board) requires a 25 % conversion of any annual variable compensation into shares. Some eligible staff have been awarded further (matching) share awards as additional bonuses. Matching shares are limited to four times the converted amount. The earliest point for the shares to be eligible for release is similarly at the end of a three-year period. Up to 50 % of the awards will vest based on achievement of certain EBITA targets. Up to 25 % of awards will vest based on the earnings per share (EPS ) performance relative to the UK Retail Price Index and up to 25 % based on the total shareholder return ( TSR ) performance in relation to the TSR performance of other capital market-oriented travel and tourism companies. The following schedules relate to the outstanding awards under the TUI Travel equity-settled schemes and show the number of TUI Travel Limited shares which remain outstanding following conversion into TUI AG shares at the conversion rate of 0.399 new TUI AG shares for each TUI Travel share as agreed in the merger documentation. Notes on the consolidated statement of financial position NOTES 261 The vesting schedule for the awards was as follows as at 30 September 2015: S H A R E AWA R D S C H E M E S A N D O R D I N A R Y S H A R E S O U T S TA N D I N G 30 Sep 2015 30 Sep 2014 Number Number Date due to vest / of shares of shares date vested Performance Share Plan (PSP ) – 1,214,096 7 December 2014 – 77,103 1 June 2015 732,594 738,838 6 December 2015 486,203 511,339 12 December 2016 Deferred Annual Bonus Scheme (DABS ) – 2,075,061 7 December 2014 1,393,129 1,395,470 6 December 2015 925,025 976,878 12 December 2016 Deferred Annual Bonus Long Term Incentive Scheme (DABLIS ) – 1,435,845 7 December 2014 808,039 840,113 6 December 2015 681,508 735,507 12 December 2016 Total 5,026,498 10,000,250 The development of awards already granted is as follows: DEVELOPMENT OF THE NUMBER OF SHARE OPTIONS Number Outstanding at beginning of the financial year 10,000,250 Forfeited during the year – 222,497 Exercised during the financial year – 4,751,255 Granted during the financial year – Balance as at 30 Sep 2015 5,026,498 The weighted average TUI Travel PLC share price was 452 pence at exercise date (translated to € 5.81, previous year 387 pence or € 4.52). The weighted average remaining contractual life of options not exercised is 0.61 years at 30 September 2015 (previous year 0.93 years). In addition to the above shares, the deferral of variable compensation into share awards means that 558,154 shares (previous year 1,122,556 shares) are still outstanding under DABS and 799,354 (previous year 1,781,444) under DABLIS. The awards will vest between 6 December 2015 and 12 December 2016. 262 NOTES Notes on the consolidated statement of financial position The fair value of services received in return for shares awarded during the financial year was measured by reference to the fair value of the equity instruments awarded. The fair value at the date the share awards were granted is usually estimated using a binominal methodology, except where there is a market-based performance condition attached to vesting. In that case a Monte Carlo simulation is used for the estimate. I N F O R M AT I O N R E L AT I N G T O FA I R VA L U E S O F S H A R E S AWA R D E D 2014 / 15 2013 / 14 Fair values at measurement date € – 5.32 – 10.58 Share price € – 12.16 Expected volatility % – 30.60 Award life – 3 years Expected dividends % – 4.67 Risk free interest rate % – 0.78 Participants are not entitled to dividends prior to vesting. Expected volatility is based on historic volatility adjusted for changes to future volatility indicated by publicly available information. In financial year 2014 / 15, personnel costs of € 20.1 m (previous year € 23.9 m) relating to share-based payment schemes involving compensation by equity instruments were carried through profit and loss. Eligible beneficiaries are included in a cash-settled (Phantom) scheme. Calculation of the cash settlement is based on the same criteria as those used for settlement by equity instruments. In the financial year 2014 / 15, this gave rise to staff costs of € 10.9 m (previous year € 2.7 m). As at 30 September 2015 provisions relating to entitlements under these long-term incentive programmes totaled € 11.2 m and were classified as accruals. The schedule below shows the development of outstanding cash-settled phantom shares as at 30 September 2015: D E V E L O P M E N T O F P H A N T O M S H A R E S G R A N T E D AT S U B G R O U P L E V E L Number Present value of shares € million Balance as at 30 Sep 2014 410,006 4.9 Phantom shares granted 1,579,926 26.3 Phantom shares exercised – 185,987 – 3.1 Phantom shares forfeited – 199,559 – 3.3 Measurement results – 1.9 Balance as at 30 Sep 2015 1,604,386 26.7 (44) Financial instruments RISK S AND RISK MANAGEMENT RISK MANAGEMENT PRINCIPLE S Due to the nature of its business operations, the TUI Group is exposed to various financial risks, including market risks (consisting of currency risks, interest rate risks and market price risks), credit risks and liquidity risks. Notes on the consolidated statement of financial position NOTES 263 In accordance with the Group’s financial goals, financial risks have to be mitigated. In order to achieve those goals, policies and procedures applicable within TUI Group have been developed, ensuring responsibilities for all financial transactions undertaken. Due to the merger of TUI AG and TUI Travel PLC the cash management activities and the financial risk management of both companies was combined at corporate level. The rules, competencies and workflows as well as limits for transactions and risk positions have been defined in policies. The trading, processing and control have been segregated in functional and organisational terms. Compliance with the policies and limits is continually monitored. All hedges by the Group are consistently based on correspondingly recognised or future forecasted underlying transactions. Recognised standard software is used for assessing, monitoring and reporting as well as documenting and reviewing the effectiveness of the hedging relationships for the hedges entered into. In this context, the fair values of all derivative financial instruments determined on the basis of the Group’s own systems are regularly compared with the fair value confirmations of the external counterparties. The processes, the methods applied and the organisation of risk management are reviewed for compliance with the relevant regulations on at least an annual basis by the internal audit department and external auditors. Within the TUI Group, financial risks primarily arise from cash flows in foreign currencies, fuel requirements (jet fuel and bunker oil) and financing via the money and capital markets. In order to limit the risks from changes in exchange rates, market prices and interest rates for underlying transactions, TUI uses derivative over-the-counter financial instruments. These are primarily fixed-price transactions. In addition, TUI also uses options and structured products. Use of derivative financial instruments is confined to internally fixed limits and other regulations. The transactions are concluded on an arm’s length basis with contracting counterparties operating in the financial sector, whose counterparty risk is regularly monitored. Foreign exchange translation risks from the consolidation of Group companies not preparing their accounts in euros are not hedged. Accounting and measurement of financial instruments is in line with IAS 39. MARKET RISK Market risks result in fluctuations in earnings, equity and cash flows. In order to limit or eliminate these risks, the TUI Group has developed various hedging strategies, including the use of derivative financial instruments. According to IFRS 7, market risks have to be presented using sensitivity analyses showing the effects of hypothetical changes in relevant risk variables on profit or loss and equity. The effects for the period are determined by relating the hypothetical changes in risk variables to the portfolio of primary and derivative financial instruments as at the balance sheet date. It is ensured that the portfolio of financial instruments as at the balance sheet date is represen­ tative for the entire financial year. The analyses of the TUI Group’s risk reduction activities outlined below and the amounts determined using sensitivity analyses represent hypothetical and thus uncertain disclosures entailing risks. Due to unforeseeable developments in the global financial markets, actual results may deviate substantially from the disclosures provided. The risk analysis methods used must not be considered a projection of future events or losses, since the TUI Group is also exposed to risks of a non-financial or non-quantifiable nature. These risks primarily include souvereign, business and legal risks not covered by the following presentation of risks. CURRENCY RISK The business operations of the TUI Group’s companies generate payments or receipts denominated in foreign currencies, which are not always matched by congruent payments or receipts with equivalent terms in the same currency. Using potential netting effects (netting of payments made and received in the same currency with identical or similar terms), the TUI Group enters into appropriate hedges with external counterparties in order to protect its profit margin from exchange rate-related fluctuations. 264 NOTES Notes on the consolidated statement of financial position Within the TUI Group, risks from exchange rate fluctuations are hedged, with the largest hedging volumes relating to US dollars, euros and pound sterling. The Eurozone limits the currency risk from transactions in the key tourist destinations to Group companies whose functional currency is not the euro. The tourism business operations are mainly affected by changes in the value of the US dollar and the euro, the latter predominantly affecting the TUI tour operators in the UK and the Nordic countries. In tourism operations, payments in US dollars primarily relate to the procurement of services in non-European destinations, purchases of jet fuel and ship fuel and aircraft purchases or charter. The tourism companies use financial derivatives to hedge their planned foreign exchange requirements. They aim to cover 80 % to 100 % of the planned currency requirements at the beginning of the tourism season concerned. In this regard, account is taken of the different risk profiles of the Group companies. The hedged currency volumes are adjusted in line with changes in planned requirements on the basis of reporting by business units. Currency risks within the meaning of IFRS 7 arise from primary and derivative monetary financial instruments issued in a currency other than the functional currency of a company. Exchange rate-related differences from the translation of financial statements into the Group’s presentation currency are not taken into account. Taking account of the different functional currencies within the TUI Group, the sensitivity analyses of the currencies identified as relevant risk variables are presented below. A 10 % strengthening or weakening of the respective functional currencies, primarily euro and pound sterling, against the other currencies would cause the following effects on the revaluation reserve and earnings after tax. S E N S I T I V I T Y A N A LY S I S – C U R R E N C Y R I S K € million 30 Sep 2015 30 Sep 2014 Variable: Foreign exchange rate + 10 % – 10 % + 10 % – 10 % Exchange rates of key currencies € / US dollar Revaluation reserve – 102.3 + 102.4 – 105.7 + 105.7 Earnings after income taxes – 8.0 + 9.8 – 7.8 + 9.5 € / Pound sterling Revaluation reserve – 203.8 + 203.8 – 119.0 + 119.0 Earnings after income taxes – 150.5 + 152.4 – 93.3 + 95.3 Pound sterling / US dollar Revaluation reserve – 97.9 + 97.9 – 95.7 + 95.7 Earnings after income taxes – 13.5 + 13.5 – 1.9 + 1.9 € / Swiss franc Revaluation reserve + 0.7 – 0.7 + 4.1 – 4.5 Earnings after income taxes – 0.2 + 0.2 + 0.3 – 0.3 € / Swedish krona Revaluation reserve + 21.0 – 21.0 + 19.4 – 11.3 Earnings after income taxes – – – – I N T E R E S T R AT E R I S K The TUI Group is exposed to interest rate risks from floating-rate primary and derivative financial instruments. Where interest-driven cash flows of floating-rate primary financial instruments are converted into fixed cash flows due to derivative hedges, they are not exposed to an interest rate risk. No interest rate risk exists for fixed-interest financial instruments carried at amortised cost. Notes on the consolidated statement of financial position NOTES 265 Changes in market interest rates mainly impact floating-rate primary financial instruments and derivative financial instruments entered into in order to reduce interest-induced cashflow fluctuations. The table below presents the equity and earnings effects of an assumed increase or decrease in the market interest rate of 50 base points as at the balance sheet date. S E N S I T I V I T Y A N A LY S I S – I N T E R E S T R AT E R I S K € million 30 Sep 2015 30 Sep 2014 Variable: Interest rate level for floating interest-bearing debt + 50 basis – 50 basis + 50 basis – 50 basis and fixed-interest bearing loans points points points points Revaluation reserve – – + 0.3 + 0.2 Earnings after income taxes + 0.3 – + 1.6 – 1.4 FUEL PRICE RISK Due to the nature of its business operations, the TUI Group is exposed to market price risks from the purchase of fuels, both for the aircraft fleet and the cruise ships. The tourism companies use financial derivatives to hedge their exposure to market price risks for the planned consumption of fuel. At the beginning of the touristic season the target hedging ratio is at least 80 %. The different risk profiles of the Group companies operating in different source markets are taken into account, including possibilities of levying fuel surcharges. The hedging volumes are adjusted to changes in planned consumption on the basis of the reports from the Group companies. If the commodity prices, which underlie the fuel price hedges, would increase or decrease by 10 % on the balance sheet date, the result on equity and on earnings after income taxes would be shown on the table below. S E N S I T I V I T Y A N A LY S I S – F U E L P R I C E R I S K € million 30 Sep 2015 30 Sep 2014 Variable: Fuel prices for aircraft and ships + 10 % – 10 % + 10 % – 10 % Revaluation reserve + 62.4 – 61.6 + 80.2 – 80.2 Earnings after income taxes – 0.1 – 0.3 – – 266 NOTES Notes on the consolidated statement of financial position OTHER PRICE RISKS Apart from the financial risks that may result from changes in exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates, the TUI Group is exposed to other price risks due to one-off items. For the sensitivity analysis of these one-off items, reference is given to the comments on the development of the value of Level 3 financial instruments. S E N S I T I V I T Y A N A LY S I S – O T H E R P R I C E R I S K S € million 30 Sep 2015 30 Sep 2014 Variable: Other market values, cash flows + 10 % – 10 % + 10 % – 10 % Revaluation reserve – – + 14.1 – 17.0 Earnings after income taxes – – – – Equity – Available for sale financial instruments – – + 0.4 – 0.4 CREDIT RISK The credit risk in non-derivative financial instruments results from the risk of counterparties defaulting on their contractual payment obligations. Maximum credit risk exposure corresponds in particular to the total of the recognised carrying amounts of the financial assets (including derivative financial instruments with positive market values). It also relates to the granting of financial guarantees for the discharge of liabilities. Details concerning the guarantees at the balance sheet date are presented in Note 40. Legally enforceable possibilities of netting financial assets and liabilities are taken into account. Credit risks are reviewed closely on conclusion of the contract and continually monitored thereafter so as to be able to swiftly respond to potential impairments in a counterparty’s solvency. Responsibility for handling the credit risk is always held by the respective Group companies of the TUI Group. Since the TUI Group operates in many different business areas and regions, significant credit risk concentrations of receivables from and loans to specific debtors or groups of debtors are not to be expected. A significant concentration of credit risks related to specific countries is not to be expected either. The maximum credit risk is reduced by collateral held and other credit enhancements of € 1.1 m (previous year € 1.1 m). Collateral held relates exclusively to financial assets of the category Trade receivables and other receivables. The collateral mainly comprises collateral for financial receivables granted and maturing in more than one year and / or with a volume of more than € 1 m. Rights in rem, directly enforceable guarantees, bank guarantees and comfort letters are used as collateral. Identifiable credit risks of individual receivables are covered by means of corresponding bad debt allowances. In addition, portfolios are impaired based on empirical values. An analysis of the aging structure of the category Trade receivables and other assets is presented in Note 20. At the balance sheet date, there were no financial assets that would be overdue or impaired unless the terms and conditions of the contract had been renegotiated, neither in financial year 2014 / 15 nor in 2013 / 14. Credit management also covers the TUI Group’s derivative financial instruments. The maximum credit risk for derivative financial instruments entered into is limited to the total of all positive market values of these instruments since in the event of counterparty default asset losses would only be incurred up to that amount. Since derivative financial instruments are concluded with different debtors, credit risk exposure is reduced. The specific credit risks of individual counterparties are taken into account in determining the fair values of derivative financial instruments. In addition, the counterparty risk is continually monitored and controlled using internal bank limits. Notes on the consolidated statement of financial position NOTES 267 LIQUIDITY RISK Liquidity risks consist of the Group being unable to meet its shot term financial obligations and resulting increases in funding costs. For this reason, the key objectives of TUI ’s internal liquidity management system are to secure the Group’s liquidity at all times and consistently comply with contractual payment obligations. Assets of € 0.3 m (previous year € 3.1 m) were deposited as collateral for liabilities. The participating Group companies are also jointly and severally liable for financial liabilities from cash pooling agreements. The tables provided below list the contractually agreed (undiscounted) cash flows of all primary financial liabilities and derivative financial instruments as at the balance sheet date. Planned payments for future new liabilities were not taken into account. Where financial liabilities have a floating interest rate, the forward interest rates fixed at the balance sheet date were used to determine future interest payments. Financial liabilities cancellable at any time are allocated to the earliest maturity band. C A S H F L O W O F F I N A N C I A L I N S T R U M E N T S – F I N A N C I A L L I A B I L I T I E S ( 3 0 S E P 2 0 15 ) Cash outflow until 30 Sep up to 1 year 1 – 2 years 2 – 5 years more than 5 years € million repayment interest repayment interest repayment interest repayment interest Financial liabilities Bonds – – 13.5 – – 13.5 – 300.0 – 33.8 – – Liabilities to banks – 61.0 – 4.3 – 55.6 – 3.5 – 151.7 – 8.6 – 225.8 – 7.3 Liabilities from finance leases – 68.8 – 34.4 – 68.2 – 32.2 – 212.5 – 83.6 – 632.5 – 84.4 Financial liabilities due to non-­ consolidated Group companies – 5.2 – – – – – – – Financial liabilities due to affiliates – 8.0 – – – – – – – Other financial liabilities – 90.0 – – 13.4 – – – – – Trade payables – 3,224.2 – – – – – – – Other liabilities – 66.2 – 12.2 – 7.5 – – 2.7 – – – 268 NOTES Notes on the consolidated statement of financial position C A S H F L O W O F F I N A N C I A L I N S T R U M E N T S – F I N A N C I A L L I A B I L I T I E S ( 3 0 S E P 2 0 14 ) ( R E S TAT E D ) Cash outflow until 30 Sep up to 1 year 1 – 2 years 2 – 5 years more than 5 years € million repayment interest repayment interest repayment interest repayment interest Financial liabilities Bonds – 28.4 – 48.9 – 338.9 – 43.4 – 514.6 – 65.7 – 300.0 – 6.8 Liabilities to banks – 53.0 – 1.3 – 49.1 – 1.2 – 86.1 – 3.7 – 72.5 – 5.0 Liabilities from finance leases – 46.8 – 27.2 – 39.1 – 0.8 – 97.9 – 1.9 – 316.8 – 10.6 Financial liabilities due to non-­ consolidated Group companies – 5.6 – – – – – – – Other financial liabilities – 83.6 – – 1.0 – – – – – Trade payables – 3,292.1 – – – – – – – Other liabilities – 225.0 – 12.7 – 17.3 – – 2.2 – – – C A S H F L O W O F D E R I VAT I V E F I N A N C I A L I N S T R U M E N T S ( 3 0 S E P 2 0 15 ) Cash in/ outflow until 30 Sep more than € million up to 1 year 1 – 2 years 2 – 5 years 5 years Derivative financial instruments Hedging transactions – inflows + 6,865.3 + 1,620.3 + 412.1 + 0.7 Hedging transactions – outflows – 7,016.7 – 1,660.1 – 423.0 – 0.7 Other derivative financial instruments – inflows + 4,090.9 + 153.1 + 23.2 – Other derivative financial instruments – outflows – 3,576.0 – 150.1 – 22.4 – C A S H F L O W O F D E R I VAT I V E F I N A N C I A L I N S T R U M E N T S ( 3 0 S E P 2 0 15 R E S TAT E D ) Cash in/ outflow until 30 Sep € million up to 1 year 1 – 2 years 2 – 5 years Derivative financial instruments Hedging transactions – inflows + 6,149.6 + 743.2 + 34.6 Hedging transactions – outflows – 6,196.4 – 722.4 – 31.3 Other derivative financial instruments – inflows + 3,103.1 + 27.3 – Other derivative financial instruments – outflows – 3,134.2 – 27.2 – 0.8 D E R I V AT I V E F I N A N C I A L I N S T R U M E N T S A N D H E D G E S S T R AT E G Y A N D G O A L S In accordance with the TUI Group’s implementing regulations, derivatives are allowed to be used if they are based on underlying recognised assets or liabilities, firm commitments or forecasted transactions. Hedge accounting is based on the rules of IAS 39, in particular in the framework of forecasted transactions. In the financial year under review, hedges primarily consisted of cash flow hedges. Derivative financial instruments in the form of fixed-price transactions and options as well as structured products are used to limit currency, interest rate and fuel risks. Notes on the consolidated statement of financial position NOTES 269 C ASH FLOW HEDGES As at 30 September 2015, hedges existed to hedge cash flows in foreign currencies with maturities of up to six years (previous year up to three years). The hedging transactions of fuel price hedges had terms of up to four years (previous year up to four years). There were no longer any hedging transactions to hedge the floating-­r ate interest payment obligations. Interest hedges were entered into in financial years 2010 / 11 and 2012 / 13 in order to hedge TUI AG ’s floating-rate interest payment obligations in connection with the funding to acquire a part of the convertible bond issued by TUI Travel PLC . Due to the merger between TUI AG and TUI Travel PLC , these interest hedges were terminated. In the prior year, interest hedges with a term of up to two years existed. In accounting for derivatives of cash flow hedges, the effective portion of the cumulative changes in market values is carried in the revaluation reserve outside profit and loss until the hedged item occurs. It is carried in the income statement through profit and loss when the hedged item is executed. In the financial year under review, expenses of € 580.8 m (previous year income of € 150.6 m) for currency hedges and derivative financial instruments used as price hedges were carried in the cost of sales. Expenses of € 0.3 m (previous year expenses of € 0.7 m) was carried in the financial result for interest hedges. Income of € 0.7 m (previous year income of € 0.1 m) was carried for the ineffective portion of the cash flow hedges. N O M I N A L A M O U N T S O F D E R I VAT I V E F I N A N C I A L I N S T R U M E N T S U S E D 30 Sep 2015 30 Sep 2014 restated Remaining term Remaining term up to more than up to more than € million 1 year 1 year Total 1 year 1 year Total Interest rate hedges Caps 67.7 160.4 228.1 – 225.6 225.6 Swaps – 25.2 25.2 25.0 90.0 115.0 Currency hedges Forwards 10,261.1 2,109.5 12,370.6 9,128.3 789.7 9,918.0 Options 2.1 – 2.1 4.0 – 4.0 Structured instruments 114.5 113.6 228.1 204.6 18.4 223.0 Commodity hedges Swaps 977.2 313.5 1,290.7 1,041.2 283.9 1,325.1 Options 37.4 – 37.4 3.0 – 3.0 Other financial instruments – – – – 193.0 193.0 The nominal amounts correspond to the total of all purchase or sale amounts or the contract values of the transactions. F A I R V A L U E S O F D E R I V AT I V E F I N A N C I A L I N S T R U M E N T S The fair values of derivative financial instruments correspond to the market values. The market price determined for all derivative financial instruments is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. A description of the determination of the fair values of derivative financial instruments is provided in the framework of the presentation of the classifi­ cation of financial instruments measured at fair value. 270 NOTES Notes on the consolidated statement of financial position P O S I T I V E A N D N E G AT I V E FA I R VA L U E S O F D E R I VAT I V E F I N A N C I A L I N S T R U M E N T S SHOW N A S RECE IVABLE S OR LIABILITIE S 30 Sep 2015 30 Sep 2014 restated € million Receivables Liabilities Receivables Liabilities Cash flow hedges for currency risks 257.5 96.7 186.0 124.1 other market price risks 4.9 347.1 37.4 83.1 interest rate risks – – 0.1 0.3 Fair value hedges for currency risks – – – 0.2 Hedging 262.4 443.8 223.5 207.7 Other derivative financial instruments 66.7 22.9 22.0 54.9 Total 329.1 466.7 245.5 262.6 Financial instruments which are entered into in order to hedge a risk position according to operational criteria but do not meet the strict criteria of IAS 39 to qualify for hedge accounting are shown as other derivative financial instruments. They include, in particular, foreign currency transactions entered into in order to hedge against foreign exchange-induced exposure to changes in the value of balance sheet items and foreign exchange fluctuations from future expenses in Tourism. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS – ADDITIONAL DISCLOSURES C A R RY I N G A M O U N T S A N D FA I R VA LU E S Where financial instruments are listed in an active market, e. g. above all shares held and bonds issued, the fair value or market value is the respective quotation in this market at the balance sheet date. For over-the-counter bonds, liabilities to banks, promissory notes and other non-current financial liabilities, the fair value is determined as the present value of future cash flows, taking account of yield curves and the respective credit spread, which depends on the credit rating. Due to the short remaining terms of cash and cash equivalents, current trade receivables and other assets, current trade payables and other payables, the carrying amounts are taken as realistic estimates of the fair value. The fair values of non-current trade receivables and other assets correspond to the present values of the cash flows associated with the assets, taking account of current interest parameters which reflect marketand counter­ party-related changes in terms and expectations. There are no financial investments held to maturity. Notes on the consolidated statement of financial position NOTES 271 C A R R Y I N G A M O U N T S A N D FA I R VA L U E S A C C O R D I N G T O C L A S S E S A N D M E A S U R E M E N T C AT E G O R I E S A S AT 3 0 S E P 2 0 15 Category under IA S 39 Values Carrying Fair value with Fair value ­according amount of Fair value of Carrying At amortised no effect on through profit to IA S 17 financial financial € million amount cost At cost profit and loss and loss (­leases) instruments instruments Assets Available for sale financial assets 391.1 – 50.4 340.7 – – 391.1 391.1 Trade receivables and other assets 2,281.2 1,064.7 – – – – 1,064.7 1,064.7 Derivative financial instruments Hedging 262.4 – – 262.4 – – 262.4 262.4 Other derivative financial ­instruments 66.7 – – – 66.7 – 66.7 66.7 Cash and cash equivalents 1,672.7 1,672.7 – – – – 1,672.7 1,672.7 Liabilities Financial liabilities 1,886.4 904.5 – – – 982.0 904.5 925.1 Trade payables 3,224.2 3,224.0 – – – – 3,224.0 3,224.0 Derivative financial instruments Hedging 443.8 – – 443.8 – – 443.8 443.8 Other derivative financial ­instruments 22.9 – – – 22.9 – 22.9 22.9 Other liabilities 3,383.5 152.9 – – – – 152.9 152.9 272 NOTES Notes on the consolidated statement of financial position C A R R Y I N G A M O U N T S A N D F A I R V A L U E S A C C O R D I N G T O C L A S S E S A N D M E A S U R E M E N T C A T E G O R I E S A S A T 3 0 S E P 2 0 1 4 ( R E S TA T E D ) Category under IA S 39 Values Carrying Fair value with Fair value ­according amount of Fair value of Carrying At amortised no effect on through profit to IA S 17 financial financial € million amount cost At cost profit and loss and loss (­leases) instruments instruments Assets Available for sale financial assets 362.7 – 45.4 317.3 – – 362.7 362.7 Trade receivables and other assets 2,279.3 1,113.8 – – – – 1,113.8 1,113.8 Derivative financial instruments Hedging 223.5 – – 223.5 – – 223.5 223.5 Other derivative financial ­instruments 22.0 – – – 22.0 – 22.0 22.0 Cash and cash equivalents 2,258.0 2,258.0 – – – – 2,258.0 2,258.0 Liabilities Financial liabilities 1,965.6 1,465.0 – – – 500.6 1,465.0 1,713.2 Trade payables 3,292.1 3,292.0 – – – – 3,292.0 3,292.0 Derivative financial instruments Hedging 207.7 – – 207.7 – – 207.7 207.7 Other derivative financial ­instruments 54.9 – – – 54.9 – 54.9 54.9 Other liabilities 3.265.1 217.3 – – – – 217.3 217.3 The financial investments classified as financial assets available for sale include an amount of € 50.4 m (previous year € 45.4 m) for stakes in partnerships and corporations for which an active market does not exist. The fair value of these non-listed stakes is not determined using a measurement model since the future cash flows cannot be reliably determined. The stakes are carried at acquisition cost. In the period under review and in the previous year, there were no major disposals of stakes in partnerships and corporations measured at acquisition cost. The TUI Group does not intend to sell or derecognise the stakes in these partnerships and corporations in the near future. Notes on the consolidated statement of financial position NOTES 273 A G G R E G AT I O N A C C O R D I N G T O M E A S U R E M E N T C AT E G O R I E S U N D E R I A S 3 9 A S AT 3 0 S E P 2 0 15 Fair value with no effect through Carrying At amortised on profit and profit and amount € million cost At cost loss loss Total Fair value Loans and receivables 2,737.4 – – – 2,737.4 2,737.4 Financial assets available for sale – 50.4 340.7 – 391.1 391.1 held for trading – – – 66.7 66.7 66.7 Financial liabilities at amortised cost 4,281.4 – – – 4,281.4 4,302.0 held for trading – – – 22.9 22.9 22.9 A G G R E G AT I O N A C C O R D I N G T O M E A S U R E M E N T C AT E G O R I E S U N D E R I A S 3 9 A S AT 3 0 S E P 2 0 14 ( R E S TAT E D ) Fair value with no effect through Carrying At amortised on profit and profit and amount € million cost At cost loss loss Total Fair value Loans and receivables 3,371.8 – – – 3,371.8 3,371.8 Financial assets available for sale – 45.4 317.3 – 362.7 362.7 held for trading – – – 22.0 22.0 22.0 Financial liabilities at amortised cost 4,974.3 – – – 4,974.3 5,222.5 held for trading – – – 55.4 55.4 55.4 FA I R VA LU E M E A S U R E M E N T The table below presents the fair values of recurring, non-recurring and other financial instruments measured at fair value in line with the underlying measurement level. The individual measurement levels have been defined as follows in line with the inputs: • Level 1: (unadjusted) quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. • Level 2: inputs for the measurement other than quoted market prices included within Level 1 that are observable in the market for the asset or liability, either directly (as quoted prices) or indirectly (derivable from quoted prices). • Level 3: inputs for the measurement of the asset or liability not based on observable market data. 274 NOTES Notes on the consolidated statement of financial position C L A S S I F I C AT I O N O F FA I R VA L U E M E A S U R E M E N T O F F I N A N C I A L I N S T R U M E N T S A S O F 3 0 S E P 2 0 15 Fair value hierarchy € million Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Assets Available for sale financial assets 340.7 – – 340.7 Derivative financial instruments Hedging transactions 262.4 – 262.4 – Other derivative financial instruments 66.7 – 66.7 – Liabilities Derivative financial instruments Hedging transactions 443.8 – 443.8 – Other derivative financial instruments 22.9 – 22.9 – At amortised cost Financial liabilities 925.1 314.4 610.7 – C L A S S I F I C AT I O N O F FA I R VA L U E M E A S U R E M E N T O F F I N A N C I A L I N S T R U M E N T S A S O F 3 0 S E P 2 0 14 ( R E S TAT E D ) Fair value hierarchy € million Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Assets Other assets held for trading – – – – Available for sale financial assets 317.3 11.8 300.0 5.5 Derivative financial instruments Hedging transactions 223.5 – 223.5 – Other derivative financial instruments 22.0 – 22.0 – Liabilities Derivative financial instruments Hedging transactions 207.7 – 207.7 – Other derivative financial instruments 54.9 – 54.9 – At amortised cost Financial liabilities 1,713.2 1,362.3 350.9 – At the end of every reporting period, TUI Group examines whether there are any reasons to reclassify assets from or to a different level. Financial assets and financial liabilities are always reclassified from Level 1 to Level 2 if liquidity and trading activities no longer indicate an active market. This also applies, vice versa, to potential reclassifications from Level 2 to Level 1. In the period under review, no reclassifications were made between Level 1 and Level 2. There were also no reclassifications from or to Level 3. Reclassifications from Level 3 to Level 2 or Level 1 are made if observable quoted prices become available for the asset or liability concerned. TUI Group records reclassifications to and from Level 3 as per the day on which an event or trigger causes the reclassification. Notes on the consolidated statement of financial position NOTES 275 LEVEL 1 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS: The fair value of financial instruments for which an active market exists is based on quoted prices at the reporting date. An active market exists if quoted prices are readily and regularly available from an exchange, dealer, broker, pricing service or regulatory agency and these prices represent actual and regularly occurring market transactions on an arm’s length basis. These financial instruments are classified as Level 1. The fair values correspond to the nominal amounts multiplied by the quoted prices at the reporting date. Level 1 financial instruments primarily comprise shares in listed companies classified as available for sale and bonds issued classified as financial liabilities at amortised cost. LEVEL 2 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS: The fair values of financial instruments not traded in an active market, e. g. over-the-counter (OTC ) derivatives, are determined by means of valuation techniques. These valuation techniques make maximum use of observable market data and minimise the use of Group-specific assumptions. If all essential inputs for the determination of the fair value of an instrument are observable, the instrument is classified as Level 2. If one or several key inputs are not based on observable market data, the instrument is classified as Level 3. The following specific valuation techniques are used to measure financial instruments: • For over-the-counter bonds, liabilities to banks, promissory notes and other non-current financial liabilities, the fair value is determined as the present value of future cash flows, taking account of yield curves and the respective credit spread, which depends on the credit rating. • The fair value of over-the-counter derivatives is determined by means of appropriate calculation methods, e. g. by discounting the expected future cash flows. The forward prices of forward transactions are based on the spot or cash prices, taking account of forward premiums and discounts. The calculation of the fair values of options concluded for currency options is based on the Black & Scholes model and the Turnbull & Wakeman model for optional fuel hedges. The fair values determined on the basis of the Group’s own systems are periodically compared with fair value confirmations of the external counterparties. • Other valuation techniques, e. g. discounting future cash flows, are used to determine the fair values of other financial instruments. • The fair value of non-listed money market funds is determined by means of observable price quotations (net asset value). 276 NOTES Notes on the consolidated statement of financial position LEVEL 3 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS: The table below presents the fair values of the financial instruments measured at fair value on a recurring basis, classified as Level 3: F I N A N C I A L A S S E T S M E A S U R E D AT FA I R VA L U E I N L E V E L 3 Other assets held Available for sale € million for trading ­financial assets Balance as at 1 October 2013 40.6 – Additions (incl. Transfers) – 5.2 Disposals repayment / sale 35.5 – conversion 5.2 – Total gains or losses for the period 0.1 0.3 included in profit or loss – – included in other comprehensive income 0.1 0.3 Balance as at 30 September 2014 – 5.5 Change in unrealised gains or losses for the period for fi ­ nancial assets held at the balance sheet date – – Balance as at 1 October 2014 – 5.5 Additions (incl. Transfers) – 481.9 Total gains or losses for the period – – 146.7 included in profit or loss – – 147.1 included in other comprehensive income – 0.4 Balance as at 30 September 2015 – 340.7 Change in unrealised gains or losses for the period for fi ­ nancial assets held at the balance sheet date – – 147.1 The changes in Level 3 financial instruments result from the addition of the stake in Hapag-Lloyd AG , which has been accounted for as an available for sale financial asset since December 2014. As the recurring fair value measurements of the investment in Hapag-Lloyd AG are using significant non-observable inputs, these are categorised within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. The loss on level 3 financial instruments contains the impairment of the investment in Hapag-Lloyd AG of € 147.1 m. We refer to the section “available for sale financial assets“ in Note 19. Notes on the consolidated statement of financial position NOTES 277 ME ASUREMENT PROCESS Determination of the fair value of Level 3 financial instruments is based on discounted cash flow techniques by the TUI Group’s finance department. The market data and parameters required for the quarterly valuation are collected and validated. Unobservable inputs are checked and updated, if necessary, on the basis of the internally available information. The valuation results are compared with those of independent market participants, e. g. analyst studies, provided by Investor Relations. If the fair value determined on the basis of the given valuation technique falls outside of the bandwidth of external valuations, the valuation model is reviewed by Finance and verified by means of alternative assumptions, which might be considered by other market participants based on sound judgement in the price verification process at the end of the corresponding quarter. The CFO is informed about the result of the valuation of the key Level 3 financial instruments. MEASUREMENT OF LEVEL 3 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The table below provides information about the valuation methods and the key unobservable inputs used to determine the fair values. FAIR VALUE ME A SURE ME NT S USING SIGNIFIC ANT UNOBSE RVABLE INPUT S (LE VE L 3) Fair Value Inter-relationship between unobservable Financial asset in € million Valuation technique Unobservable input Range ­input and fair value measurement The higher the (estimated) EBITDA -margin, Investment Hapag-Lloyd AG 334.9 Discounted Cash Flow (estimated) EBITDA -Margin 7 %– 9 % the higher the fair value The lower the weighted average cost of capital, WACC 6.0 % the higher the fair value The higher the terminal growth rate, Terminal Growth Rate 0.5 % the higher the fair value Investment NATS 5.8 Prior transactions (n. a.) (n. a.) (n. a.) The forecasted EBITDA -margin is based on assumptions about the future development of freight volumes, freight rates as well as the USD / EUR exchange rate and the oil price. To ensure the market proximity of the measurement inputs, the plausibility of used EBITDA -margins was tested based on observable EBITDA multiples of listed peers at the balance sheet date. Possible future deviations to these assumptions may result from the development of the macroeconomic situation and the ongoing hard competition within the container shipping industry. 278 NOTES Notes on the consolidated statement of financial position S E N S I T I V I T Y A N A LY S I S The fair value of the stake in Hapag-Lloyd AG would change significantly if one or several of the key unobservable inputs were replaced by alternative assumptions assessed as possible. The table below presents the sensitivities to changes in the key unobservable inputs. E FFEC T OF CHANGE S TO NON OBSE RVABLE INPUT S ON THE FAIR VALUE ME A SURE ME NT Increase / (decrease) in Favourable / (unfavourable) € million non-observable inputs ­impact on profit or loss (Forecasted) EBITDA -margin 0.25 % 71.5 – 0.25 % – 71.4 WACC 0.25 % – 43.0 – 0.25 % 47.2 Terminal Growth Rate 0.25 % 40.4 – 0.25 % – 36.8 The positive and negatives changes presented have been calculated separately. A change of + 10 / – 10 % in the determined value of the stake in NATS results in a € 0.4 m increase / € – 0.4 m decrease in the value recognised for the asset in the TUI Group, carried outside profit and loss and affecting earnings after tax (as at 30 September 2014 € + 0.4 m / € – 0.4 m, carried outside profit or loss). Changes in unobservable parameters do not have a material effect on the result. E F F E C T S O N R E S U LT S The effects of the measurement of financial assets available for sale outside profit and loss and the effective portions of changes in fair values of derivatives designated in the framework of cash flow hedge accounting are listed in the statement of changes in equity. Notes on the consolidated statement of financial position NOTES 279 The net results of the financial instruments by measurement category according to IAS 39 are as follows: N E T R E S U LT S O F F I N A N C I A L I N S T R U M E N T S 2014 / 15 2013 / 14 restated from other net from other net € million ­interest results net result ­interest results net result Loans and receivables – 13.0 80.1 67.1 8.0 54.0 62.0 Available for sale financial assets – – 141.3 – 141.3 1.9 2.1 4.0 Financial assets and liabilities held for trading – 142.0 98.6 – 43.4 10.9 – 2.0 8.9 Financial liabilities at amortised cost – 49.5 – 82.6 – 132.1 – 101.5 – 135.3 – 236.8 Total – 204.5 – 45.2 – 249.7 – 80.7 – 81.2 – 161.9 Other net result of available for sale financial assets comprises the impairment of the stake in Hapag-Lloyd AG of € 147.1 m. Besides the net results primarily include results from participations, gains and losses on disposal, effects of fair value measurements and impairments, as well as interest income and interest expenses. Financial instruments measured at fair value outside profit and loss did not give rise to any commission expenses in financial year 2014 / 15, just as in the previous year. NETTING The following financial assets and liabilities are subject to contractual netting arrangements: OFFSETTING – FINANCIAL ASSETS Related amounts not set off in the balance sheet Gross Amounts Gross amounts of Net amounts of financial of financial ­­recognised financial ­assets presented in the Financial Cash Collateral Net € million ­assets ­liabilities set off ­balance sheet ­Instruments received Amount Financial assets as at 30 Sep 2015 Derivative financial assets 329.1 – 329.1 56.5 – 272.6 Cash and cash equivalents 5,556.2 3,883.6 1,672.6 – – 1,672.6 Financial assets as at 30 Sep 2014 (restated) Derivative financial assets 245.5 – 245.5 208.4 – 37.1 Cash and cash equivalents 5,835.7 3,577.8 2,258.0 – – 2,258.0 280 NOTES Notes on the consolidated statement of financial position OFFSETTING – FINANCIAL LIABILITIES Related amounts not set off in the balance sheet Gross Amounts Gross amounts of Net amounts of financial of financial ­recognised financial l­iabilities presented in the Financial Cash Collateral Net € million ­liabilities assets set off balance sheet ­Instruments granted Amount Financial liabilities as at 30 Sep 2015 Derivative financial liabilities 466.7 – 466.7 56.5 – 410.2 Financial liabilities 5,770.0 3,883.6 1,886.4 – – 1,886.4 Financial liabilities as at 30 Sep 2014 (restated) Derivative financial liabilities 262.6 – 262.6 208.4 – 54.2 Financial liabilities 5,543.3 3,577.8 1,965.6 – – 1,965.6 Financial assets and financial liabilities are only netted in the balance sheet if a legally enforceable right to netting exists and the Company intends to settle on a net basis. The contracts for financial instruments are based on standardised master agreements for financial derivatives (including ISDA Master Agreement, German master agreement for financial derivatives), creating a conditional right to netting contingent on defined future events. Under the contractual agreements all derivatives contracted with the corresponding counterparty with positive or negative fair values are netted in that case, resulting in a net receivable or payable in the amount of the balance. As this conditional right to netting is not enforceable in the course of ordinary business transactions, the derivative financial assets and liabilities are carried at their gross amounts in the balance sheet date at the reporting date. Financial assets and liabilities in the framework of the cash pooling scheme are shown on a net basis if there is a right to netting in ordinary business transactions and the Group intends to settle on a net basis. Notes on the consolidated statement of financial position NOTES 281 (45) Capital risk management One of the key performance indicators in the framework of capital risk management is the IFRS -based gearing, i.e. the relationship between the Group’s net debt and Group equity. From a risk perspective, a balanced relation between net debt and equity is to be sought. In terms of risk aspects, the TUI Group strives for an appropriate ratio between net debt and equity. In order to exert active control over the capital structure, the TUI Group’s management may change dividend payments to the shareholders, repay capital to the shareholders, issue new shares or issue hybrid capital. The management may also sell assets in order to reduce Group debt. G E A R I N G C A L C U L AT I O N 2014 / 15 2013 / 14 € million restated Average financial debt 2,308.5 2,803.5 Average cash and cash equivalent 1,346.7 2,013.2 Average Group net debt 961.8 790.3 Average Group equity 1,976.0 1,774.2 Gearing % 48.7 44.5 282 NOTES Notes on the Cash Flow Statement Notes on the Cash Flow Statement The cash flow statement shows the flow of cash and cash equivalents on the basis of a separate presentation of cash inflows and outflows from operating, investing and financing activities. The effects of changes in the group of consolidated companies are eliminated. The cash flows are shown for the continuing operations and the discontinued operation. In the period under review, cash and cash equivalents declined by € 575.8 m to € 1,682.2 m, including an amount of € 9.5 m carried as assets held for sale. (46) Cash inflow / outflow from operating activities Based on the Group result after tax, the cash flow from operating activities is derived using the indirect method. The cash inflow from operating activities amounted to € 790.5 m (previous year € 1,074.5 m) in the period under review. In the period under review, the cash inflow included interest of € 18.6 m and dividends of € 84.3 m. A cash outflow of € 148.4 m resulted from income tax payments. (47) Cash inflow / outflow from investing activities In financial year 2014 / 15, the cash outflow from investing activities amounted to € 216.8 m (previous year € 586.3 m). The cash flow from investing activities includes a cash inflow of € 341.6 m from the sale of property, plant and equipment, primarily aircraft assets and a hotel in Gran Canaria. The Group recorded a cash inflow of € 2.3 m from the sale of consolidated companies. On the other hand, it also recorded a cash outflow of € 29.9 m for the divestment of the PE AK Adventure Travel Group. The cash inflow from the disposal of other non-current assets comprises an amount of € 300.0 m from the sale of stakes in a money market fund acquired in the prior year and sold after the completion of the merger with TUI Travel PLC . A cash inflow of € 17.9 m was generated from the sale of joint ventures. Cash outflows include an amount of € 462.1 m for investments in property, plant and equipment and intangible assets of tour operators and airlines, € 173.3 m for Hotels & Resorts, € 88.5 m for Cruises and € 85.3 m for Specialist Travel companies. The cash outflow for investments in property, plant and equipment and intangible assets and the cash inflow from corresponding divestments do not match the additions and disposals shown in the development of fixed assets, which also include non-cash investments and disposals. In financial year 2014 / 15, a cash outflow of € 5.5 m resulted from acquisitions of companies to be included in consolidation. This amount includes payments of € 1.7 m for acquisitions made in prior years. Cash and cash equivalents acquired through the acquisitions total € 0.4 m so that the total outflow of cash amounted to € 5.1 m. The cash outflow for other assets includes an amount of € 23.8 m for the acquisition and for capital increases in joint ventures. Notes on the Cash Flow Statement NOTES 283 (48) Cash inflow / outflow from financing activities The cash outflow from financing activities totalled € 1,116.7 m (previous year € 318.8 m). In the framework of the merger between TUI AG and TUI Travel PLC , the capital increase required resulted in a cash outflow of € 10.9 m while other measures caused an outflow of € 38.8 m. TUI Travel PLC acquired own shares worth € 85.1 m in order to use them for share option plans. An outflow of € 4.3 m resulted from the increase in shares in consolidated companies. TUI AG has replaced the credit line previously held by TUI Travel PLC with corresponding new credit facilities. The amounts drawn from that facility in the period under review have meanwhile been fully repaid. TUI AG used an amount of € 195.3 m to repay a financing scheme in connection with a convertible bond issued by TUI Travel PLC . In this context, reference is made to the section on “Merger between TUI AG and TUI Travel PLC ”. A cash outflow of € 2.4 m relates to the non-converted part of TUI AG ’s convertible bond which matured in November 2014, originally amounting to € 217.8 m, and the non-converted part of TUI AG ’s convertible bond originally worth € 339.0 m which was called early in the period under review. A cash outflow of € 300.0 m resulted from the redemption of TUI AG ’s perpetual subordinated bond. The segment Hotels & Resorts has taken out financial liabilities worth € 7.4 m and redeemed € 76.8 m. A loan of € 76.7 m was used to finance a plane. Finance lease liabilities worth € 57.0 m were repaid. Further cash outflows relate to the dividends for the hybrid holders and TUI AG shareholders (€ 109.3 m) and the dividends for the minority shareholders, primarily of TUI Travel PLC and RIUSA II S.A. (€ 197.0 m). A cash outflow of € 92.0 m resulted from interest payments. (49) Development of cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise all liquid funds, i.e. cash in hand, bank balances and cheques. As certain amounts from a cash pool agreement have been included in cash management since the prior year, a reconciliation is shown from cash and cash equivalents in the prior year’s cash flow statement to cash and cash equivalents as presented in the statement of financial position. The effect of € 587.5 m is carried as a non-cash change in cash and cash equivalents. Cash and cash equivalents also declined by € 33.1 m due to foreign exchange effects. As at 30 September 2015, cash and cash equivalents of € 198.5 m were subject to restrictions on disposal. This amount includes € 116.3 m for cash collateral received, which was deposited in a Belgian subsidiary by Belgian tax authorities in the period under review in the framework of long-standing litigation over VAT refunds for the period from 2001 to 2011 without admission of guilt, the purpose being to suspend the accrual of interest for both parties. In order to collateralise a potential repayment, the Belgian government was granted a bank guarantee. Due to the bank guarantee, TUI ’s ability to dispose of the cash and cash equivalents has been restricted. The remaining restrictions on disposal relate to cash and cash equivalents to be deposited due to legal or regulatory requirements. 284 NOTES Other Notes Other Notes (50) Significant transactions after the balance sheet date On 6 October 2015, TUI entered a contract for the sale of LateRooms Ltd. for a consideration of £ 8.5 m (€ 11.6 m). The completion of the sale took place on 6 October 2015. The transaction does not require regulatory approval. The LateRooms segment was presented as a discontinued operation as at 30 September 2015. On 23 October 2015, TUI and Oscrivia Limited entered contractual agreements to reorganise the equity of Togebi Holdings Limited. In particular, a cash capital increase of USD 20 m was agreed, in which TUI participates with a USD 3 m contribution. Following the completion of the agreements, TUI Group’s stake in Togebi Holdings Limited, within the segment northern region, reduces from 49 % to 25 %. At the same time Oscrivia Limited increases its stake from 51 % to 75 %. Furthermore the joint venture agreement closed in 2009 was amended to reflect the new voting rights proportions. Due to these amendments, the relevant activities of Togebi Holdings Limited continue to be jointly determined by TUI and Oscrivia Limited, so that Togebi Holdings Limited remains to be classified as a joint venture. On 6 November 2015 the initial public offering of Hapag-Lloyd AG occurred. Hapag-Lloyd’s gross issuing proceeds through the placing of 13,228,677 new shares at an issue price of € 20.00 per HL AG share amounted to approximately € 265.0 m. Since then, the shares of Hapag-Lloyd AG are traded in the regulated market (prime standard) of the Frankfurt stock exchange. Due to this capital increase TUI ’s stake in Hapag-Lloyd AG ’s capital has reduced from 13.9 % to 12.3 %. If the investment had been measured at the issue price of € 20.00 per share at the balance sheet date, contrary to the requirements of IFRS 13, an additional impairment of € 43.7 m would have arised. For fair value measurements of the investment at future measurement dates the quoted price of the Hapag-Lloyd share is relevant as a level 1 input. (51) Services of the auditors of the consolidated financial statements Total expenses for the services provided by the auditors of the consolidated financial statements in financial year 2014 / 15, PricewaterhouseCoopers Aktiengesellschaft Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft, can be broken down as follows: S E R V I C E S O F T H E A U D I T O R S O F T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S € million 2014 / 15 2013 / 14 Audit fees for TUI AG and subsidiaries in Germany 2.9 4.0 Audit fees 2.9 4.0 Review of interim financial statements 1.0 0.7 Services related to capital increases / decreases – 1.2 Other assurance services 0.3 0.4 Other certification and measurement services 1.3 2.3 Consulting fees 2.3 1.1 Tax advisor services 0.1 0.1 Other services 2.4 1.2 Total 6.6 7.5 Other Notes NOTES 285 (52) Remuneration of Executive and Supervisory Board members Total remuneration for Supervisory Board members in the period under review amounted to € 2,829.0 thousand (previous year € 2,024.5 thousand). Remuneration for former Executive Board members or their surviving dependants totalled € 4,891.1 thousand (previous year € 4,455.8 thousand) in financial year 2014 / 15. Pension obligations for former Executive Board members and their surviving dependants amounted to € 79,754.3 thousand (previous year € 69,626.6 thousand) as at the balance sheet date. All the disclosures for active executive board members as well as the individual amounts and further details on the remuneration system are provided in the Remuneration Report included in the Management Report. (53) E xemption from disclosure and preparation of a management report in accordance with section 264 (3) of the German Commercial Code (HGB ) The following German subsidiaries fully included in consolidation have met the condition required under section 264 (3) of the German Commercial Code and were therefore exempted from the requirement to disclose their annual financial statements and prepare a management report: • Berge & Meer Touristik GmbH, Rengsdorf • DEFAG Beteiligungsverwaltungs GmbH I, Hanover • DEFAG Beteiligungsverwaltungs GmbH III , Hanover • FOX -TOURS Reisen GmbH, Rengsdorf • Germanair Flugzeug Leasing GmbH, Hamburg • Hapag-Lloyd Executive GmbH, Langenhagen • Hapag-Lloyd Kreuzfahrten GmbH, Hamburg • Last-Minute-Restplatzreisen GmbH, Baden-Baden • L’tur tourismus Aktiengesellschaft, Baden-Baden • Master-Yachting GmbH, Eibelstadt • MEDICO Flugreisen GmbH, Baden-Baden • MicronNexus GmbH, Hamburg • OF T REISEN GmbH, Rengsdorf • Preussag Beteiligungsverwaltungs GmbH IX , Hanover • Preussag Immobilien GmbH, Salzgitter • ProTel Gesellschaft für Kommunikation mbH, Rengsdorf • Robinson Club GmbH, Hanover • TC V Touristik-Computerverwaltungs GmbH, Baden-Baden • TICS GmbH Touristische Internet und Call Center Services, Baden-Baden • TUI 4 U GmbH, Bremen • TUI aqtiv GmbH, Hanover • TUI Aviation GmbH, Hanover • TUI Beteiligungs GmbH, Hanover • TUI Business Services GmbH, Hanover • TUI Connect GmbH, Hanover • TUI Group Services GmbH, Hanover • TUI -Hapag Beteiligungs GmbH, Hanover • TUI Hotel Betriebsgesellschaft mbH, Hanover • TUI InfoTec GmbH, Hanover • TUI Leisure Travel Service GmbH, Neuss • TUI Leisure Travel Spezial Tours GmbH, Hanover • TUI .com GmbH, Berlin • TUI fly Vermarktungs GmbH, Hanover • Wolters Reisen GmbH, Stuhr 286 NOTES Other Notes The German subsidiary Leibniz-Service GmbH, Hanover, fully included in consolidation has met the condition required under section 264 (3) of the German Commercial Code and was therefore exempted from the requirement to disclose its annual financial statements. (54) Related parties Apart from the subsidiaries included in the consolidated financial statements, TUI AG , in carrying out its ordinary business activities, maintains indirect or direct relationships with related parties. Related parties controlled by the TUI Group or over which the TUI Group is able to exercise a significant influence are listed in the list of shareholdings published in the electronic Federal Gazette (www.ebanz.de). Apart from pure equity investments, related parties also include companies that supply goods or provide services for TUI Group companies. In respect of related parties, financial obligations from order commitments mainly relate to purchases of hotel services. The TUI Group also has obligations from order commitments of € 877.2 m (previous year € Nil) to related party TUI Cruises. These obligations are related to finance lease contracts for cruise ships, closed in financial year 2014 / 15. In addition, there are obligations of € 15.1 m (previous year € 22.4 m) from rental and lease agreements. T R A N S A C T I O N S W I T H R E L AT E D PA R T I E S 2014 / 15 2013 / 14 € million restated Services provided by the Group Management and consultancy services 82.4 65.8 Sales of tourism services 58.8 51.9 Other services 7.5 – Total 148.7 117.7 Services received by the Group In the framework of lease, rental aund leasing agreements 31.7 29.9 Purchase of hotel services 236.9 338.9 Incoming services 9.2 8.6 Distribution services 0.2 – Other services 51.2 37.8 Total 329.2 415.2 Other Notes NOTES 287 T R A N S A C T I O N S W I T H R E L A T E D P A R T I E S 2014 / 15 2013 / 14 € million restated Services provided by the Group to non-consolidated Group companies 3.2 2.3 joint ventures 61.6 49.5 associates 39.0 30.5 other related parties 44.9 35.4 Total 148.7 117.7 Services received by the Group from non-consolidated Group companies 5.8 11.0 joint ventures 230.5 320.5 associates 81.1 73.2 other related parties 11.8 10.5 Total 329.2 415.2 Transactions with joint ventures and associates are recognised in the tourism business. They relate to, in particular, the tourism services of the hotel companies used by the Group’s tour operators. All transactions with related parties are executed on an arm’s length basis, based on international comparable uncontrolled price methods in accordance with IAS 24. R E C E I V A B L E S A G A I N S T R E L A T E D P A R T I E S 30 Sep 2015 30 Sep 2014 € million restated Trade receivables from non-consolidated Group companies 1.5 2.6 joint ventures 20.6 27.9 associates 5.6 10.5 Total 27.7 41.0 Advances and loans to non-consolidated Group companies 17.4 16.4 joint ventures 34.0 33.6 associates 7.6 11.9 Total 59.0 61.9 Payments on account to joint ventures 11.7 25.9 Total 11.7 25.9 Other receivables from non-consolidated Group companies 1.7 1.9 joint ventures 10.7 51.1 associates 7.3 3.8 Total 19.7 56.8 288 NOTES Other Notes PAYA B L E S D U E T O R E L AT E D PA R T I E S 30 Sep 2015 30 Sep 2014 € million restated Trade payables due to non-consolidated Group companies 5.8 6.0 joint ventures 32.3 49.6 associates 4.9 12.1 Total 43.0 67.7 Financial liabilities due to non-consolidated Group companies 5.2 5.6 joint ventures 8.0 – Total 13.2 5.6 Other liabilities due to non-consolidated Group companies 3.6 5.0 joint ventures 28.8 33.0 associates 8.3 5.3 other related parties 4.2 0.3 Total 44.9 43.6 Liabilities to related parties did not comprise any liabilities from finance leases, as in the prior year. The share of results of associates and joint ventures is shown separately per segment in segment reporting. The joint venture Riu Hotels S.A. held less than 5 % of the shares in TUI AG at the balance sheet date. The number of shares was identical with the prior year; the percentage reduction only constitutes a dilution effect caused by the merger between TUI AG and TUI Travel PLC . Luis Riu Güell and Carmen Riu Güell (member of the Supervisory Board of TUI AG ) hold a stake of 51 % in Riu Hotels S.A. In accordance with IAS 24, key management functions within the Group, the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board are related parties whose remuneration has to be listed separately. R E M U N E R AT I O N O F M A N A G E M E N T, E X E C U T I V E A N D S U P E R V I S O R Y B O A R D Mio. € 2014 / 15 2013 / 14 Short-term benefits 13.8 20.0 Post-employment benefits 3.9 0.7 Other long-term benefits (share-based payments) 8.3 6.9 Termination benefits 2.3 – Total 28.3 27.6 Other Notes NOTES 289 Post-employment benefits are transfers to or reversals of pension provisions for active Executive Board members in the period under review. These expenses do not meet the definition of Executive and Supervisory Board remuneration under the German accounting rules. Pension provisions for active Executive Board members total € 10.7 m (previous year € 6.9 m) as at the balance sheet date. In addition, provisions amounting to € 5.4 m (previous year € 2.6 m) are recognised relating to the long-term incentive programme. (55) International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS ) and Interpretations (IFRIC ) The following standards have already been transposed into EU legislation, but are only mandatory for annual financial statements after 30 September 2015: A M E N D M E N T S T O I A S 16 : P R O P E R T Y, P L A N T A N D E Q U I P M E N T A N D I A S 41 : A G R I C U LT U R E Bearer plants that bear biological assets for more than one period without serving as an agricultural produce themselves, such as grape vines or olive trees, have this far been measured at fair value. The amendments, issued in June 2014, clarify that bearer plants will be treated as property, plant and equipment in the scope of IAS 16 in future and are to be measured at amortised cost. By contrast, the produce growing on the bearer plant will continue to be measured at fair value in accordance with IAS 41. The amendments will not have an impact on TUI ’s consolidated financial statements. A M E N D M E N T S T O I F R S 11 : J O I N T A R R A N G E M E N T S The provisions, issued in May 2014, specify how to account for the acquisition of an interest in a joint operation that constitutes a business operation within the meaning of IFRS 3. Accordingly, the acquirer has to measure identifiable assets and liabilities at fair value, recognise acquisition-related costs as expenses, recognise deferred tax assets and liabilities and capitalise any residual amounts as goodwill. The acquirer also has to observe the disclosure requirements of IFRS 3. The amendments apply prospectively. They are not expected to have a material impact on TUI ’s financial statements. A M E N D M E N T S T O I A S 16 : P R O P E R T Y, P L A N T A N D E Q U I P M E N T A N D I A S 3 8 : I N TA N G I B L E A S S E T S The amendments, issued in May 2014, clarify the conditions under which the use of revenue-based methods to calculate the depreciation of property, plant and equipment or amortisation of intangible assets is acceptable. The amendments are of no relevance to TUI as revenue-based depreciation and amortisation methods are not used. Amendments, standards and interpretations published by the IASB but not yet transposed into EU legislation: A M E N D M E N T S T O I A S 1 : P R E S E N TAT I O N O F F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S The amendments, issued in December 2014 in the framework of the Disclosure Initiative, clarify that materiality considerations apply to the presentation of all parts of the financial statements. The standard no longer shows the way to order the notes so that the order of the notes may reflect the individual relevance for the company. The amendments clarify that immaterial notes are not required. This also applies if disclosure of such notes is explicitly demanded in other standards. The presentation of an entity’s share of other comprehensive income of equity-accounted associates and joint ventures in the statement of comprehensive income is clarified. The TUI Group is investigating the impact of the amendments of the presentation of financial statements. 290 NOTES Other Notes A M E N D M E N T S T O I A S 2 7 : S E PA R AT E F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S – E Q U I T Y M E T H O D I N S E PA R AT E ­F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S The amendments, published in August 2014, allow using the equity method in accounting for investments in subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities and associates in separate financial statements. The option to measure such investments in accordance with IAS 39 or at cost is retained. The amendments are of no relevance to TUI as TUI does not prepare IFRS -based single-entity financial statements according to section 325 (2a) of the German Commercial Code. A M E N D M E N T S T O I A S 2 8 : I N V E S T M E N T S I N A S S O C I AT E S A N D J O I N T V E N T U R E S A N D I F R S 1 0 : ­C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S The amendments, published in September 2014 clarify how the sale or contribution of assets between an investor and its associate or joint venture has to be recognised. The amendments had originally been planned to be effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016. In the spring of 2015, the IASB took the preliminary decision to postpone this effective date so as to coordinate it with the effective date of other planned amendments to IAS 28. Transposition into EU legislation has therefore been temporarily suspended. It is not possible to assess the impact on the TUI Group’s net assets, financial position and results of operations as the amendments will apply prospectively to future transactions. A M E N D M E N T S T O I A S 2 8 : I N V E S T M E N T S I N A S S O C I AT E S A N D J O I N T V E N T U R E S , I F R S 1 0 : C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S , A N D I F R S 12 : D I S C L O S U R E O F I N T E R E S T S I N O T H E R E N T I T I E S The amendments, issued by the IASB in December 2014 under the title “Investment Entities: Applying the Consolidation Exception”, clarify which subsidiaries of investment entities have to be consolidated and which subsidiaries have to be carried at fair value. The amendments apply prospectively and are effective from 1 January 2016. They are not relevant to the TUI Group. A N N U A L I M P R O V E M E N T S P R O J E C T 2 0 12 – 2 0 14 Improvements from the Annual Improvements Project were published in September 2014. They contain amendments to four standards: IAS 19, IAS 34, IFRS 5, and IFRS 7. The provisions include to minor changes to the contents and, above all clarifications of the presentation, recognition and measurement. TUI does not expect the first-time application of the amendments to have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements. IFRS 9: FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Publication of the fourth and final version of this new standard in July 2014 marks the completion of the project for the accounting for financial instruments, launched by the International Accounting Standards Board in 2008 in response to the financial crisis. The new standard supersedes the provisions for the classification and measurement of financial assets previously included in IAS 39 “Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement” and comprises new rules on hedge accounting. The provisions to determine impairments are replaced by the “expected loss model”. The standard will be effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018 as announced by the IASB . TUI is investigating the potential impact of the first-time application of the standard on the Group’s net assets, financial position and results of operations. I F R S 15 : R E V E N U E F R O M C O N T R A C T S W I T H C U S T O M E R S The standard, issued in May 2014, creates convergence of the provisions on revenue recognition comprised in various standards and interpretations this far. It also establishes a single, comprehensive framework for revenue recognition, to be applied consistently across transactions and industries, specifying the amount and point in time or period over which revenue has to be recognised. IFRS 15 replaces IAS 18 “Revenue” and IAS 11 “Construction Contracts” as well as Interpretations IFRIC 13 “Customer Loyalty Programmes”, IFRIC 15 “Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate”, IFRIC 18 “Transfers of Assets from Customers” and SIC 31 “Revenue – Barter Transactions Involving Advertising Services”. The amendments will take effect from 1 January 2018. TUI is investigating the impact of this standard on its net assets, financial position and results of operations. A decision about endorsement of these amendments or these new standards by the EU is currently still pending. Other Notes NOTES 291 (56) TUI Group Shareholdings Disclosure of the TUI Group’s shareholdings ist required under section 313 of the German Commercial Trading Act. Comparative information for the prior-year reference period is therefore not provided. COMPA N Y COUNTRY C A P I TA L S H A R E I N % Consolidated companies Tourism “ MAGIC LIFE ” Assets AG , Vienna Austria 100 Abbey International Insurance PCC Limited, Luqa Malta 100 Absolut Holding Limited, Luqa Malta 99.9 Adehy Limited, Dublin Ireland 100 American Holidays ( NI ) Limited, Crawley United Kingdom 100 AMP Management Ltd., Crawley United Kingdom 100 aQi Hotel Schladming GmbH, Bad Erlach Austria 100 atraveo GmbH, Düsseldorf Germany 74.8 B.D.S Destination Services Tours, Cairo Egypt 67 Berge & Meer Touristik GmbH, Rengsdorf Germany 100 Blue Scandinavia Holding AB , Stockholm Sweden 100 Boomerang-Reisen GmbH, Trier Germany 100 Boomerang-Reisen Vermögensverwaltungs GmbH, Trier Germany 75 Britannia Sweden AB , Stockholm Sweden 100 BU RIUSA II EOOD , Sofia Bulgaria 100 Cabotel-Hoteleria e Turismo Lda., Santiago, Cape Verde Cape Verde 100 Callers-Pegasus Pension Trustee Ltd., Crawley United Kingdom 100 Carlson Anse Marcel Riusa II SNC , Paris France 100 Club Hôtel Management Tunisia, SARL , Djerba Tunisia 100 Clubhotel Management AE , Athens Greece 100 Corsair S.A., Rungis France 100 Crystal Holidays Ltd., Crawley United Kingdom 100 Crystal International Travel Group Ltd., Crawley United Kingdom 100 Daidalos Hotelund Touristikunternehmen A.E., Athens Greece 89.8 Dominicanotel S.A., Puerto Plata Dominican Republic 100 Egyptian Germany Co. for Hotels (L.T.D), Cairo Egypt 66.6 Elena SL , Palma de Mallorca Spain 100 Entreprises Hotelières et Touristiques PAL ADIEN Lena Mary S.A., ­Argolis Greece 100 Europa 2 Ltd, Valletta Malta 100 Explorers Travel Club Limited, Crawley United Kingdom 100 Falcon Leisure Group (Overseas) Limited, Crawley United Kingdom 100 First Choice (Turkey) Limited, Crawley United Kingdom 100 First Choice Airways Limited, Crawley United Kingdom 100 First Choice Holiday Hypermarkets Limited, Crawley United Kingdom 100 First Choice Holidays & Flights Limited, Crawley United Kingdom 100 First Choice Land (Ireland) Limited, Dublin Ireland 100 First Choice Travel Shops (SW ) Limited, Crawley United Kingdom 100 First Choice Travel Shops Limited, Crawley United Kingdom 100 Follow Coordinate Hotels Portugal Unipessoal Lda, Albufeira Freguesia Portugal 100 FOX -TOURS Reisen GmbH, Rengsdorf Germany 100 Fritidsresor AB , Stockholm Sweden 100 Fritidsresor Holding Spain S.A.U., San Bartolomé de Tirajana Spain 100 Fritidsresor Ltd., Crawley United Kingdom 100 Fritidsresor Tours & Travels India Pvt Ltd, Bardez, Goa India 100 292 NOTES Other Notes COMPA N Y COUNTRY C A P I TA L S H A R E I N % GE AFOND Número Dos Fuerteventura S.A., Las Palmas, Gran Canaria Spain 100 GE AFOND Número Uno Lanzarote S.A., Las Palmas, Gran Canaria Spain 100 Groupement Touristique International S.A.S., Lille France 100 Hapag-Lloyd (Bahamas) Ltd., Nassau Bahamas 100 Hapag-Lloyd Kreuzfahrten GmbH, Hamburg Germany 100 Holiday Center S.A., Cala Serena / Cala d’Or Spain 100 Horizon Holidays Ltd., Crawley United Kingdom 100 Horizon Midlands (Properties) Ltd., Crawley United Kingdom 100 I Viaggi del Turchese S.r.l., Fidenza Italy 100 Iberotel International A.S., Antalya Turkey 100 Iberotel Otelcilik A.S., Istanbul Turkey 100 Imperial Cruising Company SARL , Heliopolis Cairo Egypt 90 Inter Hotel SARL , Tunis Tunisia 100 Itaria Limited, Nicosia Cyprus 100 Jandia Playa S.A.U., Morro Jable, Fuerteventura Spain 100 JetAir N.V., Oostende Belgium 100 Jetair Real Estate N.V., Brussels Belgium 100 Jetair Travel Distribution N.V., Oostende Belgium 100 Jetaircenter N.V., Mechelen Belgium 100 JNB (Bristol) Limited, Crawley United Kingdom 100 Kras B.V., Ammerzoden Netherlands 100 Label Tour EURL , Montreuil France 100 Last-Minute-Restplatzreisen GmbH, Baden-Baden Germany 100 L’ TUR Suisse AG , Dübendorf / ZH Switzerland 99.5 l’tur tourismus Aktiengesellschaft, Baden-Baden Germany 70 Lunn Poly (Jersey) Ltd., St. Helier Jersey 100 Lunn Poly Ltd., Crawley United Kingdom 100 Magic Hotels SA , Tunis Tunisia 100 Magic Life Egypt for Hotels LLC , Sharm El-Sheikh Egypt 100 Magic Life GmbH & Co KG , Vienna Austria 100 Magic Life Greece S.A., Athens Greece 100 Magic Tourism International S.A., Tunis Tunisia 100 Medico Flugreisen GmbH, Baden-Baden Germany 100 MX RIUSA II S.A. de C.V., Cabo San Lucas Mexico 100 Nazar Nordic AB , Malmö Sweden 100 Nordotel S.A.U., San Bartolomé de Tirajana Spain 100 Nouvelles Frontières Senegal S.R.L., Dakar Senegal 100 Ocean College LLC , Sharm El-Sheikh Egypt 100 Ocean Ventures for Hotels and Tourism Services SAE , Sharm El-Sheikh Egypt 98 OF T REISEN GmbH, Rengsdorf Germany 100 Orion Airways Ltd., Crawley United Kingdom 100 Orion Airways Pension Trustees Ltd., Crawley United Kingdom 100 Oy Finnmatkat AB , Helsinki Finland 100 Paradise Hotels Management Company LLC , Cairo Egypt 100 PATS N.V., Oostende Belgium 100 Portland Holidays Direct Limited, Belfast United Kingdom 100 Preussag Beteiligungsverwaltungs GmbH IX , Hanover Germany 100 Professor Kohts Vei 108 A S , Stabekk Norway 100 Promociones y Edificaciones Chiclana S.A., Palma de Mallorca Spain 100 ProTel Gesellschaft für Kommunikation mbH, Rengsdorf Germany 100 Puerto Plata Caribe Beach S.A., Puerto Plata Dominican Republic 100 RCHM S.A.S., Agadir Morocco 100 Revoli Star SA , San Bartolomé de Tirajana Spain 100 Other Notes NOTES 293 COMPA N Y COUNTRY C A P I TA L S H A R E I N % Rideway Investment Ltd., London United Kingdom 100 Riu Jamaicotel Ltd., Negril Jamaica 100 Riu Le Morne Ltd, Port Louis Mauritius 100 RIUSA II S.A., Palma de Mallorca Spain 50 * RIUSA NED B.V., Amsterdam Netherlands 100 Robinson AUSTRIA Clubhotel GmbH, Villach-Landskron Austria 100 Robinson Club GmbH, Hanover Germany 100 Robinson Club Italia S.p.A., Marina di Ugento Italy 100 Robinson Club Maldives Private Limited, Malé Maldives 100 Robinson Clubhotel Turizm Ltd. Sti., Istanbul Turkey 100 Robinson Hoteles España S.A., Cala d’Or Spain 100 Robinson Hotels Portugal S.A., Vila Nova de Cacela Portugal 67 Robinson Otelcilik A.S., Istanbul Turkey 100 Saint Martin RIUSA II SA S , Basse Terre France 100 Simply Travel Holdings Ltd., Crawley United Kingdom 100 Skymead Leasing Ltd., Crawley United Kingdom 100 Société d’Exploitation du Paladien Marrakech SA , Marrakech Morocco 100 Société d’Investissement Aérien S.A., Casablanca Morocco 100 Société d’Investissement et d’Exploration du Paladien de Calcatoggio (SIEPAC ), Montreuil France 100 Société d’Investissement hotelier Almoravides S.A., Marrakech Morocco 100 Sons of South Sinai for Tourism Services and Supplies SAE , Sharm El-Sheikh Egypt 84.1 Specialist Holidays Group Ltd., Crawley United Kingdom 100 Star Club SA , San Bartolomé de Tirajana Spain 100 Star Tour A / S, Copenhagen Denmark 100 Star Tour Holding A / S, Copenhagen Denmark 100 Startour-Stjernereiser A S , Stabekk Norway 100 STIVA RII Ltd., Dublin Ireland 100 Sunshine Cruises Limited, Crawley United Kingdom 100 TC V Touristik-Computerverwaltungs GmbH, Baden-Baden Germany 100 TdC Agricoltura Società agricola a r.l., Florence Italy 100 TdC Amministrazione S.r.l., Florence Italy 100 Tec4Jets B.V., Rijswijk ZH Netherlands 100 Tec4Jets NV, Oostende Belgium 100 Tenuta di Castelfalfi S.p.A., Florence Italy 100 Thomson Airways Limited, Crawley United Kingdom 100 Thomson Holidays Ltd. (Ireland), Dublin Ireland 100 Thomson Holidays Services, Inc., Orlando United States 100 Thomson Services Ltd., St. Peter Port Guernsey 100 Thomson Travel Group (Holdings) Ltd., Crawley United Kingdom 100 Thomson Travel Holdings SA , Luxembourg Luxembourg 100 Thomson Travel International SA , Luxembourg Luxembourg 100 TICS GmbH Touristische Internet und Call Center Services, Baden-Baden Germany 100 TLT Reisebüro GmbH, Hanover Germany 100 Travel Choice Limited, Crawley United Kingdom 100 Tropical Places Ltd., Crawley United Kingdom 100 T T Hotels Italia S.R.L., Rom Italy 100 T T Hotels Turkey Otel Hizmetleri Turizm ve ticaret A S , Istanbul Turkey 100 TUI (IP ) Ltd., Crawley United Kingdom 100 TUI (Suisse) AG , Zurich Switzerland 100 TUI (Suisse) Holding AG , Zurich Switzerland 100 * Controlling influence 294 NOTES Other Notes COMPA N Y COUNTRY C A P I TA L S H A R E I N % TUI 4 U GmbH, Bremen Germany 100 TUI Airlines Belgium N.V., Oostende Belgium 100 TUI Airlines Nederland B.V., Rijswijk Netherlands 100 TUI aqtiv GmbH, Hanover Germany 100 TUI Austria Holding GmbH, Vienna Austria 100 TUI Business Services GmbH, Hanover Germany 100 TUI Curaçao N.V., Curaçao Country of Curaçao 100 TUI Denmark Holding A / S, Copenhagen Denmark 100 TUI Deutschland GmbH, Hanover Germany 100 TUI France SA S , Nanterre France 100 TUI Hotel Betriebsgesellschaft mbH, Hanover Germany 100 TUI Leisure Travel Service GmbH, Neuss Germany 100 TUI Leisure Travel Special Tours GmbH, Hanover Germany 100 TUI Nederland Holding N.V., Rijswijk Netherlands 100 TUI Nederland N.V., Rijswijk Netherlands 100 TUI Nordic Administration AB , Stockholm Sweden 100 TUI Nordic Holding AB , Stockholm Sweden 100 TUI Northern Europe Ltd., Crawley United Kingdom 100 TUI Norway Holding A S , Stabekk Norway 100 TUI Österreich GmbH, Vienna Austria 100 TUI Pension Scheme (UK ) Ltd., Crawley United Kingdom 100 TUI Poland Dystrybucja Sp. z o.o., Warsaw Poland 100 TUI Poland Sp. z o.o., Warsaw Poland 100 TUI Reisecenter Austria Business Travel GmbH, Vienna Austria 74.9 TUI Service AG , Altendorf Switzerland 100 TUI Suisse Retail AG , Zurich Switzerland 100 TUI Travel (Ireland), Dublin Ireland 100 TUI Travel Belgium N.V., Oostende Belgium 100 TUI Travel Group Solutions Limited, Crawley United Kingdom 100 TUI Travel Holdings Sweden AB , Stockholm Sweden 100 TUI UK Ltd., Crawley United Kingdom 100 TUI UK Retail Limited, Crawley United Kingdom 100 TUI UK Transport Ltd., Crawley United Kingdom 100 TUI .com GmbH, Berlin Germany 100 TUI fly GmbH, Langenhagen Germany 100 TUI fly Nordic AB , Stockholm Sweden 100 TUI fly Vermarktungs GmbH, Hanover Germany 100 Tunisotel S.A.R.L., Tunis Tunisia 100 Turcotel Turizm A.S., Istanbul Turkey 100 Turkuaz Insaat Turizm A.S., Ankara Turkey 100 Unijet Group Limited, Crawley United Kingdom 100 Unijet Leisure Limited, Crawley United Kingdom 100 Wolters Reisen GmbH, Stuhr Germany 100 WonderCruises AB , Stockholm Sweden 100 WonderHolding AB , Stockholm Sweden 100 World of TUI Ltd., Crawley United Kingdom 100 Specialist Group & Hotelbeds Group 600035 B.C. LTD , Canada Canada 100 Acampora Travel S.r.l., Sorrent Italy 51 Advantos Brazil Operandora de Turismo LTDA , Rio de Janeiro Brazil 100 Adventure Transport Limited, Crawley United Kingdom 100 Adventure Travels USA , Inc., Wilmington (Delaware) United States 100 Other Notes NOTES 295 COMPA N Y COUNTRY C A P I TA L S H A R E I N % Africa Focus Tours Namibia Pty. Ltd., Windhuk Namibia 100 Alcor Yachting SA , Genf Switzerland 100 Alkor Yat Turizm Isletmacileri A.S., Izmir Turkey 99.7 Americas Corporate Business Services, Inc., Wilmington (Delaware) United States 100 Antigua Charter Services, St. John’s Antigua and Barbuda 100 Apart Hotel Zarevo EOOD , Varna Bulgaria 100 Aragon Tours Limited, Crawley United Kingdom 100 Arccac Eurl, Bourg St. Maurice France 100 ATC African Travel Concept Pty. Ltd., Cape Town South Africa 50.1 ATC Namibian Reflections Pty. Ltd., Cape Town South Africa 100 Audio Tours and Travel of Hong Kong Limited, Kowloon Hong Kong 99 B2B d.o.o., Cavtat Croatia 100 Beds on line SL , Palma de Mallorca Spain 100 Blue Travel Partner Services S.A., Santo Domingo Dominican Republic 99 Brightspark Travel Inc, State of Delaware United States 100 Cassata Travel s.r.l., Cefalù (Palermo) Italy 66 CBQ No. 2 (UK ) Limited, Crawley United Kingdom 100 CBQ NO . 2 (US ) Limited, State of Delaware United States 100 CBQ No. 2 International Projects Limited, Crawley United Kingdom 100 Cel Obert SL , Sant Joan de Caselles Andorra 100 CHS Tour Services Ltd, Crawley United Kingdom 100 Citirama Ltd., Quatre Bornes Mauritius 100 Club Turavia SA de C V, Cancún Mexico 100 Connoisseur Belgium BVBA , Nieuwpoort Belgium 100 Crown Blue Line France SA , Castelnaudary France 100 Crown Blue Line GmbH, Kleinzerlang Germany 100 Crown Blue Line Limited, Crawley United Kingdom 100 Crown Holidays Limited, Crawley United Kingdom 100 Crown Travel Limited, Crawley United Kingdom 100 Crystal Holidays, Inc, State of Delaware United States 100 Destination Services Greece Travel and Tourism SA , Athens Greece 100 Destination Services Morocco SA , Agadir Morocco 100 Destination Services Singapore Pte Limited, Singapore Singapore 100 Destination Services Turkey Turizm ve Seyahat Anonim Sirketi, ­Istanbul Turkey 100 E AC Language Centres (UK ) Limited, Edinburgh United Kingdom 100 Easy Market S.p.A., Rimini Italy 100 Educatours Limited, Mississauga, Ontario Canada 100 EEFC , Inc., State of Delaware United States 100 Emerald Star Limited, Dublin Ireland 100 Events International (Sports Travel) Limited, Crawley United Kingdom 100 Events International Limited, Crawley United Kingdom 100 Exodus Travels Australia Pty Ltd, Melbourne Australia 100 Exodus Travels Canada Inc, Toronto China 100 Exodus Travels Limited, Crawley United Kingdom 100 Exodus Travels USA , Inc., Emeryville, C A United States 100 Expediciones Amazonicas, S.A.C., Iquitos Peru 100 Experience English Limited, Crawley United Kingdom 100 Fanatics Sports & Party Tours UK Limited, Crawley United Kingdom 100 Fanatics Sports and Party Tours PT Y Limited, Banksia Australia 100 FanFirm Pty Ltd, Banksia Australia 100 Fantravel.com, Inc., Wilmington (Delaware) United States 100 First Choice Expeditions, Inc., State of Delaware United States 100 296 NOTES Other Notes COMPA N Y COUNTRY C A P I TA L S H A R E I N % First Choice Marine (BVI ) Ltd, British Virgin Islands Virgin Islands (British) 100 First Choice Marine (Malaysia) Snd Bhd, Malaysia Malaysia 100 First Choice Marine Limited, Crawley United Kingdom 100 First Choice Sailing, Inc. (USA ) (also known as Sunsail, Inc.), State of Delaware United States 100 Francotel Limited, Crawley United Kingdom 100 GEI -Moorings, LLC , State of Delaware United States 100 Global Obi, S.L., Palma de Mallorca Spain 75.5 Great Atlantic Sports Travel, Inc., Wilmington (Delaware) United States 75 Gulliver Travel d.o.o., Dubrovnik Croatia 70 Gullivers Group Limited, Crawley United Kingdom 100 Gullivers Sports Travel Limited, Crawley United Kingdom 100 Hannibal Tour SA , Tunis Tunisia 100 Hayes & Jarvis (Travel) Limited, Crawley United Kingdom 100 Headwater Holidays Limited, Crawley United Kingdom 100 Hellenic Sailing Holidays SA , Athens Greece 100 Hellenic Sailing SA , Athens Greece 100 Holidays Services S.A., Agadir Morocco 100 Hotelbeds (Shanghai) Commercial Services Co., Limited, Shanghai China 100 Hotelbeds (Thailand) Limited, Bangkok Thailand 100 Hotelbeds Costa Rica SA , San José Costa Rica 100 Hotelbeds Dominicana SA , Santo Domingo Dominican Republic 100 Hotelbeds Group SLU , Palma de Mallorca Spain 100 Hotelbeds Hong Kong Limited, Kowloon Hong Kong 100 Hotelbeds Product SLU , Puerto de la Cruz, Teneriffa Spain 100 Hotelbeds Spain, S.L.U., Palma de Mallorca Spain 100 Hotelbeds Technology SLU , Palma de Mallorca Spain 100 Hotelbeds UK Limited, Crawley United Kingdom 100 Hotelbeds USA Inc, Orlando United States 100 Hotelbeds, S.L.U., Palma de Mallorca Spain 100 Hotelopia Holidays, S.L., Ibiza Spain 100 Hotelopia SL , Palma de Mallorca Spain 100 Intercruises Shoreside & Port Services Canada, Inc., Quebec Canada 100 Intercruises Shoreside & Port Services PT Y LTD , Stanmore NSW Australia 100 Intercruises Shoreside & Port Services S.a.r.l., Paris France 100 Intercruises Shoreside & Port Services Sam, Monaco Monaco 100 Intercruises Shoreside & Port Services, Inc., State of Delaware United States 100 Intercruises Shoreside & Port Services, SLU , Barcelona Spain 100 International Expeditions, Inc., State of Delaware United States 100 Intrav, Inc., State of Delaware United States 100 Isango India Private Limited, Delhi India 100 Isango! Limited, Crawley United Kingdom 100 i-To-i Placements Limited, Carrick-on-Suir Ireland 100 i-To-i PT Y Ltd., Sydney Australia 100 JBS Group US , Inc., Wilmington (Delaware) United States 100 Lapter Eurl, Macot La Plagne France 100 Le Boat Netherlands B.V., Rotterdam Netherlands 100 Le Passage to India Tours and Travels Pvt Ltd, Neu-Delhi India 91 Le Piolet SCI , St Martin de Belleville, Savoie France 100 Les Tours Jumpstreet Tours, Inc., Montreal Canada 100 Liberate SLU , Palma de Mallorca Spain 100 Lima Tours S.A.C., Lima Peru 100 Lodges & Mountain Hotels SARL , Notre Dame de Bellecombe, Savoie France 100 Other Notes NOTES 297 COMPA N Y COUNTRY C A P I TA L S H A R E I N % Luso Ds – Agência de Viagens, Unipessoal Lda, Faro Portugal 100 Lusomice, Unipessoal Lda., Lisbon Portugal 100 Mainstream DS Dominicana S.A.S., Higuey Dominican Republic 100 Manahe Ltd., Quatre Bornes Mauritius 51 Manchester Academy Holdings Limited, Crawley United Kingdom 100 Manchester Academy Tours Limited, Crawley United Kingdom 100 Mariner International Asia Limited, Hongkong Hong Kong 100 Mariner International Travel, Inc., State of Delaware United States 100 Mariner Operations USA Inc, State of Delaware United States 100 Mariner Travel GmbH, Bad Vilbel Germany 100 Mariner Travel SARL , Paris France 100 Mariner Yacht Services SA , Le Marin Morocco 100 Mariner Yachts (Proprietary) Limited, Illovo South Africa 100 Master-Yachting GmbH, Eibelstadt Germany 100 Maxi Yen SL , Palma de Mallorca Spain 100 Meetings & Events International Limited, Crawley United Kingdom 100 Meetings & Events Spain S.L.U., Palma de Mallorca Spain 100 Meetings & Events UK Limited, Crawley United Kingdom 100 MicronNexus GmbH, Hamburg Germany 100 Molay Travel SARL , Molay-Littry, Calvados France 100 Molay Travel SCI , Molay-Littry, Calvados France 100 Mont Charvin Ski SARL , Paris France 100 Moorings Grenadines Ltd., St. Vincent and Grenadines Saint Vincent and the Grenadines 100 Moorings Mexico SA de C V, La Paz Mexico 100 Moorings Yachting SA S , Paris France 100 Moorings Yat Isletmecilgi Turizm Ve Tic Ltd, Mugla Turkey 100 MyPlanet Holding A / S, Holstebro Denmark 100 MyPlanet International A / S, Holstebro Denmark 100 MyPlanet Sweden AB , Göteborg Sweden 100 Pacific World (Beijing) Travel Agency Co., Ltd., Peking China 100 Pacific World (Shanghai) Travel Agency Co. Limited, Shanghai China 100 Pacific World Company Limited, HCM City Vietnam 90 Pacific World Destination East Sdn. Bhd., Penang Malaysia 65 Pacific World Meetings & Events (Thailand) Limited, Bangkok Thailand 49 * Pacific World Meetings & Events Hellas Travel Limited, Athens Greece 100 Pacific World Meetings & Events Hong Kong, Limited, Hongkong China 100 Pacific World Meetings & Events SAM , Monaco Monaco 99.9 Pacific World Meetings & Events Singapore Pte. Ltd, Singapore Singapore 100 Pacific World Singapore Pte Limited, Singapore Singapore 100 PE AK DMC North America, Inc, Wilmington (Delaware) United States 100 Petit Palais Srl, Valtournenche Italy 100 Platinum Event Travel Limited, Crawley United Kingdom 100 Porter and Haylett Limited, Crawley United Kingdom 100 Premier Holidays Afloat Limited, Dublin Ireland 100 Premiere International Corp, Gardena United States 100 Prestige Boating Holidays Limited, Dublin Ireland 100 PT. Pacific World Nusantara, Bali Indonesia 100 Quark Expeditions, Inc., State of Delaware United States 100 Real Travel Ltd, Crawley United Kingdom 100 Sawadee Amsterdam BV, Amsterdam Netherlands 100 SER AC Travel GmbH, Zermatt Switzerland 100 Ski Bound Limited, Crawley United Kingdom 100 Skibound France SARL , Notre Dame de Bellecombe France 100 * Controlling influence 298 NOTES Other Notes COMPA N Y COUNTRY C A P I TA L S H A R E I N % Société Marocaine pour le Developpement des Transports ­Touristiques S.A., Agadir Morocco 100 Specialist Holiday Group Ireland Ltd., Dublin Ireland 100 Specialist Holidays (Travel) Limited, Crawley United Kingdom 100 Specialist Holidays Contracting Ltd., Crawley United Kingdom 100 Specialist Holidays Ltd., Crawley United Kingdom 100 Specialist Holidays, Inc., Mississauga, Ontario Canada 100 Sports Executive Travel Limited, Crawley United Kingdom 100 Sportsworld (Beijing) Sports Management Consulting Limited ­Company, Peking China 100 Sportsworld Eventos Ltda, São Paulo Brazil 100 Sportsworld Group Limited, Crawley United Kingdom 100 Sportsworld Holdings Limited, Crawley United Kingdom 100 Student City S.a.r.l., Paris France 100 Student City Travel Limited, Crawley United Kingdom 100 Student Skiing Limited, Crawley United Kingdom 100 Studentcity.com, Inc., State of Delaware United States 100 Summer Times International Ltd., Quatre Bornes Mauritius 100 Summer Times Ltd., Quatre Bornes Mauritius 100 Sunsail (Antigua) Limited, Antigua Antigua and Barbuda 100 Sunsail (Australia) Pty Ltd, Hamilton Island, Queensland Australia 100 Sunsail (Seychelles) Limited, Mahé Seychelles 100 Sunsail (Thailand) Company Ltd, Phuket Thailand 30 * Sunsail Adriatic d.o.o., Split Croatia 100 Sunsail Hellas MEPE , Athens Greece 100 Sunsail International B.V., Rotterdam Netherlands 100 Sunsail Limited, Crawley United Kingdom 100 Sunsail SA S , Castelnaudary France 100 Sunsail Worldwide Sailing Limited, Crawley United Kingdom 100 Sunsail Worldwide Sailing St. Vincent Limited, St. Vincent and ­G renadines Saint Vincent and the Grenadines 100 T.T. Services Samoa Ltd, Apia Samoa 100 Tantur Turizm Seyahat A.S., Istanbul Turkey 100 TC S & Starquest Expeditions, Inc., Seattle United States 100 TC S Expeditions, Inc., State of Delaware United States 100 Teamlink Travel Limited, Crawley United Kingdom 100 The English Language Centre York Limited, York United Kingdom 100 The Moorings (Bahamas) Ltd, Nassau Bahamas 100 The Moorings (Seychelles) Limited, Mahé Seychelles 100 The Moorings (St. Lucia) LTD , St. Lucia Saint Lucia 100 The Moorings Belize Limited, Belize City Belize 100 The Moorings d.o.o., Split Croatia 100 The Moorings Limited, British Virgin Islands Virgin Islands (British) 100 The Moorings Sailing Holidays Limited, Crawley United Kingdom 100 The Moorings SA S , Utoroa, Raiatea French Polynesia 100 Thomson Reisen GmbH, St. Johann Austria 100 Thomson Sport (UK ) Limited, Crawley United Kingdom 100 Tigdiv Eurl, Tignes France 100 Transfar – Agencia de Viagens e Turismo Lda., Faro Portugal 99.9 TR AVCOA Corporation, State of Delaware United States 100 Travel Class Holdings Limited, Crawley United Kingdom 100 Travel Class Limited, Crawley United Kingdom 100 Travel Contracting Limited, Crawley United Kingdom 100 * Controlling influence Other Notes NOTES 299 COMPA N Y COUNTRY C A P I TA L S H A R E I N % Travel Partner Brasil Agencia de Turismo e Viagens Ltda, Jundiai, State of São Paulo Brazil 99.9 Travel Partner Bulgaria EOOD , Varna Bulgaria 100 Travel Partner Turkey Turizm ve Seyahat Anonim Sirketi, Istanbul Turkey 100 Travel Scot World Limited, Crawley United Kingdom 100 Travel Services Europe Spain SL , Barcelona Spain 100 Travel Turf, Inc., Allentown United States 100 Travelbound European Tours Limited, Crawley United Kingdom 100 Travelmood Limited, Crawley United Kingdom 100 Trek America Travel Limited, Crawley United Kingdom 100 Trek Investco Limited, Crawley United Kingdom 100 T T Enterprises Private Ltd, Chennai India 100 T T International Services Broker LLC , Abu Dhabi United Arab Emirates 49 * T T Services AB , Stockholm Sweden 90 T T Services Kiribati Ltd, South Tarawa Kiribati 100 T T Services Nauru Ltd, Yaren Nauru 100 T T Services New Zealand Ltd, Auckland New Zealand 100 T T Services Vanuatu Ltd, Port Vila Vanuatu 100 T T Visa Outsourcing Limited, Crawley United Kingdom 100 T T Visa Services Limited, Crawley United Kingdom 100 T T Visa Services Pte Limited, Singapore Singapore 100 T T Visa Services, Inc., Wilmington (Delaware) United States 100 T TS Consultancy Services Private Ltd, Chennai India 100 T TSS Limited, Crawley United Kingdom 100 T TSS Transportation Limited, Crawley United Kingdom 100 TUI (Cyprus) Ltd., Nicosia Cyprus 100 TUI China Travel CO . Ltd., Peking China 75 TUI España Turismo S.A., Barcelona Spain 100 TUI Hellas Travel and Tourism SA , Athens Greece 100 TUI Holding Spain S.L., Barcelona Spain 100 TUI Italia S.R.L., Mailand Italy 100 TUI Marine Grenada Limited, St. George’s Grenada 100 TUI Mexicana SA de C V, Mexico Mexico 100 TUI PORTUGAL – Agencia de Viagens e Turismo S.A., Faro Portugal 100 TUI Travel Partner Services Japan KK , Tokio Japan 100 TUI UK Italia S.r.L., Turin Italy 100 Tunisie Investment Services Holding S.A., Tunis Tunisia 100 Tunisie Voyages S.A., Tunis Tunisia 100 Turismo Asia Company Ltd., Bangkok Thailand 100 Ultramar Express Transport S.A., Palma de Mallorca Spain 100 Versun Yachts NSA , Athens Greece 100 Voukouvalides Travel & Tourism S.A., Kos Greece 100 We Love Rugby Pty Ltd, Banksia Australia 100 Williment Travel Group Limited, Wellington New Zealand 100 World Challenge Expeditions Limited, Crawley United Kingdom 100 World Challenge Expeditions Pty Ltd, Victoria Australia 100 World Challenge Expeditions, Inc., Cambridge, MA United States 100 World Challenge NZ Limited, Wellington New Zealand 100 Yachts International Limited, British Virgin Islands Virgin Islands (British) 100 YIL , LLC , State of Delaware United States 100 Your Man Tours, Inc., El Segundo, C A United States 100 Zegrahm Expeditions, Inc., Seattle United States 100 * Controlling influence 300 NOTES Other Notes COMPA N Y COUNTRY C A P I TA L S H A R E I N % The LateRooms Group AsiaRooms Business Services (Thailand) Co., Ltd, Bangkok Thailand 100 Asiarooms Pte Ltd, Singapore Singapore 100 Late Rooms Limited, Crawley United Kingdom 100 Late Rooms Services Australia PT Y LTD , Dawes Point Australia 100 Mala Pronta Viagens e Turismo Ltda., Curitiba Brazil 100 All other segments Absolut Insurance Limited, Guernsey Guernsey 100 Amber Nominee GP Limited, Crawley United Kingdom 100 Canada Maritime Services Limited, Crawley United Kingdom 100 Canadian Pacific (UK ) Limited, Crawley United Kingdom 100 Cast Agencies Europe Limited, Crawley United Kingdom 100 Cast Group Services Limited, Crawley United Kingdom 100 Cheqqer B.V., Rijswijk Netherlands 100 Contship Holdings Limited, Crawley United Kingdom 100 CP Ships (Bermuda) Ltd., Hamilton Bermuda 100 CP Ships (UK ) Limited, Crawley United Kingdom 100 CP Ships Ltd., Saint John Canada 100 CPS Holdings (No. 2) Limited, Crawley United Kingdom 100 CPS Number 4 Limited, Crawley United Kingdom 100 DEFAG Beteiligungsverwaltungs GmbH I, Hanover Germany 100 DEFAG Beteiligungsverwaltungs GmbH III , Hanover Germany 100 First Choice Holdings, Inc., State of Delaware United States 100 First Choice Holidays Finance Limited, Crawley United Kingdom 100 First Choice Holidays Limited, Crawley United Kingdom 100 First Choice Leisure Limited, Crawley United Kingdom 100 First Choice Olympic Limited, Crawley United Kingdom 100 First Choice Overseas Holdings Limited, Crawley United Kingdom 100 First Choice USA , Crawley United Kingdom 100 Germanair Flugzeug Leasing GmbH, Hamburg Germany 100 Hapag-Lloyd Executive GmbH, Langenhagen Germany 100 LateRooms Group Holding (Brazil) Limited, Crawley United Kingdom 100 LateRooms Group Holding (UK ) Limited, Crawley United Kingdom 100 LateRooms Group Holding Limited, Crawley United Kingdom 100 Leibniz-Service GmbH, Hanover Germany 100 Manufacturer’s Serialnumber 852 Limited, Dublin Ireland 100 Owners Abroad España, S.A., Las Palmas Spain 100 PM Peiner Maschinen GmbH, Hanover Germany 100 Preussag Immobilien GmbH, Salzgitter Germany 100 Preussag UK Ltd., Crawley United Kingdom 100 Sovereign Tour Operations Limited, Crawley United Kingdom 100 Thomson Airways (Services) Limited, Crawley United Kingdom 100 Thomson Airways Trustee Limited, Crawley United Kingdom 100 travel-Ba.Sys GmbH & Co KG , Mülheim an der Ruhr Germany 83.5 Trina Group Limited, Crawley United Kingdom 100 T TG (Jersey) Limited, Jersey Jersey 100 TUI Aviation GmbH, Hanover Germany 100 TUI Beteiligungs GmbH, Hanover Germany 100 TUI Canada Holdings, Inc, Toronto Canada 100 TUI Connect GmbH, Hanover Germany 100 TUI Group Services GmbH, Hanover Germany 100 TUI Group UK Trustee Limited, Crawley United Kingdom 100 Other Notes NOTES 301 COMPA N Y COUNTRY C A P I TA L S H A R E I N % TUI Holdings (Australia) PT Y Limited, Queensland Australia 100 TUI InfoTec GmbH, Hanover Germany 100 TUI Spain, SLU , Madrid Spain 100 TUI Travel Amber E&W LLP, Crawley United Kingdom 100 TUI Travel Amber Limited, Edinburgh United Kingdom 100 TUI Travel Amber Scot LP, Edinburgh United Kingdom 100 TUI Travel Aviation Finance Limited, Crawley United Kingdom 100 TUI Travel Common Investment Fund Trustee Limited, Crawley United Kingdom 100 TUI Travel Group Management Services Limited, Crawley United Kingdom 100 TUI Travel Healthcare Limited, Crawley United Kingdom 100 TUI Travel Holdings Limited, Crawley United Kingdom 100 TUI Travel Limited, Crawley United Kingdom 100 TUI Travel Nominee Limited, Crawley United Kingdom 100 TUI Travel Overseas Holdings Limited, Crawley United Kingdom 100 TUI Travel SA S Adventure Limited, Crawley United Kingdom 100 TUI Travel SA S Holdings Limited, Tring, Hertfordshire United Kingdom 100 TUI Travel SA S Services Limited, Crawley United Kingdom 100 TUI -Hapag Beteiligungs GmbH, Hanover Germany 100 Viagens Aurora Limitada, Albufeira Portugal 95 Joint Ventures and associated companies Tourism 2332491 Ontario, Inc, Toronto Canada 49 Ahungalla Resorts Limited, Bentota Sri Lanka 40 alps & cities 4ever GmbH, Vienna Austria 50 Atlantica Hellas S.A., Rhodos Greece 50 Atlantica Hotels and Resorts S.A., Lemesos Cyprus 49.9 Bartu Turizm Yatirimlari Anonim Sirketi, Istanbul Turkey 50 Blue Diamond Hotels and Resorts, Inc., St. Michael Barbados 49 Bonitos GmbH & Co KG , Frankfurt / Main Germany 50 DER Reisecenter TUI GmbH, Berlin Germany 50 ENC for touristic Projects Company S.A.E., Sharm El-Sheikh Egypt 50 Etapex, S.A., Agadir Morocco 35 Fanara Residence for Hotels S.A.E., Sharm El-Sheikh Egypt 50 First Om El Gorayfat Company for Hotels S.A.E., Mersa Allam Egypt 50 GBH Turizm Sanayi Isletmecilik ve Ticaret A.S., Istanbul Turkey 50 GeBeCo Gesellschaft für internationale Begegnung und Cooperation mbH & Co. KG , Kiel Germany 50.1 Golden Lotus Hotel Company S.A.E., Luxor Egypt 50 GRUPOTEL DOS S.A., Can Picafort Spain 50 InteRes Gesellschaft für Informationstechnologie mbH, Darmstadt Germany 25.2 Jaz Hotels & Resorts S.A.E., Cairo Egypt 51 Kamarayat Nabq Company for Hotels S.A.E., Sharm El-Sheikh Egypt 50 Karisma Hotels Adriatic d.o.o., Zagreb Croatia 33.3 Karisma Hotels Caribbean S.A., Panama Panama 50 Makadi Club for Hotels S.A.E., Hurghada Egypt 50 Mirage Resorts Company S.A.E., Hurghada Egypt 50 Oasis Company for Hotels S.A.E., Hurghada Egypt 50 Quinta da Ria Empreendimentos do Algarve, S.A., Vila Nova de Cacela Portugal 33 Raiffeisen-Tours RT-Reisen GmbH, Burghausen Germany 25.1 Riu Hotels S.A., Palma de Mallorca Spain 49 Safeharbour One SL , Barcelona Spain 50 302 NOTES Other Notes COMPA N Y COUNTRY C A P I TA L S H A R E I N % Sharm El Maya Touristic Hotels Co. S.A.E., Cairo Egypt 50 Sun Oasis for Hotels Company S.A.E., Hurghada Egypt 50 Sunwing Travel Group, Inc, Toronto Canada 49 Teckcenter Reisebüro GmbH, Kirchheim / Teck Germany 50 Tikida Bay S.A., Agadir Morocco 34 TIKIDA DUNE S S.A., Agadir Morocco 30 Tikida Palmeraie S.A., Marrakech Morocco 33.3 Togebi Holdings Ltd, Nicosia, Cyprus Cyprus 49 TR AVEL S tar GmbH, Hanover Germany 50 TUI Cruises GmbH, Hamburg Germany 50 UK Hotel Holdings F ZC L.L.C., Fujairah United Arab Emirates 50 Vacation Express USA Corp., Atlanta United States 49 Specialist Travel Aeolos Travel LLP, Nicosia Cyprus 49.9 Aitken Spence Travels Ltd, Colombo Sri Lanka 50 Alpha Tourism and Marketing Services Ltd., Port Louis Mauritius 25 Alpha Travel (U.K.) Limited, Harrow United Kingdom 25 Holiday Travel (Israel) Limited, Airport City Israel 50 Pollman’s Tours and Safaris Limited, Nairobi Kenya 25 Ranger Safaris Ltd., Arusha Tanzania 25 Travco Group Holding S.A.E., Cairo Egypt 50 T T Services Lanka Private Ltd, Colombo Sri Lanka 50 All other segments .BOSYS SOF T WARE GMBH , Hamburg Germany 25.2 ACCON -RVS Accounting & Consulting GmbH, Berlin Germany 50 Responsibility s­ tatement by management 303 RESPONSIBILIT Y ­S TAT E M E N T BY MANAGEMENT To the best of our knowledge, and in accordance with the applicable reporting principles, the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the net assets, financial position and results of operations of the Group, and the Group Management Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal opportunities and risks associated with the expected development of the Group. Hanover, 8 December 2015 The Executive Board Friedrich Joussen Peter Long Horst Baier David Burling Sebastian Ebel Dr Elke Eller William Waggott 304 Independent Auditor’s Report INDEPENDENT AUDITOR ’S REPORT To TUI AG , Berlin and Hanover Report on the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements Audit Opinion We have audited the consolidated financial statements of TUI AG , Berlin and Hannover, and its subsidiaries, which comprise the consolidated statement of financial position as at 30 September 2015, the consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated statement of changes in equity, the consolidated statement of cash flows for the year then ended and the notes to the consolidated financial statements. In our opinion based on the findings of our audit, the accompanying consolidated financial statements comply, in all material respects, with International Financial Reporting Standards, as adopted by the EU , and the additional requirements of German commercial law pursuant to § (Article) 315a Abs. (paragraph) 1 HGB (“Handelsgesetzbuch”: “German Commercial Code”) and give a true and fair view of the net assets and financial position of the Group as at 30 September 2015 and the results of operations for the financial year then ended, in accordance with these requirements. According to § 322 Abs. 3 Satz (sentence) 1 HGB , we state that our audit of the consolidated financial statements has not led to any reservations. Basis for Audit Opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with § 317 HGB and German generally accepted standards for the audit of financial statements promulgated by the Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer (Institute of Public Auditors in Germany; IDW ) and additionally considered the International Standards on Auditing (ISA ). Our responsibilities under those provisions and standards are further described in the “Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements” section of our report. We are independent of the Group in accordance with the provisions of German commercial law and professional standards as well as the IESBA Code of Ethics for Professional Acccountants of the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants (IESBA Code) and we have fulfilled our other professional responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. K E Y A U D I T M AT T E R S Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the consolidated financial statements of the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the consolidated financial statements as a whole, and in forming our audit opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate audit opinion on these matters. Independent Auditor’s Report 305 In our view, the key audit matters were as follows: 1 Acquisition of non-controlling interests in TUI Travel PLC by TUI AG 2 Recoverability of goodwill 3 Recoverability of shares in Hapag-Lloyd AG 4 Provisions and other areas of judgment 5 Deferred tax assets relating to losses carried forward and risks related to German trade tax 6 EBITA adjustments Our presentation of these key audit matters has been structured as follows: 1 Matter and issue 2 Audit approach and findings 3 Reference to further information 1 Acquisition of non-controlling interests in TUI Travel PLC by TUI AG FINANCIAL RECOGNITION OF ACQUISITION OF NON-CONTROLLING INTERE ST 1 During the financial year TUI AG acquired all non-controlling interests in TUI Travel PLC , Crawley / United Kingdom, (hereinafter “ TUI Travel PLC ”) by TUI AG . The Acquisition was executed by capital increase of TUI AG in return for shares in TUI Travel PLC as contribution in kind. Thereby the shareholders of TUI Travel PLC (except TUI AG ) received for each share of TUI Travel PLC 0.399 new shares of TUI AG . The subscribed capital of TUI AG increased therefore by € 621 million. The measurement of the shares issued as consideration was conducted at fair value on stock issue (listing price on registration date). This resulted in a reduction of profit reserves by € 3,313 million. The difference of this amount (€ 3,313 million) and the increase of subscribed capital (€ 621 million) less the related expenses (€ 16 million) results in an increase of capital reserve by € 2,676 million. The non-­ controlling interests recorded in Group’s equity up to the acquisition of € – 606 million less related expenses (€ 46 million) have been directly offset against profit reserves, which therefore did decrease. Overall the amount of the Group’s equity was reduced by the incurred expenses of € 62 million. This matter was from our point of view of particular importance because of its material impact on Group’s equity accounts. 2 With respect to the recognition of the acquisition of non-controlling interests we intensively dealt during our audit with the underlying legal requirements as well as the assessments of the involved consultants on this transaction. We considered the measurement of the shares issued as contribution in kind based on the listing price at the date of registration in the commercial register. Furthermore, we examined the amount of non-controlling interests for write off. Based on the procedures performed we were able to satisfy ourselves that the acquisition of non-­ controlling interests in TUI Travel PLC is properly presented. 3 The Company’s disclosures about acquisition of non-controlling interests and their impact on Group’s equity accounts are contained in section “Merger of TUI AG with TUI Travel PLC ” and in sections 26 to 28 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. E X P E N S E S R E L AT E D T O T H E A C Q U I S I T I O N O F N O N C O N T R O L L I N G I N T E R E S T S 1 In connection with the acquisition of non-controlling interests in TUI Travel PLC , expenses relating to the fees from banks and consulting firms accrued. Where material expenses are directly related to the capital increase or the acquisition of non-controlling interests, the costs incurred have to be directly offset against equity. Therefore, € 62 million were classified directly in equity. This matter was from our point of view of particular importance because the underlying allocation rules are very complex. 306 Independent Auditor’s Report 2 During our audit we satisfied ourselves of the proper recognition of the accrued expenses based on the evidence submitted to us. Furthermore, we reperformed the allocation of expenses applied by Management and accept the classification made by Management. 3 The Company’s disclosures about the recognition of expenses in connection with the acquisition of non-­ controlling interests in equity are provided in the statement of changes in equity and are further contained in section “Merger of TUI AG with TUI Travel PLC ” of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. CHANGE IN SEGMENT REPORTING 1 As part of TUI AG ’s organisational and strategic reorganisation following the acquisition of non-controlling interests in TUI Travel PLC , the TUI Group’s internal reporting structure was reorganized. Since the internal reporting structure is used as a basis for determining the segment structure under IFRS 8 (segment reporting), consequently the new reporting structure resulted in a change in TUI AG ’s segment reporting. From our point of view, this matter was of particular importance, because in the context of capital market communications the segment reporting has a special significance and the segment structure presented also affects other accounting-related areas (particularly the reallocation of goodwill and the resultant implication on testing of goodwill for impairment as well as the allocation of the remaining assets and the disclosure of discontinued operations). 2 During our audit we, amongst other procedures, considered the internal reporting and its subcategorisation of the individual reporting units; and reconciled this structure to the segment structure used in the segment reporting. Moreover, we examined the method applied for the reallocation of goodwill. We were able to satisfy ourselves that the changes in segment reporting applied by Management were consistent with the reorganisation of the internal reporting structure. 3 The Company’s disclosures about the change of the internal reporting structure regarding the acquisition of non-controlling interests are contained in section “Comments on Segments” of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. 2 Recoverability of goodwill 1 Goodwill amounting to € 3.2 billion in total is reported under the goodwill line item in the statement of financial position in the consolidated financial statements of TUI AG . Goodwill is tested by the Company for impairment as of June 30 of the financial year (impairment test). While in the previous year goodwill for the former TUI Travel segment was tested for impairment based on this segment, in this financial year the goodwill for former TUI Travel has been split into the redefined segments after the acquisition of non-controlling interests and in each case tested for impairment at that level. As TUI Travel PLC was no longer listed at the reporting date and listing prices could therefore not be used for the measurement of goodwill, a discounted cash flow (DCF ) valuation technique was used for measurement for the first time. From our point of view, this matter was of particular importance, because the result of this measurement depends to a large extent on Management’s assessment of future cash inflows and the discount rate used, and is therefore subject to considerable uncertainty. Independent Auditor’s Report 307 2 With respect to the appropriateness of the future cash inflows used in the calculation we satisfied ourselves, amongst other procedures, by agreeing this information with the current budgets in the three-year plan adopted by Management and approved by the supervisory board, as well as by comparison with general and sector-specific market expectations. With the knowledge that even relatively small changes in the discount rate applied can have material effects on the value of goodwill calculated in this way, we also focused our testing on the parameters used to determine the discount rate applied, including the weighted average cost of capital, and reperformed the calculations. Due to the materiality of goodwill (representing approximately 22 % of consolidated total assets) and the fact that its measurement also depends on economic conditions which are outside of the company’s sphere of influence, we also performed sensitivity analyses for cash-generating units with low coverage (net book value compared to present value) and found that the respective goodwill was sufficiently covered by discounted future cash flows. Overall, we consider the measurement inputs and assumptions used by Management to be in line with our expectations. 3 The Company’s goodwill disclosures are contained in section 14 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. 3 Recoverability of shares in Hapag-Lloyd AG 1 In TUI AG ’s consolidated financial statements, the shares in Hapag-Lloyd AG , Hamburg, (hereinafter “Hapag-­ Lloyd AG”) are reported in the amount of € 335 million after a value adjustment of € 147 million and are presented as financial instruments within the balance sheet item financial assets available for sale. These shares are measured at fair value, with changes in fair value of less than 20 % of original costs being recognised directly in equity pursuant to TUI AG ’s internal accounting guidelines. Changes in measurement greater or equal 20 % result in an impairment and are classified in the income statement. As Hapag-Lloyd AG was not listed as of the reporting date and it was therefore not possible to use a listing price for the measurement of the shares, measurement took place using a discounted cash flow valuation technique. The Company’s measurement showed that the previous carrying amount could no longer be covered by future cash inflows. This led to the recognition of an impairment loss of € 147 million. From our point of view, this matter was of particular importance, because the result of this measurement depends to a large extent on Management’s assessment of future cash inflows and the discount rate used, and is subject to considerable uncertainty. 2 Amongst other procedures, we examined the measurement of the shares in Hapag-Lloyd AG and verified the inputs used in connection with the valuation technique using company-specific information as well as sector-specific market data and expectations. We also evaluated the appropriateness of the threshold for impairments specified by TUI AG . Even taking into account the relevant market data (e. g. the first listing price of Hapag-Lloyd AG dated 6 November 2015), we found the measurement of the shares in Hapag-Lloyd AG to be within an acceptable range and we accept Management’s assessment. 3 The Company’s disclosures about financial assets available-for-sale are contained in section “Accounting and measurement methods” and section 19 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. 308 Independent Auditor’s Report 4 Provisions and other areas of judgment 1 In TUI AG ’s consolidated financial statements, prepayments to hotels totalling € 967 million are reported under the balance sheet line item trade receivables and other assets; provisions for aircraft maintenance in the amount of € 564 million are reported under the balance sheet line item other provisions. In addition, provisions for pensions and similar obligations of € 1,147 million are reported. From our point of view, this matter was of particular importance, because recognition and measurement of these material items are based to a large extent on Management’s estimates and assumptions. 2 With the knowledge that estimated values result in an increased risk of material misstatements within the consolidated financial statements and that Management’s measurement decisions have a direct and significant effect on consolidated profit, we assessed the appropriateness of the carrying amounts inter alia by comparing these amounts with historical data and by referring to contracts provided to us. Amongst other tests, we • assessed the recoverability of prepayments to hotels, considering the background of current political developments in Greece and the incidents in Tunisia and Turkey, based on the repayment plans agreed with the respective hoteliers, the possibilities to offset payments with future overnight accommodation services and the framework agreements, • reperformed the calculation of the costs expected for maintenance expenses for aircraft maintenance based on group-wide maintenance agreements, the price increases expected based on external market forecasts and the discount rates applied and • assessed the appropriateness of the key assumptions and inputs used to calculate pension provisions by involving the expertise of our internal pension valuation specialists. In doing so, we were able to satisfy ourselves that the estimates applied and the assumptions made by Management were sufficiently reasonable and supported with reference to historical data or third party information to justify the recognition and measurement of the material provisions and the other areas where judgment was involved. 3 The Company’s disclosures about trade receivables and other assets as well as provisions are contained in sections 20 as well as 32 and 33 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. 5 Deferred Taxes assets relating to losses carried forward and risks related to ­German trade tax 1 Deferred tax assets of € 331 million (of which € 239 million relate to losses carried forward) are reported in the consolidated statement of financial position in the consolidated financial statements of TUI AG . Due to the acquisition of non-controlling interest in TUI Travel PLC , the tax affairs have been restructured in Germany with the consequence of deferred tax assets of € 145 million being recognised by TUI AG relating to losses carried forward. Furthermore, there are tax risks as certain hotel expenses may not be completely deductible for the determination of German trade tax. Management estimates the probability of occurrence for these risks related to German trade tax to be less than 50 %. Therefore, a contingent liability is disclosed, which does not result in a provision. Based on updated estimates this contingent liability considerably dropped to € 42 million from € 113 million previous year. From our point of view, these matters were of particular importance, because they depend to a large extent on estimates and assumptions made by Management, and is subject to uncertainties. 2 Within our audit of these tax matters we added internal tax accounting specialists to our audit team. With their support, we assessed the internal processes and controls implemented to record tax matters. With respect to the tax restructuring, we also questioned the date when deferred taxes were recognized as well as Management’s underlying reasons. We assessed the recoverability of deferred tax assets relating to losses carried forward and deductible temporary differences on the basis of the Company’s internal forecasts for future taxable income position of TUI AG and its material controlled entities for income tax purposes using Management’s planning and evaluated the appropriateness of the planning framework used. Furthermore, we examined the reconciliation to the tax expense. Based on expert opinions we gained an understanding about the tax risks from the treatment of certain hotel expenses in connection with the German trade tax and we evaluated the appropriateness of the Independent Auditor’s Report 309 financial recognition. We were able to retrace the assumptions made by Management concerning the recognition and measurement of deferred taxes as well as the risk relating to German trade tax and accept Management’s assessments. 3 The Company’s disclosures about deferred taxes are contained in the notes to the consolidated financial statements in section “accounting policies” as well as in sections 9, 22, 37 and for tax disputes in section 40. In addition, further disclosures about the acquisition of non-controlling interests in TUI Travel PLC are in section “Merger of TUI AG with TUI Travel PLC ” of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. 6 EBITA adjustments 1 For the TUI Group’s management and analysis purposes, operating profit (earnings before interest, taxes and amortization – EBITA ) is used and adjusted for one-off effects and non-operating effects on profit. Adjustments to EBITA in the amount of € 204 million have been reported in the consolidated financial statements of TUI AG . Underlying EBITA is used for capital market communication as a core financial performance indicator. Furthermore, underlying EBITA is used as a target achievement standard for the annual performance-related remuneration of TUI AG ’s middle management. The adjustments to EBITA were of particular importance during our audit, because the applied adjustments are based on TUI AG ’s internal accounting guidelines and there is a risk of bias in Management’s judgment. 2 We reperformed the calculation of underlying EBITA and assessed the identification of extraordinary effects on profit and non-operating effects on profit. Based on the knowledge obtained during the audit of the consolidated financial statements and the information provided to us by Management, we examined whether, the adjustments made are in line with the definition and the procedural method stated in the comments on segment reporting. We were able to satisfy ourselves that the adjustments applied to EBITA by Management were consistent with TUI AG ’s internal accounting guideline and continuous applied. 3 The Company’s disclosures about the adjustments to EBITA as well as their determination are described under “Comments on Segments” in the segment reporting of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. Other Information Management is responsible for the other information. The other information compromises • the Corporate GovernanceReport according to section 3.1 of the German Corporate Governance Code, • the Management’s Corporate Governance Statement pursuant to § 289a HGB • the report concerning the UK Corporate Governance Code according to section 9.8.6 R (5) of the listing rules in the United Kingdom and • the report to shareholders according to section 9.8.8 R of the listing rules in the United Kingdom as well as • other parts of the annual report of TUI AG , Berlin and Hannover, for the financial year ending 30 September 2015, which were not subject of our audit. Our audit opinion on the consolidated financial statements does not cover the other information and we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon. 310 Independent Auditor’s Report In connection with our audit of the consolidated financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the consolidated financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard. Responsibilities of Management and Supervisory Board for the Consolidated ­Financial Statements Management is responsible for the preparation of the consolidated financial statements and, therefore, that these statements give a true and fair view of the net assets, financial position and results of operations of the Group in accordance with IFRSs, as adopted by the EU, and the additional requirements of German commercial law pursuant to § 315a Abs. 1 HGB . Furthermore, Management is responsible for such internal controls as Management determines are necessary to enable the preparation of consolidated financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. In preparing the consolidated financial statements, Management is responsible for assessing the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern as well as using the going concern basis of accounting unless Management either intends to liquidate the Group or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. The supervisory board of TUI AG , Berlin and Hanover, is responsible for overseeing the Company’s financial ­reporting process. Auditor’s Responsibility for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with § 317 HGB and German generally accepted standards for the audit of financial statements promulgated by the Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer (Institute of Public Auditors in Germany; IDW ) and additional consideration of the ISA will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these consolidated financial statements. As part of an audit in accordance with German generally accepted standards for the audit of financial statements promulgated by the Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer (Institute of Public Auditors in Germany; IDW ) and additional consideration of the ISA , we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. We also: • Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may include collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. Independent Auditor’s Report 311 • Obtain an understanding of internal controls relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an audit opinion on the effectiveness of the Group’s internal controls. • Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by Management. • Conclude on the appropriateness of Management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting, and based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the consolidated financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our audit opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Group to cease to continue as a going concern. • Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the consolidated financial statements, including the disclosures, and whether the consolidated financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the net assets and financial position of the Group in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, as adopted by the EU , and the additional requirements of German commercial law pursuant to § 315a Abs. 1 HGB . • Obtain sufficient and appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities within the Group to express an audit opinion on the consolidated financial statements. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the group audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion. We communicate with the Supervisory Board regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit. We also provide a statement to the Supervisory Board that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards. From the matters communicated with the Supervisory Board, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of the consolidated financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication. Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT We have audited the accompanying group management report, which is combined with the management report of TUI AG , Berlin and Hannover, for the financial year from 1 October 2014 to 30 September 2015. In our opinion based on the findings of our audit of the consolidated financial statements and combined management report, the accompanying combined management report is in all material respects consistent with the consolidated financial statements, provides as a whole a suitable view of the Group’s position and suitably presents the opportunities and risks of future development. 312 Independent Auditor’s Report According to § 322 Abs. 3 Satz 1 HGB we state, that our audit of the combined management report has not led to any reservations. Management of TUI AG , Berlin and Hannover, is responsible for the preparation of the combined management report in accordance with the requirements of German commercial law applicable pursuant to § 315a Abs. 1 HGB . We conducted our audit in accordance with § 317 Abs. 2 HGB and German generally accepted standards for the audit of the combined management report promulgated by the Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer (Institute of Public Auditors in Germany; IDW ). Accordingly, we are required to plan and perform the audit of the combined management report to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the combined management report is in all material respects consistent with the consolidated financial statements and the audit findings, as a whole provides a suitable view of the Group’s position and suitably presents the opportunities and risks of future development. R E V I E W O F M A N A G E M E N T ’ S S TAT E M E N T R E G A R D I N G T H E U K C O R P O R AT E G O V E R N A N C E C O D E Under section 8.8.10 R (2) of the UK Listing Rules we are required to review Management’s Statement pursuant to 9.8.6 R (6) of the UK Listing Rules in the report concerning the UK Corporate Governance Code regarding the Company’s compliance with the provisions C.1.1, C.2.1 and C.2.3 as well as C.3.1 to C.3.8 of the UK Corporate Governance Code during the financial year or respectively Company’s explanation in case of discrepancies. We have nothing to report having performed our review. Responsible Auditor The responsible auditor on the audit is Thomas Stieve. Hanover, 8 December 2015 PricewaterhouseCoopers Aktiengesellschaft Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft Thomas Stieve Prof. Dr Mathias Schellhorn Wirtschaftsprüfer Wirtschaftsprüfer (German Public Auditor) (German Public Auditor) Forward-looking Statements 313 FORWARD -LOOKING S TAT E M E N T S The annual report, in particular the report on expected developments included in the management report, includes various forecasts and expectations as well as statements relating to the future development of the TUI Group and TUI AG . These statements are based on assumptions and estimates and may entail known and unknown risks and uncertainties. Actual development and results as well as the financial and asset situation may therefore differ substantially from the expectations and assumptions made. This may be due to market fluctuations, the development of world market prices for commodities, of financial markets and exchange rates, amendments to national and international legislation and provision or fundamental changes in the economic and political environment. TUI does not intend to and does not undertake an obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements to adapt them to events or developments after the publication of this annual report. PUBLISHED BY TUI AG Karl-Wiechert-Allee 4 30625 Hanover, Germany Tel.: + 49 511 566-00 Fax: +49 511 566-1901 www.tuigroup.com CONCEPT AND DESIGN 3st kommunikation, Mainz, Germany PHOTOGR APHY Michael Neuhaus (cover photo, p. 78 – 79) Rüdiger Nehmzow (p. 3, 22 ) Getty Images (p. 20 – 21, 160 – 161) PRINTER Kunstund Werbedruck, Bad Oeynhausen, Germany The Magazine and the Annual Report are also available online: http://annualreport2014-15.tui-group.com This report was published on 10 December 2015. TUI AG Karl-Wiechert-Allee 4 30625 Hanover, Germany MAGAZINE 6 A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 0 14 /15 TUI Group – fi nancial highlights TUI GROUP – FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS 2014 / 15 2013 / 14 Var. % € million restated Turnover 20,011.6 18,536.8 + 8.0 Underlying EBITA 1 Northern Region 530.3 398.3 + 33.1 Central Region 103.5 163.0 – 36.5 Western Region 68.8 81.7 – 15.8 Hotels & Resorts 234.6 202.8 + 15.7 Cruises 80.5 9.7 + 729.9 Other Tourism – 21.1 – 22.3 + 5.4 Tourism 996.6 833.2 + 19.6 Specialist Group 56.2 45.5 + 23.5 Hotelbeds Group 116.8 101.7 + 14.8 All other segments – 100.6 – 110.5 + 9.0 TUI Group 1,069.0 869.9 + 22.9 Discontinued operation – 8.5 – 2.8 – 203.6 Total 1,060.5 867.1 + 22.3 EBITA 2 865.3 777.2 + 11.3 Underlying EBITDA 1,505.9 1,199.8 + 25.5 EBITDA 1,362.0 1,163.6 + 17.1 Net profit for the period 379.6 270.8 + 40.2 Earnings per share € 0.64 0.26 + 146.2 Equity ratio % 17.2 18.1 – 0.9 3 Investments in other intangible assets and property, plant and equipment 594.3 385.7 + 54.1 Net debt 213.7 – 292.4 n. a. Employees 76,036 77,028 – 1.3 Differences may occur due to rounding. 1 In order to explain and evaluate the operating performance by the segments, EBITA adjusted for one-off eff ects (underlying EBITA ) is presented. Underlying EBITA has been adjusted for gains / losses on disposal of investments, restructuring costs according to IA S 37, ancillary acquisition costs and conditional purchase price payments under purchase price allocations and other expenses for and income from one-off items. 2 EBITA comprises earnings before net interest result, income tax and impairment of goodwill excluding losses on container shipping measured at equity and excluding the result from the measurement of interest hedges. 3 Equity divided by balance sheet total in %, variance is given in percentage points. VISION Discovering the world’s diversity, exploring new horizons, experiencing foreign countries and cultures: travel broadens peoples’ minds. At TUI we create unforgettable moments for our customers across the world and make their dreams come true. We are mindful of the importance of travel and tourism for many countries in the world and the people living there. We partner with these countries and help shape their future – in a committed and sustainable manner. We, the 76,000 TUI employees. Opening up the inspiring world of travel. Think Travel. Think TUI. 2 M A G A Z I N E — ­­Contents 22 30 04 Contents — ­­M A G A Z I N E 3 42 36 10 CONTENTS TUI IS ON 04 CO U R S E FO R G ROW T H CEO Joussen on strategic challenges 08 PROFILE OF TUI GROUP TUI in facts and figures – our Company at a glance 10 ONE BRAND A smile for everyone! The TUI brand takes on a consistent face 16 ÁNDALE! 16 Mexico: colourful culture and idyllic beaches. We aim to grow here 22 FULL STEAM AHEAD The tremendous challenge of building a cruise ship 30 S U I TC A S E I N H A N D Today Amsterdam, tomorrow New Delhi – on the road with Eve, a TUI Group trainee 36 PROGRESS TUI looks to sustainability – in the air and on the sea 42 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y Travelling with respect: our sustainability principles The Magazine and the Annual Report are also available online: http://annualreport2014-15.tui-group.com 2 M A G A Z I N E — ­­Contents 22 These are the stories that will take us there this year: 30 04 »We want to win customers, increase sales, and open up new – especially year-round – destinations.« F R I E D R I C H J O U S S E N , Chief Executive Officer of the TUI Group Contents — ­­M A G A Z I N E 3 42 36 10 16 4 m a g a z i n E — ­­TUI is on course for growth Friedrich Joussen is the CEO of the TUI Group. In this interview he reflects on how the integration process has progressed since the merger of TUI AG and TUI Travel PLC , outlines the Group’s plans for growth and talks about the great challenges of transformation for the age of the Internet. Mr Joussen, with the merger of TUI AG and TUI Travel What synergies are those exactly? PLC in mid-December 2014, you created the world’s leading tourism group. How happy are you with the way the Joussen: Firstly, as we merge the Group functions new TUI Group is shaping up? exercised by TUI AG and TUI Travel PLC we expect to make substantial savings by cutting down on overlap­Joussen: In many areas the integration process was ping functions and reducing external costs. After a few much faster than we originally thought possible. No months, we internally reviewed our original assumpdoubt it was facilitated by the new flat structure that tions about the synergy potential and raised it by five we established in mid-2015. In addition to that, we million euros to total 50 million euros by 2016/17. At have achieved our ambitious business targets, in spite the same time, we will need to spend ten million euros of all the changes the merger brought. There is noth­less on one-off expenses to make those synergies haping automatic about that. It shows how magnificently pen, so we have now reduced the figure in our original our 76,000 employees in 130 countries have worked planning to 35 million euros. That shows how focused together and given their best for our customers. So we are on creating the optimum structure for our new together I reckon we have got off to a good start. Group. What binds us all today is the strong TUI brand. Where else do you see potential for savings? Why does the Group need a new structure? Joussen: Under the umbrella of TUI Destination SerJoussen: The industrial rationale behind the merger vices, we have pooled all our destination-related servicwas to create a close interweave between the tour es, such as transfers and excursions, which used to be operators on the one hand and our own hotel and cruise provided by six country-specific units. Thanks to this companies on the other. By restructuring the Group new, integrated business area within the tourism segwe accelerated that move. Besides, the new set-up has ment, we hope to save another 20 million euros annually reduced the tiers in the hierarchy, making us altofrom financial year 2016/17 onwards. Moreover, as gether leaner, more agile and also more competitive. an integrated group we can make better use of the sizeable tax losses currently carried forward by TUI AG. Does the new, leaner structure for the TUI Group mean the integration process is now complete? For the next three years you want to see EBITA increase by at least ten per cent on average. You won’t manage Joussen: Those were major steps, but we still have that just by saving costs. quite a way to go. In the run-up to the merger, we raised the prospect of substantial synergies, not least Joussen: We have a clear strategic agenda. And our with our investors in mind. Developments so far make course is set for growth. We want to increase sales, win us optimistic that we will fully achieve our targets for customers and create new destinations, especially savings by financial year 2016/17. ones that people can visit all year round. Thanks to the merger, we cover the complete value chain in tourism in a way none of our competitors can offer. We can accompany our customers all the way from the booking via the flight to the hotel or club experience. And unlike ­­TUI is on course for growth — ­­M A G A Z I N E 5 TUI IS ON CO U R S E FOR GROWTH 6 M A G A Z I N E — ­­TUI is on course for growth »We want to win customers, increase sales, and open up new – especially year-round – destinations.« FRIEDRICH JOUSSEN classical tour operators or online portals, we own the TUI Cruises will acquire Mein Schiff 5 to Mein Schiff 8. assets that differentiate the holiday, what we call the When we bought the Splendour of the Seas in spring content: hotels, clubs and cruise vessels. So in future 2015, we launched a wave of modernisation at Thomson we will concentrate less on the agency services and Cruises, and that will continue. On top of that, Hapag-­ more on this content. That is the core of our business Lloyd Cruises operates the best luxury and expedition model. Our own hotels and ships are key factors in ships in the World of TUI. In addition, we shall be our growth, and that is where we will be investing. taking a close look at the areas where the three cruise businesses could work more closely together to tap What is the road map for those operations? into potential synergies. JOUSSEN: As far as our hotels and cruise operations Will you be focusing your hotel investments in particular are concerned, we have a very clear plan for expansion. regions? Above all, it will help us to boost profitability consider­ ably. By financial year 2018/19 we intend to expand our JOUSSEN: One focus will no doubt be the long-hauls, hotel portfolio by about 60 new facilities of our own, where the rate of increase is 40 per cent in some cases. under our core brands RIU, Robinson, Magic Life and our The Caribbean is especially interesting and is bringing new hotel brand TUI Blue. The TUI range also includes in strong growth. But we will also be looking very careour three hotel concepts Sensatori, Sensimar and Famfully at destinations around the Indian Ocean. The ily Life. We will likewise build on our cruising fleet, second Robinson Club is just being constructed on the which currently operates 13 vessels. In the coming years Maldives, for example. ­­TUI is on course for growth — ­­M A G A Z I N E 7 customers from Turkey to our hotels in the Mediterranean? Or from Brazil to our fantastic hotels in the Caribbean? In China there is an emerging middle class with money to spend and a desire to travel. We have to ask ourselves how we intend to tap into these new markets for ourselves. The way I see it, we can only do that online. We have launched an initial pilot in Spain, where we don’t have a nationwide presence with our own tour operator and travel agencies. That can be transposed to other markets. The important thing is to have topclass IT. And what does it mean for the brand? With all these positive developments, is there any work in JOUSSEN: For the future we have a clear one brand progress that still needs addressing? strategy, and within a foreseeable period we will be visible in all markets under the core brand TUI. In the JOUSSEN: We need to be very clear that so far the Netherlands and France we have already completed restructuring and the corporate merger have been at the rebranding campaign. Now the other countries the forefront of attention. There is one major task will follow suit. we still need to tackle, and that, without a doubt, is to transform the Group for the age of the Internet. I Will anything change due to Peter Long’s move to the see a huge challenge for us there. The groundwork had Supervisory Board? been laid, both for the human resources and for the strategy. JOUSSEN: I am grateful to Peter Long for our very constructive and open partnership. In the year we have How are you going to deal with online platforms such as spent together at the helm of the TUI Group, we have Booking.com and Expedia? always pulled together and forged a genuine team along with the other members of the Executive Board JOUSSEN: Basically you can’t compare Internet operaand in the Group Executive Committee. Otherwise tions with companies in the classical sense, although a the rapid, smooth integration of the two companies lot of people try. Our advantage over the pure booking would never have been possible. I shall continue to agencies is that we have our own products, especially lead the Group in that spirit and foster a culture of the hotels, the ships, extremely individual products working together, for the benefit of our shareholders, and programmes for our guests. At the same time, these our customers and our employees. booking platforms are creating new ways for us to sell our products. We can actually earn money by placing a certain amount of our own content capacity on Inter­net portals like that. There is no reason why this shouldn’t complement our own strong distribution channels. And where do you see a need for action? JOUSSEN: TUI is above all active in Europe, whereas providers like Booking.com have a global presence. If we are going to regard our business as “content plus market access” in future, that will have implications in terms of our internationalisation. Why don’t we take 8 M A G A Z I N E — ­­Profile PROFILE The TUI Group is the world's leading tourism group, operating in around 180 destinations across the globe. The Group provides services along the entire tourism value chain for its 30 million customers. It embraces global leaders in the tour operator business, 1,800 travel shops and top online portals in Europe, five tour operator-airlines flying more than 140 state-of-the-art mediumand long-haul aircraft, over 300 hotels in its own portfolio under premium brands such as Riu and Robinson, and a cruise fleet of 13 ships. In financial year 2014/15, the TUI Group with its 76,000 employees turned over 20.0 billion euros. Global responsibility for sustainable economic, environmental and social activity is the core of its corporate culture. Our vertical integrated business model Marketing & Sales Flight » 20 m customers » 13 m customers We control the end-to-end customer We have more than 140 aircraft operated journey. We are capitalising on the strength I N T E G R AT E D by five tour operator-airlines, flying around of the TUI Brand on a global scale. P L AT F O R M S 13 million customers per annum. With our new avi­a­t ion platform we want to better leverage the potential economies of scale. I N T E G R AT E D Hotels & MANAGEMENT Inbound Service Cruises » 11 m customers » 7 m customers Our unique inbound service brings our brand alive. Inbound service is currently Having our own hotels and cruise ships gives us oper­ating in more than 100 destinations product differentiation. In order to achieve with over 6,500 employees with and access profitable top-line growth we want to grow in to about 11 million customers. our strong hotel and club brands as well as in our powerful and exclusive international hotel concepts and our profitable cruises segment. Profile — ­­M A G A Z I N E 9 Destinations Employees Aircraft MORE THAN 180 COUNTRIE S 76 Group-owned hotels 140 K 300 OVER WORLDWIDE WORLDWIDE 13 CRUISE SHIPS 5 T O U R O P E R AT O R AIRLINES 10 M A G A Z I N E — ­­oneBrand ONE BRAND The oneBrand campaign is designed to establish a consistent, contemporary profile for the TUI Group all over Europe. It will signal TUI’s presence at every point along the tourism value chain. We take a look behind the scenes to see what is on the agenda. Walk through the door of the TUI store in Amsterdam TUI stores, and hundreds more will gradually follow and you might think you have just begun your holiday. in Germany, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, BelVisitors are welcomed into a bright, relaxed space with gium and the Nordic countries. The new outlets are a large multi-touch display, wallpaper like a huge post­er pieces in a mosaic: a sweeping programme of streamphotograph taken on a Caribbean beach, and a comlining and rejuvenation that TUI has prescribed for fortable lounge sofa. itself. All over Europe, the Group is rolling out oneBrand. Customers will experience a new TUI brand, and This fresh, modern face to TUI is not confined to above they will experience the same TUI brand at every Amsterdam. Stuttgart and Düsseldorf already have their stage of their journey. oneBrand — ­­M A G A Z I N E 11 »With oneBrand TUI is visible along the entire value chain as one big, internationally consistent travel brand.« E R I K F R I E M U T H , Chief Marketing Officer MARKETING & SALES Whether in the new TUI stores or digitally online: booking a trip has never been so simple and enjoyable. 12 M A G A Z I N E — ­­oneBrand »OneBrand enhances our customers’ holiday experience and draws our colleagues in different countries closer together.« D A V I D S C H E L P, Managing Director, TUI Destination Services FLIGHT Standing out clearly above and below the clouds: in future the Group airlines will all take off under the same TUI brand. oneBrand — ­­M A G A Z I N E 13 A consistent brand experience right along the value chain enhances media value Clear, contemporary and digital Stephan Krings heads up the project, so he knows all Renaming about the background. He coordinates no fewer than Competitive offers opportunity 13 teams, with dozens of TUI employees working on strength against of repositioning global platforms towards Modern sometimes very different aspects of oneBrand, from Mainstream the strategic and legal issues and the technical practiONE calities like online marketing via search engines to rebranding planes and buses or Group activities and publications in holiday destinations. Brand The project teams aim to take all the existing national brands, like Arke in the Netherlands, Jetair in Belgium, Opportunity Powerbrands for more impact Fritidsresor in Sweden and Thomson in the UK, fuse tend to have a by centralised higher valuation them into a single TUI label and promote a common URL corporate image among customers – in the physical world and on the Web. “In future TUI will display one face to the customer and speak with a single voice. Operational There are lots of advantages,” says Stephan Krings, and efficiency by optimising content he starts listing them: targeting new customer groups, production boosting service quality, fielding a stronger Internet OPPORTUNITIES, pres­ence, enhancing the TUI brand value, and last involved in a bundled but not least improving marketing efficiency. oneBrand scenario One example: in the past there might be up to 150 difThe project teams dedicated to the Internet and ferent brochures about available excursions on dis­ marketing have already been hammering away assiduplay in the hotels on Crete, all sporting different national ously on both fronts, and well-targeted investments brands and available in different languages, but in the have been made: in nationwide TV adverts, for examfuture the selection will slim down considerably – thanks ple, where the old Arke logo visibly morphs into the to this concentration on oneBrand. “Parallel to that smiling TUI logo. But without local commitment, search we are strengthening our corporate culture by focussing engine optimisation and online advertising would not on clear common goals with a high level of identificabe entirely effective. The countries have to make the tion,” explains the 45-year-old. switch to the new TUI brand their own affair and give full backing to this move. In the Netherlands, this has But there are many more facets to oneBrand. The been a fantastic success, as Elie Bruyninckx, responchange triggered by the project is especially striking sible for Western Region on the Executive Committee on the Internet, where any established brand transof the TUI Group, observes with no small pride: “The lates directly into traffic, customers and turnover. “In team bent over backwards to implement the new brand Scandinavia, for example, we sell nearly 90 per cent within a few months. In the end, it’s the passion disof our holidays online,” points out Stephan Krings. Other played by our employees that brings the TUI brand to countries are catching up in huge strides. If the TUI life for our guests.” brand is now about to replace all the national brands, some of which have been around for decades and All under one brand are household names to our customers, the campaign In future the Group wants its customers to encounter has to proceed with wisdom and prudence: “Ultimately the TUI brand everywhere, not just in the travel store we have to get the message across to customers that or on the Web. Even on board TUI’s European airlines, when they go online to look for a holiday, they will the familiar logo will fly along too – inside and out. only need to search for TUI. And search engines like And when guests reach their holiday destination, they Google will have to learn as fast as possible that a will be welcomed, accompanied and advised by TUI brand like Arke in the Netherlands, for example, is now travel reps. Whether in Greece, the Caribbean or Mallorca. TUI.” 14 M A G A Z I N E — ­­oneBrand »TUI Blue will open up a new dimension to the hotel experience: up-to-date, con­venient, individual and authentic.« A R T U R G E R B E R , CEO, TUI Hotel Betriebsgesellschaft Posters and banners with the slogan “Welcome to Individual and authentic Majorca – Welcome to the World of TUI” greet guests The new measures initiated by the oneBrand project as they approach the luggage belt. Then they are led extend – logically enough – beyond branding and to the bus by a rep whose clothes, sign and clipboard marketing. They also concern the hotels. The most also display the simple word TUI. “There used to vivid expression of this is the new premium hotel be specific buses for guests from different countries, brand TUI Blue. Over the next five years, the brand will all with their own accompanying staff,” remembers acquire and market 50 existing and as yet unbuilt Marina Holzner of TUI Destination Services, who is playfacilities. The brand launches in May 2016 with the hoing a major role in the rebranding campaign on Ma­ tels Sarigerme Park and Palm Garden in Turkey, soon jorca. “Since late 2014 we have harmonised that. As far to be followed by locations in Tuscany and in Schladas flight schedules and hotel routes allow, we now ming, Austria. carry mixed groups on the same bus during the same trip.” We receive our guests with a smile, take them “TUI Blue addresses travellers who want a particular mix to wherever their holiday begins – and save time and of quality hotel experience and personal planning,” says money in the process. Sandra Wöltje from the Marketing team at TUI Hotels & Resorts. “People who appreciate comfort, lifestyle and “It’s lovely to see how all the TUI employees at the airgood food, take an interest in the host country and are port on Majorca have grown into a single oneTUI curious to explore off the beaten track.” That is why the team,” adds Marina Holzner. “It was important to us TUI Blue hotels will offer cuisine dominated by regional to manage the rebranding process constructively. ingredients and specialities, an architecture rich in verEveryone was encouraged to express any reservations nacular styles and natural materials, and an excursion or suggestions they had, and we have ended up with programme that highlights authentic experience and an overall panorama that is completely lucid.” Ultimately encounters. Sandra Wöltje sums up these aspirations it serves not only brand communication, but also succinctly: “We bring the host country into the hotel.” efficiency. In the old days, for example, there were five different suppliers for all the different national brand Alongside all this, TUI Blue incorporates a distinctive publicity material, whereas today we just have one. approach to fitness and technology. There is a de­ More­over, services like graphic design will be centrally dicated app that guests can use to access information sourced. or book hotel services round the clock. And sport features in all manner of formats, whether it is yoga on the beach, outdoor circuit training or working out with a personal coach. Valuing individuality and authenticity – that’s TUI Blue. oneBrand — ­­M A G A Z I N E 15 INBOUND SERVICES Buses boasting the brand: TUI’s harmonised profile is visible to customers in the destinations too. H OT E L S Authentic, distinctive and every one different: TUI Blue is the first hotel chain to feature TUI in its name. 16 M A G A Z I N E — ­­Ándale! Ándale! — ­­M A G A Z I N E 17 ÁNDALE! CO M E O N ! TULUM Caribbean Sea Few countries fascinate people for so many reasons as Mexico: the rich history, the colourful culture, the divine Caribbean beaches, the untouched nature and an infectious delight in living. This is a place where the TUI Group wants to grow – with the help of Alberto Cervera Xicotencatl and Peter Ulwahn. 18 M A G A Z I N E — ­­Ándale! Whenever he talks about his country, his voice quivers The North American country currently attracts a big prowith pride and his eyes begin to sparkle. When the marportion of the long-haul holidays booked with TUI. iachis strike up and their music fills the little taquería, “Last year we had over 300,000 guests here,” Cervera Alberto Cervera Xicotencatl beams with pleasure. The Xicotencatl proudly reports. And the TUI Group wants song tells of revolution and great change. For the to keep growing. “Mexico has enormous potential. In head of TUI’s Mexican operations, transformation is the next few years we hope to increase the number very much on the agenda right now. Since November of guests to more than 400,000,” says Ulwahn. TUI has TUI Destination Services has been working separately hit the accelerator across its entire long-haul business: from Hotelbeds Group. Now it caters exclusively for the target for the next five years is over 50 per cent TUI as a one-stop shop for all source markets. growth in the volume of guests. First call Mexico Online meets offline The dinner in the taquería is to welcome Peter Ulwahn, It is the technological aspect that most inspires Ulwahn. who is visiting Cancun. Within TUI Destination Services Apart from numerous other projects, investments are he is in charge of the long-haul business, and in the next being made in a global customer platform and the new few months he will be dropping in on all his teams app myTUI. “We want to look after our customers in around the globe. Mexico, one of the best-loved longtune with their wishes. The app will help us understand haul destinations, is his first port of call. “I want to what their personal requests were last time they travgrasp the day-to-day detail of working with our cuselled with TUI. That opens up huge opportunities,” entomers,” explains the native Swede. “Where do we thuses the affable strategist at a morning meeting in need to take action, what services are we already ofthe Sensatori Resort. “Our customers will have TUI at fering, and which excursions sell best? It’s the only their side from the booking until the trip home,” he way I can support my teams as effectively as possible adds, in a reference to the TUI Group’s one brand strateto make sure our customers are happy.” gy. “We want to be where the customer is. If that is »Mexico currently attracts a big proportion of the long-haul holidays booked with TUI. Last year we had over 300,000 guests here.« A L B E R TO C E R V E R A X I C O T E N C AT L , Head of Mexico, TUI Destination Services Ándale! — ­­M A G A Z I N E 19 TO P 5 LO N G H A U L JAMAIC A THAILAND D O M . R E P. M E X I CO USA D E ST I ­ 102,000 guests 203,000 guests 248,000 guests 329,000 guests 363,000 guests N AT I O N S Mexico is one of the most popular longhaul destinations within the TUI Group. It is a colourful, versatile country and enchants every visitor. The TUI Group intends to tap more into this potential. online, we need to be available online. If the guest prefers to meet personally, then we will offer that. It’s our job to respond to different needs,” declares the travel expert. “For us in Mexico, for example, that means that all seven core hotel brands and concepts ought to be involved, and that the new Dreamliner will fly peo­ple over,” Cervera Xicotencatl explains to his team. So far there is a Sensatori, two Sensimar and altogether 17 Riu hotels. T H E C E N OT E S The turtle moment Claire Morley, team leader at the Sensatori Resort on The limestone caves typical of this the Riviera Maya, tells the meeting about a very special region are seen by the Maya as sacred experience. Some turtles had nested on the beach places. They may not be entered withoutside the hotel, ready to breed. But so much seaweed out a cleansing ceremony. had been washed up that after they laid their eggs they could not find their way back to the sea unaided. The team, together with guests at the hotel, helped the animals return to the open waves. “Our holiday-makers were so overwhelmed by it, they talked of nothing else 20 M A G A Z I N E — ­­Ándale! »In the next few months I will be dropping in on my teams all around the globe. I want to understand the day-to-day details of working with our customers.« P E T E R U LW A H N , Regional Director Longhaul, TUI Destination Services for the whole trip,” she rhapsodies. Peter Ulwahn is Support Manager Carolina Bojorquez has Maya roots impressed by the story too, and hopes there will be herself, and is delighted when visitors do not simply more turtle moments. In fact, TUI has created an make the most of life in the hotel, but also ask about exclusive new product line – TUI Collection – so that her homeland. “A lot of people come to Mexico exguests can have an authentic, close-up view of the pecting to find men in ponchos sitting beneath cactus region and the people and enjoy an unforgettable travel trees. When they leave, they know it isn’t like that at experience. For these excursions, TUI guarantees a all. There are 32 states here, each with its own traditions global quality standard that takes particular account of and peculiarities – but I have never seen a man sitting sustainability criteria. The holiday region and local under a cactus,” laughs the 44-year-old, who describes community are to benefit from these tours, either by herself as a Yucateca. “Mexico is colourful and diverse. being directly involved or because TUI donates a The food is amazing, and we have a rich culture and hisfixed amount per guest to local charities. tory. I am proud to be Mexican,” she pro­nounc­es at the joint dinner. Her personal recommendation: Isla To take part in this glimpse behind the scenes, Ulwahn Holbox. Peter Ulwahn is also a fan of the little fishing and Cervera Xicotencatl join a group of holiday-makers island with its flair, its streets of sand and the individual later that day as they set out on a Tulum jungle ex­ boutique hotels. He recently took his own family pedition into the rain forest of Yucatán. They gasp as there on holiday. “One evening we walked barefoot unthey step inside the cenotes, the distinctive limeder the starry sky, along the beach from town back to stone caves: stalactites hang from the roof and dip into the hotel. I call that ‘barefoot luxury’, I love it,” Ulwahn a turquoise lake, bats flit across the visitors’ heads, recalls with a smile. and the sky is revealed through a hole in the centre. For the Maya, these mysterious places are sacred He is looking forward to the coming challenges and sources, and the visitors can only enter after a ritual to working with his team. He knows they can only cleansing. Afterwards there is a lunch prepared by reach their goals together. That’s why, after an eventful Maya women: lentils, legs of chicken, habanero chilis, day, he so appreciates moments like this shared rice and black beans. At the end of an exciting day, the meal in the taquería – with Alberto Cervera Xicotencatl, excursionists chill in the archeological city of Tulum. Carolina Bojorquez and the rest of the team, over tacos and guacamole, with a round of futbolito (table Unforgettable experiences soccer) and the resounding tones of the mariachis. Alberto Cervera Xicotencatl and his team are especially proud of the TUI Collection expeditions. Business Ándale! — ­­M A G A Z I N E 21 USA Mexico MIAMI 310 managed hotels From his home in Miami, Peter Ulwahn Caribbean Sea manages 310 hotels in Mexico. On all long-haul routes together there are 1,354. 22 ­­M A G A Z I N E — ­­­­­­­­Full steam ahead FULL STEAM AHEAD Her maiden voyage is approaching. Mein Schiff 5 will enter service in summer 2016. At the Finnish shipyard in Turku, powerful cranes lift the huge bow onto the high-tech cruise vessel and the welders come out in force. Meanwhile, back at the headquarters of TUI Cruises in Hamburg, project leader Peter Heidacker is monitoring all the details. He has a grandstand view of the whole process – from the assembly of the two massive propellers to the countless screws on board which all need proper tightening. ­­­­Full steam ahead — ­M A G A Z I N E 23 24 ­­M A G A Z I N E — ­­­­­­­­­­­­Full steam ahead »A cruise ship is a complex technical system where every piece has to play its part.« NAME POSITION PETER HEIDACKER Senior Projekt Manager TUI Cruises RESPONSIBLE FOR all new builds at TUI Cruises (including Mein Schiff 5) Innovation manager Nicola Hannappel and project manager Peter Heidacker regularly discuss how to implement new ideas and passenger requests on Mein Schiff 5. Hamburg and Turku are 1,300 kilometres apart, but He does not find his mission stressful, even if he is still on this autumn day the weather is equally overcast in quite young and the project is so huge. “We can hanboth cities. Cloudy and wet amid the Hanseatic spires, dle it, and after all it’s my job.” Besides, things went well cloudy and wet in south-west Finland. Peter Heidacker with sister ships Mein Schiff 3 and 4, and Heidacker is accustomed to it. “For someone so deeply involved was responsible for those new builds too. The manager with cruise holidays, it’s amazing how often I find mygoes to his desktop to call up the live-cam images self standing in the rain.” But the construction engifrom Turku. A crane is in the process of slotting the great neer does not allow the weather to dampen his spirits. blue bow of Mein Schiff 5 into the right position, and Whether it’s drizzling on the harbour front or a cold sea the frame of the cruise ship is now easily recognisable. wind is sweeping across the Meyer Turku Oy shipyard, Even the funnel with the distinctive TUI smile is ready as soon as the 38-year-old starts talking about his for insertion. “This is when the exciting part begins. The work it’s clear that this man has found his dream job. ship will make enormous advances by the day,” says As lead project manager, Peter Heidacker is in charge Peter Heidacker. In a few weeks he will be flying to Turof building the latest addition to the TUI Cruises fleet. ku for a lengthy stay: once the new build slips out of On 15 July 2016, Mein Schiff 5 will be ceremonially dry dock, the Finnish university town will become his launched in Lübeck-Travemünde. From that moment on, second home until Mein Schiff 5 is ready to go. the vessel will spend almost 365 days a year at sea. Already her first voyages are almost fully booked. “We Just how complex it is to construct a cruise vessel of have to finish on time, no two ways about it,” says this magnitude is illustrated by a complicated drawing Peter Heidacker in a matter-of-fact tone. He glances at that hangs in Peter Heidacker’s office. There are diathe schedule for the new build – 271 days to go until monds and circles and different-coloured lines. For a her maiden voyage. The progress marker shows 50 per moment Heidacker relishes his visitor’s bewildered cent completion. The project manager nods: “It’ll do.” gaze, then he says: “That is the master plan. Although ­­­­Full steam ahead — ­M A G A Z I N E 25 actually that is only the surface.” A sketch on the wall could not possibly depict all the fine detail. That task is undertaken by high-capacity project management software. A brief look into the database reveals the innumerable items that make up the construction project Mein Schiff 5. Some of them are huge in themselves: the two propellers are as tall as four men. Others may look small, but are by no means insignificant. “A cruise ship is a complex technical system where every piece has to play its part,” observes Heidacker. A nut that has not been correctly set could generate a rattle. But that is out of the question. The crew would have to start tracking down the cause – and that eats into time and labour. “There are reasons why only four shipyards in the world can build cruise ships this size,” he adds. “You need to pull together a lot of know-how, or you are not up to the challenge.” SHIPBUILDING Sparks can fly during the construction of Mein Schiff 5. The shipyard Meyer Turku Oy is one of only four in the world capable of tackling such a complex project as a cruise ship. 26 M A G A Z I N E — ­­­­­­­­­­­­Full steam ahead MEIN SCHIFF 5 BUILDING THE SHIP FA C T S & F I G U R E S 5,500 is the time it would years take a single person to build the ship. Finland 77 are welded steel blocks together to make the new vessel. 2,000 M E Y E R T U R K U OY S H I P YA R DY employees work in parallel on Mein Schiff 5 during the peak phase. Baltic Sea LAUNCH 15/7/2016 For giant cruising vessels like Mein Schiff 5, the launch is a very special occasion. This is the day, after test runs, when the ship is officially commissioned and the first passengers are taken on board. The setting is the harbour of Lübeck-Travemünde. The Bay of Lübeck is an ideal place to admire large ships. L Ü B E C K -T R A V E M Ü N D E Germany ­­­­Full steam ahead — ­­M A G A Z I N E 27 T H E S H I P YA R D P R O C E D U R E The shipyard is constructing Mein Schiff 5 in modules. This is not standard practice for cruise ships, but the method has proven particularly efficient for the Mein Schiff fleet. By the way: as 22,000 50,000 300,000 long as the vessel is being built, the shipyard TONNE S SQUAR E M E TR E S L I T RES decides who can come and go on board. The crew will not take over until the date of commissioning. of steel go into of carpet needs laying of paint are required for building Mein Schiff 5. to furbish the interior. the inside and outside. S I X S TA G E S T O C O M P L E T E T H E S H I P 01 02 03 04 05 06 Planning stage Design stage Steel structure Fitting out Test stage Commissioning All ship’s data are defined; Choice of design, colours Separate pieces of steel are Installation and enclosure of Shakedown cruise and firstThe crew assume operations, a 3D model of the ship and materials; computer-aided forged into 77 big blocks, then pipes, cables and insulation; time operation of all technical stock up and take command of is made, the master plan is visualisation of the interior. welded together in dry dock. furbishing of restaurants, bars systems on board. the ship. drawn up. and swimming pools. Deck 15: Sun deck Deck 2–14: Cabins, restaurants, entertainment Deck 0–1: Service systems F RO M D E S I G N TO S H I P S TA R T O F P L A N N I N G K E E L L AY I N G Nearly three years before Work to assemble the ship now commissioning, planning bebegins, similar to laying the gins for a new build to join foundation stone for a building. the Mein Schiff cruise fleet. 2013 2015 2014 2016 CO N ST R U C T I O N B E G I N S F L O AT I N G T H E V E S S E L Officially construction beIn January 2016 Mein More on the milestones gins when the first steel Schiff 5 takes to the water for Mein Schiff 5 at is cut. At the Meyer Turku for the first time. http://tuicruises.com/mein-schiff-5/ schiffsbau/ Oy shipyard, that was in November 2014. 28 M A G A Z I N E — ­­­­­­­­­­­­Full steam ahead 3 questions for: NAME RALF CLAUSSEN RESPONSIBLE FOR POSITION Interior designer, founder and co-owner of cm-DESIGN interior design in some sections of Mein Schiff 5 Mr Claussen, why do you find it particularly exciting to create that special atmosphere. At the same time, one design cruise ships? feature that marks out the TUI Cruises feel-good fleet is its homing principle. Especially in the cabins, where CLAUSSEN: Compared with onshore projects, the work little tricks and stratagems like the choice of pictures is more demanding. An example: if we want a floor and textiles allow passengers to feel at home. light in a hotel, we bury it in the screed. On a ship it’s more complicated, because you have to weld a hole What is distinctive about the design of public areas on into the steel deck, cap it off underneath and still comboard Mein Schiff 5? ply with fire protection rules. So you can’t always resolve these things so quickly. Besides, the design stage CLAUSSEN: In the public areas the guests have more is so short. Things need to move fast, which is why space than on most other cruise ships. In terms of defour design companies are working in different areas at sign, that frees up TUI Cruises from competing in a the same time, while we at cm-DESIGN have the task race for the most attractive features. The look is much of maintaining an overview. more about saying to passengers: You really can relax on this voyage. What is the key to helping passengers feel good on the Mein Schiff fleet? CLAUSSEN: Passengers want to be immersed in a world that is completely unlike home. So our job is to ­­­­Full steam ahead — ­­M A G A Z I N E 29 Now the screen shows a brawny crane hoisting heavyweight cabin blocks onto the vessel. “Looks like giant M A I D E N V OYA G E Lego,” comments Heidacker, who evidently enjoys After the launch, Mein Schiff 5 will set off on her watching this technical spectacle. The cabins have been first journey from 16 July 2016. From Kiel the supplied by a subsidiary of the shipyard and they are cruise ship will head for the Baltic ports of Tallinn, assembled at a facility 100 kilometres away. The adSt Petersburg, Helsinki and Stockholm. Other vantage to this is having fewer workers on the ship, destinations during the first summer season will be Norway and the North Cape. which makes the logistics easier. On the other hand, there is another nerve-racking element to contend with, because the crane must be accurate down to the last centimetre when it sets down each enormous block in the predefined place, otherwise the units cannot be welded together cleanly. “The crane operator has a calm hand,” Heidacker says. He knows him, just as he knows most key workers at the Finnish shipyard. The headcount there is currently around 400. In the peak period, there will be five times that number working on the job. The construction engineer likes spending time at the yard, preferably on the ship herself, where sparks fly from the welding tools and the thousands of items in his master plan gradually acquire the form of a cruise ship. But today his organisational know-how is required in Hamburg. As lead project manager he supervises not only the technical and logistical aspects of the construction, but also the costs. The middle three-­ digit million figure in the budget would do a small town proud. After all, from summer 2016 there will be more than 2,500 passengers and about 1,000 crew travelling the high seas on this ship. The budget follows the same principle as the technical infrastructure: no item is too small to matter. A pretty addition to the interior decoration can soon mount up with 1,267 cabins. “We want to offer our passengers great quality,” says Heidacker. To do that, he needs to find out what the guests on board really think is important – and also what innovations they might like to see. This knowledge is supdescribes some of her other ideas, like a café for the plied by Nicola Hannappel. The innovation manager reception area or an art exhibition on board. Listening evaluates feedback, uses it as a springboard for her to Nicola Hannappel, you immediately appreciate own thinking process, and comes up with new ideas. her genuine passion. “This fascination for shipbuilding She often sits down with Peter Heidacker to review and tourism is important,” says her colleague Peter the technical and financial feasibility. “The things peoHeidacker. Whether the project manager is poring over ple want are very wide-ranging,” she says. Top of the plans with his team in Hamburg or inspecting welds list: wi-fi on board. “For our guests that would be real between big steel plates in Turku, there is a tangible added value. But technically it’s a big ask, because the sense that everyone looks forward to launching a ship is out at sea. However, we are working on it and new ship. “That is the great thing about shipbuilding,” we will soon be in a position to offer some attractive he says. “Be it in Hamburg or Turku, everyone feels packages.” The vivacious innovation manager vividly they are on board.” 30 M A G A Z I N E — ­­Suitcase in hand Suitcase in hand — ­­M A G A Z I N E 31 Evangeline Gnanaraj (Eve) stands in front of the flashing display boards at Schiphol Airport, Terminal 2. Flight numbers, destinations, departure times and check-in counters flicker across the screen. Every few seconds new flights pop up at the bottom of the list, while planes about to leave move up to the top. Eve glances at her wristwatch, then back to the display. Her hand clutches a ticket. Destination: Tenerife. Amsterdam, Netherlands Evangeline’s plane will take off in two hours. The young woman is used to waiting at airports. In the last three months, she has boarded 12 flights. Last week she visited four countries in two days: the Netherlands, Spain, Germany and Belgium – a personal record. Eve is one of 21 current participants on the International Graduate Leadership Programme run by the TUI Group to encourage young talent into a career in the tourism business. Over the course of 18 months, a range of international assignments and on-site experience prepare them for leadership tasks in various TUI Group companies. The interest among university graduates is huge, and the number of places is limited. Every year some 2,500 applicants compete for about 16 available slots. There are several stages to the selection procedure. Candidates must demonstrate their aptitude and motivation in a written application, an online test, a telephone interview and a face-to-face session at the assessment centre. When Eve thinks back to her own selection procedure just over a year ago, she smiles. “I knew all along that this was the right programme for me and that it was exactly what I wanted to do.” Born and raised in India, a year at high school in the United States, a Management degree from the Netherlands. Now a traineeship with spells in lots of different countries. Eve’s intercultural background and her passion for foreign cultures are her driving force. “When I arrive in a new country, I can’t wait to discover the culture and the people. I am like a sponge, soaking up everything the new environment can offer,” she raves. Five project assignments lasting three to four months in different countries and TUI Group countries await the Programme participants. A must for every trainee: the time spent in a destination. Here they get insights into a tour guide’s work, in direct contact with customers and products. 32 M A G A Z I N E — ­­Suitcase in hand Costa Adeje, Tenerife Eve sits in the stern of a little grey and white catamaran. The wind in her face, the coastline at her back with its distinctive volcanic landscape and the bay of S TA G E S Costa Adeje with its many hotels. Only that morning L U TO N she has been learning what criteria to apply when se09 | 2014 – 12 | 2015 lecting excursions for TUI customers from different L U TO N A M ST E R D A M countries, which excursions are the most popular with CRAWLEY which customers, and how to describe the excur­ 01 | 2015 – 04 | 2015 sions in brochures. And now here she is at the heart of CRAWLEY HANOVER HANOVER things – a boat trip with whale and dolphin watching. 04 | 2015 – 06 | 2015 Europe For the other visitors on board, this is pure pleasure, A M ST E R D A M but for Eve it is part of her job on Tenerife. During a 08 | 2015 – today two-week stay on the popular tourist island the young woman learns by shadowing TUI staff working in the destination. It is a chance to meet as many colleagues on site as possible and to follow what they do closeup. For Eve, the assignment in the destination is a valuable experience: “In Hanover or Luton it’s easy to forget what we are actually working for at TUI. The aim is to offer people a range of products so they can have the best time in their whole year. To do that, we The programme breaks down into five need to be familiar with our products, our customers stages, so Eve experiences different TUI and the local work processes. It’s the only way we can Group activities in different countries. TUI Airlines Nederland in Amsterdam make decisions that make sense for our customers is her fourth stage. In addition, short and for our colleagues in the destinations.” trips take her to many other places, like Tenerife. Suitcase in hand — ­­M A G A Z I N E 33 Eve has an action-packed working agenda on Tenerife. She is involved almost all day long in discussions with local managers and tour reps, exchanges with customers and visits to hotels. The 27-year-old bubbles with ideas and initiative, always cheerful, keen to hear what others have to say and what stories they can tell. A real bundle of energy who never seems to tire. Where does all this vitality come from? Eve firmly believes: “You can only be good at this job and give all you’ve got if you love what you do. And I love my work.” She is passionate about her career, loves the travelling and the contact with all kinds of people all over the world, but she is fully aware of the downsides to this life: “It isn’t easy when you have to keep putting a familiar environment, with new friends and colleagues, behind you and start again from scratch. I don’t like saying goodbye, although I know this is also my chance to move onto my next project, gain new experiences and meet fascinating people.” Her personal recipe for dealing with homesickness? Take your husband along! The young woman has been married for nearly six months. Three years ago they left India together for Europe and now they live in the Dutch city of Utrecht near Amsterdam. Husband Allen accompanies Eve on her journeys whenever he can. He works for an IT company in the Netherlands, Amsterdam, Netherlands and he has taken some annual leave to be with Eve in Eve crosses the threshold of a blue and white wide-body Tenerife: “We try to spend as much time together as aircraft that has just arrived – a Boeing 787, known possible after work. Long walks along the beach or a as the Dreamliner. The first plane to be repainted in the stroll down the promenade. Allen helps me to relax colours of the TUI logo as part of the TUI Group’s one after a long day. He makes me feel at home,” she combrand strategy. In the place of the Arke lettering there ments happily. is now a TUI smile. Combining domestic bliss with business success is no Eve studies the interior of the aircraft: crumpled blaneasy matter in Eve’s situation. So she is looking forward kets, empty chocolate wrappings, here and there the all the more to her next assignment at the Dutch covers on the seat headrests have slipped. In the backheadquarters of TUI Airlines in Amsterdam, just halfground, men in yellow high-visibility jackets are gathan-hour from where her husband works. A welcome ering rubbish bags. More time on the plane, more time opportunity to balance her two worlds. at Schiphol Airport. But with a crucial difference: Eve is not here to travel. Instead she is taking a look behind the scenes to acquaint herself with ground handling procedures. Those include things like passenger check-in, stowing suitcases and goods in the hold, and cleaning the aircraft. While Eve is in Amsterdam she is working with One Aviation. This is a Group-wide project designed to achieve closer integration and collaboration among the five airlines owned by the TUI Group. The long-term 34 M A G A Z I N E — ­­Suitcase in hand TR AINEE PERSONAL DEVELOPMENT through seminars PROGR AMME workshops projects mentoring PRACTICAL EXPERIENCE feedback and 5 Project 18 months one-to-one meetings assignments, covering commercial tourism, tourism and other RESPONSIBILITY business areas 8 3 questions for: weeks leading a team in a destination NAME POSITION S A N D R A LO O KH A A S L E R Senior Manager Mgmt. Development RESPONSIBLE FOR managing the TUI Group International Graduate Leadership Programme What can we offer? LOOK-HAASLER: An international trainee programme aim is to reduce complexity and costs. There are more with a unique format enabling participants to discover than 30 initiatives currently underway in the field of different TUI activities. We also offer seminar weeks, ground handling operations to evaluate the status quo personal coaching and a management assignment in a and ascertain where standardised procedures for all destination. the airlines would make sense and under what circumstances specific procedures should be retained. Eve Who are we looking for? is focusing on one initiative in particular: the standardisation of aircraft cleaning processes. It is essential LOOK-HAASLER: We are looking for young people who for the 27-year-old to gain first-hand experience of the can demonstrate both hard and soft skills. Important various cleaning procedures applied by the airlines. factors are an analytical mind, a customer-oriented apSometimes there are major differences. But the only way proach, clear emotional intelligence, good team skills all the airlines can efficiently source services jointly is and a passion for tourism. by standardising the processes. Eve is on the lookout for examples of best practice that might serve as a standHow do I apply? ard when the airlines move towards harmonisation. LOOK-HAASLER: The easiest way is to visit The young woman sees her assignment with One Aviawww.tuiinternationalgraduates.com. There is a lot tion as precisely the kind of challenge she enjoys: “I more information there. Programmes start every knew from the early stages of the Programme that I March and September. wanted to be part of this huge project. I get a kick out of contributing to the big picture, of working towards a vision. The Trainee Programme is my chance to make Suitcase in hand — ­­M A G A Z I N E 35 the dream come true.” This is Eve’s fourth and peA chance to switch off and recharge her batteries benultimate assignment. She has already had a stint in fore the programme enters its final phase. What will Eve purchasing, content marketing and the TUI Group do when she finishes her traineeship in March 2016? strategy unit. “My time with TUI has been a fantastic She smiles confidently: “The programme has taught journey so far. I am grateful for the excellent super­ me to trust even more in my own abilities, to adapt vision, the exciting projects, the many people who have quick­ly and flexibly to new situations. Whatever the fuinfluenced me and helped me test my personal limits ture brings, I feel well equipped for it, and I look for­ and potential.” ward to the challenges that await me in the World of TUI.” Delhi, India Eve and her husband Allen stand by a long luggage belt at the airport in New Delhi. Behind them people head for the exit with their trolleys packed high. A few minutes later, Eve and Alan also walk out of the arrivals hall with a travelling bag and two large rucksacks. For once the young woman is not on her way to a business appointment, but visiting friends and family back home. 36 M A G A Z I N E — ­­Progress PR O GR E S S With the ecoDemonstrator 757, Boeing worked with NASA to test methods and materials designed to make aircraft more energy-efficient and quieter to fly – and TUI was on board as a partner. To study toxic substances in the atmosphere, the Helmholtz Association installed a measurement laboratory on the vessel Mein Schiff 3. TUI sets great store by partnerships like these to enhance the sustainability of its airline and maritime fleets. Progress — ­­M A G A Z I N E 37 38 M A G A Z I N E — ­­Progress “Some of NASA’s coatings cut soiling by 40 per cent,” »There has been constant progress reports Christensen. “This was a positive initial result. We will continue to explore this approach to reduce in the design of more sustainable airbug contamination as a way to improve efficiency on craft. We can expect the future to commercial airplanes.” bring even more improvements, both Mission Environment That will also benefit the six TUI airlines with their fleet environmental and economic.« of 140 aircraft, many of which were built by Boeing – and another 50 have already been ordered from the M I KE B R AU N E R , Senior Manager for Sustainable Development, TUI Group American manufacturer. But the travel group is not merely involved as a customer; TUI was also a partner to Boeing, sponsoring the flight tests. The airplane was painted in TUI’s livery and an international team of Everyone knows the problem: at the end of a long drive, TUI pilots and engineers developed about 70 ideas the car needs washing because there are hundreds of for the ecoDemonstrator. “That included a lot of innored and yellow splodges all over the front spoiler and vative and creative suggestions,” says Mike Brauner. windscreen – the remains of insects that collided at top speed with metal, plastic and glass. The same hapAs Senior Manager for Sustainable Development at TUI, pens to planes, except that the effects are serious: the he sees TUI support for the ecoDemonstrator as a tiny creatures plaster the leading edges of the wings and key component in a long history of corporate com­mit­ cause drag. Precisely calculated air flows are disrupted ment to sustainable travel. 20 years back, the Group and fuel consumption will increase. was already pursuing this issue, one of the first major tour operators to do so. “At the time, we started to What can be done? The aircraft manufacturer Boeing analyse our destinations in holiday countries,” Mike decided to tackle the problem with the help of its ecoBrauner recounts. “We began with a classical approach Demonstrator, a specially equipped Boeing 757. The by measuring resource consumption in our hotels, but plane serves to test a wide range of measures aimed at then we took a closer look at air and water quality and making the future of flying more energy-efficient and at how waste disposal worked in the destinations.” eco-friendly. “We and NASA worked together to apply different coatings to the right wing to see if insects TUI’s response back then was more or less instinctive, would not stick to the surface,” explains Doug ChrisBrauner recalls, but it pre-empted many of the meastensen. The engineer heads the ecoDemonstrator proures that are now implemented systematically – things gramme for the American company. He took part in the that have become increasingly crucial to commercial tests conducted in Louisiana at the regional airport in success: “We need to consider the three pillars of susShreveport, a humid location in a swampy landscape: tainability engagement – economic, social and environthe ideal habitat for insects. mental – and combine them in meaningful and transparent ways.” That is why 30 million customers a year After 83 test flights, Boeing and the technical team from book their travel with TUI, and it enables all sides to NASA counted around 40,000 bees, gnats, flies and benefit – the people in the destination countries, the other insects that had hit the wings of the demo plane. environment and the company. Progress — ­­M A G A Z I N E 39 E C O D E M O N S T R AT O R 2 technologies are primarily being tested AC T I V E F LO W CO N T R O L On the 757’s tail, Boeing and NASA tested aspects of active flow control, a technology that could shrink the tail by as much as 17 per cent to cut an airplane’s fuel use and emissions. by Boeing and NASA in this partnership + 20 %more rudder efficiency – 40 % soiling P R OT E C T I O N F R O M D R A G Insect remains on the wings increase fuel consumption. NASA-developed coatings reduced this soiling by up to 40 per cent. Cut emissions – Save costs fuel efficient than similar models.” Moreover, customer One important aspect is the energy used on the journey feedback has been excellent. According to Brauner, to that – often distant – dream destination. Flights passengers enjoy flying in these comfortable aircraft, account for approximately 80 per cent of the CO2 emisso they are very happy to rebook. “The decision to sions from TUI Group operations – and that is above go with the Dreamliner is both commercial and good all down to the jet fuel. It is a big chunk, but typical of for the environment.” the sector. “That is where we focused our responsi­ bility for the environment, and of course by consuming Another priority for TUI is maintenance of the existing less fuel, we directly reduce CO2 emissions and save fleet. It begins with regular engine washing, otherwise costs,” observes Brauner. The TUI fleet is relatively young particles cause clogging. This is a simple measure that compared with the rest of the industry, and it is regu­ cuts fuel consumption. And there are 30 more examlarly renewed. Boeing 787 Dreamliners account for a ples: “We optimise our flight speeds to save fuel, just growing percentage. “The engineers have been using as you do when you drive your car. We use light­er, innovative materials, so weight has been extremely remore contemporary seat models, and we can save weight duced. That makes this plane up to 20 per cent more through catering too,” reports Brauner. Take all these 40 M A G A Z I N E — ­­Progress W E L L P R E PA R E D The ecoDemonstrator 757 conducted tests for more than three months in 2015, including a flight with an unapproved biofuel called green diesel. things together and they add up to huge fuel savings reduce the size of the tail by as much as 17 per cent, and hence reductions in CO2: “In the last six years we improving aerodynamics and saving weight and fuel. have cut our carbon emissions by more than ten per “These are really exciting developments,” says Brauner. cent.” The average consumption of jet fuel per 100 pas“There has been constant progress in the design of senger-kilometres has also fallen, and that is not only more sustainable aircraft. We can expect the future to due to technical measures. “We make very good use of bring even more improvements, both environmental capacity, and that contributes as well to efficient perand economic.” formance in this field.” The commitment continues Mike Brauner is optimistic that these statistics can be further improved. He refers to ecoDemonstrator 757 tests to prove his case. One example: Boeing and NASA have tested a technology called active flow control on the 757’s vertical tail as a way to boost rudder efficiency. Engineers believe this could eventually Progress — ­­M A G A Z I N E 41 A Voyage for Science Mr Ebinghaus, you have installed four hi-tech measurement NAME POSITION devices on Mein Schiff 3. What are you trying to find out? PRO F. DR . R ALF E BI N GHAUS Head of Environmental Chemistry RESPONSIBLE FOR EBINGHAUS : One priority is mercury, which poses a Measuring mercury levels for the EU project “Global Mercury Observation System” major risk to the environment and human health. Several hundred tonnes of this highly toxic heavy metal are pumped into the atmosphere every year by burning coal, waste and fuel. When it rains, mercury deposits build up in the water and soil. Via the food chain it is Northern and Arctic Seas – and is available to enriched in all living creatures – and as a neurotoxin researchers all over the world. it can severely damage our health. What for you is the greatest benefit of working with TUI How do you measure mercury pollution in the environment? Cruises? EBINGHAUS : We have a mercury gauge on board that EBINGHAUS : The company has a keen interest in enmore or less automatically collects regional data vironment issues. The ship herself is fitted with various throughout the cruise about concentrations of this technologies, for example to cut sulphur oxide emissions heavy metal. But that doesn’t tell us yet where it is by about 99 per cent and particle emissions by nearly coming from. To answer that we need to analyse other 60 per cent. She also has her own Environment Officer components in the air. The data from the sulphur on board. The partnership not only enables us to sam­dioxide gauge and the carbon monoxide gauge helps ple waters from different maritime regions regularly and us to draw a few more conclusions. From Geesthacht repeatedly; we can even measure around the clock we have satellite access to this data at all times, so we and in all weathers. That gives us broad geographical don’t have to wait until we can board the ship again. and time coverage. It’s hard to achieve with a research vessel. Another important point are the costs, which What will your data analysis tell you? are always a big factor in research. If we dispatch our own research ship, the operating costs alone amount to EBINGHAUS : If we find a high concentration of sulphur 10,000 euros a day. For these four low-maintenance dioxide on the open seas, it usually comes from the devices, we incur one-off costs including installation kind of fuel consumed by ships. So on Mein Schiff 3 we of about 150,000 euros. That would keep us going can actually trace the gas plumes of vessels travelling for just about two weeks if we set off on our own. ahead of us. Carbon monoxide is more likely to derive from industrial processes or forest fires, which are recognised sources of mercury. The data, by the way, is H E L M H O LT Z Z E N T R U M G E E S T H A C H T, C E N T R E F O R also fed into an EU project which should eventually M AT E R I A L S A N D C O A S TA L R E S E A R C H ( H Z G ) lead to a global mercury observation system. We are showing for the first time that cruise ships can play The HZG is one of 18 facilities that make up the Helmholtz Associaa helpful complementary role in this system. tion of German Research Centres, the biggest scientific organisation in Germany, employing about 37,000 people. At Geesthacht in Schleswig-Holstein, over 900 scientists are engaged in materials What about the fourth device you installed? research and studying coastland habitats. Their agenda includes assessing the regional impact of global climate change and designEBINGHAUS : The FerryBox, as we call it, is in the ening tools to manage this vulnerable landscape. gine room. Sea water is pumped into it constantly and flows past a number of different sensors. They record data such as salinity, pH value, oxygen and chlorophyll content. All this information is fed into the COSYNA database – that’s the Coastal Observing System for S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y 44 OUR CHALLENGE Travelling with respect: the sustainable value chain in tourism 46 ENVIRONMENT Our goal: Use natural resources prudently, mitigate adverse environmental impacts P R O D U C T A N D D E S T I N AT I O N 52 STEWARDSHIP The other side of the coin: local communities should benefit from tourism 56 PEOPLE Our key to success: enthusiastic employees providing unique holiday experiences 66 SOCIETY Leadership in action: innovation and investment for more sustainable tourism betterholidays betterworld TUI sustainability strategy step 2015 – 2020 lightly make a difference lead the way step lightly make a difference lead the way Reducing the environmental Creating positive change Pioneering sustainable impact of holidays for people and communities tourism influencing through our own operations through our value the wider industry and beyond chain and customers 3 S T R AT E G I C C O R E P I L L A R S TUI Group has launched its new sustainability strategy, ‘Better Holidays, Better World’. The ambitious 2020 strategy is built around three core pillars to help shape the future of sustainable tourism. TUI has set itself ambitious goals for sustainable business, spanning environmental, social and economic sustainability. More on this topic: www.tuigroup.com/BHBWstrategy 44 M A G A Z I N E — ­­­­Sustainability »Holidays open up new horizons, peoples and cultures. He who travels the world, understands it better. Tourism is a critical driver of many of the world’s economies, serving to improve destination infrastructure and living conditions. In this context, TUI seeks to be recognised as a reliable employer, investing particularly in developing the professional skills of young people in destinations. Our focus will be to expand the positive impacts of tourism, whilst simultaneously working to reduce the negative impacts – along the value chain. We know we can achieve a great deal. Our new 2020 sustainability strategy sets our direction. « T H O M A S E L L E R B E C K , Member of the Group Executive Committee, Group Corporate & External Affairs, TUI Group T H E C U STO M E R J O U R N E Y Creating more Flying Europe’s most Operating our cruise sustainable holidays carbon-efficient aircraft ships more efficiently TUI Reducing CO 2 Protecting biodiversity Greening our Engaging customers with from our shops and championing couch fleet sustainable tourism animal welfare Promoting greener and fairer holidays ­­Sustainability — ­­M A G A Z I N E 45 Our challenge TUI is the world’s leading tourism business – and leaders There are also significant challenges. Travel and tourism have to take responsibility. Our society increasingly accounts for around 5 % of global carbon emissions – expects respected brands and companies like TUI to half of which is attributable to aviation. We are comdemonstrate leadership for a sustainable future. mitted to reducing carbon emissions which is a key challenge for TUI. We are proud of the positive role our industry plays around the world. The travel and tourism sector Our vision is to make travel experiences special whilst accounts for 9 % of the world’s GDP and 6 % of its minimising environmental impact, respecting culture and exports. It is responsible for one in 11 jobs globally people and bringing economic benefits to communities. and is the main source of foreign exchange in onethird of developing countries. Supporting our hotels to Investing in tourism Enabling local people to achieve best practice skills and education benefit from tourism sustainability standards H Enabling colleagues Creating more Working with destinations to be ambassadors sustainable excursions on the sustainable for sustainable tourism management of tourism 46 M A G A Z I N E — ­­Sustainability step lightly Environment Travelling is a basic human need and an important factor Group therefore engages in close dialogue with reprein our society. As the world’s leading tourism Group, sentatives of the scientific and political arenas in order we are well aware of the great responsibility we bear to develop and implement effective measures. We fotowards the environment and our host countries. We cus, in particular, on improving emissions from the TUI are committed to making continual improvements to Group airlines. Aviation accounts for over 80 % of our the environmental and social impacts associated holicarbon footprint. days. After all, if we want our holidays to be enjoyable now and in the future, there is nothing more important Airlines than a healthy environment and thriving communities. We have reduced our airlines’ CO2 / revenue passenger kilometre by more than 10 % over the last six years. Climate We operate Europe’s most carbon-efficient airlines and According to experts’ estimates, around 5 % of global we aim to maintain that role and build on it. carbon emissions are attributable to travel and tourism1. More about the TUI Group’s carbon footprint on page 49 Carbon emissions and their impact on climate change TUIfly was named ‘most climate-efficient airline in the are thus one of the biggest global challenges for the world with 1 million passengers’ for the second year in a tourism sector. row in the 2014 atmosfair Airline Index, and Thomson Airways won ‘best aviation programme for carbon reWe are mindful of our environmental footprint, which duction’ at the 2014 World Responsible Tourism is why carbon reduction has been firmly anchored in Awards. the TUI Group’s sustainability strategy. Managing our carbon footprint makes good business sense for TUI. We are the only integrated tourism business to fly the TUI is the only tourism group Across TUI, improved management of energy, natural Boeing 787 Dreamliner, which emits around 20 % less listed in the Dow Jones Susresources and fuel saved more than €50 million2 carbon dioxide per passenger kilometre than comparatainability Europe Index. TUI’s score was particularly high in between 2012 and 2014. ble aircraft. It also produces considerably less noise the category Climate Strategy. pollution – around 60 % less than the aircraft it replaces. Our aim is to continually reduce the negative impact of We operate thirteen 787 Dreamliner planes, and this our own business operations on the environment. The will expand up to seventeen aircraft by 2019. 1 United Nations Environment Programme, 2014 2 A pproximate figure of savings that have been tracked, gross of any upfront investments required T U I A I R L I N E S – F U E L C O N S U M P T I O N A N D R E L AT E D E M I S S I O N S 2014/15 2013/14 Var. % Specific fuel consumption l / 100 rpk* 2.62 2.68 – 2.3 Carbon dioxide (CO 2) – absolute t 5,034,264 5,014,068 + 0.4 Carbon dioxide (CO 2) – specific kg / 100 rpk* 6.60 6.76 – 2.3 Nitrogen oxide ( NO X) – absolute t 30,754 31,651 – 2.8 Nitrogen oxide ( NO X) – specific g / 100 rpk* 41.38 44.13 – 6.2 Carbon monoxide (CO ) – absolute t 1,523 1,440 + 5.8 Carbon monoxide (CO ) – specific g / 100 rpk* 2.05 2.01 + 2.0 Hydrocarbon (HC ) – absolute t 130 131 – 0.8 Hydrocarbon (HC ) – specific g / 100 rpk* 0.17 0.18 – 5.6 * rpk = Revenue passenger kilometre Sustainability — ­­M A G A Z I N E 47 450 LITRES less jet fuel needed for a flight from Hanover to Boa Vista (Cape Verde) thanks to the new air flow system TUI is continuing to retrofit its fleet with innovative The findings from this research are particularly signifisplit scimitar winglet technology, which has improved cant on two counts. For one thing, the aviation industry fuel efficiency by up to 2 %. We already use fuel-­saving as a whole will use these insights to design new, more blended winglets, which have cut jet fuel consumpefficient aircraft, as the results are accessible to the gention by up to 5 %. On a flight from Hanover to Boa Vista eral public. Another equally valuable outcome was that, (Cape Verde) this aerodynamic enhancement can once the test flights were over, the partners fully recysave around 450 litres of kerosene. Apart from that, cled the TUI plane to gain a greater understanding of the new winglets reduce carbon emissions for the this issue too. trip by about 1,134 kilos. As part of our sustainability strategy, we are working with airports to fix our sights on the waste generated by flight operations across the Group. At TUIfly Nordic, for example, 95 % of on-board waste is already separated for recycling. Research and development: In partnership with Boeing and NASA, the TUI Group took part in the ecoDemonMore about the strator project to test the suitability of new environmenecoDemonstrator project tal technologies in aviation. on page 36 TUI AIRLINES – CARBON INTENSITY 2014/15 2013/142 Var. % g CO 2 e/rpk1 We have requested PwC (the TUI Airline fleet g CO 2 /rpk1 66.0 67.6 – 2.3 % 66.7 Company's auditors) to proArkeFly g CO 2 /rpk1 63.8 69.0 – 7.5 % 64.4 vide assurance on the carbon Corsair International g CO 2 /rpk1 79.8 82.3 – 3.0 % 80.6 intensity metrics displayed in Jetairfly g CO 2 /rpk1 69.6 70.0 – 0.6 % 70.3 the table “TUI Airlines – Carbon intensity”. To read our airline Thomson Airways g CO 2 /rpk1 63.7 64.8 – 1.7 % 64.3 carbon data methodology docuTUI fly g CO 2 /rpk1 63.4 63.8 – 0.6 % 64.0 ment and PwC's Assurance TUI fly Nordic g CO 2 /rpk1 60.6 62.6 – 3.2 % 61.2 Report in full, please visit 1 rpk = Revenue passenger kilometre http://www.tuigroup.com/ 2 In F Y 2015 TUI Group adopted the European Standard ( EN 16258-2012) to reflect the methodology used by airlines to comply with the EU ’s en-en/sustainability/ Emissions Trading Scheme requirements. Therefore, TUI Group has restated its previously disclosed Airline KPI s using this same methodology. reporting-downloads 48 M A G A Z I N E — ­­Sustainability WASTE The average waste generated per passenger and bednight in 2014 was 7.89 litres. TUI Cruises reduced waste arisings by 11.15 % compared with the previous year. Cruises Another key theme is the waste generated on board Cruise holidays are growing in popularity. In 2014, the ship. TUI Cruises already had systematic waste manageMore about environmental management at TUI Cruises in global cruise industry carried around 22 million pasment in place on Mein Schiff 1 and Mein Schiff 2, the company’s Environment sengers on over 500 ships. TUI also intends to grow in using this and other measures to achieve substantial Report: https://tuicruises.com/ this area in the coming years. reductions in on-board waste. The company took an­ nachhaltigkeit/umweltbericht/ other step towards pruning back waste when commisThe TUI Group operates 13 cruise ships across three sioning its first new vessel. Whenever TUI Cruises brands. Cruise operations come with their own susdesigns a new build, great importance is attached to tainability challenges. As well as carbon dioxide emisintegrated waste management and to fitting the right sions, cruise ships also emit sulphur and nitrogen technologies to support an enhanced waste system. particles and other fine particulate matter, causing air During the voyage, crew members collect all the pollution. waste from public areas and cabins and sort it into six categories. This separated waste is then shredded, In the cruise sector too, we look to technical advances compressed, burned or handed over on land for reand innovative approaches and technologies to reduce cycling or specialist disposal. On-board waste sep­ our environmental footprint. TUI Cruises launched aration at TUI Cruises has now reached almost 100 %. Mein Schiff 3 in 2014 and Mein Schiff 4 in 2015, cruise TUI is featured in the Climate ships with exceptional environmental credentials. The average waste generated per passenger and bedDisclosure Leadership Index They are 30 % more energy efficient than comparable night in 2014 was 7.89 litres. TUI Cruises reduced (CDLI) in the UK and Germany. ships and set a new standard for the industry. The waste arisings by 11.15 % compared with the previous ships save fuel through a combination of the latest enyear. vironmental technology and strict environmental management practices. A smart on-board en­ergy manNew builds at Hapag-Lloyd Cruises similarly factor agement system, efficient air conditioning, innovative in environmental standards. Hapag-Lloyd Cruises’ lighting controls and the use of waste heat from the newly-built MS EUROPA 2 is equipped with a catalyst engines all contribute to a significantly reduced carbon that reduces nitrogen oxide emissions by almost footprint. 95 % and partially filters soot. It was the first cruise ship to be awarded Energy Efficiency Design Index (EEDI) Mein Schiff 3 and 4 also produce up to 99 % fewer certification by Germanischer Lloyd. Enhancements sulphur emissions through new systems that treat exto mitigate any adverse environmental impacts haust fumes before releasing them into the air. are con­tinually applied to both travel operations and Sustainability — ­­M A G A Z I N E 49 E N V I R O N M E N TA L K P I S 2.62 LITRES per 100 passenger kilometres (fuel consumption of the TUI Airlines fleet) T U I A I R L I N E S ’ C A R B O N E F F I C I E N C Y V E R S U S T H E L A R G E S T A I R L I N E S 1 I N E U R O P E g CO2 /rpk 2 105 Global airlines (average)3 98.6 90 – 2.3 % European Scheduled airlines (average) 95.7 75 67.6 66.0 60 European Budget airlines (average) 82.4 45 TUI airlines (average) 66.0 30 15 25 50 75 100 2014 / 15 2013 / 14 1  Data from the 4 largest budget and 4 largest scheduled airlines in Europe based on passenger numbers. Latest publicaly available data, June 2015. 2 g CO 2 / rpk = grams of CO 2 per revenue passenger kilometre 3 Global airlines emissions metrics, taking an average of short & long-haul operations ( UK Government). C A R B O N D I O X I D E E M I S S I O N S ( C O 2 ) in tonnes Scope 3 (Other) Cruises 68,403 Hotels & Resorts 639,119 (63,888) 510,492 (576,741) (658,568) Major Premises / Shops Ground Transport 38,115 17,761 (35,110) (24,974) Airlines & Aviation t 5,615,386 (5,520,695) In brackets: previous year 50 M A G A Z I N E — ­­Sustainability New shop design for Germany – with LED technology Real-time energy consumption: TUI UK & Ireland is certified under ISO 50001 ship technology. The MS Hanseatic, for example, of only approximately 100 companies in the UK to visited the boatyard for a complete overhaul of both achieve the certification. her stabilisers and an environmental retrofit, which has improved her sustainability considerably. From now A large-scale project is currently underway in Germany on, the two stabilisers will run on more environmen­ to modernise and revamp our retail outlets. Our travel tally-friendly bio-oil. shops will fully convert their lighting design and overhead illumination to state-of-the-art LED technology. Ground Operations There is potential here to cut annual power conTUI’s ground operations consist of approximately 70 sumption by at least 50 %. Refurbishments in the last major office premises, 300 hotels, 1,800 retail shops two years have already reduced CO2 emissions from and 300 transport vehicles. Compared with the emistravel shops by about 25 %. sions from airlines and cruises, this is a fairly small carbon footprint (approx. 11 % of global TUI Group CO2 Over 400 of our German travel shops use green elecemissions). However, we have implemented numerous tricity from hydropower supplied by EnergieDienst. measures in these areas as well, and these play their The TUI offices in Hanover also use electricity from part in ensuring greater sustainability for our business natural sources, provided here by BS Energy. operations. Between 2012 and 2014 we reduced carbon dioxide An energy dashboard was rolled out to all Thomson emissions from the production of brochures by 51 %, and First Choice shops, giving a simple, real-time indicaprinting 8.2 billion fewer brochure pages. tion of how each shop is performing against its en­ergy targets. The dashboard has helped reduce carbon dioxUltramar, our largest ground transport company, based ide emissions by 24 % over three years. The installain Spain and carrying 10 million passengers per year, tion of the dashboards was one of the reasons that has several measures in place to improve fuel efficiency. TUI UK & Ireland achieved ISO 50001 certification These include training drivers on more efficient driving for energy management in January 2015. We are one techniques, investing in new, fuel-efficient vehicles, and Sustainability — ­­M A G A Z I N E 51 8.2 M C ATALOGUE PAGE S SAV E D IN THE LAST 2 YE AR S Robinson Club Cala Serena has a carbon-free hot water supply. installing satellite navigation in all vehicles for route The environmental spirit has inspired many other optimisation and to monitor fuel consumption. measures at the Club too. A solar thermal system has been installed, which means that during the peak TUI Hotels & Resorts season the Club can heat all its water by drawing enerThe hotel brands of TUI Hotels & Resorts are among gy from the sun. A 4,000-square-metre photovoltaic The far-reaching commitment the environmental leaders at their locations and are array produces about 160,000 kWh of electricity a year. we pursue in our hotel operacommitted to environmental protection. The hotels are That would more or less meet the requirements of tions is described in the chapinvolved in numerous projects and initiatives to protect 40 family homes. ter “Product and Destination the climate and use resources efficiently. Stewardship” page 52. Environment-friendly chlorine is made from common Carbon emissions have been significantly reduced by salt by means of electrolysis, so the swimming pools the thermal system at the Robinson Club Cala Serena can be disinfected without the use of chemicals. in Mallorca. Three 200-kW biomass boilers generate hot water, heating and pool heating. Thanks to the installation of a wood pellet system, around 220,000 litres of conventional heating oil are saved every year. The Greek Robinson Club Daidalos on Kos has fitted out one double room and one family room as the world’s first Robinson eco-rooms. Meters have been installed so that guests can always check how much electricity and hot and cold water they are using each day and how much power the air conditioning needs. The display shows updated daily consumption, calculated CO2 emissions and a comparison with usage by the most energy-conscious guest. 52 M A G A Z I N E — ­­Sustainability make a difference Product and Destination Stewardship Beautiful, biodiverse and unique destinations are the heart of our holidays, and we are proud of the role our industry plays in protecting and preserving them. Tourism can be a real force for good, from generating the transfer of wealth to promoting cultural understanding and tolerance. But we know that travel and tourism can also have unintended negative consequences. Water, for example, is likely to become increasingly scarce in the coming decades and waste management is a challenge in many destinations. We rely on thriving communities to welcome our customers in destinations. That means it’s important that the benefits of tourism reach the local community in the form of jobs and educational opportunities and that human rights are protected along our value chain. One of our key areas of focus is the hotel – the biggest component in the holiday experience. Our expectation of hotels that work with us is that they will commit to social and environmental good practice. This expectation is based not only on our commitment to sustainable tourism, but also on good business sense. Reduc­ ing the consumption of energy and water saves money for hoteliers, and TUI customer surveys indicate that them plays a significant role in managing our impacts our most sustainably managed hotels deliver higher on the local community, economy and environment. quality and customer satisfaction. We have incorporated environmental and social miniHotels mum standards into contracts with hotel suppliers and The TUI Group works with over 5,000 hotel suppliers developed a Supplier Code of Conduct. More on this topic: http://www. tuigroup.com/en-en/about-us/ around the world. We own or manage over 300 of compliance/suppliers_code_ these hotels, and our global portfolio of over 210,000 The best way for us to make tourism more sustainable of_conduct beds includes the key hotel brands Riu, Robinson, is to offer ‘greener and fairer’ holidays. A ‘greener and TUI Magic Life and TUI Blue. fairer’ holiday is one that includes a hotel with a credible sustainability certification recognised by the Global In addition, we work closely with partners on internaSustainable Tourism Council (GSTC), demonstrating that tional concepts – including Sensatori, Sensimar the hotel cares for the environment, their employees and Family Life – that are designed for specific customer and the local community. segments. The Travelife standard has a major role to play in Our hotels are the driving force for improving our the process. TUI has been an active supporter since sustainability performance in our destinations. Each of 2007. Through our seat on the board, we are sysSustainability — ­­M A G A Z I N E 53 300,000 GUE STS B OOKE D A TUI COLLE C TION E XCUR SION IN 2015 hotel’s environmental performance are also taken into account in the assessment. Excursions The Collection is a set of exclusive excursions that have been developed by TUI and tailored to give cusMore about Mexico as a destination on page 16 tomers a true taste of the destination. They were launched in 2014 and are now offered by the majority of our tour operators. Each excursion in the Collection must be exclusive to TUI and meet specific criteria for sustainability (based on ABTA’s sustainable excursion criteria), showing that it is bringing benefit to local people and minimising TUI Collection offers a chance to visit the its impact on the environment. Cenotes in Mexico. The stalactite caves are sacred to the Maya and may only be entered after a purification ceremony. Over 300,000 customers enjoyed these excursions in 2015, and customer satisfaction research showed that they valued the ‘sustainability’ and ‘local flavour’ aspects particularly highly. In 2014 TUI Cruises also expanded the number of des­ tematically involved in developing this sustainability tinations offering ‘Green & Fair’ on-shore excursions, programme. where particular importance is attached to environmental and social factors. An on-board passenger surIn 2014 more than 5.5 million* guests booked vey demonstrated the popularity of this excursion a sustainably certified hotel with TUI. That makes category, first launched the previous year. In the year 11.5 million bookings of this kind since 2012. under review, donations amounting to over €100,000 were collected during Green & Fair excursions. The benEvery year since 1996, TUI Deutschland has been eficiaries were the SECORE Foundation, M.E.E.R. e.V. awarding TUI Environment Champion status to hotels (for the conservation of whales and dolphins), Pottwale that show a particular commitment to protecting e.V. (a charity dedicated to protecting sperm whale the environment and displaying social responsibility. TUI habitats), a research project run by the Helmholtz Censeeks through its TUI Environment Champion award to tre in Geesthacht, and the Förderverein Meeresfor­ raise sustainability awareness and commitment among schung und Umweltjournalismus (an association prohoteliers and to make it easier for guests to choose a moting maritime research and environmental hotel with ‘green’ credentials. One criterion is that parjournalism). ticipants must hold a valid sustainability certificate recognised by the GSTC (Global Sustainable Tourism Council). Opinions expressed by guests about the * ISO 14001 and/or GSTC Standard 54 M A G A Z I N E — ­­Sustainability HONEY & JAM Guests can buy local honey products and jams made by the Maya community at the Sensatori Hotel in Mexico. Committed to protecting animals: TUI Deutschland pays tribute to animal-friendly hotels. Procurement Since 2012 TUI Deutschland has been acknowledging TUI companies are attaching greater weight to environhotels which take care of strays as animal friendly. mental factors in the procurement process. For instance, The designation is awarded for respecting specific criTUI Cruises has implemented its own guidelines on teria. These include, for example, the castration of sustainable sourcing. Each department in the company all animals living in the hotel grounds, the creation of rates environmental performance when selecting and a feeding point with appropriate foodstuffs, veterinary evaluating suppliers and service providers. The assesssupervision and care for the animals, and an information ment criteria include, for example, efforts to protect policy to explain these actions to guests. Our local resources and prevent waste. service staff regularly monitor compliance with these requirements. 47 hotels in Turkey, Spain, Greece In the hotel sector too, environmental compatibility and Cyprus are currently recognised by TUI as animal and product origin are factors in the procurement friendly. process. Preference is given to local and regional products, as long as sufficient quantities are available Our customers and the quality is right. This avoids unnecessary mileage In the last six years, our customers have been helping and extra packaging. Our Sensatori hotel in Mexico TUI to plant 57,600 trees in the Llevant Natural Park is supporting a beekeeping community that sells honey-­ near Artà in the east of Mallorca. This has permitted the based products to local hotels. They have also supreforestation of 71 hectares of land, an area large ported our Jungle Jams project, run in conjunction with enough to accommodate 100 football pitches. The TUI the Travel Foundation. Mayan women from the remote Forest Project, carried out in partnership with the community of Chumpon are earning an income selling Balearic Environment Ministry, came to a successful jam to this hotel (and others in the area), giving visitors conclusion this year. a taste of the real Mexico. The TUI Forest was planted with stone pines and wild Animal welfare olive trees, as these two species are quick to strike Protection for cats and dogs in our destinations has roots and are thus able to break up the porous soil. The been important to TUI for many years. In Germany, pines are hardier trees and were therefore planted in these animals are usually kept as pets and treated as the highest spots, where there is more exposure to the valued members of the family. Consequently most sun and water is less readily available. The effect is of our guests feel sympathetic towards the strays who to prevent soil erosion, to restore the original landscape fend for themselves in holiday regions. and to help avert climate change. The hills along the Sustainability — ­­M A G A Z I N E 55 coast were once wooded, but fell prey to fires in recent decades. In the winter season of 2009/10, TUI Deutschland began contributing a fixed sum of money towards the TUI Forest for every guest who holidayed on Mallorca. The overall budget for the reforestation project was 663,000 euros. In the summer of 2015, over 1,300 employees and many TUI guests in more than 50 destinations took part in beach clean-ups. The ‘Make Holidays Greener’ campaign declared July to be a month of action, inviting holiday-makers and tourism workers all over the world to join in. Over 1,000 large waste bags were collected. 57,600 STONE PINE S & By cleaning up the beaches with the help of these WILD OLIV E TR E E S guests, TUI was addressing a major problem – the large volume of plastic that is discharged into the oceans. Not only does it endanger underwater organisms; it enwere planted by TUI with the help of customers in the last 6 years ters the food chain as well. Plastic is not biodegradain the Llevant Natural Park near ble; it simply breaks up into smaller and smaller particles. Artà in eastern Mallorca. As a consequence, the harmful substance finds its way into the stomachs of fish and from there onto plates in fish restaurants and private kitchens. 56 M A G A Z I N E — ­­Sustainability People Personnel strategy TUIgether Following the merger between TUI AG and TUI Travel Since the merger between TUI Travel PLC and TUI AG, PLC at the end of 2014 and the ensuing organisational we have already achieved some key milestones in our changes, Human Resources in particular faced nugrowth strategy and initial economic results are already merous challenges, reviewing its own alignment while evident. In order to drive these positive developments actively supporting the Group’s new strategic alignfurther, it is essential to forge a unified corporate culment. The structural change inevitably went hand in ture: a working environment that enables people to hand with a number of HR initiatives for managers pursue open dialogue and create positive change, and and employees. to help shape the future of the Group with their mo­ tivation and commitment. In financial year 2014/15, the Group Functions were successfully merged. Key areas requiring action inIn the course of the integration process, it was imcluded harmonising organisational structures, integratportant for our Company to capture detailed informaing international teams, adjusting processes and comtion about the mood among our workforce and to munication channels. Activities to promote integration analyse existing strengths and weaknesses. The first and cultural change will continue in financial year Group-wide employee survey was therefore carried 2015/16. out in financial year 2014/15. It was called TUIgether, reflecting the cultural change we were seeking to The merger, the strategy programme oneTUI and with achieve. them the stronger internationalisation of the Group have opened up a welter of career opportunities to our In September, our employees were invited to provide us employees, not least so as to retain them for the TUI with feedback on customer orientation & innovation, Group in the long term. This is a perspective that TUI, leadership culture, strategy, goals & objectives, efficienas an international employer, is seeking to showcase cy, cooperation, and personal development. both internally and externally with its personnel marketing measures. To guarantee anonymity, data security, and the professional execution and evaluation of the survey, the The HR departments have supported organisational employer and employee representatives jointly commischange with a broad range of activities. Tailored training sioned TNS, an independent institute specialising in has been offered to prepare managers and employmarket research and employee surveys. ees for the future demands of digitisation and globalisation. Priorities continue to be joint talent manageThe survey achieved a response rate of 66 %. The ment and the recruitment of junior staff, e.g. by means results therefore permit an accurate picture to be drawn. of the International Graduate Leadership Programme. They will be analysed by the Board, by business A further key factor for the success of our Company is units and at country level, and managers and employour steady development: launching our employee surees will have a chance to discuss them at joint workvey, our open feedback culture and the expansion of shops. Subsequently, all the teams will identify appropriidea management have all made substantial contribuate actions and submit them via local management tions towards achieving this goal. Further details on our to the TUI Group’s Executive Committee for coordibest practices within the TUI Group are presented nation. The Group Executive Committee, in turn, on the next few pages. will define action packages to implement at Group level. We are confident that through these measures we have laid the groundwork for our continuing success, We are planning to carry out the employee survey on even in times of major change, thanks to our highly an annual basis in order to acquire a consistent flow qualified and committed management and employees. of first-hand information about corporate strengths and the potential for improvement. The actions derived Sustainability — ­­M A G A Z I N E 57 EXECUTIVE B OA R D Analyse results & draw up and implement action plan E M PLOY E E Cooperation S U RV E Y Strategy, Culture TO P I C S Goals & Objectives Development Efficiency Leadership Culture Customer Orientation & Innovation from the findings will enable us to build on our Comcially responsible restructuring plan, including active pany’s success in the long term. support for managers and employees. TUI Belgium and TUI Netherlands combined their tour operation Change Management activities, focusing on the implementation of a new Due to the structural changes that took place in finanorganisational structure. One of the biggest challenges cial year 2014/15, the HR function in all Group compawas to create and build TUI Destination Services, a nies had to introduce tailored HR measures to support virtual organisation pooling all inbound services in desmanagers and employees throughout the period of tinations worldwide. Around 500 job applications change and to help manage the change processes themwere recorded, 300 interviews were held and 200 new selves. We hope to learn from posi­tive experiences in jobs were created. 25 nationalities are represented in the regions and to share best practices. this global organisation alone. Strategic mergers took place in many Group companies As part of TUI’s strategic realignment, digital processes with a view to leveraging the synergy potential to are becoming increasingly important. Our clear goal optimum effect. In Austria, the focus in the period unis to promote cooperation among our virtual teams in der review was on integration with the German tour our global matrix organisations. To this end, it is imoperator. HR accompanied these measures with a soportant to familiarise our employees early on with new 58 M A G A Z I N E — ­­Sustainability 1ST PLACE In the rankings for Germany’s Best Recruiters, the TUI Group came top in the category Service Providers. tools, procedures and working environments and offer Robinson faces many challenges in connection with its appropriate skilling programmes wherever needed. Our expansion strategy (40 clubs by 2020). In December Group-owned services provider TUI Business Services 2014, a change process was initiated that involved the has supported TUI’s transformation process through forentire top management level and all employees and eign language training schemes and seminars on inmanagers working at the head office. It changed meettercultural understanding and digital change. Foreign ing formats, established a team of multipliers with language training was offered when and as required, colleagues from all divisions and management levels, and initial steps were taken towards the development tailored communication processes to different target of an e-learning concept for foreign languages in coop­ groups, initiated 360° feedback schemes and a coaching eration with the service provider Rosetta Stone. The foprocess for the senior management level, and implecus was also on training sessions to raise the interculmented leadership workshops. tural awareness of our managers and employees and on cross-cultural seminars. Recruitment of junior staff and talent promotion Recruiting staff More on this theme: http://www.tuigroup.com/ Training in digital know-how was another substantial Recruiting junior staff and highly skilled specialists conen-en/career component. A pilot project was launched to offer stitutes a major investment in our future, and our http://www.laechelngezaubert. employees initial activities such as job shadowing or efforts are also recognised. In the rankings of Germany’s com/ digital boot camps. Further qualification schemes to best recruiters, the TUI Group came out top in the impart digital know-how will be devised and implementcategory “service providers”. In the overall rankings for ed stage by stage. the “best recruiters”, TUI was in 16th place. In a representative study of “best recruiters”, the Austrian The period under review saw the first-time introduccommunications agency GPK conducts an annual tion of agile training courses. Agile procedures secure assessment of recruiting standards among the top 500 highly dynamic management and control of our TUI employers in Germany, Austria and Switzerland. The projects and enable us to integrate new requirements findings are based on scientific criteria and tests of flexibly, e.g. by means of short process cycles, quick unsolicited applications. feedback and a high level of self-organisation among employees. TUI was also chosen among the 100 most attractive employers in Europe in this year’s trendence European More on this theme: http://www.trendence.com/ Our internal mentoring programme supports our man­ Graduate Barometer 2015. Around 300,000 students en/company/rankings/ agers and employees around pre-defined annual from more than 900 universities in 24 countries took europe-all-countries.html themes, creating a platform for exchange and knowledge part. transfer across countries and functions. This initiative was launched by TUI Nordic and successfully rolled out Internal career portal to TUI Belgium and TUI Netherlands in the period The internal career portal has a clear strategic focus on under review under the theme “Leadership of multi-­ oneTUI. It reflects the vision of cross-country cooperacultural teams in times of change”. tion in global and virtual teams. We operate on a global Sustainability — ­­M A G A Z I N E 59 2,934 175 TUI AS AN EMPLOYER 20 The TUI Group employs over 10,000 1,694 Schleswig-Holstein people in Germany. Another 30 or so work for German companies in post465 ings abroad. Almost half the em­ 1 13 ployees in Germany (46 %) work in 218 the federal state of Lower Saxony. 259 Mecklenburg-Western 92 Hamburg Pomerania 210 927 Bremen 110 Lower Saxony Berlin 375 25 16 scale with more than 76,000 people in around 57* Brandenburg countries. The portal makes an essential contribution Saxony-Anhalt to our internal succession management and offers our North Rhine-Westphalia 313 2 31 1 22 staff a welter of career development opportunities and opportunities for a vocational reorientation. Our clear 152 commitment to international cooperation as oneTUI 386 Thuringia Saxony thus enables us to remain an attractive employer 100 Hesse offering career prospects for our high talents. Rhineland-Palatinate 6 88 Via the Internet, TUI staff had access to all vacancies posted. In the period under review, the career portal 469 recorded around 28,000 hits. Most enquiries came Saarland 566 176 from the UK, Germany, France, Spain, Greece, Belgium and the Netherlands. 245 Bavaria Vocational training Baden-Wurttemberg Ensuring a well-qualified supply of new skilled workers is a key feature of our strategic HR development aimed at meeting the demands of the future. TUI sees its task as providing a diverse spectrum of schemes to train for young people in all areas of company operations, equipping us for tomorrow’s challenges and for sustainable success. In Germany, TUI offers training opportunities in 12 difSimilar vocational training is provided in neighbouring ferent occupations and 3 sandwich course at university Austria and Switzerland, where a great emphasis is More on this theme: leading to a Bachelor of Arts / Science in Tourism, placed on learning on-the-job in travel outlets. In Aushttp://www.tuigroup.com/ Business IT or Business Administration. At the balance tria, there were altogether 40 young people in training en-en/career sheet date in 2015, there were altogether 576 young at the balance sheet date, while in Switzerland there http://www.tui-azubiblog.de/ trainees in the Group’s consolidated German companies. were 31. That is a 6.7 % increase on the previous year. The training rate is also higher at 5.8 % (previous year: 5.4 %). The schemes that have served us so well in the past proved popular again. Adelante is an initiative launched Of the 171 trainees in Germany who gained their certifiby the Chamber of Industry and Commerce in Hanover For more facts & figures about the TUI Group headcount, cate in financial year 2014/15, 67.8 % were offered to combat youth unemployment in Spain: in September see page 150 of the TUI AG / permanent employment. The hiring rate was therefore 2014 three young Spaniards began a one-year training Group Annual Report. just as high as the previous year. course with TUI Deutschland. * Based on location of company domicile 60 M A G A Z I N E — ­­Sustainability 21 young people are currently taking part in the TUI International Graduate More about the Trainee Leadership Programme. One of them is Programme on page 30 27-year-old Evangeline from India. Young talent All our companies attach great importance to ensuring Apart from vocational training in the classical sense, an adequate flow of young talent through trainee TUI has forged partnerships with universities so that schemes. TUIfly offers two distinct trainee programmes. students working towards relevant qualifications can One focus is on classical management and the other acquire a few insights into our company before they on operative airline management. The combination is graduate. Once they complete their studies, we seek to unique, as the trainee flight dispatchers work in a induct these young professionals into working life by strategic partnership with a flight training school. The inviting them to join our specially tailored programmes. practical placements for trainees are organised locally and internationally in the TUI Group’s oneAviation netRight across the Group, the International Graduate work, and a strong emphasis is placed on core busiLeadership Programme is a keystone in this. In 2015 it ness operations. This is a unique selling proposition in attracted 28 (previous year: 26) participants. The the field of training and skill-building which does jus­ 18-­month programme prepares graduates for leadership tice to the specific needs of the airlines. tasks in a range of TUI Group companies by placing them on wide-ranging international assignments with TUI France also facilitated training in highly diverse practical hands-on experience. corporate areas for more than 70 trainees during the More on this theme: http:// www.tuitravelgraduates.com/ year under review. TUI Switzerland applies an innovaOur investment in high-calibre training for students tive concept at its Junior Management Academy, with and graduates has been acknowledged by our target 13 participants during the reporting year. group. In the rankings published by TheJobCrowd, where university graduates are asked to rate employers, Training for managers TUI scored highest in the tourism and leisure sector Management responsibilities at TUI call for continuing in the United Kingdom. professional development in a rapidly changing environment. Identifying and fostering our leadership talent Similarly, we received an award from the German onand building on all-round management skills plays a line career portal Absolventa for our commitment to key role in securing the long-term success of our comfairness and building career success by means of our pany. graduate programme. Sustainability — ­­M A G A Z I N E 61 Our established development programmes Global High The system content consists of over 300 e-learning Performance Leadership, Horizons and Perspectives modules in the fields Retail, Airline Academy, Finance once again proved to be significant instruments in nurAcademy and Destination Services. A total of about turing management talent for the TUI Group. Global 160,000 courses are completed through the learning High Performance Leadership is a format that builds system: key skills for the top level of management, equipping R E TA I L participants to lead successfully and develop profitable business areas. Perspectives is aimed at young managerial talent and seeks to create synergies and enhance results by way of innovations. 174 people have com124,600 pleted this TUI programme in the last 2.5 years. Meanwhile Horizons, the development programme for our top management, has served 238 participants in the last FINANCE ACADEMY 7 years. Over a third of these have since advanced their careers with a new position, 10 % of them moving into top corporate management. 7,200 In the spirit of oneTUI, Group companies are increas16 0, 0 0 0 ingly collaborating on design and support for local E-LEARNING development programmes aimed at high potentials. CO U R S E S During the two-year Navigator Programme, TUI BusiAIRLINE ness Services, TUIfly and TUI Deutschland therefore facilitate constant networking so that participants can learn from each other and work together on their personal skill-building. 8,900 Financial year 2014/15 also witnessed the first Talent D E S T I N AT I O N S E R V I C E S Convention – a new format in the programme – ena18,900 bling talents to play an active part in discussing strategic issues of major significance to the company, which in turn cultivates their self-assessment and their personal development. In addition, this format is a Thematic priorities and innovations in the reporting chance to network with a range of managers and alumni year were the inclusion of the Phoenix training for talents. sales and service centres (United Kingdom and Ireland), the Airlines Interoperability Training (United Kingdom, Continuing professional development Belgium, Netherlands and Nordics) and training units LMS : Learning Management System for the newly formed business TUI Destination SerAlongside our Human Resources development, designed vices. The e-learning tool helps to ensure that all travel primarily to strengthen specialist and management representatives in our destinations benefit from the skills, the Global Learning Management System called same levels of training and that the company’s high TUI Learning is growing in importance. At the end of quality standards are implemented internationally. the financial year, it had over 22,000 users. Our goal is access for all our employees everywhere in the world: TUI plans to make the Learning Management System financial year 2014/15 brought a major milestone with available to every Company employee, wherever they are an additional 8,000 colleagues participating. and whenever they need it. This will give employees 62 M A G A Z I N E — ­­Sustainability BACKGROUND Bringing countries and cultures together E Q U A L PA R T I C I PAT I O N OT H E R W O R L D S regardless of Over the garden personal difference fence Examples Examples • Helping men and women Diversity •C  hanging shoes: employees alike to reconcile family and can spend a day in a social professional life, e.g. flexible and inclusion care facility (e.g. sheltered hours or child-care allowance in the workshop, hospital) • Target-group options for •T  hemed evening: outside younger and older employees, TUI Group experts discuss issues of e.g. two-day Healthy Training general interest seminar or back exercises • lunch@tui: staff of all TUI • For people with disabilities: companies based in Hanover TUI HR officers give training sign up for a lunch where in how to apply for jobs Examples they are randomly placed at • CultureCuisine: employees a table with colleagues with foreign roots cook with they have never met before colleagues while talking about their lives and experiences • Exchange4teens: children of employees receive a grant to spend time with a host family abroad access to high-quality learning content in different Mixed Leadership languages. At the same time, it encourages team work Another priority for our diversity activities is to secure and knowledge transfer within the Group. The next a greater proportion of women in management in the step is to implement the scheme with TUI France and long term. Support measures such as individually taiTUI Nordic. lored mentoring programmes are designed to assist and accompany our female employees in a sustainable Diversity & Inclusion fashion. For an international Group such as TUI, diversity in the world of work means heterogeneity in the composition When the financial year ended on 30 September 2015, of our workforce. Inclusion means facilitating all-round women accounted for 56.2 % of Group employees, an participation regardless of visible physical traits. When increase of about 1 %. Women’s share of managerial TUI signed up to the Diversity Charter in 2008, it was positions rose slightly from 29.5 % to 31.3 %. making a fundamental pledge to promote a versatile mix within the workforce. This is reflected and experiThe proportion of women on our German governing enced in a range of activities and offerings: bodies continues to improve. On the balance-sheet Sustainability — ­­M A G A Z I N E 63 date, women accounted for 29,8 % of the members, about sustainable employer in the current age. The wide-rang2 % more than the previous year. At TUI AG, the share ing measures we take to ensure this were recognised of women on the Supervisory Board was already 30 %. during the review period, not least when we finished in Detailed information about mixed leadership in the TUI the Excellent category at the German Business Awards Group and these specific tarIn Germany, we made a voluntary commitment in and Corporate Health Awards. We work in three areas gets can be found in the TUI 2014/15, in accordance with the provisions of the nato conserve the good health of our employees: AG/Group Annual Report tional legislation governing stock corporations and on p. 151. limited liability companies, to set specific targets for Health and safety TUI AG, TUI Deutschland and TUIfly. Our task is now Our efforts to ensure a maximum of occupational safeto meet these by 30 June 2017. ty for our employees is guaranteed by the appointment of specialist health and safety officers working to Health management – FIT WITH TUI the highest standards. They carry out risk assessments, Our staff are the linchpin of our business. Good health provide inductions and advice corporate decision-makis essential to their commitment and effective input ers. Our employees are regularly briefed and trained during day-to-day operations, and a priority for us as a on health and safety matters. H E A LT H M A N A G E M E N T T H E H E A LT H T E A M Internal partners M E N TA L W E L L B E I N G Talking to professionals FIT WITH TUI Broad spectrum of health FIT WITH TUI Committees representing Health coaching with promotion activities management and labour a psychologist Feedback from employees •W ork, Health & Environment, • Face to face • Response rates, programme quality Social Affairs, Health and Safety • By phone Information for staff Experts Competence team • E-mails, intranet, posters • Company doctor • Trained staff available as first port of call for employees Talks • Chiropractor Workplace integration •D  iscussions with experts about • Dietitian health matters management • Psychologist Wellbeing Resilience workshops • Workplace massage External partners Advice for managers • Weekly workplace fruit basket • Health care providers • Reflection Room (one-to-one •R  elaxation courses briefing sessions on matters (e.g. pilates, qi gong and yoga) • Auditors of occupational psychology) Integration •O ccupational insurance association • Integration management with em•H ealth insurance fund ployees on long-term sick leave (TUI BKK) Training • Universities •W  orkplace sport (18 clubs at the Hanover site) • Back exercises Health activities • Allergy testing and advice • Influenza vaccinations • Screening for skin cancer 64 M A G A Z I N E — ­­Sustainability TUI EUROPE FORUM 50 employees' representatives from the 14 countries were delegated to the Forum in financial year 2014/15. Great attention is likewise paid to health and safety TUI Europa Forum during cruises operated by the Group. TUI Cruises emThis body is composed of representatives from the phasises the importance of safety issues to crew in business areas and countries in the European Ecoorder to minimise or prevent injuries on board ship. The nomic Area where TUI operates. The TUI EuropaForum aim of the Safety First Programme is to involve the (TEF) is provided by management with information ship’s crew directly in health and safety solutions. TUI about projects and HR-related measures prior to corCruises constantly implements selected improvements porate decisions affecting more than one country or on its vessels. company. Once consultation has been completed, it then informs its members in these countries about In the aviation sector too, all airlines implement detailed the intended actions and monitors the implementation rules to ensure safety in the air and on the ground of these economic, social and environmental measand they are regularly inspected. Health and safety are ures as discussed with management. The TUI Europasimilarly prioritised in the destinations. The Group’s Forum represents the interests of our employees in hotel chains carry out risk assessments and fire drills. Group companies based in other countries, and as such Local staff are regularly trained in first aid. it exercises a highly responsible role promoting integration across Europe for our international workforce. Information and consultation In financial year 2014/15, 50 employees representaRepresenting Group employees tives from 14 countries were delegated to take part in There are many committees representing employees in the Forum. the TUI Group, at national and international level, works-based and sector-based. They range from local The topics addressed by the TEF during the period works councils at specific sites to central company under review were the merger with TUI Travel PLC, the works councils and the corporate works council for all new Group strategy, the reorganisation of the Group employees of the Group in Germany. Based on their in clusters (Benelux and Nordics), and new source marstatutory rights to participate in decision-making and kets. Another focus of its work was the information to propose measures, they ensure that employees’ process around post-merger integration. interests are taken into account in all matters of relevance to human resources and corporate projects TUI AG Corporate Works Council and that employees’ rights are observed when, for exThe Corporate Works Council is the highest level of ample, the company undertakes restructuring. At industrial co-determination within the Group for European level, the TUI EuropaForum organises proper employees in the German companies. In financial year information and consultation procedures in cross-bor­ 2014/15, it had 24 members representing 19 compader questions affecting the interests of employees in nies. By delegating representatives to sit on the Corat least two countries within the European Economic porate Works Council, the local and central works Area. councils and other elective bodies have access to a continuous flow of up-to-date knowledge about the Although these bodies were primarily set up in the instructural and operational challenges facing the Group. terests of employees, they at least indirectly serve the Their subsequent involvement in shaping the way interests of the Group and its various companies, as requirements are implemented and themes are tackled industrial co-determination contributes to the stability ensures that these are well accepted among Group and sustainability of corporate decisions and processes. employees. Sustainability — ­­M A G A Z I N E 65 Annual meeting of the Corporate Works Council with representatives from the Supervisory and Executive Boards The focus during the period under review was on the countries. Thanks to the well-established constructive successful merger between TUI AG and TUI Travel PLC and trustful nature of discussions and negotiations and the subsequent requirements in the form of with the Corporate Works Council, the agreement that themes and projects. There was a need to devise joint emerged did justice to both the demands of these work processes that respected the different cultural new corporate structures and the needs of employees and legal frameworks as well as possible. A priority for for secure employment conditions. TUI is laying a piothe Corporate Works Council was to anchor the neering role in this field, and a successful conclusion fundamentals of German industrial co-determination. depended entirely in working effectively together with the Corporate Works Council. Within the period under review a Centre of Expertise in Labour Relations was set up. This is a department of An election procedure for the employees representaTUI AG which, among other functions, is available as tives on the Supervisory Board of TUI AG was also the first point of contact for the Corporate Works Couninitiated. The procedure is expected to last 50 weeks. cil. All matters affecting employees across the Group, like the issues of relevance to co-determination procedures, are dealt with and clustered there. Together with the Corporate Works Council, the conceptual groundwork is laid for effective employee participation. One major project during the period under review was the conclusion of an agreement on working in matrix organisations. This structure is acquiring growing importance as an element in flexible, highly qualified collaboration in the TUI Group. Here, employees often work outside their own company in so-called virtual teams that bring together different companies and / or 66 M A G A Z I N E — ­­Sustainability The ground-breaking pilot study demonstrates that it is not enough to measure success by using proxy indicators such as increasing visitor numbers. Instead, lead the way it provides clear insights into the impact those visitors have on the local economy. The research also shows the importance of going beyond basic economic measures to consider the big picture. For instance, tourism tax Society receipts are not often discussed as a benefit for destinations, but were found to be a very significant benefit Operating with social responsibility is a hallmark of our for Cyprus, equivalent to €25 per customer per night. corporate culture. This commitment is reflected in our Airport departure tax accounted for just ten per cent of support for a diversity of ground-breaking projects. this total, which includes other taxes such as corporaThe TUI Care Foundation is embedded within our sustion tax, VAT and income tax. tainability strategy. In future, all Group activities driven by our social commitment will be clustered under this Furthermore the study shows that a significant amount umbrella, as we believe that major challenges are best of the total impact of tourism comes indirectly from met by combined forces. supply chain activities and tourism spend. For example, supply chains and other services used by customers By innovating and collaborating to tackle the industry’s were found to generate almost 14 times as much waste biggest challenges, we believe we will help to future as the hotels themselves (1.8 kg of rubbish per cusproof our own business and tourism across the world. tomer per night from hotels compared with 25 kg from the supply chain). Measuring Tourism’s Impact: The TIMM project In 2014 the TUI Group partnered with Travel Foundation The results clearly reveal that tourism operations genin the UK and PricewaterhouseCoopers to pilot a new, erate overwhelmingly positive benefits. The economic holistic method for measuring the environmental impact and social effects worth more than €84 per customer of tourists. The economic, tax, environmental and per night substantially outweigh the environmental social impacts of tourism were quantified and valued. costs of about €4. But while the environmental damage caused by one tourist may be small, this is mul­ Known as the TIMM Study, the research focused on tiplied by millions of tourists over the years, and so it 60,000 TUI customers who spent their holidays in eight needs to be carefully managed if a destination is to hotels on Cyprus. The TUI Group assisted this project stay attractive for years to come. by providing access to hotels and suppliers, data for the analysis and a technical review of the report, and by playing a role on the Advisory Panel. One of the project goals was to detect and monitise the impacts of tourism, both negative and positive, so as to optimise the effects of tourism. At the same time, it set out to identify the positive effects of tourism so as to build on them. See the article on research R E S E A R C H A N D I N N O V AT I O N and the ecoDemonstrator on page 36 We participate actively in research projects, not least to promote the use of new environmental technologies. Sustainability — ­­M A G A Z I N E 67 M E A S U R I N G TO U R I S M ' S I M PA C T: A P I LOT S T U DY I N C Y P R U S 2 0 1 3 € 32,3 Economic dimension: m Payroll, profits, intangibles and investments € 13,8 Tax revenues: m Profit taxes, production taxes, people taxes € 84 positive economic and € 16,8 M Payroll tax benefits per guest per night € 696 K – € 3,6 M Human Capital N I KO S I A € 608 K Cyprus Waste € 6,6 M Production Tax € 1,4 M (mainly VAT) GHGs € 171 K Land use Download the report: http://www.thetravelfoundation. org.uk/projects/destinations/ Positive impact cyprus/measuring_tourisms_ Negative impact impact 68 M A G A Z I N E — ­­Sustainability CHANCE participants in the Dominican Republic Tunisia: Opening doors to tourism ment market in tourism in collaboration with the Following the fatal attack on holidaymakers in summer Institut Maghrébin de Management et de Tourisme 2015, Tunisia is facing a difficult period, and concerted (IMMT), which provides training for the hotel sector. action is required to build social and economic prosperity. 44 bursary-holders have been selected for the two-year Tourism is one of the key sectors in the country and it course since it began in 2014. They have all received is confronting particular challenges. Surveys show that additional support in the form of language courses and tourists expect better service and more customer focus professional hospitality conduct. Moreover, a cooperain Tunisia. There are many opportunities for women tion agreement has been signed with ten hotels and to work in this sector, but widespread attitudes to trasupervised on-the-job placements have been found ditional female roles pose a difficult hurdle to many for the trainees. 10 young women have so far been ofwomen when they seek to enter the employment marfered permanent jobs on completing the course. ket. In Tunisian hotels, women often still make up less than 20 % of the workforce. Dominican Republic: CHANCE Riu Hotels & Resorts got together with four other hotel Since 2012, TUI has therefore been supporting a project chains in 2015 to launch an educational opportunity implemented by the German agency GIZ (Gesellschaft initiative. In the summer of 2015, 66 school students für Internationale Zusammenarbeit). The purpose of in the Dominican Republic who would normally have this joint initiative is to encourage the development little access to vocational qualifications were able to take of Tunisian tourism by integrating women more effecpart in a two-month training course. During this peri­ tively into the economy. The idea is also to create od they attended practical modules devoted to restaumore favourable employment opportunities and workrant, bar service and kitchen skills, and theoretical ing conditions for women, along with new, culturally teaching that included mathematics, English and Spanoriented prospects for women in the tourism sector. The ish, and the fundamentals of tourism. The project was project was funded equally until 2014 by the German implemented jointly with the National Technical VocaMinistry for Economic Cooperation and Development tional Training Institute (INFOTEP). (BMZ) and TUI. Since 2015 TUI has been providing non-financial support. All the participants rated this first project as a great success. The young people from Bavaro and Verón The project is designed to improve the quality of training were able to explore their personal preferences and and to facilitate young womens’ access to the employaptitudes in the tourism business, and for the hotel Sustainability — ­­M A G A Z I N E 69 50 CHILDREN have already joined the Kids Council on Curaçao in its first stage. companies this was a chance to assess potential new Convention on the Rights of Children. The Code was recruits. For the participating hotels, the project also drawn up together with ECPAT International. contributes effectively to creating jobs and assuming social responsibility in a core destination. A second ECPAT stands for End Child Prostitution, Pornography project is already in the pipeline. and Trafficking of Children for Sexual Purposes. The or­­ More on this theme: ganisation was set up in 1990, at the time with an www.thecode.org Curaçao: Kids Council Asian focus. Now ECPAT campaigns against the prostiTUI Benelux has set up a Kids Council on Curaçao. It tution, pornography and trafficking that blights the enables children between the ages of ten and twelve lives of children all over the globe, and it now has secto play their part in the future development of the local tions in 74 different countries. Its purpose is to assert economy and tourism in their destination. children’s rights everywhere, to draw attention to the sexual exploitation of children, and to break down the The first phase of the project has already attracted international taboo which maintains a cloak of silence 50 children. The Council’s activities centre on the over the problem. question: “How can tourism help to make Curaçao an even better island to live on?” The creative ideas and TUI informs customers about this commitment in catastrategies the children come up with are passed on not logues, customer hand-outs, websites, in-flight magaonly to TUI, but also to other bodies involved in the zines, brochures, leaflets and sometimes in-flight videos. sector, such as the Curaçao Tourism Board, the airport, Training sessions for employees at company sites and ministries and hotels. in the destinations help to counter the taboo and to raise awareness. The Kids Council has been implemented in partnership with the Missing Chapter Foundation and UNICEF. The initiative is based on the Children’s Rights and Business Principles, and is an example of best practice in the field of cooperation with destinations. Protecting children Many companies in the Group support the Child Protection Code for the tourist industry, which is founded on the UN Declaration of Human Rights and the UN 70 M A G A Z I N E — ­­Sustainability ANTI-CORRUPTION WORKING I N F O R M AT I O N CONDITIONS SECURITY ENVIRONMENT AND Core themes H E A LT H THE COMMUNITY in the Code AND SAFETY of Conduct for Suppliers Destination projects with the Travel Foundation Human Rights TUI has a longstanding partnership with the Travel Tourism connects people and markets and is one of More on this theme: ethics.unwto.org Foundation, a sustainable tourism charity. We colla­ the fastest growing industries worldwide. As a global borate on strategic projects that address the sustainplayer, we operate in many countries in the world and ability issues facing our industry. embrace our responsibility for society. The TUI Group acknowledges the UN Guiding Principles FOR EXAMPLE on Business and Human Rights. Our commitment is expressly reflected in our Group employee Code of Conduct. We respect the personal dignity, privacy and TUI has signed up to In Cape Verde, we helped to set up a destination rights of each individual. We do not tolerate discriminathe United Nations Global council to tackle sustainability issues, leading to tion, child labour or degrading working conditions. Compact. the development of programmes on crafts, excursions Our internal whistleblowing policy offers a worldwide and better beaches. system for the confidential and anonymous reporting of serious infringements of our Code of Conduct. We have been working with the Travel Foundation in Cyprus on projects including the integration of miniIn addition, the TUI Code of Conduct for Suppliers mum sustainability standards into the island’s national serves as a guideline in the form of a summary of the hotel quality rating system. ethical standards we expect of our business partners. The Code echoes our internal Code of Conduct and clarifies what we mean when we speak about “ethical In Jamaica, we are supporting projects to develop business practices”. Sustainability in the supply chain cultural excursions and boost tourist expenditure in is therefore an important part of our corporate responMontego Bay. sibility. We supported the development of an online best The TUI Group has signed the Global Code of Ethics practice tool for whale shark guides, which is now for Tourism of the World Tourism Organization UNWTO a mandatory requirement for all whale shark guides in as a further expression of our commitment to observing the Quintana Roo region of Mexico. the human rights and fundamental freedoms of all people. Sustainability — ­­M A G A Z I N E 71 Building civil society with the TUI Stiftung Understanding Europe – a youth project addressing Euro-fatigue Current challenges like financial crises and growing numbers of refugees call for a common European response. But so many young people and first-time voters simply shrug their shoulders when anyone mentions Europe. Not even half of them voted in the European elections in 2014. In late August the TUI Stiftung, TUI’s German foundation, teamed up with the Schwarzkopf Foundation in Hamburg to launch the project Understanding Europe. The half-day courses bring students from secondary schools and vocational colleges together to discuss the EU. The aim is to impart fundamental knowledge about European politics and to point out ways people »The future of Europe lies in the hands of the can participate. The trainers who lead the courses are younger generation. The project Understanding young adults and students whose principal motivation is a desire to pass on their enthusiasm about Europe. Europe is an opportunity to strengthen young people’s enthusiasm for a shared Europe.« T H O M A S E L L E R B E C K , Chairman of the TUI Stiftung’s Board of Trustees 3 questions for: NAME CHRIS DREWS RESPONSIBLE FOR POSITION Articled clerk and trainer with “Understanding Europe” Sessions with school students for the project in Hamburg What are the most common prejudices young people exert a big influence on their everyday lives. And then bring with them to the compact course? it’s fun to watch how the penny drops. Suddenly they want to tackle even the difficult questions, like DREWS: It isn’t so much that the students have pre­ how laws are made. judices about the EU. The problem is more that the students simply aren’t interested in the EU and that they If you could have a wish to make young people more are confused by the complexity of the issue. interested in the EU, what would it be? So how can you arouse their interest? DREWS: A single wish ... It isn’t as easy as that. Politics are complicated. And it’s up to civil society to come to DREWS: We trainers show the students what the EU terms with it. The fact that foundations like this play a has to do with them. In concrete ways. First of all there role is doubtless very important. It would be good to are opportunities like Erasmus+. Very few of them have more of that. And then the media have a duty to realise that the programme doesn’t only offer co-fundbe more comprehensible and less partisan when reporting for university students to spend time abroad, but ing. But that is easier said than done. that school students and apprentices are also eligible. And secondly we make it clear how political decisions 72 Magazine published by TUI Group Group Corporate & External Affairs Group Communications Karl-Wiechert-Allee 4 30625 Hanover, Germany Phone: + 49 (0)511 566-6021 group.communications@tui.com Te x t and editorial TUI Group, Group Communications TUI Group, Contact Sustainable Development & Corporate Responsibility ag Text concept and Design 3st kommunikation, Mainz, Germany photogr aphy GettyImages (p. 32 bottom right, p. 42 – 43); Michael Neuhaus (cover, back cover, p. 11 – 21, 24, 28, 31, 32 bottom left, p. 33, 35, 52 – 53, 60); Riu (p. 68); Robinson (p. 51); Rüdiger Nehmzow (p. 5 – 7); Stefan Pielow (p. 25 bottom); TUI Benelux (p. 69); TUI Cruises (p. 22 – 23, 25 top, p. 29, 48); TUI Deutschland (p. 50 top left); TUIfly (p. 47); TUI UK (p. 50 centre) I l l u s t r at i o n s Blagovesta Bakardjieva (p. 10 – 15) 3st kommunikation, Mainz, Germany (p. 30, 55) carbon neutral natureOffice.com | DE-149-023370 print production printer Kunstund Werbedruck, Bad Oeynhausen, Germany The Magazine and the Annual Report are also available online: http://annualreport2014-15.tui-group.com UN Global Compact Progress Report TUI signed up to the UN Global Compact in 2014. We have openly pledged to respect the 10 Principles in all Supplier Code of Conduct: http://www.tuigroup. 4 areas: human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. This is TUI’s first progress report for the com/en-en/about-us/compliance/suppliers_ UN Global Compact. code_of_conduct The Index summarises the rules applied by TUI, the actions we implement and the outcomes we delivered TUI Code of Conduct: http://www.tuigroup.com/ during the reporting period. We have added links to more detailed information on the TUI Group websites. en-en/about-us/compliance PRINCIPLE RULE / AC TION OUTCOMES 1 and 2 TUI Code of Conduct The whistle-blower system is available in Support for human rights Training and worldwide whistle-blower system for reporting violations 47 countries and prevention of human (Mag. p. 70 and AR p. 50) rights violations Pledge to observe the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights 3 to 6 The Code of Conduct for the Protection of Children from Sexual Training courses in destination countries and Freedom of association, Exploitation in Travel and Tourism (“The Code”) partnerships with local authorities abolition of forced and The aims are supported through guest education and rules set out in child labour, elimination contracts with hoteliers in destination countries (Mag. p. 69) of discrimination Signature of the German Diversity Charter, Mixed leadership 31.3 % women in global Group management Higher percentage of women in Germany and globally – Mixed Leadership Programme (Mag. p. 62 und AR pp. 151– 152) Employee consultation / TUI Europe Forum 50 employee representatives from Representation and consultation of employees in countries of the European 14 countries Economic Area (Mag. p. 64) Women’s advancement in destination countries 44 recipients of trainee grants selected, Education and Employment Opportunities Project in Tunisia (Mag. p. 68) 10 women already taken on full-time 7 Efficient use of resources 8.2 million fewer pages of catalogues proPrecautionary environment Catalogue production: fewer catalogues printed; more online information duced over 2 years Decreasing CO 2 emissiprotection instead (Mag. p. 51); Guest transportation – training bus drivers to consume ons in the segment less petrol, optimising routes (Mag. p. 51) 8 Diversity and nature conservation 57,600 trees planted since 2009 Practical commitment to TUI Forest on Mallorca, re-afforestation initiative (Mag. p. 55) environment protection Green electricity 400 travel shops in Germany and the Procurement of green electricity (Mag. p. 50) TUI sites in Hanover 9 Modernisation of the aircraft fleet Relative CO 2 emissions of the TUI Airline fleet Development and diffusion Fleet renewal and modernisation, e.g. with winglets. Research and developfell by 2.3% in g CO 2 /passenger-kilometres of environmentally friendly ment: Eco Demonstrator project with Boeing (Mag. pp. 46 f.) technologies New cruise ships Energy efficiency of ships enhanced by up Energy savings in cruise ship operations and on-board waste management to 30 %, sulphur emissions cut by up to 99 % (Mag. p. 48) Waste separation rate nearly 100 % Energy efficiency in hotels 160,000 kwh generated from renewable Use of photovoltaics to provide hot water (Mag. p. 51) sources Travel shops CO 2 reduction of 24 % in travel shops Use of energy dashboards in British travel shops and conversion to LED technology in Germany (Mag. p. 50) 10 Code of Conduct / Supplier Code Business partners commit in particular to Anti-corruption Addresses ethical, social and legal expectations of business partners comply with all national and international (AR p. 48) anti-corruption laws of relevance to the supplier relationship Membership in Business Integrity Forum of Transparency Inter­n ational (AR p. 48) TUI Group Group Corporate & External Affairs Group Communications Karl-Wiechert-Allee 4 30625 Hanover, Germany
