UN GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress 2014 STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT I am pleased to confirm that SWEROAD reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, CEO, Jonas Hermanson Short describtion of the company Swedish National Road Consulting AB (SWEROAD) is a limited company owned by the state and administered by the Road Administration. SWEROAD offer consultancy services and knowledge within the transport sector. We are specialized within road, railroad and traffic safety and conduct our services internationally. SWEROADS projects contain advice and technical assistance for state owned and local agencies worldwide. PRINCIPLE 1: Businesses should HUMAN RIGHTS support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Vision It is SWEROADS goal to contribute to an increased level of road safety and mobility PRINCIPLE 2: make sure that in countries where road safety is lagging behind, causing unsafe means of transporthey are not complicit in human tation. Through our business we contribute to a greater economical development rights abuses. and growth within the countries we operate. We believe that our projects contribute to sustainable development in low-income countries, which leads to better living standards. SWEROAD supports the UN principles for protection of internationally proclaimed human rights and strives to support a healthy and sustainable business environment within the regions we work in. Progress It lies in every team leaders/supervisors responsibility to make sure that the work carried out through our projects is in line with our code of conduct. It is in our code of conduct (available at our website) stated that SWEROAD should e.g. strive for sound competition and work for the benefit of the customer without promoting illegitimate interests. Furthermore it states that we should always order and execute assignments with care and precision and within the framework of good professional business practice. Result SWEROAD does not accept any kind of human rights violation and put great emphasis on that all employees are familiar with our policies regarding business ethics and human rights. LABOUR RIGHTS Vision SWEROAD continuously work towards the goal of creating a positive working atmosPRINCIPLE 3: Businesses should phere and strive to create a workplace well appreciated by our employees. Our uphold the freedom of association business idea is to provide professional advisory and a wide knowledge base within and the effective recognition of our field of work. Our employee satisfaction is therefore a critical factor for us to the right to collective bargaining; be able to conduct business. PRINCIPLE 4: the elimination of Progress all forms of forced and compulsory Most of our employees are members in the trade unions and we put value on that labour; representatives from these unions are represented in our board of direction. SWEROAD has signed collective agreements with the trade unions. Extra insurance PRINCIPLE 5: the effective abohave been taken out with consideration taken to the potentially increased healthlition of child labour; and and safety risks that can occur during projects abroad. SWEROAD assists with health H[DPLQDWLRQVDQGYDFFLQDWLRQSULRUWRRXUHPSOR\HHV·GHSDUWXUHV DORQJZLWKDQ\ PRINCIPLE 6: the elimination of IDPLO\PHPEHUV·WKDWPD\WUDYHOZLWKWKHP 6WEROAD is furthermore members of discrimination in respect of emTRR, Trygghetsrådet. ployment and occupation. To ensure a positive and inspiring workplace for our employees we continuously conduct evaluative employeemanager meetings where we open up for discussion regarding potential issues or progress. Result SWEROAD perform assignments in a wide range of countries and so we highly value having a diversified employee base with different national backgrounds, fields of knowledge, experience and language skills presented. SWEROAD support the four UN principles regarding labour rights and continuously strive to provide a positive, and diverse working place with a focus on equality. There have been no reports during the year regarding any type of discrimination within the company. ENVIRONMENT Vision It is SWEROADS aim to contribute to better environmental standards in the countries that we operate in. Thanks to a high level of technical development within PRINCIPLE 7: Businesses should the Swedish traffic sector we can transfer valuable knowledge that helps decreasing support a precautionary approach emissions caused by an inefficient traffic sector within our customers countries. to environmental challenges; The environmental aspect must always be considered in both the planning an implePRINCIPLE 8: undertake initiamentation phase of every project we take on. Our aim is to be in the forefront of tives to promote greater environpromoting environmental awareness within the transport sector. We continuously mental responsibility; and strive to stay up to date with the help of, and co-operation with, universities and public authorities both domestically and internationally. PRINCIPLE 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environProgress mentally friendly technologies. We assist our customers with e.g. environmental impact assessments, environmental analysis and environmental action plans in order to help decrease the negative environmental impacts from the transport sector and to help develop better traffic standards abroad. All employees shall be well aware of our environmental policy and be offered relevant education within the area, previous to a project. SWEROAD encourages all employees to get personally involved in environmental issues to create a greater understanding for these issues. We believe that increased knowledge and personal interest in environmental issues is an important tool for conducting environmentally and socially sustainable business. We also try to choose suppliers and collaborative partners who share our environmental vision and policies. The largest direct negative environmental impact that SWEROAD stand for are emissions from work-related travels by airplane to our projects abroad. Furthermore green house gases are emitted when employees travel to our head office in Solna. Office related waste is also part of our negative environmental impact. Result Thanks to our wide knowledge base within good environmental standards . regarding the transport sector we are continuously contributing to greater road safety and increased transport efficiency in the countries in which we operate. Furthermore we always encourage our customers to choose as environmentally friendly measures of traffic solutions as possible within the planning of a project. In order for us to get an accurate overlook of our direct environmental impact we thoroughly measuring our resource consumption in kg office waste and amount of kg CO2 emitted/employee/year from travels by plane and car. PROJECTS Railroads in Ethiopia SWEROAD has together with Hifab International signed two project contracts with the Ethiopian Railway Vision Zero Initiative Corporation. The first project is to construct a 656 km SWEROAD supports the Swedish Vision Zero Initiative that railway line between Addis Ababa and the border of works towardst the goal of zero fatal traffic accidents. The Djibouti. The other project is a 30 km light rail through initiative put emphasis on developing a safer traffic environment Addis Ababa. Both projects are importants steps for through a responsibly built traffic environment. It is within this Ethiopia towards developing efficient and sustainable initiative SWEROADS aim to contribute with expertise knowledge public transport contributing to economic growth. and advisatory services regarding road saftey. Trainee program Road improvement in Lao PDR Many expert employees at SWEROAD are reaching or In the development and improvement of two critical national have reached retiremet age. In order to contribute to road links in Lao PDR, SWEROAD will assist the Ministry of Public the development of new expertise we offer young Works and Transport with administrating the civil works trainees at the Swedish Transport Administration the contract. Our consultant will futhermore help developing possibility to gain experience from international work environmental management plans in order for the projects to together with SWEROAD. This helps the trainees to build be carried through as efficiently as possible. up their CV and gather valuable knowledge within the field. PRINCIPLE 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. ANTI-CORRUPTION Vision Since SWEROAD partly act in countries that are politically unstable we put great emphasis on that all our employees are well aware of SWEROADS anti-corruption policy. SWEROAD has since 1986 worked on the basis of our code of conduct regarding human rights, business ethics and anti-corruption. Progress In the start up phase of every new project we ensure that all involved employees are well aware of S WEROADS company policies regarding ethics and anti-corruption. In this phase, meetings are held where potential risks, issues and cultural differences regarding the country that the project is taking place within are thoroughly discussed. SWEROAD does not accept any kind of corrupt activity, extortion or bribery. At every recruitment or project employment SWEROADS company policy regarding business ethics and our code of conduct is attached with our employment agreements for the employee to take part of. Result SWEROAD has during the past year not received any information indicating involvement in any type of corrupt activity.
