99157-82150-Cartaz_DiaDeResponsa+ID_460x640_1.pdf PG-1 09:15:10 August 14, 2014 Bringing People Together For a Better World Anheuser-Busch InBev / 2014 Global Citizenship Report peça o RG antes de vendeR ceRveja. venda e consumo proibidos para menores de 18 anos Contents 3/ CEO Letter 5/ Dream, People, Culture 7 / Value Chain 8/ Goals & Progress 9/ Responsible Drinking 16 / Environment 33 / Our People in the Community 44 / About This Report 3 LETTER FROM OUR CEO Welcome To Our 2014 Global Citizenship Report Dreaming big. That is collectively, the dream our products. In 2011, we AT&T, Chevron, Ericsson, how we achieve more at becomes possible. This set companywide Global Facebook, IBM, iHeartMedia, Anheuser-Busch InBev. report details the steps we Responsible Drinking Goals PepsiCo and Walmart, is Because when you dream, are taking and the progress to be met by the end of working with leading you open new possibilities we are making on that 2014. We are pleased to road safety experts from that talented, motivated shared journey. say that we achieved or academia, governments people will strive to attain. surpassed all of them. And, and other organizations For centuries, beer has in true AB InBev fashion, to help prevent the nearly And when they do, we brought people together to we are now developing 3,000 traffic accident reach even higher. But a make positive connections. new goals that we will fatalities that occur every dream without focus is But like so many products, announce in the second day by improving the safety just a fantasy. That is why it must be used properly. half of 2015 – goals that of roads around the world. we clearly define ours: to We take great care in will demonstrate a greater Partners have agreed be the Best Beer Company brewing the highest quality focus on partnerships and to pool their collective Bringing People Together beers and want them to collective impact so we can expertise, data-driven For a Better World. be enjoyed that same achieve even more. insights, technology and We all want a Better World. way … with great care. networks to identify and We want safety, health One critically important A related collaboration that scale industry best practices and prosperity for our way that we advance we are strongly committed and raise awareness of this families, our friends and our our dream is to work to is the Together for Safer major global health issue. communities. We want a with families, educators, Roads coalition, of which planet that sustains us now law enforcement, retail AB InBev is a founding Brewing beer and delivering and for all the generations partners and community member. Convened in 2014, it to the millions of people to come. And when we groups to promote the this group of private sector who enjoy it around the pursue these things responsible enjoyment of companies, including AIG, world takes 4 LETTER FROM OUR CEO agricultural and other environmental well-being we have saved more than Our people are guided by resources, like barley, of the communities where 55 million USD on energy a strong Code of Business water, energy, packaging, we all live and work. That costs and reduced our GHG Conduct that spells out transportation and is why we are focused on emissions by 10.6% since how we are to honor refrigeration. Our Global minimizing our water use 2012, achieving our 2017 our commitment to the Environmental Goals, throughout our value global greenhouse gas goal highest ethical standards. which address each of chain — from helping three years early. Adherence to that Code these resources and span farmers use enhanced starts at the top. Our In 2014, we supported Board of Directors receives our entire value chain, are irrigation technology and the economic health of in-person anti-corruption important benchmarks drought-resistant seeds communities throughout and compliance training for our Better World to grow more barley with the world by creating jobs annually, and certain Dream. In 2014, we made less water, to reducing our and investing over 24 employees must complete real progress against our in-brewery water usage, to billion USD in combined an annual Code of eight goals, five of which leading ambitious multiwages, taxes and capital Business Conduct online are focused outside our stakeholder partnerships expenditures. But our training program. brewery walls. This includes that help protect commitment and impact our newly introduced goal watersheds that serve our go well beyond financial Continuing to deliver on to reduce greenhouse gas breweries and communities. metrics. Nearly 61,000 of our Better World dream emissions in our logistics This includes reusing water our colleagues volunteered is not just the right thing operations – formalizing leftover from the brewing more than 225,000 hours to do – it is one of the our aspiration to be process to support other of community service as we keys to maintaining our the brewing industry’s businesses, and to irrigate supported key partnerships strength as a company and sustainable logistics leader. community parks and on disaster relief, education to achieving long-term agricultural crops, thereby Water is the key ingredient and economic development profitable growth. As we offsetting additional in all of our products. In where we live and work. look ahead to the growing water use. Our deep developed nations with list of challenges that commitment to reducing The pursuit – let alone the plentiful water supplies, confront our company and our global water usage realization – of our dream this precious resource is our society as a whole, it is helped us achieve our would be impossible often taken for granted. In clear that collective action goal of a leading-edge 3.2 without the commitment, many developing nations, is needed. At AB InBev, we hectoliters of water per dedication and diligence water resource challenges are committed to leading hectoliter of production of our 155,000 colleagues may be magnified by by example to be the Best three years early. around the globe. They climate pressures and Beer Company Bringing bring our dream to life People Together For a inadequate infrastructure The effects of climate every day through our Better World. and governance. Severe change on agriculture Dream-People-Culture droughts in the western and other systems have platform. We work to help United States and in the potential to impact our colleagues achieve their Brazil are just two current our business and society highest performance by examples of these issues. at large. We have made creating an environment energy/GHG reductions in The growing scarcity of of true meritocracy, candor our operations a priority fresh water is not just an and informality, and by for years and more recently issue for our company. fostering entrepreneurship across our value chain. Carlos Brito, It is a global risk to the and best practice sharing. Through this commitment, Chief Executive Officer economic, social and 5 DREAM, PEOPLE, CULTURE Dream, People, Culture At AB InBev, we have a big This year, we have divided dream – one that has evolved AB InBev’s global citizenship from the centuries old role reporting between this selfbeer plays in bringing people contained PDF document and together. We aim to be the Best our corporate website. The PDF Beer Company Bringing People document primarily summarizes Together For a Better World. And our 2014 activities, initiatives the keys to bringing that dream and achievements, while to life are our people and our the website provides further culture. information on our Better World strategy and ongoing activities, As part of our commitment and offers in-depth exploration to be the best, we constantly of key topics. challenge ourselves to build a company that generates Taken together, the PDF and sustainable long-term growth website content constitute our and results. Read more about citizenship reporting for 2014. our Dream, People, Culture and 10 guiding principles. 6 BRINGING PEOPLE TOGETHER FOR A BETTER WORLD Bringing People Together For a Better World We know our dream is ambitious. and makes a difference in But any dream worth pursuing our communities. We do all should be. As we strive to be the this while ensuring that we Best Beer Company Bringing follow reasonable corporate People Together For a Better governance and social policies World, we continuously push that address the needs of our ourselves and our stakeholders, people. They are the engine that working together to reach pushes us forward, taking our and exceed our goals. Our achievements to new levels. Better World focus promotes responsible drinking, protects Read more about our Better World Pillars. and preserves the environment Making Beer the Right Way Learn more about our value chain by clicking on boxes of interest. CROP CULTIVATION POWERHOUSE BREWING PACKAGING DISTRIBUTION RETAIL & CONSUMER Renewable Energy Water Use Water Treatment and Return Packaging Innovation Distribution Efficiencies Reuse & Recycling In addition to using less energy overall, we also Our global water usage rate in 2014 was 3.23 hl/hl of Repurposing water use for production is a central part of We continue to work with a number of partners – including use renewable energy sources in parts of our production, including all the plants within the original our global water strategy. After use, the water is cleaned suppliers, wholesalers, procurement companies and We continue to evaluate ways to distribute We recycled or composted more than 6.6 million metric operations where they are available and scope of our 2017 goal, plus new acquisitions and and returned directly to the local watershed, reused in packaging experts – to identify new ways to minimize the our products in the most efficient manner. In tons in 2014. In Brazil, our operations developed the ﬁrst ﬁnancially viable. Ten percent of our 2014 startups since 2012, the baseline year for that goal. our operations or by the community, or supplied to a environmental impact and cost of our packaging, while Houston, Texas, we partnered with Ryder to bottle made from 100% PET in 2012; to date, we have global energy use was from renewable sources, This represents a 3.6% water reduction over the municipal treatment system and then returned to the meeting quality standards and consumer expectations. replace our ﬂeet of 66 diesel-powered tractors introduced about 530 million of these bottles in the helping us reduce our emissions and our previous year. We are also 50% of the way to reaching watershed. At the end of 2014, nine facilities provided with cleaner burning compressed natural Brazilian market. energy costs. our goal to engage in watershed protection measures clean water to meet local community water needs. gas-powered tractors. We expect each CNG in 100% of our facilities located in key areas in truck to emit 23% less GHG compared with Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, China, Mexico, Peru and the a comparable diesel engine. United States, in partnership with local stakeholders. T H E PPU UBB Growers Program Energy Use Brewmaster Spent Grains Packaging Community Responsible Drinking Through our barley growers program, we’re conducting Our Voyager Plant Optimization provides Our Brewmaster Program uses virtual classroom Our product packaging includes recyclable In addition to providing economic beneﬁts We are continuously encouraging our consumers At the end of the brewing cycle, spent barley seed research to create higher-quality varieties strong management practices that lead our software, in combination with hands-on training, materials such as glass, cardboard and such as jobs and paying taxes, we support to enjoy our products responsibly. Through grain is reused once again, providing feed that produce better yields, while using less water and resource conservation efforts around the which allows us to share our highest quality, most aluminum, and we are working to minimize our communities where we live and work responsible drinking advertising and programs for cattle. Worldwide, we recycled 98.5% tolerating extreme weather conditions. By the end of world. Since 2012, our reduced energy efficient brewing practices from zone to zone packaging materials overall. We reduced our through charitable donations and like our annual Global Be(er) Responsible Day, of our solid waste in 2014, with 124 of 2014, we had launched barley pilot programs in 78% of intensity has saved the company more and consistently train the best brewmasters in materials packaging by 20,600 tons in 2014. volunteering. In 2014, nearly 61,000 of Family Talk About Drinking, and promoting our 150 plants worldwide achieving our key barley-growing regions, in partnership with local than 55 million USD. the world. our colleagues volunteered their time designated drivers, we reach distributors, zero-water-to landﬁll status. stakeholders. We provide support to 20,000 barley and talents to our communities. retailers and consumers around the world. growers in Argentina, Brazil, China, Russia, the United States and Uruguay. Goals & Progress Responsible Drinking 2011 Goal 2014 Reach at least 100 million adults with programs developed by subject matter experts that help parents talk with their children 100M 383M about underage drinking 2011 Goal 2014 Provide ID-checking materials and other educational information to at least half-a-million bars, clubs, restaurants and grocery stores 500K 1.9M to help them prevent sales to minors 2011 Goal 2014 Provide training on responsible alcohol beverage sales to at least 1 million bartenders, waiters, grocery store clerks, and others who 1M 1.4M serve and sell alcohol 2011 Goal 2014 Reach at least half-a-billion legal-age consumers to increase awareness of the importance of using a designated driver or 500M 1.5B safe-ride home 2011 Goal 2014 Invest at least 300 million USD in advertising and programs to help remind and educate consumers about the importance of 300M 328M (USD) responsible drinking 2011 2014 Celebrate Global Be(er) Responsible Day annually to promote the importance of responsible drinking among our employees, Completed retail customers and consumers The data points in the table above are self-reported. Externally assured data, accounting to reach the goals’ target, can be found on pages 10 – 15 and are noted with the symbol . Environment 2014 PROGRESS/GOALS TO BE MET BY END OF 2017 2012 2017 Reduce water risks and improve water management in Pilot Programs launched in 78% of key barley growing regions 100% of our key barley-growing regions, in partnership 0% 100% with local stakeholders 2012 2014 2017 Engage in watershed protection measures at 100% of our facilities located in key areas in Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, China, Mexico, Peru 0% 50% 100% and the United States, in partnership with local stakeholders* 2012 2014/2017 Reduce global water usage to a leading-edge 3.2 hectoliters of water per hectoliter of production* 3.54 hl/hl 3.2 hl/hl 2012 2017 2014 Reduce global greenhouse gas emissions per hectoliter of production by 10%, including a 15% reduction per hectoliter in China* 0% 10% 10.6% 2012 2014 2017 Reduce global energy usage per hectoliter of production* 0% 7.5% 10% by 10% 2012 2014 2017 Reduce packaging materials by 100,000 tons 68.4K 100,000T 2012 2014 2017 Reach a 70% global average of eco-friendly cooler purchases annually 47% 70% 2013 2014 2017 Reduce greenhouse gas emissions in logistics operations by 15% per hectoliter sold from our 2013 baseline** 0% 3.3% 15% Operational water and energy goals are measured against a 2012 baseline; our logistics goal is *Data is from the plants in the business footprint at the end of 2012 when the goal was established. measured against a 2013 baseline. **Our logistics goal was added in 2014 to formalize our aspiration to be the sustainable logistics leader in the brewing industry. Our People In The Community 61K Number of employees globally who volunteered their time and 71% Reduction in lost-time injuries since 2012 (excludes South Korean talents to our communities operations, which were acquired in 2014) 1.9M Hours of employee training 9 RESPONSIBLE DRINKING Responsible Drinking Advancing the Cause of Responsible Drinking As the world’s leading brewer, In 2011, we set six companywide AB InBev is committed to promoting Global Responsible Drinking Goals to the responsible enjoyment of our be met by the end of 2014. We are products. To support that commitment, proud to report that over the course of we develop and implement alcohol the four years, we came together with education and awareness programs, our colleagues and partners across the while opposing the harmful use of globe to meet all of those goals and alcohol, including underage drinking, far exceed some1. excessive drinking and drunk driving. 2011 Goal 2014 Reach at least 100 million adults with programs developed by subject matter experts that help parents talk with their children 100M 383M about underage drinking 2011 Goal 2014 Provide ID-checking materials and other educational information to at least half-a-million bars, clubs, restaurants and grocery stores 500K 1.9M to help them prevent sales to minors 2011 Goal 2014 Provide training on responsible alcohol beverage sales to at least 1 million bartenders, waiters, grocery store clerks, and others who 1M 1.4M serve and sell alcohol 2011 Goal 2014 Reach at least half-a-billion legal-age consumers to increase awareness of the importance of using a designated driver or 500M 1.5B safe-ride home 2011 Goal 2014 Invest at least 300 million USD in advertising and programs to help remind and educate consumers about the importance of 300M 328M (USD) responsible drinking 2011 2014 Celebrate Global Be(er) Responsible Day annually to promote the importance of responsible drinking among our employees, Completed retail customers and consumers Read more about Our Commitment 1 An external assurance provider was engaged by AB InBev to verify the data for all of the Global Responsible Drinking Goals above with the exception of the goal to invest at least 300 million USD in advertising and programs to help remind and educate consumers about the importance of responsible drinking. The data in scope in relation to these goals can be found on pages 10 – 13. The data points in the table above are self-reported. Externally assured data, accounting to reach the goals’ target, can be found on pages 10 – 15 and are noted with the symbol . 10 RESPONSIBLE DRINKING A Finger on the In 2014, in keeping with efforts, via our Sales business owners. Tips Pulse of Consumers our company’s competitive team who used iPads included: nature to push ourselves on visits to retailers to AB InBev celebrated its • Establishing a to achieve more, we share the training and fifth annual Global Be(er) Responsible Alcohol implemented the first encourage employees Responsible Day (GBRD) Service Policy and annual competition among to take the pledge by releasing the results posting it prominently our geographical Zones for in support of our of its first international in locations where the best GBRD activation. GUINNESS WORLD survey on attitudes it can be viewed by We were pleased to RECORDS® achievement. toward the responsible patrons and staff. recognize our China Other regional highlights serving and selling of and Mexico teams. from our fifth annual GBRD • Reminding servers to alcohol beverages.1 included: “Chat and Check” with ›› Mexico invited its The survey asked adults of guests to monitor peer companies from ›› In Brazil, more than legal drinking age in eight sobriety. the national beer 3,000 employees countries about the impact association, Cerveceros participated, promoting • Acknowledging, that bartenders, waiters de México, to participate the importance of recognizing and and store clerks have on in the first industry-wide responsible drinking rewarding staff who encouraging responsible celebration of GBRD. with the assistance defuse difficult drinking. Their response? More than 16,200 of local politicians, situations effectively Rather than being irritated Modelo volunteers, with officials, celebrities and in accordance or embarrassed, most over 15,700 additional and soccer players. with the law and consumers either do industry volunteers, house policies. not mind or are flattered focused their efforts ›› Across Europe, there when asked to show on combating were 31 projects ›› In the United States, identification. They are underage drinking involving 560 designated driver also receptive to tips from and sales of alcohol to participants, totaling campaigns united a server or seller about minors. The campaign more than 400 wholesaler employees, making responsible choices included the hashtag volunteer hours and government officials, when drinking, such as “#NoTeHagasGuey” 1,600 servers and Major League Baseball eating food while enjoying (Don’t Fool Yourself) sellers trained. teams and a NASCAR a drink and taking a safe and a video, which has team. In addition, more ride home. ›› In Canada, our GBRD than 15,000 servers racked up more than events focused on were trained during the 3 million views. And, when the survey responsible serving month of September asked about a safe ride ›› Our China team and selling, with local in partnership with the home, Shakira, followed by delivered nearly 80,000 events celebrating retail National Restaurant Kate Middleton, Duchess server and seller employees via a “Duty Association. of Cambridge, were the trainings during the of Care” campaign that most popular choices for a month of September offered advice and Read more about Global celebrity designated driver. 2014, as part of GBRD support to servers and Be(er) Responsible Day Assured Metric 1 The territories in scope for this goal are AB InBev’s six geographical Zones for the period between 2011 and 2014. 11 RESPONSIBLE DRINKING according to the annual Goal: Reach at least 100 Goal: Provide ID-checking million adults with programs materials and other wholesaler survey, as well developed by subject matter educational information to as more than 131,000 experts that help parents at least half-a-million bars, retailers in Brazil in talk with their children about clubs, restaurants and grocery 2013, according to a underage drinking stores to help them prevent national survey. sales to minors Family Talk Launch, Korea Selling Responsibly, Argentina We introduced our Family Talk About Drinking One example of our longprogram in South Korea standing efforts to promote as part of the local Global ID checking among retailers Be(er) Responsible Day is our “Vente Responsable/ celebration. Family Talk is Sell Responsibly” campaign designed to encourage in Argentina. In 2014, conversations between more than 2,000 parents and children in employees walked more order to help prevent than 19,000 kilometers underage drinking. (11,700 miles) delivering AB InBev provides free our point-of-sale materials materials that coach to retailers, reminding them parents through tough to check identification conversations and and ensure they are selling More than 3,000 encourage direct questions our beers to legal age retailers took our consumers. Many retailers pledge to sell & and discussion. The serve responsibly guidebook was developed took our pledge to sell in Argentina. with Professor Chang-Ock and serve responsibly. In Kim of Seoul Women’s addition, we distributed University. With the launch flyers to consumers of the program in Korea, reminding them that Family Talk is now we brew our beers for available in all of our key legal age individuals to markets worldwide. enjoy responsibly. To meet our goal, in 2011 We have demonstrated and 2012 alone, our U.S. our goal achievement via team reached more than activations reaching more 100 million adults via our than 400,000 retailers in Family Talk Facebook page, the United States in 2011, as well as paid media. 2012 and 2013 combined, Assured Metric 1 The country in scope for this goal is the United States for the period between 2011 and 2014. 2 The countries in scope for this goal are the United States and Brazil for the period between 2011 and 2014. 12 RESPONSIBLE DRINKING Goal: Provide training on contributed more than surpassed its target of sequel, “True Love Needs a responsible alcohol beverage 107,000 trainings, which 250,000 tests, achieving the Designated Driver — How sales to at least 1 million were also done online and in second-highest number of Much Love Can Start Again,” bartenders, waiters, grocery person, in 2014. tests since the campaign premiered. Yao Ming store clerks, and others who serve and sell alcohol 1 began. “BOB” now operates reprised his role as the lead in 16 countries across the actor and was named one Goal: Reach at least half-abillion legal-age consumers European Union. of the top 10 influencers Going for the Record to increase awareness of at the launch festival. The the importance of using a sequel received more than AB InBev also kicked designated driver or Celebrities Promoting 50 million views within the off, and succeeded in, a safe-ride home 2 Safe Rides Home, China first month. Some premiere new GUINNESS WORLD Thanks to a partnership with attendees were provided RECORDS® achievement Preventing Drunk the magazine with a luxurious designatedfor “Most Pledges Received Driving, Belgium Southern Weekend, the driver experience in the for a Campaign” by asking China Youth Development form of a Budweiserbartenders, wait staff and The “BOB” campaign to Foundation and the China themed limousine transport store clerks around the prevent drunk driving Alcohol Drinks Foundation, to and from the event, and world to pledge to always and promote the use of nearly 80,000 servers and more than 150 media serve and sell alcohol in a designated drivers and safe sellers in China were trained personalities and celebrities responsible way. We set the rides home continued with in September 2014. This were also provided with a new record with more than strong results in Belgium, year’s campaign featured free, safe-ride home. 747,000 pledges received where it was created by the a broader focus than in the between Sept. 1 and We have achieved our goal Belgian Brewers Association past; from drunk driving Dec. 31, 2014, more than by reaching more than of which AB InBev is the to road safety behaviors, tripling the previous record. 230 million adults in the largest member. During with the added power of the 2014-2015 holiday United States via paid We have demonstrated our such national ambassadors drunk-driving prevention media digital, print and goal achievement via more as actor Lu Yi and his campaign, local and federal television placements in than 162,000 server/seller wife joining professional law enforcement agencies 2011, 2012 and 2013, and trainings, which included basketball player Yao Ming administered 321,156 by reaching more than 280 both online and in-person and his wife. breath alcohol tests, million adults in China via trainings, in the United resulting in 8,994 positive In 2013 we launched paid media placements in States in 2011 through tests. That proportion of the mini-movie “True taxis, and earned media 2014. In addition, our China positive tests of 2.8% was a Love Needs a Designated impressions via public team delivered more than decrease from the previous Driver – If You Are the One,” relations activities and 788,000 trainings, which year’s 3.2%. According to to promote responsible online video shares in included both in-person the Belgian Institute for drinking in China. On 2011, 2012 and 2013. and online versions, in 2014, and our Mexico team Road Safety, the campaign Dec. 7, 2014, the Assured Metric 1 The countries in scope for this goal are the United States, Mexico and China for the period between 2011 and 2014. A retail employee who serves or sells alcohol beverages may be counted one time per year. 2 The countries in scope for this goal are the United States and China for the period between 2011 and 2014. “Legal-age consumers” are individuals living in the United States or China and are at or above the legal drinking age of the related country (respectively age 21 and age 18) at the time of the reach. Reach is defined as a legal-age consumer that read or viewed, as defined by the third party media monitoring/planning agencies, the messaging on designated driver or safe ride home. A legal-age consumer may be counted one time per media type, per year, as determined by the methodology of the third party media monitoring/planning agencies. 13 RESPONSIBLE DRINKING Remembering Man’s reunion is joyful, but a now developing a new crashes will become the Best Friend, thoughtful reminder to set of company goals fifth leading cause of death United States make a plan to stay safe. to be announced in the by 2030, surpassing such The “Friends are Waiting” second half of 2015. With diseases as HIV/AIDS video has garnered more these goals we will further and diabetes. Goal: Invest at least 300 million USD in advertising than 141 million social expand our efforts and media impressions and 60 strengthen the collective “Together for Safer Roads and programs to help remind and educate consumers million views on YouTube. It responsibility we share with brings together global about the importance of was also recognized as one our employees, consumers, industry leaders, including responsible drinking of the Top 10 most viewed wholesalers, retailers, law Anheuser-Busch InBev, YouTube videos in 2014. enforcement, elected who believe business can To share this message, we officials, educators and drive change that will help This year, we extended our invested in high-profile other partners. reduce the number of popular “puppy” themed television placements deaths and injuries due to U.S. commercials to include such as the Major League road traffic accidents.” a “Friends are Waiting” Collective Action on Baseball playoff games. television advertisement Road Safety Carlos Brito, CEO of Anheuseraimed at reinforcing our Our global responsible Busch InBev and Chairman of efforts to raise public In 2014, AB InBev was Together for Safer Roads. drinking investment, awareness and educate proud to be the convener including advertising Coalition members will be consumers and influencers of a group of leading development, media working in three core areas: about the risks of drunk global companies placements, and program 1) safer roads, vehicles driving. The video tells that came together to development and and systems; 2) safer road the story of a young man create Together for Safer implementation, across all users; and 3) advocacy and and his dog and their very Roads – an innovative Zones for 2011 through thought leadership. The special relationship. We cross-sector coalition 2014 equaled more than coalition will be advised see both their adventures focused on improving 328 million USD. by an expert panel of and their everyday lives road safety and reducing Read more about our deaths and injuries eminent leaders in road together, and we wait, Responsible Drinking from collisions. We are a safety. These experts will along with the dog, for the founding member, along draw upon their collective owner to come home after Programs. with: AIG, AT&T, Chevron, expertise, data-driven a night out with friends. It Ericsson, Facebook, IBM, insights, technology is a long night, but the pair Our Commitment to iHeartMedia, PepsiCo and and networks to identify is reunited, thanks to the Do Even More Walmart. industry best practices and young man’s smart decision raise awareness. In 2015, to stay at a friend’s house Having met 100% of The World Health the panel plans to publish rather than drive home. We the Global Responsible Organization (WHO) a white paper to help guide are reminded that for some, Drinking Goals we set for estimates that, without the activities of Together for the wait never ended; the ourselves in 2011, we are intervention, road traffic Safer Roads. 14 RESPONSIBLE DRINKING Responsible ›› is directed at individuals training more than 80% Marketing and of legal drinking age of these colleagues in Communications and above; 2014 , and are committed to training the remainder At AB InBev, we work hard ›› portrays responsible in 20151. to brew the highest quality behavior; beer, and we want our beers to be enjoyed by ›› does not associate Consumer Information drinking with hazardous individuals of legal drinking As part of our efforts to activities; age. Consistent with our inform consumers about goal of being the Best ›› does not promote both our beers and their Beer Company Bringing health or functional choices, labels on all of our People Together For a Better attributes of our beers around the world World, it is important that products; and now list the alcohol content we market and promote and feature responsible our beers in a responsible ›› does not imply that drinking and recycling way. We updated our drinking contributes to reminders. In addition, we Responsible Marketing and performance or success. have listed calories, grains Communications Code and allergen information Practicing our in 2014 to help ensure for more than 200 of Responsible Marketing that all of our colleagues, our brands in multiple and Communications as well as our business languages on our website Code every day is part of a partners, provide besttapintoyourbeer.com. The strong company tradition practice leadership in this website also contains of corporate responsibility area, while being sensitive valuable information about that dates back nearly a to local and cultural responsible drinking, such century. Where national differences among our as alcohol truths and myths laws, regulations or selfmarkets. We also strive and helpful tips for a safe, regulatory codes already to ensure that all of our fun night out. We have provided ID exist, we respect and marketing, sales, promotion checking materials observe them as well. and communications to 1.9 million bars, clubs, restaurants partners comply with our In 2014, we had set and grocery stores code, which specifies that the challenging goal from 2011 to 2014. all of AB InBev’s commercial to train 95% of our key communications shall employees in Marketing, be ethical, honest and Sales, Legal and Corporate truthful, and that they must Affairs globally on reflect generally accepted Anheuser-Busch InBev’s contemporary standards of Responsible Marketing and good taste and decency. Communications Code via our online training system. Under our Code, We are proud to report responsible marketing: that we were successful in Assured Metric 1 The territory in scope for this goal is comprised of Anheuser-Busch InBev's Top 10 markets, based on volumes sold in 2013, located in the company's six geographic Zones. Key Employees are defined as individuals in Salary Bands O-V working part-time or full-time for Anheuser-Busch InBev and its fully-owned subsidiaries. This group of individuals represents the employees responsible at Anheuser-Busch InBev for the development, approval and execution of the programs outlined in the company’s Responsible Marketing & Communications Code. 15 RESPONSIBLE DRINKING Working Together to of the implementation also include conditions Make an Even Greater of the World Health for producers to Impact Organization’s (WHO) consider that will enable Global Strategy to Reduce stringent standards AB InBev supports the the Harmful Use of Alcohol. to be applied to social International Center for Participating companies are media content across all Alcohol Policies (ICAP), working together to: platforms. which merged with the Global Alcohol Producers ›› Reduce underage ›› Forward Advice Notice Group (GAPG) in October drinking. (FAN): Whenever 2014 to become the alcohol beverage ›› Strengthen and expand companies’ controlled International Alliance marketing codes of digital platforms allow for Responsible Drinking practice. content sharing, those (IARD). This organization is comprised of the leading ›› Provide consumer companies should producers of beer, wine and information and include a FAN on the spirits. The formation of responsible product platform, clearly stating IARD extends its member innovation. that the content should companies’ work over not be forwarded to the last two decades to ›› Reduce drinking and anyone under the legal build an evidence base, driving. purchase age in the inform decision-makers, country where ›› Enlist the support of and advance hands-on it is viewed. retailers to reduce programs to reduce harmful drinking. ›› Transparency: harmful drinking. The The DGPs organization will: The first year report on the will be Producers’ Commitments ›› Advocate for the most independently for 2013 is available online. effective policies and monitored and In 2014 as part of the programs. results will be Producers’ Commitments, shared publicly, ›› Communicate the views the Digital Guiding including and perspectives of Principles (DGPs) were with relevant member companies. launched. These include: government agencies ›› Serve as a single global ›› Clear guidance for around the world. point of contact for social media: The At AB InBev, our international and signatory companies Responsible Marketing national agencies, call on social media and Communications member states, NGOs, providers to implement Code already incorporates and other stakeholders. and strengthen the DGPs, so we are age confirmation A significant focus of IARD’s ensuring compliance mechanisms. But even work is the Producers’ across our operations. in the absence of these Commitments, in support mechanisms, the DGPs 16 ENVIRONMENT Environment We have established a suite of eight ambitious environmental goals – five of which are externally focused – to be completed by the end of 2017. These goals will help us measure our efforts and chart our progress against several critical issues that are material to our business. 2014 PROGRESS/GOALS TO BE MET BY END OF 2017 2012 2017 Reduce water risks and improve water management in Pilot Programs launched in 78% of key barley growing regions 100% of our key barley-growing regions, in partnership 0% 100% with local stakeholders 2012 2014 2017 Engage in watershed protection measures at 100% of our facilities located in key areas in Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, China, Mexico, 0% 50% 100% Peru and the United States, in partnership with local stakeholders* Reduce global water usage to a leading-edge 3.2 hectoliters of 2012 2014/2017 water per hectoliter of production* 3.54 hl/hl 3.2hl/hl 2012 2017 2014 Reduce global greenhouse gas emissions per hectoliter of production by 10%, including a 15% reduction per hectoliter in China* 0% 10% 10.6% 2012 2014 2017 Reduce global energy usage per hectoliter of production* by 10% 0% 7.5% 10% 2012 2014 2017 Reduce packaging materials by 100,000 tons 68.4K 100,000T 2012 2014 2017 Reach a 70% global average of eco-friendly cooler purchases annually 47% 70% 2013 2014 2017 Reduce greenhouse gas emissions in logistics operations by 15% per hectoliter sold from our 2013 baseline** 0% 3.3% 15% Operational water and energy goals are measured against a 2012 baseline; our logistics goal is *Data is from the plants in the business footprint at the end of 2012 when the goal was established. measured against a 2013 baseline. **Our logistics goal was added in 2014 to formalize our aspiration to be the sustainable logistics leader in the brewing industry. An external assurance provider was engaged by AB InBev to verify the data for all of the Environment goals above with the exception of the goal to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in logistics operations by 15% per hectoliter sold from our 2013 baseline. The data in scope in relation to these goals can be found on pages 20 – 31. 17 ENVIRONMENT Environmental Strategy, Goals and Management As the world’s leading AB InBev continues to work (BIER), we help accelerate transportation and brewer, our business within the Sustainable the development of warehousing suppliers. touches the lives of millions Agriculture Initiative (SAI) sustainable solutions We are confident we can of people each year. From Platform, the leading food through industryreduce the carbon footprint barley fields, to breweries, and beverage industry specific data collection, of our logistics operations to restaurants, to homes initiative dedicated to the methodologies, standard using alternative fuels, and to communities, we development of sustainable setting and best-practice smart driving tools, more have the opportunity to agriculture worldwide. SAI sharing. We also participate efficient trucks and use our considerable scale helps us determine how in several other global increased collaboration and expertise to address we identify water risks, as collaborative initiatives, with our supply chain some of the most pressing well as opportunities to including the UN partners. issues of our time, including develop a more sustainable Global Compact, the UN Thanks to the collective climate change, fresh agricultural supply chain. Environmental Programme action of each of our water scarcity and limited For example, in 2014, we and the UN CEO Water internal teams and the natural resources. Our worked with Hopfenring, Mandate, of which we are support of our many environmental strategy the German Hop Growers a steering committee external partners, we can can be summarized in two Association, to conduct a member. The best practices report robust, measureable simple words: collective pilot project in German discovered and shared progress against each of action. We are in a hop growing districts through our participation in our environmental goals. unique position to unite using the SAI platform as these initiatives continue to many different parties — the backbone. Using the inform our strategy. employees, consumers, 105 criteria from the SAI In 2014, we unveiled our partners and suppliers, checklist that are relevant most recent environment public officials, NGOs, for the hops industry, 21% goal: reduce greenhouse academics and others — to of our direct hops growers gas emissions in logistics affect real change at both were certified sustainable operations by 15% per the local and global levels. in 2014. Our goal is to hectoliter of product Just as our products help have 75% of direct growers sold. This goal is further create experiences that certified by the end of 2015. evidence of our increasing bring friends and families In addition to our work commitment to look together, our collaborative with SAI, as a member beyond our own walls mindset helps advance of the Beverage Industry — in this case, to our critical shared goals. Environmental Roundtable inbound and outbound 18 ENVIRONMENT This progress results directly company received 160,000 experts to help us shape World Wildlife Fund from the commitment of USD in fines related to and evaluate our approach, for Nature (WWF AB InBev colleagues, from environmental issues. We with a particular focus on International) senior management to take every noncompliance watersheds, water systems very seriously, promptly ›› Hal Hamilton, Founder frontline employees. And and sustainable agriculture. correct any operational and Co-Director, we reinforce and incentivize deficiencies and, if This Environmental Sustainable Food Lab this performance by necessary, make changes Technical Advisory tying the compensation ›› Howard Neibling, to, and investments in, our Committee is a sounding of many employees to Associate Professor, management systems to board who regularly the achievement of our Department of avoid similar problems in provide feedback on how environmental goals. The Biological and the future. To put this in we execute our strategies global management Agricultural Engineering, context, about half of the and measure our results in systems at their disposal, University of Idaho 2014 fines were related to the context of economic, including our proprietary an incident at our beverage environmental and social For more information program, Voyager Plant facility in Viamão, Brazil, impacts. The group also on these individuals and Optimization (VPO), allow where some byproduct serves as a bridge to organizations, please see us to share goals, data, materials leaked through key public and private the Environmental Technical progress and best practices a storm water drain into stakeholders who share our Advisory Committee section across the company. By the environment. No concern and our desire to of our website. tracking and documenting environmental damage improve critical watersheds. this information, these systems enable us to scale occurred, and the leaks In 2014, the Committee what we have learned at were repaired to prevent reviewed AB InBev’s the local level throughout future occurrences. watershed protection our operations. and agricultural Environmental development initiatives For more, see Environmental Technical to help ensure that our Management System on Advisory Committee related projects are on our website. track with the company’s Successfully managing our To ensure that we integrate public commitments. environmental impacts new, industry-leading perspectives into our The three Advisory is a vast and complex environmental strategy, Committee members are: undertaking. There is always potential for some in 2013, we convened a ›› Stuart Orr, Head of level of error. In 2014, our panel of three outside Water Stewardship, Stuart Orr Hal Hamilton Howard Neibling, PhD 19 ENVIRONMENT World Environment Day A Global Celebration Brewery aligned its efforts of the Jaguari River and and Call to Action with our global water goals. a workshop to teach Volunteers worked to clean community members Since 2009, AB InBev has up the banks of the Taquiña about waste recycling. participated in the UN River and the brewery Our colleagues also made Environment Programme’s implemented a program equipment changes to World Environment Day to reuse treated effluent increase water efficiency (WED), an annual event to water and fertilize the in cleaning processes that aims to be the biggest brewery’s on-site football and held an awareness and most widely celebrated field. The brewery also campaign to reduce water global day for positive donated treated effluent and energy consumption environmental action. In to the local agricultural within the brewery. 2014, more than 67,000 community and helped of our colleagues the municipality fix leaks in participated in 900 facility local water infrastructure to and community projects reduce stress on the water around the world. Together, supply. Our colleagues we engaged more than also raised awareness 2,900 partners and tallied for environmental issues more than 37,000 by hosting an eco-trivia volunteer hours. contest and a recycled Each year, WED fosters art competition. healthy competition among our facilities to develop Jaguariúna Brewery, innovative ways to improve Brazil operations, engage local communities and identify Employees in our new best practices that Jaguariúna Brewery inform our broader strategy engaged community and approach. In 2014, we partners in the brewery’s honored our Taquiña and environmental and social Jaguariúna facilities as our initiatives. Together, they global WED winners for focused on projects working collaboratively that restored the water to address important resources that serve the environmental challenges. brewery, surrounding communities and the water-stressed, greater Taquiña Brewery, São Paulo area. Efforts Bolivia included an engaging atLocated in a water-stressed home water conservation area of Bolivia, our Taquiña campaign, a cleanup 20 ENVIRONMENT Water Use Water. Every drop matters. member of its production three years More than just the critical steering committee, early. In 2014 our actual ingredient in all of our AB InBev has integrated water usage rate was products, water is a the Mandate’s core slightly higher, at 3.23 hl/ precious resource for the elements into our approach hl of production, but that communities where we to water management: encompassed acquisitions operate, some of which direct operations, supply and startups that were face drought, infrastructure chain and watershed brought online after the issues and other watermanagement, collective goal was established. Still, related challenges. Our action, public policy, this represents a 3.6% water scale and experience puts community engagement reduction over the previous us in a unique position and transparency. year. This is equivalent to to help ensure access the amount of water it takes Knowing where to focus to make more than 4 billion to a sufficient supply our efforts is an important cans of our products and of fresh water for these step to achieve our three marks significant progress communities and our company. water-centric goals. Each toward our goal. This year we update waterresulted in savings of nearly Most of the water used risk assessments at our 5 million USD in 2014 and to produce our products – breweries and other more than 12 million USD more than 90% – goes into facilities around the world. since 2012. growing barley and other When a facility is deemed agricultural ingredients. high risk, we create and Much of the remainder is activate a plan to limit used in the brewing process our impact on local water that creates our world-class resources. In 2014, about beers. Considering the role 10% of our breweries were water plays throughout assessed as high risk. For our operations, our more information, see the comprehensive strategy Water-Risk Assessments is to conserve, reuse and portion of our website. restore this resource everywhere we can. Goal: Reduce global water We know we can do more usage to a leading-edge 3.2 hectoliters of water per together. That is why we hectoliter of production Labatt partners with have formed ongoing civic and community relationships with global leaders as part of and local stakeholders to The hard work and the 6th annual World conserve water and restore innovation of our colleagues Environment Day celebration. our shared watersheds. around the globe led to As a signatory to the UN AB InBev meeting its 2017 CEO Water Mandate and a water goal of 3.2 hl/hl of 21 ENVIRONMENT Los Angeles 19% since 2009. The facility In 2014, we returned about hectares of cultivated land Brewery, is already making progress 69% of the water we took across four continents and United States toward its next goal of in. Of this, 59% was treated eight countries. reducing water use by an according to strict quality One of California’s most We have a long-standing additional 6% by the end standards and returned to severe droughts on tradition of partnering with of 2015. local watersheds, and 10% record has left the state our growers – investing in returned to the atmosphere struggling to stretch its These efforts have not the development of highthrough evaporation. increasingly limited water gone unnoticed. In quality barley, providing resources. Through a November 2014, our access to quality seeds and strong mix of teamwork Los Angeles colleagues Goal: Reduce water inputs, and deploying skilled hosted Mayor Eric Garcetti risks and improve water agronomists to assist growers and technology, colleagues management in 100% of our in our Los Angeles Brewery and Councilwoman Nury in the art of producing malt key barley-growing regions, are doing their part to Martinez for a brewery tour in partnership with local barley. Cultivating the highest reduce the brewery’s water and discussion about our stakeholders quality barley with the use. By reclaiming water local water conservation best yields and lowest costs throughout the brewing efforts. The visit came on improves the economics process, empowering the heels of Mayor Garcetti’s AB InBev depends on of barley production, while employees to provide new October challenge to more than 20,000 growers mitigating our supply chain ideas for reductions and residents, businesses and around the world to risk and reducing our growers’ engaging local community city agencies in droughtproduce high-quality malt environmental impact. partners, the brewery stricken Los Angeles to barley, a primary ingredient reduced its water use by cut water use by 20% in our world-class beers. 9.0% in 2014 and by by 2017. These growers represent more than 1 million AB InBev Water Use Year-Over-Year 2012 2013 2014* Water Use Ratio 3.54 3.35 3.23** (hl/hl) Total Water Use 1.566 1.461 1.489 (billion hl) Total and per-hectoliter water use data encompass beverage facilities only. *Approximately 1.5 million cubic meters of effluent are reused to benefit communities and the environment, and have been subtracted from our 2014 total water use and reflected in our water use ratio. **Water data above represents all beverage operations, including all the plants within the original scope of our 2017 goal, plus new acquisitions and start-ups reporting data since 2012, the baseline year for the water use ratio goal. Our water use ratio for in-scope beverage plants for our 2017 goal is 3.2 hl/hl and total water use was 1.410 billion hl, a decrease in 2014. Assured Metric 2014 AB InBev Water Sources Our Los Angeles brewery hosted Mayor Eric Garcetti and Councilwoman Nury Martinez 44.5% 39.7% 15.7% for a tour and discussion about how the brewery is supporting the city’s conservation efforts. Municipal Sources Ground Water Surface Water 22 ENVIRONMENT We continue to expand collaboration with our will be expanded to four Engaging through local our advanced breeding growers. Based on the additional AgriMet stations stakeholders, particularly and crop management success of the programs, in Montana in 2015. the Academy and our programs to new markets we are expanding the best extension partners, will help to help increase yield, practices and insights we further the advancement Barley Water reduce disease risk and discovered to new regions of improved irrigation Management Pilot improve quality across our in 2015. practices in the region. Project, China global barley regions. A key component of our breeding In China, we executed Barley Water program is to advance large-scale irrigation trials Management Pilot varieties that maintain in partnership with the Project, United States yield under water stressed state supported Gansu conditions, deploying In Idaho, we are working Academy of Agriculture dryland drought and in partnership with local Sciences (甘省科院), to limited irrigation stakeholders to develop identify optimal irrigation trials across our key and promote an irrigation practices for select barley growing regions. scheduler program called varieties in the province. AgriMet. The program Grower demonstrations links local climate station were held throughout Barley Grower Pilot data to a Web and mobile the season to discuss the “Our analyses of the AgriMet Programs trials in Idaho have been very application that enables trials, review results and positive, showing decreases in In 2014, we executed growers to optimize their promote best irrigation irrigation water use between four high-impact water use of irrigation water. In practices. Findings from 9% and 20%. This technology management pilot 2014, AB InBev funded the trials — assessing both will be an important tool for barley farmers going programs, some of which the installation of six new the agronomic results and forward, particularly in are continuing in 2015. AgriMet climate stations, impact on malt quality — water-stressed regions.” These programs were coordinated three case have been communicated developed based on a studies to demonstrate and reviewed with our Howard Neibling, Associate robust water assessment the effectiveness of growers and the supporting Professor, Department of in our key barley regions the technology, and scientific community, and Biological and Agricultural — identifying local water incorporated 25 growers we are underway with an Engineering, University availability and water into the pilot within our expanded irrigation trial of Idaho quality concerns, mapping Idaho farming community. in 2015. relevant stakeholders for Based on positive results, potential partnerships and showing a 9% to 20% developing locally tailored reduction in water use pilot initiatives to improve for participants, the pilot water management in 23 ENVIRONMENT Barley Water conservation agriculture across our global grower Brazil, Canada, China, Management Pilot practices for barley and network. This platform, Mexico, Russia, the United Project, Mexico other crop production. called SmartBarley, enables States and Uruguay. More The pilot expands upon growers to use data and than 2,000 growers are In collaboration with the existing initiatives to focus share best practices to participating in SmartBarley, federal program MasAgro on barley-producing areas deliver value to their and we have plans in 2015 and industry association where knowledge and farms and communities, to expand to new growers Centros Impulsor, among adoption of conservation while strengthening our and new countries, while others, we are advancing practices are limited. supply chain. Building improving the program to the use of nitrogen sensors We are working with on this foundational deliver even greater value in the Bajio region to our partners to train benchmarking initiative, to our grower network. improve nitrogen use technicians in conservation SmartBarley comprises efficiency. This initiative For more information agriculture, which includes a portfolio of field level builds on years of research on our overall approach an important set of programs that focus on and field trials that to sourcing, see the practices that improve trialing and transferring demonstrate the potential Responsible Supply Chain soil health, reduce soil new crop technologies and of this technology to Sourcing section of erosion and increase soil improved practices reduce fertilizer applied our website. moisture retention. In 2014, – enabling growers to on malting barley by 40%, we supported numerous close existing gaps and while maintaining the same demonstration trials and reach new benchmarks in or better yield. Not only facilitated education productivity and natural does this help increase and promotion events resource use efficiency. malt barley profitability aimed at increasing the More than 15 such projects for our growers, but it also awareness and adoption of are being piloted or scaled helps combat growing conservation agriculture. across AB InBev’s supply water quality concerns in With more than 6,000 chain in 2015. the region. In 2014, we hectares committed under established demonstration SmartBarley is playing an conservation agriculture trials and distributed important role in helping practices in 2015, we look sensors to growers and us achieve our waterto advance this important field technicians to trial and management goals by collaborative initiative for demonstrate the benefits identifying opportunities years to come. of this technology. In 2015, to improve resource we are expanding our management, reduce water promotion and training SmartBarley risks, increase efficiency programs, while working and water productivity, and We use a robust through the collaboration measure the success of soil benchmarking process to to improve the market and irrigation management share best practices and availability of pilot initiatives. drive productivity gains the technology. within our operations. In 2014, we unveiled a new In the rain fed Altiplano In 2013, we took this to website for the program: and irrigated Bajio regions, the field, developing a www.smartbarley.com. The we are collaborating with platform for our growers site provides a program the development bank to anonymously compare summary, along with an FIRA, Centros Impulsor and their barley production overview of our SmartBarley others to promote best practices and outcomes growers across Argentina, 24 ENVIRONMENT Watershed Protection Goal: Engage in watershed joined the local water and für Internationale place, hundreds of thousands protection measures at 100% environmental committee, Zusammenarbeit) to become of tons of sediment are of our facilities located in key Comité de Agua de la part of a private sector released into the Jaguari River areas in Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, China, Mexico, Peru and Sociedad de Industrias, to climate change adaptation every year. This reduces the the United States, in partnership actively engage with other project for water resources water volume of the river, with local stakeholders industries, share best management in urban areas which is near capacity, and practices and participate (Proyecto de Adaptación de la strains local water supplies, in the assessment of new Gestión de Recursos Hídricos limiting economic growth. By far the most effective environmental regulations. en Zonas Urbanas al Cambio way to preserve and Climático con la Participación Our green infrastructure improve access to fresh We have also strengthened del Sector Privado). Through project with TNC, called water, especially in the our relationship with several this project, we are planning Bacias Program – Jaguariúna, water-stressed areas in key stakeholders to better to join the Basin Observatory aims to better manage which we operate, is through understand and address local (Observatorio de la Cuenca), important Brazilian water collaboration with the many water issues. This includes a group of individuals and basins and improve the stakeholders dedicated to brewery visits by public and organizations working quality and quantity of promoting conservation private sector experts, as well to articulate an enforced water available. To this end, and protecting watersheds. as regular NGO engagement, regulation system in and we are collaborating with In 2014, we continued to to learn how our Huachipa around Lima. local stakeholders like the prioritize our conservation Brewery conserves water Jaguariúna Bureau of the and restoration efforts on and produces high quality Environment, Brazilian water-stressed areas and effluent, and to discuss how The CYAN Movement, Agricultural Research engaged in water protection we can work together to solve Brazil Corporation (Embrapa), the measures at 50% of our local water issues. Brazilian National Water In order to drive social change facilities in these key areas. Agency (ANA) and the We have built a pumping and start conversations Piracicaba, Capivari and station to deliver our about water conservation Jundiaí (PCJ) Watershed Huachipa Brewery, Peru treated effluent directly to in water-stressed regions Committee. Together, we the municipal system. We of Brazil, we launched the are devoting financial Our Huachipa Brewery continue to collaborate with CYAN movement in 2010. and technical resources in Lima is located in a the Municipality of Santa As part of this initiative, we to conservation projects, growing industrial area. María de Huachipa, the have partnered with The including the reforestation While assessments indicate Huachipa Service of Parks and Nature Conservancy (TNC) of riverbank vegetation and there is currently enough Gardens and the Water Users to establish a watershed the implementation of soil water for the region, the Committee to optimize the restoration program in the conservation techniques. increasing number of water distribution of our effluent drought-stricken Jaguariúna The partnership aims to users and the generally for use in such things as region, which supplies water demonstrate the importance unmonitored extraction of irrigating public parks and to the greater São Paulo area of investments in green water are creating future soccer pitches, based on as well as our local facility. infrastructure as part of water scarcity concerns. In community needs. Large-scale deforestation watershed management an effort to support the in the area has negatively We are also collaborating and seek the commitment of development of a more impacted the watershed and, with the German Society for critical partners to scale the structured management of without the critical plant root International Collaboration project into the rest of the natural resources, we have systems to hold topsoil in (Deutsche Gesellschaft Jaguari basin. Assured Metric 25 ENVIRONMENT Effluent Reuse in Buy a Lady a Drink with Water.org Each limited-edition chalice purchased will provide five High-Risk Areas years of clean drinking Today, 750 million people water for one person in the around the world – or developing world. Globally, approximately one in nine consumers are also able people – lack access to to learn more about the Water is a critical part of the Once treated, water is clean water. Every day, campaign, as well as brewing process, including returned directly back to women spend a combined how they can purchase a the water we use in boilers the watershed, reused in 200 million hours collecting chalice or donate directly to and cleaning processes. our utility operations or water for their families. Water.org, by visiting www. We can recover, refine and communities before being reuse some of this water returned to the watershed, BuyALadyADrink.com. In support of Water.org in utility operations, while or supplied to a municipal and its co-founders Matt The campaign was officially maintaining our strict treatment system and then Damon and Gary White, launched on opening quality standards. returned to the watershed. Stella Artois developed ‘Buy night at the Sundance Film At the end of 2014, nine a Lady a Drink’: a campaign Repurposing this water, Festival in January 2015, facilities provided clean to help stop these journeys or effluent, before it is which featured a launch effluent to meet local so these women can begin returned to watersheds is video with Matt Damon and community water needs, new journeys of their own. a central part of our global a short film documentary and we expect to add more As part of this campaign, water strategy, especially on the journeys that in the future, especially in Stella Artois has made a in water-stressed areas. women in India make each water-stressed areas. donation of 1.2 million USD We evaluate each effluent day to access clean water. to Water.org and has invited reuse project to ensure that In most of our breweries, consumers to join the it truly fulfills a resource we employ bio-treatment brand in this effort. need, meets regulatory systems to treat our requirements and provides effluent. Our bio-treatment In the United States, community benefits. While systems use microorganisms United Kingdom, Belgium, effluent is not potable, it to remove organic Canada and Argentina, can fill other needs in our impurities from the effluent the campaign is centered utility operations and the to meet water quality around the sale of exclusive communities surrounding standards. This process limited-edition chalices. our breweries. Effluent can produce biogas, which These chalices feature can be used for such things can be burned as fuel. artwork inspired by as irrigation, landscaping More than 50 of our biotraditional handcrafted or road cleaning, which treatment systems recover objects from three then offsets the need to biogas fuel from effluent developing countries, use potable water for processing, which we use to including textiles from these purposes. help power our operations India, baskets from Ethiopia and offset the need for and pottery from Honduras. We strive to return water to fossil-based fuels. the environment as clean as, or cleaner than, local water quality standards. 26 ENVIRONMENT SunRise: Helping beach cleanups in Mexico, Save the Beach Canada, Spain, Italy and with Blue Flag the United Kingdom. With every beach adopted, we Over the past 80 years, recognized the shared our Corona brand has efforts of the volunteers by developed a deep providing them access to emotional connection with Corona SunSets Festivals, the beach in the hearts and a music experience that minds of consumers around brings together the the world. Continuing world’s top DJs at events to its journey to honor the celebrate the world’s most world’s beaches, Corona beautiful beaches. has once again partnered with the Blue Flag Program of the Foundation for Environmental Education, a non-government, non-profit organization promoting sustainable development through environmental education. Corona’s Save the Beach initiative is a platform for social responsibility that organizes beach cleanups and adoptions to increase environmental protection of sensitive areas, improve beach access and provide information to beach users. In 2014, we engaged Corona’s communities and brought Save the Beach together volunteers for program included volunteer beach cleanups in Canada, Italy, Mexico, Spain and the United Kingdom. 27 ENVIRONMENT Energy Use and Greenhouse Gas Emissions Brewing and distributing GHG emissions reductions related to energy and We are seeking to improve great-tasting beers is an is both internal and GHG emissions. Because the efficiency of our energy-intensive process. external. For us, this is just these goals address key operations, use cleaner One of our strategic smart business – mitigating activities throughout our fuels, work with our logistics priorities is to reduce risks and improving our core value-chain, achieving suppliers to reduce fuel the brewing industry’s cost-effectiveness. Since them requires us to take consumption and supply contribution to climate 2012 our reduced energy a holistic approach. We customers in certain change, which is why – as intensity has saved the are always hard at work to areas of the world with the leading global brewer company more than 55 minimize our impact, and eco-friendly coolers. – we continue to decrease million USD, including by reducing our energy use our energy intensity and more than 24 million and incorporating more greenhouse gas (GHG) USD in 2014. renewable sources, we emissions intensity. have already met our We have challenged 2017 emissions intensity AB InBev’s focus on ourselves to meet four goal – three years ahead energy efficiency and goals by the end of 2017 of schedule. AB InBev Energy Consumption and GHG Emissions We calculate our GHG emissions using the Scope 1 (direct) and 2012 2013 2014 Scope 2 (indirect) emissions that result from our production facilities, based on the widely accepted World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD)/World Resources Institute (WRI) GHG Total Direct and Indirect 5.30 5.88** 6.07 protocol. Scope 1 accounts for 68% of our emissions and includes CO₂ GHG Emissions* equivalent (CO₂e) from fuel used in our manufacturing processes and in cogeneration plants that generate on-site electricity. Scope 2 accounts (million metric tons of CO₂e) for about 32% and represents emissions from purchased electricity. Total GHG emissions data encompass beverage facilities and most GHG Emissions per 10.16 10.06** 9.08 vertical operations, including malt plants and packaging facilities. Hectoliter of Product* Total energy consumption, per-hectoliter GHG emissions and (kilograms of CO₂e per hectoliter per-hectoliter energy consumption data encompass beverage facilities only. [kg/hl]) Energy consumption includes fuel used in our boilers and our co-generation plants to generate on-site electricity and Total Energy Consumption 58.6 54.3 54.9 purchased electricity. (million gigajoules of energy) Energy data above represents all beverage operations, including all the plants within the original scope of our 2017 goal, plus new acquisitions and start-ups reporting data since 2012, the baseline year for the Energy Consumption per 129.0 124.6 119.4 energy use intensity goal. Total energy consumption for in-scope beverage plants for our 2017 goal is 54.2 million gigajoules, a decrease Hectoliter of Product in 2014. (megajoules per hectoliter [mj/hl]) In order to allow for increased accuracy, meaningful comparisons and determination of goal achievement, absolute and normalized GHG emissions data from previous years has been adjusted using the latest Assured Metric emission factors and reporting methodologies. * Emissions arising from the combustion of biomass, biogas and landfill gas are not included in our GHG emissions, per the WBCSD/WRI protocol. Biomass and biogas are considered carbon neutral because the fuel sources served as an atmospheric carbon sink before being burned. Burning landfill gas, or methane, is considered beneficial because its combustion dramatically reduces GHGs emitted when compared to simply allowing it to enter the atmosphere unburned. **2013 reflects the first year of the inclusion of Grupo Modelo vertical operations. 28 ENVIRONMENT We expect the solar array at the Jupille Brewery to generate 250 MWH per year. expect the solar array to global emissions intensity boilers at 11 breweries. generate 250 MWh per by 10.6%, thus reaching Bio-treatment systems rely Goal: Reduce global energy usage per hectoliter of year and annually save the and surpassing our 2017 on bacteria to refine and production by 10% Jupille facility 36,000 USD emissions intensity goal clean effluent. Our Jinzhou in energy costs. three years ahead Brewery also began using of schedule. biomass fuel made from Innovative techniques, sawdust to heat its boilers. best practices and an Houston Brewery, Globally, China has the In the Jilin Province, a solar entrepreneurial attitude United States highest amount of GHG installation on the roof of are helping our breweries emissions of any country. one of our Yanji office and Our Houston Brewery use less energy for every As we have worked to utility buildings provides reduced its total energy beer we brew. Combined, reduce our contribution up to 400,000 KW of clean use on a per hectoliter these efforts help us make to the country’s carbon energy annually. basis by 5.8% in 2014. significant progress toward footprint, new and ongoing These reductions were achieving our global goal alternative fuel projects In 2015, we will invest achieved through of reducing our energy use have helped us advance more than 9 million USD improved implementation per hectoliter of production toward our countryto ensure compliance of energy management by 10%. In 2014 alone, we specific goal. In 2014, these with new and upcoming procedures as part of achieved a 4.2% reduction. efforts led to an emissions GHG emission standards our VPO Management reduction of 14.6% per in China. As just a sample System, along with several hectoliter of production, of our planned projects, Jupille Brewery, optimization projects, reaching and surpassing we anticipate introducing Belgium including compressed our 2017 emissions biomass fuel in our Wuhan air management intensity goal. Since 2012, and Nanjing Breweries, Our colleagues in Belgium enhancements, improved our China breweries have solar power in our Jinzhou saw sunlight and a vacant packaging efficiency and a reduced GHG emissions Brewery, and biogas fuel space on the facility roof water reclamation project. 22.1% per hectoliter in our Mudanjiang and as a source of inspiration. of production. Sanming Breweries. Our Jupille Brewery, which Goal: Reduce global produces our Jupiler Our colleagues in China Fuels Mix 2014 greenhouse gas emissions and Stella Artois beers, per hectoliter of production are making creative Purchased Steam Liquid fuels has a new 1,000-panel by 10%, including a 15% use of alternative and 5.7% 5.2% solar array. By offering a reduction per hectoliter renewable fuels to drive Renewables third-party investor the in China GHG reductions at the 10% opportunity to place local level. In 2014, our the solar panels on the bio-treatment systems Managing and reducing Coal brewery’s roof, our facility converted the organic GHG emissions can help 15.3% can use the renewable material in water recovered Natural Gas alleviate pressing issues energy generated from the from our production 63.8% related to global climate installation at no charge, processes to methane change. In 2014, we made and the investor receives gas, which we burned for real progress by cutting our green certificates. We steam production in our 29 ENVIRONMENT Fairfield Brewery, must have at least two of United States these three features: longlasting, energy-efficient Our Fairfield, California, LED lighting; energy-saving brewery continues to serve controllers; or a refrigerant as a best practice example that has much lower GHG of implementing renewable impacts if released. energy technology. In late 2014, the installation of a second wind turbine Eco-Friendly Cooler doubled the brewery’s Campaign, Argentina wind energy capacity and In 2014, our Quilmes brand brought our renewable colleagues launched a energy capacity to more campaign in Argentina to than 4 megawatts. increase use of our ecoCombined with an on-site friendly coolers by retailers. solar array, renewable A second wind They placed more than energy will provide an turbine in Fairfield, 40,000 eco-friendly average of 22% of the Calif. brought our coolers with customers, renewable energy brewery’s electrical needs. increasing our annual capacity to more A biogas recovery system then 4 megawatts. purchase to 98% in the also supplies about 13% of country and significantly the brewery’s natural gas We aspire to lead the way advancing progress toward fuel requirements. in sustainable logistics. our global goal. Each In order to do so, we eco-friendly cooler saves evaluated our value chain Goal: Reach a 70% global approximately 30% more average of eco-friendly cooler and collaborated with our energy than a conventional purchases annually logistics and transportation refrigerator. The campaign providers to develop an also included stickers ambitious goal to reduce with energy conservation Since we established our the carbon footprint of our tips that could be placed eco-friendly cooler goal global logistics operations. on the coolers to inspire in 2013, we have made consumers to reduce their significant progress, own carbon footprints. moving from our 2012 baseline of only 6% of our cooler purchases meeting Goal: Reduce greenhouse the requirements of our gas emissions in logistics goal to approximately operations by 15% 47% of our 2014 cooler per hectoliter sold from our 2013 baseline purchases. To be counted against our goal, a cooler Assured Metric 30 ENVIRONMENT In 2014, we became using alternative fuels, through alternative fuels due to its location relative the first in the brewing implementing more and shared fleets. For to our facilities, the industry to formalize this fuel-efficient driving example, in the United fleet distribution radius, type of commitment on a practices, increasing use of States and Brazil, we are proximity to fueling global scale. We set a new multimodal transportation, collaborating with our stations and Texas’ state 2017 goal to reduce GHG and finding new and retail partners, where our incentive programs for emissions in our global creative ways to collaborate supply chains overlap, to environmental projects. logistics operations by with our logistics partners. reduce empty mileage by sharing trucks. Once the conversion is 15% per hectoliter sold. By We learned many of the complete, the fleet is 2017, we anticipate we will best practices we are using expected to reduce carbon reduce emissions in those from our participation in A Cleaner Fleet, dioxide (CO₂) emissions operations by 230,000 tons Lean & Green, a program United States by a combined 2,000 tons and save an estimated that focuses on making per year. We expect each 200 million USD, compared In Houston, Texas we logistics operations more CNG truck to emit 23% to our 2013 baseline. After partnered with Ryder, a efficient and sustainable. less GHG compared with a our first year of working commercial fleet and The program is piloted in comparable diesel engine. toward achieving this supply chain solution Europe and sponsored goal, we have reduced provider, to replace our We also began using in the Netherlands by GHG emissions in logistics fleet of 66 diesel-powered canal barges to transport Connekt, an environmental operations by 3.3%, or tractors with cleaner empty bottles to our institution, and in 56,000 tons. burning compressed Jupille Brewery via river, Belgium by the Flemish natural gas (CNG)-powered rather than relying on less 22% Institute for Logistics. In Completion tractors. This move energy-efficient truck 2014, AB InBev’s Lean & of goal supports our 2017 logistics transportation. Green program reduced goal and marks our first GHG emissions across complete fleet conversion our European logistics to CNG. operations by 18,500 tons, We believe we can achieve and became Lean & Green Each truck drives more this industry-leading certified in Italy. than 100,000 miles a milestone by taking a few year, creating a significant smart steps throughout We have already made opportunity to reduce our supply chain. Our significant strides in emissions. Houston is strategy includes reducing reducing our emissions in also a strategic choice outbound transportation, our logistics operations Our brewery in Jupille, Belgium, uses canal barges on a regular basis to transport empties via river to the brewery. This transportation method has shown a reduction in carbon dioxide emissions of 22.3% compared to moving empties by truck. 31 ENVIRONMENT Materials & Recycling Glass, cardboard, plastic benchmarks to challenge beer bottles while and aluminum are each of our breweries maintaining product integral to our customers’ and brands to implement safety and structural enjoyment of many of innovative solutions that integrity contributed to our products. In each use fewer and lightera reduction of almost of our breweries, we are weight materials across 6,000 tons of glass. proactively reducing the all packaging categories. When we reduce the ›› Plastic Reductions – In amount of materials we use amount and weight Brazil, light weighting in our manufacturing and of packaging material, our PET bottles led to a distribution processes. We we reduce the energy reduction of more than recycle everything we can requirements across the 2,000 tons of plastic. and use recycled materials when it makes sense for the packaging’s life cycle, ›› Metal Reductions – In way we package and ship including the energy the United States, down our products. We also work needed to produce it and gauging the aluminum to optimize the recyclability transport the finished used in our cans led to a of our bottles, cans and products. This results in a reduction of more than packaging. decrease in GHG emissions. 500 tons of material. In 2014, we recycled more In our second year of Read more about our than 98.5% of solid waste working toward our Materials and Recycling across our operations. material reduction target, programs. Moreover, 124 of our 150 we reduced our packaging beverage plants throughout by approximately 20,600 the world achieved Virtually tons. We estimate that Zero Waste to Landfill this reduced CO₂ emissions status, which is defined by by 42,800 tons. research and standards firm, UL, as diverting at Some of the ways we least 98% of all solid reduced materials in 2014 waste from landfills. include: ›› Paper Reductions – In Goal: Reduce packaging China, eliminating the materials by 100,000 tons partition and padding in some of our packaging reduced our cardboard At AB InBev, we constantly use by more than seek smarter and more 7,500 tons. sustainable approaches to packaging our ›› Glass Reductions – In products. We use global Russia, reducing best practices and the weight of our Budweiser and Klinskoe Assured Metric 32 ENVIRONMENT 2014 Recycling Rate Ambev Recycles of more than 35,000 tons Expands in Brazil of waste, including PET bottles. In 2014, we announced In 2012, our Brazil 98% the expansion of Ambev Recycles, an initiative that operations developed aims to educate consumers the first bottle made from on proper disposal and 100% recycled PET for our recycling of our product Guaraná Antarctica soft Materials Recycled and Waste Disposed (Metric Tons) packaging in Brazil. Four drink. To date, we have new cities in Brazil now have introduced about 2012 2013 2014 recycling cooperatives that 530 million of these bottles Materials recycled 5,619,408 5,836,743 6,602,430 engage local consumers to the Brazilian market, and composted in the program. As one accounting for more than example, in Salvador, we 40% of the total production Materials used 10,434 98,240 43,364 collected more than 70,000 in 2014. Manufacturing as fuel used plastic packages in bottles from recycled plastic a three-day campaign reduces the need for virgin Incinerated waste 22 0 809 in which people could materials, diverts waste from exchange 15 used packages landfills and uses less energy Landfill waste 43,608 150,963 96,668 for a two-liter bottle of and water. The bottles Hazardous waste 225 724 984 Guaraná Antarctica. also create a marketplace for recyclables, providing Throughout Brazil, the Total 5,673,697 6,086,670 6,744,255 income opportunities collective effort of Ambev throughout the region. Recycles has contributed to the collection and recycling Our Brazil operations developed the first bottle made from 100% recycled PET. Managing Biodiversity Some of our breweries and Several of our facilities barley growers operate in maintain property to benefit or near natural areas rich native habitat and wildlife, in biodiversity. We have preserve watersheds and incorporated the health and promote biodiversity well-being of these areas awareness through into our environmental collaborative education, strategy. Much of our recent research and conservation work in this area relates to projects. our goal of protecting and Read more about some of restoring critical watersheds. our Biodiversity Efforts. 33 OUR PEOPLE IN THE COMMUNITY Our People In The Community Our dream energizes our people to work together to build our business and the communities where they live and work. 61,000 Number of employees globally who volunteered their time and talents to our communities 1.9 million Hours of employee training 71% Reduction in lost-time injuries since 2012 (excludes South Korean operations, which were acquired in 2014) Economic Contributions 3.8 billion (USD) in wages and salaries paid to employees 4.3 billion (USD) in capital expenditures on our facilities, distribution network and systems around the world – investments that generate jobs and local economic growth 16 billion (USD) in excise and income taxes paid 34 OUR PEOPLE IN THE COMMUNITY Volunteerism and Support In 2014, nearly 61,000 with eco-friendly messages, Our Bar, Brazil employees volunteered and cleaning rivers and parks. Employee volunteers We expanded our “Nosso more than 225,000 hours totaled 843, a 19% increase Bar” (Our Bar) franchise of their time to support a over the previous year, with model for micro and small wide variety of community 3,818 hours volunteered, entrepreneurs in urban activities around the world. an increase of 22% over the areas, suburbs and the We offer a global volunteer previous year. centers of large cities, to policy to guide and track the state of São Paulo employees’ volunteer work, and the metropolitan supported by Zone policies that reinforce the value Giving the Gift of Life, region of Rio de Janeiro, of their efforts. It is Belgium besides being present in Greater São Paulo, where an approach that makes At our headquarters in it began. With a low initial us confident that we Leuven, Belgium, we investment, Nosso Bar can continue to ensure sponsored a blood drive supports the development strong volunteerism of for employees during the our colleagues around of family businesses by holidays. Approximately the globe. small entrepreneurs who 450 pints of blood and often have little experience 12,000 USD were collected in management. Through Fifth Annual for the Red Cross. the project, we offer Volunteer Day, consultancy and training Argentina Investing in the for the business owners, Community, Bolivia in addition to providing Quilmes employees all the necessary support participated in volunteer In Cochabamba, we to expand the business, activities in Córdoba, invested 215,500 USD in monitor the initial Corrientes, Mendoza, 2014 to build the Warmi operation and improve Pompeya neighborhood Wasi Health Center. In early service quality. Bars re(Buenos Aires City), 2015, we are providing opened as these franchises Quilmes, Tucumán, Trelew, the equipment required to see an average increase Tres Arroyos, Fernandez Oro operate the health center, of 40% in revenue after and Zarate in partnership which will benefit 3,200 joining the model. Nosso with the NGO Asociación families who live in the area. Bar leads to economic Conciencia, local This area previously did growth in neighborhoods, environmental NGOs, local not have a health center to respects the characteristics governments and with properly and safely attend of each region and the sponsorship of CEADS to the community’s franchisee, and helps (Consejo Empresario para medical needs. develop the culture of el Desarrollo Sustentable). small bars. Activities included planting 460 trees, painting murals 35 OUR PEOPLE IN THE COMMUNITY Hope Schools, China Day of Caring, Habitat for Humanity, Germany United States AB InBev China has partnered with the Ministry Germany participated in In the United States, our of Foreign Affairs and the its annual “Day of Caring,” celebration of 15 years China Youth Development in which we partner with of support for Habitat for Foundation (CYDF) to build community agencies to Humanity included 600 and support schools that create volunteer projects colleagues volunteering give all children a chance specifically for AB InBev their time to help build at an education. We work employees. In 2014, more houses in each brewery with the government to than 120 colleagues city. And Anheusersupport its “Hope Schools” participated in 10 projects, Busch’s 2014 United Way program in underserved volunteering 960 hours. campaign brought together rural areas or parts of the The projects included employees in 54 different country that have large refurbishing playground facilities, who, with the populations of migrant equipment, renovating company, pledged more workers. We currently the outside area of a than 4.1 million USD. support 10 Hope Schools. kindergarten, building a new In 2014, our colleagues and pavilion, trimming hedges wholesalers paid regular and removing weeds. visits to our Hope Schools, teaching lessons regarding safety and environmental Voluntarios Modelo, protection, celebrating Mexico International Children’s Our Grupo Modelo Day, and our AB InBev Foundation created University team launched its Voluntarios Modelo a development fund to campaign in Mexico, provide advanced trainings together with local NGOs, to Hope School teachers. government officials, family We also partnered with and friends to celebrate CYDF to donate football International Volunteer Day pitches to Hope Schools, in December 2014. Our supported in part with employees coordinated “We were amazed that in just two proceeds from the sales of more than 200 initiatives hours 300 plus Anheuser-Busch our limited edition 2014 across 66 cities. A total of volunteers filled 8,000 backpacks FIFA World Cup Budweiser 55,000 people participated with 48,000 meals for some aluminum bottles. of St. Louis’ most food-insecure in these activities, which children. Thanks to the Read more about China’s included work in schools, generous financial support parks and squares, Red of Anheuser-Busch, Hope Schools. Operation Food Search was Cross delegations, beaches, able to purchase all the food and elderly and child care to fill those backpacks.” centers. Sunny L. Schaefer, Executive Watch the Voluntario Director Operation Food Search, Modelo video St. Louis, Missouri, USA 36 OUR PEOPLE IN THE COMMUNITY Disaster Workforce and Performance Relief At the end of 2014, we together to improve employed approximately our business and the We are committed to 155,000 full-time, seasonal communities where they helping our communities and temporary employees live and work. Their efforts every day, but we have a worldwide. Of our full-time are largely driven by an particular commitment employees, approximately ownership culture that is to reach out to our 17% were female and 83% based on the principle that neighbors in times of male. The average employee we are all responsible and need. Since 1988, our age was about 36, and the accountable for results. U.S. operations have average length of service was Drawing inspiration from packaged and donated approximately nine years. one another and constantly more than 73 million About 58% of employees challenging ourselves cans of fresh drinking worked in blue-collar jobs, to do better helps us to water to emergency relief while 42% were in whiteimprove productivity and organizations following collar positions. About continue to invest in our natural disasters. In 2014, 47% of our employee business. And that, in turn, we donated funds and population is covered under ultimately strengthens our more than 1 million cans of a collective bargaining/union ability to give back to our drinking water to support agreement. Our turnover communities and build on disaster relief in Argentina, rate for 2014 was 10.3%. our sustainability initiatives. Bolivia, Italy and the United Our employees share our Read more about States following tornadoes, dream, to be the Best Beer Our Ownership and storms, wildfires and floods. Company Bringing People Performance Culture. Together For a Better World, and are actively working Charitable Foundations Through charitable supporting education, the foundations associated environment, economic directly or indirectly with development, and disaster AB InBev, we extend a relief and preparedness. helping hand to employees In 2014, these and groups who need it. We contributions totaled contribute to community nearly 138 million USD. organizations and touch countless individual Read more about our lives, with a focus on Charitable Foundations. 37 OUR PEOPLE IN THE COMMUNITY Career Advancement and Engagement Career Management and develop, engage and is based on responses retain our people. It is from more than 103,000 AB InBev is committed to supported by an online employees – about supporting the growth and system that maintains data 44% white-collar development of all of our on the skills, credentials and 66% blue-collar – talented and motivated and achievements of more across all Zones. employees. We back that than 30,000 employees commitment with a global across the globe. One important career management engagement metric we process we call our People track is whether employees Cycle. It includes three Employee Engagement believe our company acts key phases: Competency in a socially responsible We believe it is important way. This metric was 89% Review, Organization and to keep our employees in 2014, up 3 percentage People Review (OPR), and challenged and inspired. points over 2013, and its Engagement. The People To measure and track highest level ever. Cycle drives consistency the motivation of our across our teams and helps colleagues, each year we ensure that managers and run a global employee employees have the right engagement survey. This data and tools to support performance and career survey gathers feedback discussions. on such issues as communication, workplace Every one of our colleagues safety, career development receives regular feedback and senior leadership. on job performance and Results are analyzed stretch targets. Each and prioritized to help April, our employees managers develop action participate in an annual plans to maintain and/or competency appraisal improve team motivation process which helps to and retention. identify their strengths and areas for development. Our latest employee opinion survey, carried out Approximately 27,000 in December 2014, had employees completed this an 87% response rate, appraisal in 2014. and showed an employee Our OPR is a formal, engagement index of structured process that 83% – an increase of allows us to actively 3 percentage points over manage our talent pool 2013. The 2014 data 38 OUR PEOPLE IN THE COMMUNITY AB InBev University One Young World All of our geographic In 2014, AB InBev Zones offer live or online participated in the One programs through AB InBev Young World (OYW) Summit. University, which offers OYW, co-founded in 2009 a curriculum focused on by David Jones, one of leadership, method and AB InBev’s Global Advisory functional learning. In 2014, Council members, is a our employees participated not-for-profit organization in more than 1.9 million that gathers and empowers hours of combined young people to create classroom and e-learning positive change in the training. Many employees world. Delegates, ages took several courses, for an 18-30, from more than average of 15.4 hours per 200 of the world’s leading participant. companies, NGOs, and universities participate in the annual summit where Global Management they engage in dialogue Trainee Program with each other and Our Global Management global leaders, including Trainee (GMT) program Mohammad Yunus, Kofi helps us attract and Annan and Mary Robinson. recruit the brightest, most AB InBev selected 20 young driven graduates of top employees from around the universities around the world to participate in OYW world. The 10-month paid in October 2014 in Dublin, training program exposes Ireland. These employees participants to a wide range are now exploring ideas of company operations and to inspire change within helps us develop highAB InBev. In addition to quality future leaders. sending top talent, we hosted a breakout session In 2014, we selected 147 on Global Road Safety trainees for the program where OYW participants from more than 94,000 discussed ways to improve applicants worldwide. road safety and reduce deaths and injuries by Read more about our traffic accidents, building Career Advancement and on our commitment to be Engagement. the Best Beer Company Bringing People Together For a Better World. 39 OUR PEOPLE IN THE COMMUNITY Diversity Health and Safety As a leading international company, we have employees from all Our greatest strength is our around the world, and we people. They are the reason celebrate the rich, natural we have built a safety diversity they bring to culture focused on open our business. The unique communication, effective backgrounds, perspectives reporting that encourages and experiences of all our appropriate behavior, and people add up to one of practices and procedures the most important keys that avoid incidents to our success. and injuries. Led by our managers, every AB InBev We are committed to employee has a personal ensuring that we offer responsibility to observe employment and career and promote our global development opportunities health and safety policies. without regard to race, color, religion, disability, sexual orientation or creed. World Safety Day To further our commitment to diversity and support Although safety is a yearour business objectives round focus, we take extra in the United States, we time to celebrate safety have Employee Resource during our safety days and Groups (ERGs) that provide during the International education, awareness, and Labor Organization’s World professional growth and Safety Day on April 28. In development opportunities 2014, we continued our for our diverse family focus using the “S.A.F.E.” of employees. acronym (Survey the area, Assess the risk, Find Read more about Diversity a solution, Every time). and Inclusion. We continue to build our safety culture through the Read more about our promotion of safe work Employee Resource Groups. behaviors in all that we do. 40 OUR PEOPLE IN THE COMMUNITY Putting Safety First injuries (LTIs) compared operations, our Mexico occurred before AB InBev in Mexico to 2013 within our Supply team reduced LTIs (own + took operational control operations. contractor) by 52% with the companies’ Following the AB InBev against 2013. combination. Grupo Modelo combination In 2014 in Mexico, we in June 2013, our teams recorded 178 total In 2014, we regret to report We will continue to put an immediately put a “Safety recordable injuries, a that one contractor truck emphasis on “Safety First” First” focus on our Mexican decrease of 62% compared fatality occurred within our as we work to drive progress operations, and the to the previous year, and Supply First-Tier logistics within our Mexico Zone. results have been very the number of lost days for operations in Mexico and Read more about our successful. In Mexico, the Mexico also decreased two within our SecondHealth and Safety Practices implementation of our VPO 31% compared to 2013. Tier/Sales operations. That and Performance. safety pillar resulted in a compares to 13 fatalities In addition, within our 62% reduction of lost-time in 2013, seven of which Second-Tier and Sales Safety Performance Results (Chart) Key: Lost Time Injuries (LTI) 2012* 2013* 2014** Lost Time Injuries (LTI) = Occupational injury resulting in Supply Employees (own) 521*** 291 151 more than one day absence from work Total Recordable Injuries = LTI + Second Tier/Sales Employees 2,353 1,728 898 modified duty injuries + medical treatment injuries Contractors (Supply/Second 244 358 211 Global Severity Rate = Lost days per 1,000,000 hours worked Tier/Sales) Supply Employees = Brewery and manufacturing facility employees, Total Recordable Injuries (TRI) including first-tier logistics Second Tier/Sales Employees = (Supply, own) Second-tier logistics, sales, Zone and global corporate employees Supply Employees (own) 2,448 1,189 644 * AB InBev took management control of Grupo Modelo following the combination on June 4, 2013. Fatalities 2012 and 2013 data includes Mexico in order to allow for Supply Employees (own) 0 4 0 comparison and show progress since the combination. **2014 data does not include Second Tier/Sales Employees 6 4 4 Oriental Breweries, South Korea, (own) or additional Asia-Pacific Zone breweries acquired during the Contractors (Supply/Second 9 11 12 course of the year, as we did not have operational control for the Tier/Sales) entire year. *** Increase from 511, as reported Days Lost due to Injury in our 2013 report, to 521 due to a typographical error. (Supply own) Supply Employees (own) 20,090 11,561 9,229 Global Severity Rate (Supply, Own) 127 73 64 Assured Metric 41 OUR PEOPLE IN THE COMMUNITY Our Accountability to Global Standards Anheuser-Busch InBev Corporate (Euronext: ABI; NYSE: Governance BUD), based in Leuven, AB InBev’s Corporate Belgium, is the world’s Governance rules, which leading brewer, managing were established by our a portfolio of more than Board of Directors, help 200 beer brands. We are us properly manage our also one of the world’s top business without limiting five consumer products our vision or the speed and companies. flexibility of our operations. Our history traces back to Our Corporate Governance 1366, and over the years we Charter, which was updated have grown into a global in July 2014, is published company with operations online and provides a in 25 countries in six geographic Zones. Our comprehensive and dedicated and passionate transparent disclosure of workforce of 155,000 our company’s governance employees is making structure and approach. A innovative and meaningful full report on our corporate governance activities in progress as we work to 2014 can also be found in achieve our dream of being the Best Beer Company our company’s online annual report. Bringing People Together For a Better World, while In 2014, the organization also achieving total Transparency International 2014 revenues of rated AB InBev among the 47.1 billion USD. highest consumer products companies for transparency Our culture requires that we in corporate reporting, conduct business around representing a significant the globe according to the improvement from the highest ethical,corporate prior year. governance and transparency standards, Read more about our and in compliance with Corporate Governance. all applicable regulations. Read more about AB InBev. 42 OUR PEOPLE IN THE COMMUNITY Product Quality We know that a significant Depending upon the nature integrity. As a member, portion of our water of the gap, we may require we report audits of our Our passion for and GHG footprints a re-audit of the supplier. suppliers to AIM-Progress. beer transfers to an are associated with We work with our suppliers uncompromising We are also a member of the activities of those to discuss the benefits commitment to product SEDEX, a not-for-profit suppliers. Understanding of our auditing and help quality that ensures that organization dedicated these impacts is a highly them close any gaps in their our consumers enjoy the to driving ethical and complex undertaking, but performance. Sometimes freshest, best-tasting beers. responsible business it is something we are suppliers opt not to take We follow a comprehensive practices in global supply working hard to do. At the advantage of the audits quality management chains. As the largest same time, we want to or close identified gaps. system at our breweries collaborative platform for ensure that the companies In those cases we do and facilities to maintain sharing ethical supply chain from which we purchase not renew our business product quality and safety, data, SEDEX is an innovative products and services relationship with them. and we extend these and effective management operate in an ethical standards to our suppliers. We also take part in solution that will help AB and responsible manner. There were no product industry and NGO initiatives InBev reduce risk, protect We have put in place a safety recalls in 2014. that seek to improve supply our reputation and improve Responsible Sourcing chain performance. We our supply chain practices. Policy that communicates Read more about our are a member of AIMour expectations to In 2014, our global Product Quality. Progress, a global forum our suppliers, and we responsible sourcing of consumer goods are assessing their program expanded with companies sponsored Responsible Supply performance – often reviews of more than by the European Brands Chain Sourcing through third-party 220 onsite audits of Association and the Grocery audits – on a range of suppliers and second-tier We look at our entire value Manufacturers Association. social and environmental merchandizing suppliers chain for opportunities The group’s purpose is measures. If we identify we believed had a to lower costs, reduce to promote responsible a gap in a supplier’s higher risk. environmental impacts supply chain and sourcing performance, we work and foster economic standards that address with them to close it and stability among our many labor practices, health demonstrate that the suppliers and surrounding and safety, environmental issue has been resolved. communities. management and business 43 OUR PEOPLE IN THE COMMUNITY This includes 63 audits Code of Business further strengthened of Human Rights and we accepted through Conduct our Compliance function the International Labor AIM-Progress’ mutual by aligning its reporting Organization’s Declaration recognition program As a leading global structure directly to our on the Fundamental (supplier audits performed company, we operate in Chief Legal and Corporate Principles and Rights at by one of the other countries that have a broad Affairs Officer. Work. Our Global Human member companies of range of cultures and Rights Policy sets out the AIM-Progress). Our main business practices. That Read our Code of Business standards, expectations focus was to improve makes it more important Conduct. and commitments that performance by working than ever that we are support our responsibility with suppliers and traders guided by a clear and Global Human to respect human rights in to close identified gaps. consistent code of business Rights Policy our own operations and to ethics and guidelines not knowingly contribute In 2015, we will work to As a signatory to the United for AB InBev employees to the violations of human incorporate our responsible Nations Global Compact, around the world. We rights by other parties. sourcing program into a we are committed to updated our Code in larger supplier qualification business practices that do Read our Global Human January 2014, and 17,500 program, taking into not infringe on human Rights Policy. employees completed our account legal, financial and rights and that do align online training and more social compliance. with various international than 6,000 completed standards of responsible in-person training last business conduct, including year. In addition, we the Universal Declaration Public Policy As the world’s leading commitment to supporting brewer, our company the political process. We deals with a broad range strive to ensure that our of issues, and we monitor actions work to support all legislation for potential the best interests of our impacts on our business. company, employees, shareholders and All of our public policy consumers, as well as the expenditures and activities communities in which we comply with relevant do business. federal, state and local laws, as well as with our Read more about our own approval processes, Public Policy. and reflect our continued 44 ABOUT THIS REPORT Recognition About this Report We are proud of the ›› Labatt was named one This report presents content for our reporting recognition our company of Canada’s Top 100 Anheuser-Busch InBev’s we worked with Business for and our sustainability work Employers for the second annual update on key Social Responsibility (BSR) have earned, both globally year in a row by the performance data and to conduct a materiality and locally. Here are a few editors of Mediacorp, the information for calendar year assessment that helped examples from the nation’s largest publisher 2014 and provides data on identify the issues most past year: of employment-related specific targets in our Better important to our stakeholders periodicals and online World Plan approved annually and our company. For a ›› AB InBev had six of the directories. by our Board of Directors. summary, see pages 46-47 of Top 10 Most Valuable This report is intended to this report and the Boundary Beer Brands, as ranked by ›› Ukraine’s Chernigivske provide meaningful updates Analysis Table on page 47. To Brand Z – 1) Bud Light; brand was named the to stakeholders around the see where the impacts occur 2) Budweiser; 4) Corona; World’s First Eco Beer by a world, including investors, along our value chain, see 5) Skol; 6) Stella Artois; European Union agency. employees, governments, the infographic on page 7. and 9) Brahma. ›› Global Entrepreneur NGOs, and customers A more detailed look at our ›› AB InBev was recognized awarded AB InBev and consumers in the materiality process is available as No. 2 of the Top 10 2013-2014 “Best 25 countries where online, and a GRI Index for this Corporate Leaders in Performers 50 China” we operate. year’s report can be found on Water Stewardship by for its strength and the GRI Index section of our Our global citizenship website. Triple Pundit. achievements in the reporting is split between this field of corporate ›› The China Youth self-contained PDF document The data and stories social responsibility. Development Foundation and our corporate website. presented were gathered and recognized AB InBev ›› The Quilmes Brewery The PDF document primarily verified with the assistance with its “Outstanding was recognized summarizes activities, of content owners across all Contribution Award” at by the National initiatives and achievements functions and geographic the 25th Anniversary Environment Authority that occurred in 2014, Zones. The company Celebration of Project for its environmental while the website offers has established a Data Hope in Beijing. achievements. information on our Better Management Plan to ensure World strategy, ongoing accurate and consistent ›› A survey conducted by activities and in-depth reporting of responsible MERCO and La Nación exploration of key topics. drinking and environment ranked Cervecería y Taken together, the PDF and goal performance data, Maltería Quilmes sixth on website content constitute and key performance the list of Top Employers our citizenship reporting indicators. We have noted in Argentina. for 2014. which responsible drinking, environmental and social ›› Beverage World AB InBev prepared this metrics have been externally recognized Anheuserreporting in accordance assured by KPMG in the Busch’s Houston fleet with the Global Reporting External Assurance Statement as “Fleet of the Year.” Initiative’s (GRI) G4 “Core” on page 48, in key locations The Houston Brewery level, as the report and the througout the report and replaced its 66-tractor website should both be in our online GRI Index diesel fleet with taken into account in this referenced above. CNG vehicles. claim. To help determine the 45 ABOUT THIS REPORT For information included not currently being to make acquisitions or in our consolidated collected. These facilities divest divisions, access financial statements, AB will be included in future to capital, volatility in the InBev’s Statutory auditor is reporting, which typically stock market, exposure PricewaterhouseCoopers takes six months to a year to litigation and other (see pages 17-19 of the AB after acquisition. Our associated risks. A more InBev 2014 Annual Report). per-hectoliter goals on detailed analysis of the GHG emissions, energy risks our company faces is Our report structure and water pertain to our outlined in our annual U.S. parallels our Better World beverage facilities only Securities and Exchange focus areas – Responsible and do not encompass our Commission Form 20-F. Drinking, Environment vertical operations such as Additional information and Community – our three malt plants and packaging about AB InBev’s GHG pillars of global citizenship. facilities. In order to allow and water risks, Our achievements within for increased accuracy, management and these pillars would not meaningful comparisons performance is available be possible without the and determination of goal through the CDP. commitment, dedication achievement, absolute and and diligence of our normalized GHG emissions For questions regarding people around the world. data from previous years the content of this report, Information presented in has been adjusted using please contact us at our report encompasses the latest emission betterworld@ab-inbev.com. AB InBev’s company-wide factors and reporting wholly owned operations, methodologies. Specific including 143 global data tables contain breweries and soft other footnotes about drink facilities represented environmental in global goal performance performance data. for water and energy use, unless otherwise noted. As a publicly traded, multinational company, Some newer beverage our business is subject to facilities acquired certain risks. These risks during the course of include, but are not limited 2014, including Oriental to, the impact of water Breweries, South Korea, availability, climate change, and additional Asiaeconomic recession, Pacific Zone breweries, negative publicity, our are not yet included in our ability to hire and retain the Voyager Plant Optimization best talent, government management system, regulations, the reputation and therefore data may of our brands, the ability 46 ABOUT THIS REPORT AB InBev Materiality Assessment and Report Development March 2015 stakeholders whose and internal stakeholders, Each stakeholder was decisions could be and indirectly through the interviewed to assess Development of the influenced. A more review of input provided their perspectives on the Materiality Analysis detailed explanation of by stakeholders for two most critical sustainability The process used to the materiality process extensive reports that issues upon which AB identify an organization’s and material issues can examined the landscape InBev has an impact. Most most significant social, be found online. of sustainability issues prominent among the environmental, and facing AB InBev and issues identified were the economic impacts is known its management of its supply and use of water, Summary of stakeholders. energy efficiency, climate as a materiality analysis. Stakeholder Feedback AB InBev undertook a change and adaptation, With respect to direct materiality analysis in 2014, Stakeholder input that recycling, responsible interviews, a variety of which provided a solid informed the materiality marketing, underage external stakeholders framework for identifying process in terms of both drinking, consumer health, were engaged that AB InBev’s material issues issue identification and public policy engagement, focus on environmental, and prioritizing them prioritization was gathered and agricultural producer social, agricultural, public based on a well-defined through two distinct livelihoods. policy, consumer, and set of criteria (see AB InBev methods: directly through marketing issues. Materiality Assessment interviews with external Map). Out of this process, seven issues were ranked AB InBev Materiality Assessment Map as most significant, or Tier1: TIER 2 ›› Sustainable Agriculture; TIER 1 Energy Use/ Water Stewardship GHG Emissions Responsible Product Use Education ›› Water Stewardship; Sustainable Agriculture Ethical Behavior ›› Energy Use/GHG Environmental Responsible Marketing Importance to Stakeholders and CSR Management Systems Emissions; Recycling TIER 3 ›› Responsible Product Use; Chemical/Hazardous Occupational Safety Material Management and Health Volunteering Product Quality ›› Responsible Marketing; Traceability Waste Management Human Rights Public Policy Environment Engagement Biodiversity Sustainable Packaging ›› Ethical Behavior; and Supplier Standards Climate Resilience Adaptation Consumer Information Transparency and Accountability Taxes Paid Supplier Diversity ›› Occupational Safety & Diversity/ Labor/Management Inclusion Health. Relations Compensation, Benefits, Training Economic Disaster Relief Work-Life Balance Development Development These issues demonstrate Board Oversight Executive Employee of CSR Compensation Engagement the breadth of AB InBev’s sustainability impacts and the nature of the Influence on Business Success 47 ABOUT THIS REPORT Interviews with key senior public health, responsible the organization, or both. themselves, but also on AB InBev staff were also marketing, ethical behavior, For an overview of where their families and the wider conducted and many of the public policy regulation, our impacts occur along the communities of which they sustainability issues identified water resource management, value chain, please see the are part, and, thus, what as significant are similar to energy usage, sustainable Boundary Analysis Table. With seems like an internal those put forward by external agriculture, community respect to the seven issues company issue actually stakeholders; water supply, engagement, and workplace that have been prioritized as has far wider social and energy use, climate change, policies and procedures. The Tier1 for AB InBev, impacts economic impacts. AB farmer livelihoods, and public importance of these issues generally occur across the InBev has a strong record of policy. But other issues were varied across geographies. value chain, both inside and continual improvement in also noted, such as packaging For example, drunk driving outside the organization, with the safety of its workplaces, material, soil management, was a concern across all the exception of Responsible and the prioritization of increasing farmer yields markets, while water issues Marketing, which is primarily Occupational Safety & through technology and were of highest importance an external facing issue. Health as a Tier 1 issue enhanced knowledge, and in Asia than other continents. Specific boundaries are also signifies AB InBev’s bribery and corruption. That said, all the material stated within the individual commitment to its workers issues identified were data tables, as noted, and the communities in In terms of the two considered significant for throughout the report. which it operates. extensive reports, nearly AB InBev. 600 stakeholders were Ensuring that a workplace is surveyed across key markets safe and free of unhealthy in Asia, Europe, and Latin Boundary Analysis impacts is a primary America to assess their element of any company’s perspectives on AB InBev When considering the sustainability performance and the most important sustainability impacts of a and a basic expectation issues it faces in general and company it is important to of stakeholders. Unsafe with respect to sustainability. understand whether those workplaces have a negative Among the issues identified impacts occur inside or impact not only on the by stakeholders were outside the boundaries of company and the workers Boundary Analysis Table Material Issue for AB InBev Aspect Boundary Within AB InBev Aspect Boundary Outside AB InBev Sustainable Agriculture Company-owned agricultural Growers engaged by AB InBev; retail customers; resources worldwide societal stakeholders Water Stewardship Company operations worldwide Communiities in which we operate; retail customers Energy Use/GHG Emissions Company operations worldwide Providers of purchased transportation services; retail customers; societal stakeholders Responsible Product Use Company operations worldwide Consumers of our products; societal stakeholders Responsible Marketing Company operations worldwide Communities in which our products are sold; societal stakeholders Ethical Behavior Company operations worldwide Vendors and service partners engaged by AB InBev; retail customers; societal stakeholders Occupational Safety & Health Company operations worldwide Communities in which we operate 48 ABOUT THIS REPORT Independent Assurance Report To the readers of the AB InBev 2014 Global Citizenship Report We were engaged by the management of Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (“AB InBev”) to provide assurance on selected information in the AB InBev Global Citizenship Report 2014 (“The Report”). The Executive Board is responsible for the preparation of The Report, including the identification of material issues. Our responsibility is to issue an assurance report based on the engagement outlined below. What was included in the scope of our assurance engagement? Our engagement was designed to provide limited assurance on whether the data for the following information, in all material respects, are presented in accordance with the reporting criteria used by AB InBev: • Provide ID-checking materials and other educational information to at least half-a-million bars, clubs, restaurants and grocery stores to help them prevent sales to minors for 2011 till 2014 (page 11) • Provide training on responsible alcohol beverages sales to at least 1 million bartenders, waiters, grocery store clerks, and others who serve and sell alcohol for 2011 till 2014 (page 12) • Reach at least half-a-billion legal-age consumers to increase awareness of the importance of using a designated driver or safe-ride home for 2011 till 2014 (page 12) • Celebrate Global Be(er) Responsible Day annually to promote the importance of responsible drinking among employees, retail customers and consumers for 2011 till 2014 (page 12) • Train at least 95% of the Sales and Marketing employees in the Top 10 markets on the AnheuserBusch InBev Responsible Marketing & Communications Code in 2014, striving for 100% code compliance and supporting enforcement of industry advertising and marketing self-regulatory codes: 2014 actual training percentage >80% (page 14) • Reduce water risks and improve water management in 100% of key barley-growing regions, in partnership with local stakeholders for 2014 (page 21) • Engage in watershed protection measures at 100% of facilities located in key areas in Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, China, Mexico, Peru and the United States, in partnership with local stakeholders for 2014 (page 24) • Water Use Ratio and Total Water Use for 2012 and 2014 (page 21) • Total Energy Consumption, Energy Consumption per Hectoliter of Product, Total Direct and Indirect GHG Emissions and GHG Emissions per Hectoliter of Product for 2012 and 2014 (page 27) • Packaging material for 2013 and 2014 (page 31) • Eco-friendly cooler purchases for 2014 (page 29) • Lost Time Injuries (LTI) Supply Employees (own) for 2014 (page 40) Data reviewed as part of our assurance engagement has been indicated throughout The Report with the symbol ‘ ’. Procedures performed to obtain a limited level of assurance are aimed at determining the plausibility of information and are less extensive than those for a reasonable level of assurance. 49 ABOUT THIS REPORT Which reporting criteria did AB InBev use? For the information covered by our engagement scope AB InBev applies criteria as detailed in the ‘About this Report’ section (page 44-45). It is important to view the assured information in the context of these criteria. We believe that these criteria are suitable in view of the purpose of our assurance engagement. Which standard did we use? We conducted our engagement in accordance with the International Standard for Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000: Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information, issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board. This Standard requires, amongst others, that the assurance team possesses the specific knowledge, skills and professional competences needed to provide assurance on sustainability information, and that they comply with requirements of the Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants of the International Federation of Accountants to ensure their independence. What did we do to reach our conclusions? Our procedures included the following: • A risk analysis, including a media search, to identify relevant issues for AB InBev during the reporting period with specific emphasis on responsible drinking, environmental, and safety related topics. • Assessing the suitability of the reporting criteria. • Evaluating the design and implementation of the systems and processes for the collection, processing and control of the selected information. • Interviews with the relevant staff at corporate level responsible for collecting, consolidating and carrying out internal control procedures on the selected information. • Visits to seven production sites in Brazil, Argentina, Mexico, China, the United Kingdom and the United States of America to review the environmental and safety data and the design and implementation of validation procedures at local level. • An analytical review of the data for the selected responsible drinking, environmental and safety indicators submitted by all production sites for consolidation at corporate level. • Evaluating internal and external documentation, based on sampling, to determine whether the selected information is supported by sufficient evidence. Conclusion Based on the procedures performed, as described above, nothing came to our attention to indicate that the selected information is not presented, in all material respects, in accordance with the reporting criteria. Amsterdam, 29 April 2015 Belgium, 29 April 2015 KPMG Sustainability part of KPMG Bedrijfsrevisoren Burg. CVBA KPMG Advisory N.V. Represented by Wim Bartels, RA Mike Boonen Partner Partner 50 ABOUT THIS REPORT Thank you for reading our report – now we want to hear from you. Please take a moment to tell us what you think of this report by contacting us at betterworld@ab-inbev.com. We refer all readers of the ABI Global Citizenship Report to all of ABI’s public filings (including, but not limited to, its Annual Report, its annual report on Form 20-F filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, the Risk Factors included therein, its current reports filed on Form 6-K with the SEC and its press releases). Before making any investment or other decision relating to the Company based on this Global Citizenship Report, all such public filings should be considered in detail.
