Myanmar Information Technology Pte. Ltd. United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Communication on Progress April 2015 Myanmar Information Technology Pte. Ltd. Communication on Progress Table of Contents Statement of Continued Support ……………………… Page-3 Human Rights Principles ……………………… Page-4 to 5 Labor Principles …………………….. Page-5 to 7 Environmental Principles ……………………… Page-8 to 9 Anti – corruption Principles ……………………… Page-10 to 11 Page 2 of 11 Myanmar Information Technology Pte. Ltd. Communication on Progress Statement of Continued Support MIT Pte. Ltd. once again reiterate, consecutively for the third straight year, our unwavering commitment to comply with the United Nations ( UN ) Global Compact as proclaimed in its ten universal principles governing human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption. We are fully aware of the fact that businesses, large and small, in all regions across the globe, have gradually come to recognize the importance of reflecting environmental, social and economic considerations in their operations and strategies. As far as we are concerned, we have strived, to the best of our ability, in integrating the said principles into our mainstream business operations and strategies. We are fully aware that by doing so we are collaborating with UN to accelerate the momentum to achieve the Millennium Development Goals and set priorities for the post -2015 periods. Our corporate endeavors in compliance with the ten principles under the guidance of the UN Global Compact can be seen on our website at www.mit.com.mm. Sincerely yours, Dr.Tun Thura Thet CEO Myanmar Information Technology Pte. Ltd. Page 3 of 11 Myanmar Information Technology Pte. Ltd. Communication on Progress HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed Human Rights and Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in Human Rights abuses As a member of the UN Global Compact, MIT has engaged itself to raising awareness of the importance of universal Human Rights in our daily lives, and particularly in our workplaces. For the past two years, we have accomplished in disseminating the principles of Human Rights not only in the minds of our employees but also facilitating them to put the Rights into practice. We took further initiatives by holding meetings where Human Rights principles are discussed and experiences shared. As a result, Human Rights in the current state of affairs in Myanmar have become a much-talked about subject among the people. Just as it is true within our firm. Having thus become aware of the ten principles of UN Global Compact, we then took practical steps to effectively comply with them in several fields notably children rights and education. In 2013, we donated computers and printers to underprivileged school children, taught the teachers of the school some fundamentals so that they could in turn, share the knowledge with their kids on how to use computers. Because we are a company that deals in software and related IT products, it is fitting that we undertake IT training as a measure to narrow the information gap between different socioeconomic classes and to build a social safety net in the telecommunication sector. Recently, towards the latter part of 2014, we established a scholarship award scheme for outstanding IT students from two Universities of Computer Science in Yangon. The scholarship provides monthly financial assistance to seven outstanding students to enable them to pursue their studies well. We have compiled a Staff Handbook where rules and regulations are stated for all our staff to digest and follow. Our staffs are to follow these rules and regulations as well as the directives issued from time to time, so as to conduct their business activities with honesty, integrity and transparency. Forced and Child labor is anathema in our establishment just as discrimination of all types are prohibited. Women Rights and Women Empowerment are respected and honored. Employment of women is encouraged as can be seen in the number of women staff being employed. Out of a total of our workforce, female employees outnumber the male employees by almost Page 4 of 11 Myanmar Information Technology Pte. Ltd. Communication on Progress two to one. We also respect employees’ rights to freedom of expression, freedom of association and freedom of collective bargaining. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOME We are happy to declare that so far, no complaints whatsoever have been found nor recorded in our firm regarding Human Right abuses and transgression. This only goes to emphasize that our employees, hand in hand with the management, have come of age and are fully aware of what’s going on around them involving Human Rights Principles. We feel that our employees are more than ever willing to cooperate with UN to further the cause of Millennium Development Goals across the Globe. LABOR PRINCIPLES Principle 3 : Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4 : the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor Principle 5 : the effective abolition of child labor and Principle 6 : the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation As has been mentioned in the previous section of this report, we would very much like to emphasize that, since ours is a labor-andskills-intensive entity, we give priority to recognizing and respecting freedom of association and collective bargaining. We give our employees’ leeway to air their grievances freely and without intimidation. Complaints regarding employment conditions are dealt with swiftly and satisfactorily by the management. We do not solicit child labor and we discourage hiring children. In regards to discrimination in respect of employment and occupation, we have expressly stated in the rules and regulations of our Staff Handbook that job applicants are chosen and hired according to criteria relevant to each post. We are totally against appointing people based on religion, race, sex or political affiliation. Page 5 of 11 Myanmar Information Technology Pte. Ltd. Communication on Progress Our Staff Handbook which is updated from time to time contains rules and regulations covering almost all the aspects of employment conditions. Employees’ employment agreements, duties and responsibilities, employment welfare benefits, risks and hazards management, healthcare benefits are all incorporated into it. Assessing labor-related risks and hazards are carried out by the management. Following the assessment, necessary measures are taken to eliminate the risks and hazards. As an example, we distribute water bottles to the staff for the purpose of ensuring their daily water consumption. Another example of labor welfare measures is letting our employees to register themselves in the Social Welfare Scheme of the Ministry of Labor. As for their healthcare, we have had an anti-hepatitis virus B vaccine injection programme since last year. An annual medical examination for our staff is soon to be conducted this year. Moreover, we hold an annual sporting event for our employees so that they stay strong, healthy and fit. As part of our Human Resources Development Plan, we have drawn up a programme to raise the level and quality of our staff’s intellectual and professional performance. Such measures as sending them abroad to attend internationally-recognized courses that help improve their professional skills and qualifications. An in-house training program has also been conducted for the staffs to not only keep in touch with new developments in computing, but also to adapt and cater to the needs of our clients. These steps form an integral part of our Human Resources Development Plan and have all contributed towards keeping our staff abreast of the unprecedented leapfrog advances of modern-day computer science. As to our employment procedures, all employment contracts are prepared in accordance with the spirit and letter of the Labor Law of Myanmar. Employees are encouraged to get themselves registered in the Social Welfare Scheme of the Ministry of Labor so that they can receive a wide range of short and long term social benefits. We also provide medical services to our staff. An anti-hepatitis virus B vaccine injection plan has been implemented so that the staff could enjoy better good health. To supplement this, an annual sporting event is celebrated with most of the employees participating and prizes are given. The following is a list of action-oriented measures undertaken by the company management with a view to fulfill the needs and aspirations of our employees:  Recently sponsoring a scholarship, on annual basis , to seven outstanding students chosen from two Universities of Computer Science in Yangon;  Providing induction courses for new employees; Page 6 of 11 Myanmar Information Technology Pte. Ltd. Communication on Progress  Providing refresher courses for senior and junior employees;  Sending selected staff to local training courses to get familiarization with changing technological skills and knowledge;  Allowing our IT professionals to attend conferences and workshops as well as to give lectures and speeches when invited;  Providing financial assistance to employees who need to meet their medical bills either as a partial or down payment;  Providing free food and medicine to employees assigned to overtime duties;  Arranging free accommodation for staff employed in Yangon office from other states and divisions;  Arranging free transportation for employees to and from office;  Providing new uniforms to all employees annually;  Celebrating annual sports, fairs and staff dinner party;  Distributing water bottles and mugs with company logo;  Providing fresh fruits on weekly basis;  Drawing a plan to provide annual medical checkup for all the employees;  Continuing to complete a new office block which will house better rooms and facilities thus creating better working conditions MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOME We are glad to point out that following our initiatives taken to improve labor related matters, much has been achieved as a result of wise management, disclosure of business information to stakeholders for transparency , but most importantly, unfaltering cooperation from our employees. Careful management and supervision have also led to zero work-related mishaps and accidents over the last three years. Complaints regarding working conditions are unheard of and any minor incidents are dealt with promptly and effectively. We do not advocate forced labor nor child labor. We encourage freedom of association and collective bargaining within permissible limits. Finally, employment and occupation discrimination is totally prohibited and as a result, we enjoy a harmonious working environment and an esprit de corps atmosphere among our staff that leads to a sense of optimism, creativity and productivity. Page 7 of 11 Myanmar Information Technology Pte. Ltd. Communication on Progress ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES Principe 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility and Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies In as much as our mainstream operations are office based, we have had little direct impact with communities we work in. However, we could be more or less involved in and responsible for causing damages to the surroundings in imperceptible ways. Like, use of paper at offices to a great extent that creates wastages and endangers the environment. Speaking of the use of paper in offices, we have taken initiatives to reduce paperworks, as much as possible, in all our worksites by using more and more internet communications, such as the email, instead of paper. Now, we send emails for internal and external communications much more than before. The reduction of the amount of paper used can easily be measured. We have also implemented a “Going Green” policy whereby we remind our staff and stakeholders on all our outgoing emails of taking into account the awareness of protecting the environment. By doing so, we have successfully communicated with our stakeholders the importance of compliance with UN Environmental Principles. These are rules and regulations set down by the Management to reduce the use of electricity at our offices. Such steps include switching off all computers, faxes, airconditioners, copiers etc., during breaks and at the end of each working day. Another is the replacement of old, energy-consuming light bulbs and lighting with LED products and appliances in all offices. Our core business operation is to provide services to our clients in the form of software and related deliverables. We take great precaution not to damage the environment where we operate. In addition, in order to get ourselves engaged more and more in environmental protection projects by cooperating and sharing with business partners and other entities, two of our staff had been sent in 2013 to attend a National Seminar on Green Growth Policy Tools for low carbon development in Myanmar. Page 8 of 11 Myanmar Information Technology Pte. Ltd. Communication on Progress Also, in order to reduce waste materials at work, our company has come up with a new software called “ xrm “which has already been put in place and has been operational for some time now. The main aim of this project is to optimize cost-efficiency, reduce paperwork, and create a cleaner paperless workplace. We have also computerized all recruitment processes reducing paperwork. We have also communicated this policy to all our business partners, clients and stakeholders so that they too can contribute towards keeping the environment safe. Our senior management monitors the implementation of these measures to protect the environment. To summarize, we have drawn up a list of what we have done during the past two years:  Have managed to reduce the use of electricity;  Have always taken great pains to avoid harming the environment where we operate;  Reduction of paper use by means of greater use of computerization and utilization of the email;  Implementation of “Going green” compliance policy to raise awareness of the environmental protection and climate change MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOME As a result of these measures undertaken us, we were able to achieve some positive results towards the environment protection. We have managed to reduce energy consumption, establish cleaner and waste-reduced worksites and help protect the environment and enable us to bear the consequences of climate change. In the process, all those concerned, the management, the employees and the stakeholders have come to learn more about climate change. Page 9 of 11 Myanmar Information Technology Pte. Ltd. Communication on Progress ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery MIT is committed to be in compliance with all local anti-corruption laws. We also support international and regional legal frameworks against corruption in all its forms. MIT has adopted a “Zero Tolerance” on corruption. A comprehensive training and awareness program has been initiated by the company to foster and promote participation by all the MIT employees enhancing a shared sense of belonging, sustained responsibility and ethical conduct. In light of the seriousness that corruption impacts on many societies around the world, we take such measures as communicating and training all our employees on anticorruption commitment our company has made. We make sure that all our employees know and follow the rules and regulations on corruption issues as laid down not only in the STAFF Handbook but also in the terms and conditions of the Employment Agreement. Our senior management takes the responsibilities to check all internal transactions and see if they confirm to our business practices or not. Another measure we have come up with is prohibiting all our employees from presenting gifts, for the purpose of paying homage or obeisance on special, social and religious occasion, worth in excess of Ks 10,000 either in cash or in kind. Finally having been convinced of the complexities of corruption issues and its nature, we have initiated the following programs:  Integration of procedures to prevent the risk of corruption within the company’s operational processes, particularly during commercial transactions involving third parties;  Finding of internal alert channels available to all the employees;  Establishing a robust internal control and audit process;  Draw up programs to increase awareness and to inform and train employees most likely to be exposed to corrupt practices from outside influences MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOME We realize that the fight against corruption is on-going affair. To date, no incidents of bribery or kickback or any other types of corruption have been reported for the year. Page 10 of 11 Myanmar Information Technology Pte. Ltd. Communication on Progress We believe that strong ethical conduct by each individual employee, coupled with a strong leadership will bring about a sustainable development in fight against corruption. Page 11 of 11
