Our values at work Securing your world Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 Introduction As the world’s leading global integrated security company, with operations across six continents and more than 623,000 employees, G4S is one of the world’s largest private employers. G4S plays an important role in society. We make a difference by helping people to operate in a safe and secure environment where they can thrive and prosper. Our size and scale mean that we touch the lives of millions of people across the world and our goal is to ensure that we make a positive impact on the communities in which we work. In this report we feature the important work carried out by our colleagues that makes us proud to be securing your world. Our values Safety first Performance We prioritise safety management to We seek to improve performance protect the health and well-being of year on year to create our colleagues and those around us. long-term sustainability. Customer focus Teamwork and collaboration We have close, open relationships with We collaborate for the benefit of our customers which generate trust our customers and G4S. and we work in partnership for the benefit of our organisations. Expertise We develop and demonstrate Integrity our expertise through our innovative We can always be trusted to do approach to creating and delivering the right thing. the right solution. Best people We employ the best people, develop their competence, provide opportunity and inspire them to live our values. Our values at work: In this report An integrated reporting framework Our corporate values influence every aspect of Overview Overview our culture and day-to-day business activity, and Performance in 2014 2 underpin our corporate social responsibility (CSR) G4S at a glance 4 strategies. We believe that CSR strategies are best Introduction by the Group Chief Executive Officer 8 CSR Chair: Our approach to CSR achieved when integrated into business practices. and the role of the board 12 Stakeholders and materiality 14 It is with this in mind that our CSR strategies and priorities are developed in conjunction with our operational businesses. They help to improve the Business ethics and anti-bribery way we work and our approach to doing business. and corruption Our strategy 18 To better reflect the focus that our values Progress in 2014 20 have within our organisation and the importance Priorities for 2015 21 we place on ethics and sustainability, we have this year implemented an integrated CSR reporting framework which is led by our Annual Report Health and safety and Accounts and supported by this CSR Report Our strategy 22 and the relevant CSR sections of our website. Progress in 2014 22 Priorities for 2015 24 Human rights Our strategy 26 Progress in 2014 26 Priorities for 2015 30 About this report Reporting frameworks 31 Find out more online For updates on our CSR activity throughout the year, visit www.g4s.com/csr Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 G4S plc 1 Performance in 2014 2014 CSR highlights A snapshot of some of our key CSR achievements during 2014 Securing our environment Securing our communities G4S total carbon footprint in 2014 was Conducted studies of the economic impact of G4S 538,303 t/CO2e within the UK, demonstrating total contribution to the UK economy of Achieved a carbon intensity of 76.3 t/CO2e per £1.74bn £m revenue in 2014, representing a reduction of 6.3% Invested approximately since 2013. £1.9m in charitable community programmes Measured 56% of the waste generated by the group, totalling 10,400 tonnes of mixed waste with 18% and welfare programmes for employees. diverted from landfill. Matched Measured 64% of the group’s water usage with a total consumption of 1,678,000 litres. £38,000 of employee fundraising for local community good causes. Installed telematics technology into a further 114 UK-based vehicles, bringing the total number of UK-based Supported more than 1,000 community projects vehicles fitted with telematics to almost 2,000. The use across 74 countries, including: of this technology helps to reduce fuel and maintenance costs, while improving driver safety. • Bhubesi Pride (Africa) • India Vision Foundation (India) Achieved an Energy Star rating at the headquarters • Bromley by Bow Centre (UK). of G4S North America. Energy Star-certified buildings generate lower greenhouse gas emissions than typical buildings. 2 G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 Overview Safeguarding our integrity Securing our people Initiated a programme to reinvigorate our group Established ‘Safety first’ as a new group value. values across all business practices. Developed a health and safety management framework Continued embedding our human rights framework into the on which businesses can base their approach to business, including risk assessment and due-diligence processes. ensure that they embed health and safety into their Implemented a governance, risk and compliance system business practices. and process which includes human rights, business Implemented performance objectives related ethics and labour rights reviews. to health and safety for all senior business leaders. Completed a planned reorganisation of Group Risk Extended the Driving Force Rules campaign and Internal Audit departments, increasing the resources to all regions. available and expanding the remit to reflect a risk-based Provided health and safety training to our global audit approach providing assurance on key risk areas leadership team. and adherence to the updated enterprise risk management systems. Completed six health and safety critical country reviews in countries where serious incidents Commissioned an independent human rights and legal occurred during the year. review of G4S operations in Israel and the West Bank. Enhanced the monitoring of health and safety key Completed a review of the group’s whistleblowing performance indicator (KPI) performance, particularly policy and processes against the principles of the in respect of incident investigations. UK Whistleblowing Commission’s Code of Practice. Implemented a new senior management Completed onboarding tool. 112 on-site internal audits, including measurement Extended our talent management system to capture more data on the wider employee population. Launched a new senior leadership development of compliance with business ethics standards. programme with attendance from all six regions. Conducted Continued to support businesses embedding 120 human rights country risk assessments cultural awareness training. Ongoing implementation of the actions arising from the 2013 global employee engagement survey, such as a as part of regular ‘heatmap’ reviews. values based leadership programme in the UK. Signed a commitment to the UN Global Compact Business for Peace platform, promoting the positive change that business may bring to former conflict environments by enabling stability, development and advancement of peace. For more information, visit: www.g4s.com/csr Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 G4S plc 3 G4S at a glance Our services G4S works to safeguard the welfare and prosperity of millions of people worldwide – helping to create safer and better environments in which people live and work. The breadth of our services and geographic coverage provide both resilience and growth opportunities. Secure solutions 84 % group revenue Security and facilities management (FM) services Security systems and technology Market and strategy Market and strategy G4S is a global provider of security and FM services with a top-three market Security systems and technology represented position in the majority of the 91 manned security markets in which we around 8% of group revenue in 2014. operate. Security and facilities management services accounted for 59% The global security systems market is a large of group revenues in 2014. growing market (source: Freedonia, November As one of the few global security companies, our main international competitors 2014) but regional market dynamics vary widely in developed markets tend to be regional and international companies in terms of competition, products sold and operating in a single market segment such as manned security, security systems customer segments. Our technology strategy or facilities management. There are also many local security companies operating therefore has to adapt to meet each region’s in developed and emerging markets. unique requirements. We aim to differentiate our business to customers through our expertise, We aim to drive outsourcing and enhance excellent service delivery, integrated security solutions and geographic coverage. the value of traditional security services through greater use of technology. The secure solutions business covers a wide range of services, including: Security systems and technology includes: Risk services Risk management and consultancy services including risk Security installation Access control, CCTV, and consultancy analysis, personal protection, compliance and investigations, and maintenance intruder alarms, fire training, mine detection and clearance services detection and video analytics to identify and Monitoring Key holding, mobile security, patrol and response notify operators of issues and response services, and alarm receiving and monitoring facilities System software/ Security and building Secure facilities Integrated facilities services for entire sites or estates integration systems technology services for commercial customers and governments integration Manned security Trained and vetted security officers services Revenue Revenue £4,004m £566m (2013: £550m) (2013: £3,898m) 4 G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 Overview Care and justice services Specialist outsourced services Market and strategy Market and strategy Care and justice services represented around 9% of group Based mainly in the UK, G4S offers revenue in 2014. The market structure is typically consolidated a range of outsourcing services, on the supply side with a small number of providers. Larger which together accounted for around companies are usually better equipped to deliver such 8% of group revenues in 2014. highly specialised services. We aim to offer innovative and While the care and justice services market is concentrated cost-effective solutions to customers. primarily in the UK, USA, Australia and New Zealand, we see Police Support for frontline a number of countries exploring the possibility of outsourcing services policing including the these services to the private sector in the future provision of custody suite Care and justice services offers highly specialised services and forensic services to central and local governments and medical services, and government agencies and authorities: back-office support functions for police forces Juvenile and Management of all aspects of a facility adult custody and those held within the facility – WelfareAssisting long-term and rehabilitation similar centres are also used for the to-work unemployed people detention of asylum applicants programme into work Prisoner Transportation of prisoners and asylum Utility Data and meter escorting applicants between courts, police stations services services, and contact and custody and asylum centres centre management for private energy Asylum services Management of housing provision and and utility companies other services for asylum applicants Electronic Electronic tagging and monitoring of monitoring offenders at home or in the community Revenue Revenue £605m (2013: £586m) £504m (2013: £399m) Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 G4S plc 5 Cash solutions 16 % group revenue Cash solutions and secure logistics Market and strategy The cash solutions business covers a wide range The cash solutions business accounted for around 16% of group of services including: revenue in 2014. We are the market leader or number two in 54 of our 62 cash solutions markets. The main providers of similar Cash Managing cash on behalf of financial institutions, services are a small number of international competitors in mainly management including cash transportation, high-security developed markets. Our cash solutions business is integrated into outsourcing cash centres, counting and reconciling cash, our wider organisation and processes through shared customers, fitness sorting of notes for use in automated management structures and systems in many countries. The teller machines (ATMs), counterfeit detection market is highly regulated, often by central banks, and the business and removal, distribution of cash to bank requires complex infrastructure and significant expertise. branches, ATMs and retail customers We aim to: Cash Provision of consultancy services to consulting central banks and commercial banks on • play a key role in the management of the cash cycle on overall cash management strategy, bank note behalf of central banks, commercial banks and retailers, production and security and all aspects of allowing them to focus on their core business cash cycle efficiency • use our developed market cash cycle expertise and track record to encourage central bank and financial institution ATM Managing ATMs on behalf of banks, retailers outsourcing in emerging markets management and independent ATM providers – including • continue the expansion of innovative technology such cash forecasting, cash transportation and as CASH360™ for retail customers. reconciliation services, first-line maintenance Revenue and ATM engineering services £1,071m Retail cash Provision of systems and hardware which management provide an automated cash office for retail sites to improve security and faster banking (2013: £1,063m) of cash, electronic audit trails of takings and a real-time view of retail cash balances International Bespoke international transportation and transportation insurance of currency and other valuables Cash Secure transportation of cash using specialist transportation vehicles, screened and trained personnel and purpose-built technology to transport, protect, count and reconcile cash to customer records Go online for more information, visit: www.g4s.com 6 G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 Shape of the G4S is a global business with operations in more than 110 countries. We employ over Overview organisation 623,000 people, making G4S one of the world’s largest private employers. Employees by geographical segment Employees by role Other UK & Ireland Africa (3.2%) 37,000 (6%) 125,000 (21%) Managers (1.2%) Supervisor/ North America first-line managers 57,000 (9%) (5.9%) Europe 64,000 (11%) Latin America Asia Middle East Frontline employees 76,000 (13%) 264,000 (40%) (89.6%) Frontline diversity and inclusion (%) Managers diversity and inclusion (%) Africa 92 8 Africa 82 18 Asia Middle East 91 9 Asia Middle East 85 15 Latin America 85 15 Latin America 82 18 Europe 83 17 Europe 79 21 North America 73 27 North America 68 32 UK & Ireland 74 26 UK & Ireland 70 30 0 20 40 60 80 100 0 20 40 60 80 100 Male Female Male Female Almost 30% of our employees are covered by collective Employee engagement agreements. The positive union relationships that underpin Global union membership the agreements help ensure a progressive employee relations % Union membership % Collective agreements climate for our people and a stable operating environment for 2014 2013 2014 2013 our customers. Africa 26% 26% 50% 56% Asia Middle East 1% 3% 8% 11% Latin America 7% 10% 39% 38% Europe 26% 36% 63% 66% North America 12% 14% 17% 18% UK & Ireland 24% 29% 67% 84% Total 12% 14% 30% 33% Levels of union membership have fallen during 2014, although over-reporting in Latin America during 2013 by newly acquired businesses accounts for much of this apparent reduction. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 G4S plc 7 Introduction by the Group Chief Executive Officer G4S’s approach to CSR is led from the top of the organisation with the personal commitment of every member of the Group Executive Committee to uphold the group’s values. In this our sixth CSR review, we analyse some of the key issues and themes arising from our CSR activities and provide an update on progress since our last report. Prioritising CSR activities Our CSR programme is broad-ranging, but we prioritise three key themes – business ethics and anti-bribery and corruption, health and safety, and human rights. These are issues that are most closely aligned to our values and have been highlighted as the most material CSR issues faced by the group in our regular CSR materiality reviews. G4S signed its commitment to the UN Global Compact Ashley Almanza four years ago and its principles continue to be reflected Group Chief Executive Officer in our business ethics, human rights and other CSR related policies. The value of CSR to the organisation Having a sustainable, ethical business is key to the future success of the group. High ethical and operational standards are an important differentiator and help our Delivering sustainable, business to develop and grow. They help us to attract and retain key employees, to win and keep important profitable growth customer contracts and to obtain appropriate investment in our company. These are all necessary for us to achieve our long-term strategy of delivering sustainable, profitable growth. Integrating CSR into business practices As one of the world’s largest global employers We believe that our CSR goals are best achieved when they are integrated within our business operating in security and related roles across practices and not operated as a stand-alone the world, we understand our obligations to our programme, which is why our CSR practices are developed in conjunction with our operational strategies employees, customers and the wider community. to ensure that they achieve the desired impacts, but also contribute positively to our business performance. Our CSR policies are well developed and we are While we have governance structures and review proud of the progress we have made in integrating processes in place that sit outside the line management CSR activities into our everyday business practices. structure to provide independent scrutiny of our practices, we expect our managers across the business to understand our corporate values and to uphold them in their everyday business activities. We reinforce the group values and standards at every opportunity and assess compliance with standards through a variety of means, including internal and external audit, contract reviews, risk reviews, self-assessments and other embedded operational processes. 8 G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 Constructive stakeholder dialogue Achievements in 2014 The nature of our business means that we often work in There have been many achievements in the last 12 Overview complex and challenging environments. This means that months across our CSR activities, and these are covered our organisation can be subject to the intense scrutiny of elsewhere within this report. In relation to the group’s official and unofficial organisations with an interest in the three priority areas, there has been significant progress. particular operation or the rights of people with whom Business ethics and anti-bribery and corruption we come into contact in the performance of our duties. Acting with integrity is a key element of our business We believe that constructive dialogue and feedback strategy. Every year we review and strengthen our is a helpful means of continuously improving our CSR business ethics policy and practices to ensure that and business practices. We welcome such dialogue they address current business risks. and engage in it positively with a variety of employee Implementation of the standards described in the and other stakeholder groups to achieve this. business ethics policy is the responsibility of local When concerns are raised in relation to our business we managers. Compliance with the policy is monitored engage in constructive dialogue and where appropriate and measured through our internal and external audit we may also appoint external professionals to review programmes and from investigations triggered by our practices. Examples of this approach can be found whistleblowers or colleagues raising concerns with their on page 29. managers. In some cases, such investigations are the result of complaints or feedback received from outside the organisation. We treat all matters raised seriously. A G4S security officer protecting critical national infrastructure in the United States of America. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 G4S plc 9 Introduction by the Group Chief Executive Officer continued In 2014 we reviewed our whistleblowing policy against Processes and practices are challenged frequently by the principles of the UK Whistleblowing Commission’s our health and safety professionals. Critical country Code of Practice, the result was a stronger policy which reviews, carried out by experts who are independent has been published on our website. We have selected of the area of the business under review, highlight learning a new global hotline provider and will be implementing points following serious incidents. a new global whistleblowing system in 2015. We are also To ensure that our managers take ownership and implementing a new case management tool that will responsibility for improving health and safety, our enable us to capture information on whistleblowing incentive plans are designed to ensure that avoiding cases across the group and to analyse trends and issues harm to employees remains a key focus for managers raised on a more systematic basis. We established an across the organisation. Ethics Steering Group – which was first created to ensure our compliance with the requirements of the UK Bribery Our relentless focus on improving health and safety Act – to ensure the appropriate focus on whistleblowing will continue in 2015. and ethical behaviour across the group and that we are Human rights constantly challenging ourselves to meet the highest of Our human rights policy has been implemented standards. We believe that this will help us continue to across the group along with newly developed processes improve our compliance with ethical standards and better for assessing the group’s human rights risks in many identify any behaviour that is not in line with our policy. areas such as bidding for contracts, entering new Health and safety markets and analysing our existing countries of operation. Tragically, colleagues from across the group are injured, These practices are driven by an annual assessment sometimes fatally, during the course of their work. of human rights risks and a series of assessments and Any death or injury is unacceptable and in 2014 we reviews in markets where risks exist. The board takes have invested in additional health and safety resources human rights risks extremely seriously. with the aim of preventing such incidents across the Where risks or concerns are identified, action is taken group and to learn from those that do occur so that to make sure that we put in place processes to mitigate we can address the root causes. or reduce any risk. In some cases, this means that a The continued effort to improve the safety of our staff business or operation can be scrutinised intensely is led right from the top of the organisation with by either G4S or independent experts. For example, personal leadership from each member of the Group in the spring of 2014, the board commissioned an Executive Committee, supported by human resources independent review into the company’s operations experts and 108 safety professionals. in Israel. The findings from the review were presented to the Chair of our CSR Committee and to a number of the Group Executive Committee members and were published on the group’s website in the interests of transparency. Driving Force Rules Check your vehicle before driving Always wear a seat belt Always wear a helmet and high-visibility equipment Do not speed Never use a hand-held mobile telephone whilst driving Do not drive under the influence of alcohol or drugs Take a short break if required 10 G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 Priorities for 2015 As we look forward to 2015, our key CSR priorities will remain unchanged. We will, however, conduct a materiality Overview exercise towards the end of the year to ensure that our priorities remain aligned to the needs of the business and our various stakeholder groups. We will also launch our latest global employee engagement survey which provides valuable feedback and intelligence from employees at all levels across the world. The survey is embraced by our colleagues as an opportunity to provide feedback and comment on how they feel about working for the group and how we are living up to our values – over 384,000 colleagues participated in 2013, when the survey was last conducted. The information provided in the survey gives us a real sense of how policies and practices developed at group level are being implemented or adopted on the ground and it enables us to address any issues raised by employees both at a global and local level. Implementing enhanced whistleblowing and anti-bribery and corruption practices will be a key element of our 2015 plan, with the implementation of a number of new systems and tools across the organisation. Business ethics and antibribery and corruption (p18) The health, safety and well-being of our colleagues and those in our care will be an ongoing priority in 2015, with extended critical country reviews, training for managers and learning from root cause analysis. We do not accept that an injury or death of a colleague is ever acceptable and will continue to focus relentlessly on ensuring that we can keep our colleagues and those who trust us safe from harm. Health and safety (p22) Embedding our human rights risk assessments and reviews into our business processes will continue in 2015, as part of our enhanced risk assessment processes. This will ensure that human rights risks identified in new areas of business are fully considered in business decision-making and that risks that occur within existing areas of operation are fully understood and mitigated. We have made significant progress in this area since the launch of our human rights policy in 2013 and we expect to continue the progress on our human Human rights (p26) rights journey. We have made much progress on embedding CSR in our organisation, but we will not be complacent. We will focus on continuous improvement to our business practices to ensure that we meet our high ethical and CSR standards across the group. Ashley Almanza Group Chief Executive Officer Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 G4S plc 11 CSR Chair: Our approach to CSR and the role of the board During 2014 the committee engaged with the management team on important issues and reviewed progress on many of the group’s key CSR priorities. While we have focused on the key priorities outlined in our materiality study, we continue to address all aspects of our broad-ranging CSR commitments. The role of the CSR Committee As a global security company operating in some very challenging environments around the world, the board and the management of G4S are very aware of the potential impact the company has on societies and we are committed to making sure that impact is a positive one. The committee plays a key role in challenging relevant business strategies and plans on CSR-related matters such as health and safety, business ethics and human Clare Spottiswoode rights and monitors progress made by the group in CSR Chair these and other CSR activities. The committee actively participates in reviewing investment requests for commencing operations in new countries and in monitoring global CSR programmes to ensure that they not only hit their key milestones and objectives, but also have a lasting effect on the way we do business. Our approach to CSR The healthy debate between the committee members and the senior management of the group is proving to be a successful way of putting ethical and sustainability and the role of the board matters at the heart of the business. In 2014 the CSR Committee met on 3 occasions and I met personally with 21 external stakeholders to discuss CSR matters. I was also directly involved in the review of our human rights assessment of the In my second year as Chair of the group’s group’s business in Israel. CSR Committee, I am pleased to report that The CSR Committee receives regular updates on we have continued to make strong progress current issues and allegations and has the opportunity to discuss these important matters, their causes against our key CSR priorities. Our materiality and consequences with members of our Internal Audit, review, carried out in 2013, helped us to steer Human Resources and CSR teams. a course on CSR which focused on the issues Key CSR programmes integrated into that were most important and most impactful business practice While the committee provides challenge and support to the group and its stakeholders. to the management team at a senior level of the organisation, we believe that CSR strategies work best when they are integrated into our business practices. CSR Committee Our policies and programmes are designed to be practical and usable by our businesses and to add value to everyday operations. This has been extremely beneficial in key areas such as business ethics and anti-bribery and corruption, health and safety, and human rights, where we made significant progress in 2014. Encouraging open dialogue The board welcomes dialogue with investors and other stakeholders on matters that are of concern to them and we have engaged with various groups throughout Membership of the CSR Committee comprises Clare Spottiswoode, the year to listen to and understand their point of view Winnie Fok and Paul Spence. CSR Committee meetings are also and to discuss the background to various issues and the attended by the group communications director, group human decisions that have been taken by the group. resources director and the regional president of the UK and Ireland region. I have met with CSR experts and analysts and always find the feedback from those meetings to be helpful and informative for our future plans and priorities. I hope that dialogue will continue into the future. 12 G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 Looking ahead to 2015 business risk assessment and growth strategies to ensure While our plans for 2015 cover a wide range of that our business operations uphold the standards Overview topics, our main priorities will continue to focus on outlined in our human rights policies and guidelines. our three key themes of business ethics and anti-bribery From the point of view of the committee, we will and corruption, health and safety, and human rights. continue to scrutinise and challenge management actions Implementation of enhanced whistleblowing systems in the areas of CSR and will support the ongoing process and case management tools will improve the visibility of development that is being undertaken by the group. of key issues and enable us to identify trends and take Personally, I would like to recognise the leadership of swift and appropriate action if our standards are not the Group Chief Executive Officer and the Group being met. Communication with employees across Executive Committee which has led to significant the group will be a key element of the success of this improvements in CSR-related strategies and the safety programme and will form an important pillar of our and well-being of our employees. Our journey in these whistleblowing improvement strategy. areas continues, but it is important to recognise the We will take important steps to protect our employees progress that has been made to date. and those in our care from harm, learning from previous I also hope that our constructive dialogue with employees incidents and continually investing in the protection of and their representatives, investors and analysts and other our people. stakeholder groups will continue and will help us to Feedback from our next global employee survey will continue to develop our strategies. help us to understand the impact that our CSR Clare Spottiswoode programmes are having on the ground. Chair We have learned much from our focus on human rights CSR Committee and will continue to embed human rights issues into our Sustainability strategy While we have governance structures and review processes G4S’ business and culture are in place that sit outside the line management structure underpinned by its values. We expect to provide independent scrutiny of our practices, we expect high standards of ethics, an absolute our managers across the business to understand our CSR commitments and to uphold them in their everyday business. focus on customer service and a spirit We reinforce the group values and standards at every of teamwork. Our integrity means that opportunity and assess compliance with standards through our customers, employees and other a variety of means, including internal and external audit, contract reviews, risk reviews, self-assessments and other stakeholders can trust us to do the embedded operational processes. right thing. Community Integrity • Social and Integrity • Business ethics and antieconomic impact bribery and corruption* • Community investment • Human rights* • Risk assessment • Internal audit Community People • Whistleblowing and reporting Environment Environment People • Energy and fuel efficiency • Health and safety* • Reducing carbon intensity • Employee engagement • Waste and water • Training and development consumption • Diversity and inclusion * Priority areas For more information, visit: www.g4s.com/csr Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 G4S plc 13 Stakeholders and materiality Working with We believe that high standards of ethical conduct provide a market differentiator and those our stakeholders organisations with the highest ethical standards will have the most positive impact on the lives of those around them and, ultimately, will be the most successful. There are many benefits of operating to high ethical standards. Our stakeholders and why we engage Examples of how we engage Customers can be sure that they are working with a good We seek customer feedback through account management, company, which has high ethical standards and makes customer satisfaction monitoring and operational reviews. a positive impact on society, not just as a result of the service During 2014 we have been investing in a more rigorous it offers, but also the way it behaves. They can be confident approach to customer relationship management, including that we will always operate to the highest standards and will the implementation of a standard tool for measuring not compromise their reputation as a result of unethical customer satisfaction. conduct and they will know that we have systems and processes in place to ensure that employees operate to As part of our regular CSR materiality review, we invite the highest ethical standards. a representative sample of customers to provide their views on key CSR issues and priorities. Employees can be sure that they are working with a good Since 2008 we have had an ethical employment partnership company and be clear about the expectations that the group with UNI, a global union federation. This agreement provides has of them in terms of behaving ethically and representing a framework for businesses and unions to engage locally for the G4S brand in an appropriate way. They will feel able the purposes of union recognition and collective bargaining. to report any concerns about ethical behaviour within the In 2015 we will be completing our fourth global employee group and can be confident that they will be investigated engagement survey. Our most recent global employee and acted on in absolute confidence. engagement survey took place in 2013 and had over Employees will also have the confidence to speak up if 384,000 responses. We are proud of the excellent feedback, they witness behaviour that is not in line with the company’s with 82% of employees who completed the survey saying standards or that puts colleagues or others at risk of harm. they would recommend G4S as an employer and 84% They will know that their concerns will be taken seriously and saying they were satisfied with their job. that they will be treated fairly for reporting any such conduct. Since then businesses have been implementing action plans based on the feedback received and we look forward to hearing our colleagues’ views on whether we have been successful in addressing the issues they raised. In 2015 we will implement an improved whistleblowing hotline and case management system, together with enhanced investigation resources and communications processes to help colleagues bring issues to the attention of senior management. Partners and suppliers can be confident that any business In 2014 we initiated a programme to reinvigorate our group venture entered into with G4S will be carried out on the values across all business programmes. We carried out our basis of strong ethics and that any form of unethical behaviour annual review of our business ethics policy, and further (particularly bribery) will not be tolerated. embedded our human rights framework into the business. They will be sure that G4S employees will not compromise We have strengthened our Group Risk and Internal the reputation of a supplier or partner as a result of unethical Audit departments and are implementing systems and conduct and they will be clear about our expectations of them processes to help ensure that risk and compliance is as a partner or supplier to the group and our zero tolerance effectively monitored. policy in terms of unethical transactions or behaviour. Investors can be confident that they have invested in We have strong relationships with the general investor a company that has high ethical standards and therefore community and investment analysts. will not be prone to criticism regarding ethical issues that We host investor meetings aimed specifically at socially could affect the company’s reputation, business performance responsible investors and ethical investment advisers. or market/share price value. We respond to ad-hoc requests for information throughout the year and also proactively seek feedback on specific CSR-related issues as they arise. 14 G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 Overview Communities can be sure that G4S will behave ethically in We make an important contribution to the communities all of its dealings with stakeholders in the community, such as in which we live and work through our payment of tax employees, customers, partners and governments. They can and employment of more than 623,000 people. have confidence that we will have a positive impact on An academic study of the direct and indirect economic impact the local community and bring shared value to the members of G4S within the UK established that in 2013 we supported of that society. 56,755 jobs across the country and made a total gross value added contribution to the UK economy of £1.74bn. We work with industry bodies to establish strong benchmarks Many G4S managers and employees play an active role wherever we operate and play a pivotal role in raising in industry bodies and associations across the world, such standards in the wider industry and society as a whole. as the Confederation of British Industry (CBI) or the UN Global Compact. Since 2010 G4S has been directly involved in the development and success of the International Code of Conduct for Private Security Providers (ICoC). G4S was a founder signatory of the code, and in 2013 our Global Risk Services businesses became a founding member of the ICoC Association (ICoCA) the compliance and oversight body for the code. Governments and legislators can be confident that we will As a leading global business, G4S participates in consultations support regulation that is designed to improve standards. regarding industry-specific issues and broader legislative It is important to ensure that legislative developments do programmes. We also participate in events at which we may not create unfair competitive environments or unnecessary demonstrate our expertise on security-related issues, such burdens on business activities. In addition to this, governments as participating in an event at the UK’s House of Commons are also some of the group’s largest customers and we strive in 2014 to promote awareness of the dangers of landmines to maintain good customer relationships. and unexploded ordnance. We will work with independent experts on specific topics G4S has engaged with and sought the expertise of to help the group ensure that its policies and practices are recognised specialists on a number of specific issues. In 2014 aligned with best practice. an independent human rights and legal review of our operations in Israel and the West Bank was commissioned by G4S management, and representatives of our Ethics Steering Group consulted the UK charity Public Concern at Work as part of its review of our whistleblowing policy. Where criticisms or complaints are made, stakeholders can be sure that they will be taken seriously and dealt with appropriately at the right level of the organisation or by independent experts if necessary. Customers Communities We are investing in a more We conduct social and economic rigorous approach to customer impact assessments of G4S businesses relationship management in key markets Employees Industry bodies We engage with our employees We aim to raise standards through through a global employee survey membership of industry bodies such as Stakeholder the CBI and ICoCA engagement Governments and legislators Partners and suppliers We participate in relevant consultations We have strengthened our risk and and support events at which we may internal audit systems and processes demonstrate our expertise on security-related issues Investors We proactively seek feedback Independent experts from socially responsible We seek independent expertise on investment analysts key issues such as the development our new whistleblowing policy Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 G4S plc 15 Stakeholders and materiality continued 2014 materiality matrix 10 Business ethics and anti-bribery and corruption Data protection Health and safety and information security Crisis management Responsible procurement 8 and supply chain management Labour relations and freedom of association Stakeholder engagement Diversity and inclusion Government Human rights Protecting communities relations Technology Employee welfare Protecting R&D and support Resource efficiency customer Employee standards Employee assets engagement and professionalism Customer Community engagement projects Recruitment, retention 6 and initiatives and screening Importance to stakeholders Reward and recognition Training development and succession Environmental compliance Socially responsible investor relations 4 Carbon footprint Industry collaboration Disciplinary, grievances, redundancies Economic impacts 2 Joint venture partner management 0 0 2 4 6 8 10 Importance to G4S Securing our communities Safeguarding our integrity Securing our people Business issues with a CSR dimension Securing our environment 16 G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 Our material issues Overview Every two years, we conduct a CSR materiality exercise which helps us to Our priority areas assess the current market environment, We have identified three business challenges and most relevant core ethics and sustainability sustainability issues. priorities for 2014 and 2015 Our most recent exercise was carried out early in 2014, when we surveyed executive and non-executive members of G4S senior management and the board, together with a representative sample of G4S stakeholders – including customers, investors and non-governmental organisations (NGOs). We sought their views and opinions on the CSR issues and trends that present the greatest risks or opportunities to the global organisation’s performance, strategy and reputation. Business ethics and antiThe top-line results of this exercise are presented in our materiality bribery and corruption (p18) matrix, which compares the priority of each issue relative to the concerns of the stakeholder. The closer each issue is towards the top-right corner of the matrix, the higher the priority placed on it by the stakeholder and the more material it is to G4S’ business. The materiality matrix identified three core priority ethics and sustainability areas for the group during 2014 and 2015: • Business ethics and anti-bribery and corruption • Health and safety • Human rights. The matrix also highlights the importance placed on culture and values within the group and defines a strong group of Health and safety (p22) employee-related issues on the fringe of the materiality threshold, emphasising the significance that is placed on these issues and recognising the standards G4S maintains in these areas. Additional areas of social responsibility, such as environmental impact and community investment, are recognised as key ‘business as usual’ elements of our CSR strategy and are reported online. Human rights (p26) Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 G4S plc 17 Our priority areas: Business ethics and anti-bribery and corruption Integrity is one of the group’s core values – being a responsible business partner, employer, customer and supplier is an important part of our strategy and forms an essential foundation on which we carry out our business. In our view, ethical behaviour of corporations should not be just a reaction to regulation or legal Business ethics and anti-bribery compliance, but a means of doing business that gives customers, and corruption employees, partners and communities the confidence that they are working with an ethical organisation that is not prepared to compromise on its integrity to achieve its objectives or to make money. That is why we ensure that our business ethics and G4S plays an important role in society. anti-bribery and corruption programmes are embedded within We make a difference by helping our organisation and are the responsibility of every manager across people to operate in a safe and secure the group. environment where they can thrive We believe that high standards of ethical conduct provide a market differentiator and those organisations with the highest and prosper. Our size and scale mean ethical standards will have the most positive impact on the lives that we touch the lives of millions of of those around them and, ultimately, will be the most successful. people across the world and our goal is We see integrity and strong business ethics as a core part of the G4S strategy and fundamental to the way we operate. to ensure that we make a positive impact on the communities in which we work. We have a group-wide business ethics policy which clearly defines what we consider to be acceptable and unacceptable business practices. We demand compliance with this policy from all managers and employees across the group. In order to ensure that everyone in the group understands their obligations in relation to this policy, we: • update and strengthen the G4S business ethics policy periodically, incorporating evolving legislation and evaluating any risk to the group’s integrity • distribute the policy to managers and request that all managers review the policy and personally sign up to playing their part in ensuring its implementation and therefore the group’s compliance • ensure that all employees are aware of their obligations under the policy, through various communications channels including induction and other training, notice boards, employee magazines, etc • provide specific training to all managers and supervisors on business ethics and preventing bribery and corruption through a bespoke programme available in a variety of formats and languages • reinforce the importance of ethical behaviour through induction, employment contracts, staff handbooks, training 2014 priorities and communications practices. Reinvigorate group values across all business practices Update and re-launch business ethics policy and compliance programme Embed improved risk management processes across the group including a governance, risk and compliance system Complete planned increase in internal audit staffing and expanded remit Complete a detailed review of the whistleblowing arrangements, covering the policy, process and systems Implement improvements generated by internal audit and group risk management reviews Complete Ongoing 18 G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 Business ethics Whistleblowing review and implementation – global Last year we carried out a review of our global whistleblowing policy and processes against the principles of the UK Whistleblowing Commission’s Code of Practice – concluding that a number of improvements could be made. Our new policy has been published on our website and one of our 2015 priorities is the implementation of our new telephone hotline and case management tool, together with enhanced investigation resources and communication processes. Body cameras – UK The use of body cameras at G4S-managed prisons and detention facilities can de-escalate incidents, deter assaults and ensures that accurate records are kept when incidents occur and that the rights of those in our care are upheld and monitored. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 G4S plc 19 Our priority areas: Business ethics and anti-bribery and corruption continued Progress in 2014 As part of our internal audit programme, business ethics and Given the global spread of our organisation and the areas of business anti-bribery and corruption policies and controls are audited in which we work, business ethics and anti-bribery and corruption as a standard element of business unit audits. The results for 2014 are a key part of our risk assurance and audit scope of work. were positive with, on a pro-rata basis, a 50% reduction in control issues noted. The control issues identified were mainly related During 2014 we created a series of regional, executive and to non-compliance with group requirements for implementation board-level risk committees and an enhanced risk review process. of policies or procedures, including promotion of the group-wide This enabled us to redefine the group’s appetite for risk and to Safe 2 Say or local whistleblowing hotline or handling of local make sure that we have the tools and resources in place to assess hotline calls. fully the risks to our business and that mitigating actions ensure the risks are manageable. Most of the findings raised were not of a fundamental nature, indicating that while businesses are implementing group policies, In addition, and as a result of a review conducted in 2013, we improvements could be made in how the practical application of increased the size of our internal audit team from 10 to 19 and those policies takes place at a local level. Improvement actions adopted a risk-based approach to provide greater focus on key were identified and have been or are being implemented. risk areas such as anti-bribery controls or human rights awareness, and adherence to the updated risk management systems As in previous years, our external auditor KPMG reviewed and methodology. and reported on our anti-bribery controls as part of the group’s year-end audit process. Any issues raised by them will be Our Ethics Steering Group – which was first established to ensure investigated and appropriate action taken. our compliance with the requirements of the UK Bribery Act – will maintain the appropriate focus on whistleblowing and ethical During 2014 we implemented a corporate renewal programme behaviour across the group and that we are constantly challenging for our UK businesses which was subject to review by accountancy ourselves to meet the highest standards. firm Grant Thornton on behalf of the UK Government. During the year we conducted an anti-bribery and corruption This programme included: survey in order to assess business compliance with group controls • enhanced communication on the group’s values and its and to identify any potential risk areas where further action was expectations of behaviour from employees required. The results of the survey were analysed and identified • development of a new training programme for managers on that, taking into account the nature of the G4S business and our corporate values operations, overall the level of self-reported compliance and issues • continued improvements to risk management and internal did not indicate current major control exposures or residual risk. audit controls Ethical employment partnership (global) Since 2008, G4S has had an ethical employment partnership with UNI, the global union federation. G4S was the first UK company to enter such a partnership, which drives improvements in employment standards across the global security industry while helping to ensure that employee and union rights are respected throughout the company. 20 G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 • updating our whistleblowing policy and improving Where our investigations identify evidence of unethical related systems conduct, disciplinary action is taken which may range from a • improving transparency in contract management formal reprimand to termination of employment and where with government departments appropriate will be referred to the independent authorities. • participation in the Cabinet Office and CBI working group on transparency Priorities for 2015 Our main priorities in this area for 2015 are to: In addition to the review by Grant Thornton, our internal audit team audited the programme in the last quarter of 2014 and • complete our review of compliance and assurance employees concluded in January 2015 that positive progress had been made across the group and integrate those with a significant audit in implementing the corporate renewal action plan. role into the central internal audit department • further align the separate risk and audit teams under a common Business ethics The group whistleblowing arrangements provide a valuable leadership to ensure that we identify and address any material opportunity for employees to raise concerns, anonymously if gaps in our coverage of the key business risks and activities they wish. All concerns raised are reviewed and investigated as • migrate control self-assessments and internal audit systems appropriate. More serious concerns are investigated by our internal to the new risk and compliance system audit team or in some cases using the services of independent • work with the new external auditor, PwC, to ensure strong specialist investigation companies. cooperation to minimise any overlap or gaps in our mutual In 2014 we carried out a review of our global whistleblowing audit coverage policy and processes and concluded that a number of • conduct a review of the group’s business ethics and anti-bribery enhancements could be made. A number of independent and corruption policies to ensure that they are in line with providers of whistleblowing hotline services and case management current best practice and to implement changes as appropriate tools were assessed throughout the year and a preferred partner • develop and implement refresher training programmes was identified towards the end of 2014. Implementing these new for employees on anti-bribery and corruption tools and practices will be a key focus for 2015. • implement a new, independent global whistleblowing hotline service During 2014 the internal audit function carried out seven • develop a whistleblowing communications and training investigations into issues raised through whistleblowing channels. programme to give employees the confidence to speak up Other investigations covering less serious matters were carried out when they see behaviour that does not meet our standards and by regional management with the results and recommendations from are clear about how to raise their concerns those investigations shared with the group director of risk and audit. • implement a new global whistleblowing case management Types of issues investigated by the group internal audit function and system to improve our management of whistleblowing cases actions resulting include: and increase visibility of trends across the group to the Group Executive, CSR and Audit committees Staff grievances and Investigations are made with regional • identify, and train investigators across the group so that they concerns including and business unit HR management are qualified and experienced in the investigation of matters of pay and conditions and to ensure that grievances are addressed ethics and corruption raised through whistleblowing channels. management behaviour and improvements made. Further information on how we safeguard our integrity, including Alleged unethical All issues are investigated and in proven our business ethics policy and code, risk management and internal behaviour by cases action taken against management, audit, whistleblowing policy and approach to anti-bribery and management, including disciplinary action up to and corruption can be found online at www.g4s.com/ethics including abuse of including dismissal. position and fraud In the case of serious issues such as fraud, the group has a zero tolerance approach and reports such cases to the local police and wherever possible will seek criminal prosecution. This applies to all types of fraud whether internal or external. Concerns regarding Investigations with regional operational procedures management to ensure that G4S standards are being followed properly. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 G4S plc 21 Our priority areas: Health and safety We believe that setting the highest standards for health and safety across our industry helps to keep our colleagues safe and builds loyalty and commitment to G4S from our employees. Expertise in health and safety matters enables our employees to act as role-models for health and safety best practice, helping to secure the world of our customers and the communities we serve. Health and safety The nature of our work and the environments in which we operate expose some of our employees to a high risk of harm. Mitigating and managing these risks so that our people can return home As one of our core values, we prioritise safely everyday remains our paramount concern. The group health safety management as well as the health and safety strategy sets the framework and provides a vision of how each business can progress from a level of compliance with and well-being of our employees. As one health and safety regulation to a level of differentiation where we of the world’s largest private employers, lead the industry in health and safety. We recognise that attaining the differentiation level across the group will only be achieved working in sectors where security where a culture of health and safety prevails and where thinking and safety present a strategic risk, and acting safely is the norm for everyone. Underpinning the strategy is a set of core health and safety standards against which our responsibility to protect the health, businesses self-assess every year. Compliance is monitored and safety and well-being of our 623,000 periodically audited with reviews of performance at regional, employees continues to be one of group and board levels via the CSR Committee. our highest priorities. Progress in 2014 To help businesses make progress against the health and safety strategy model, we developed a management system in 2014 which sets out the core processes and practices businesses must follow in order to embed a safety culture. Providing comprehensive toolkits and templates that support each of the five elements in the system is one of the aims in 2015. In line with the safety management model we believe that health and safety needs to be leadership led in order to positively influence the safety culture of the business. The Group Executive Committee set a KPI for all senior leaders to complete training in health and safety. During 2014 all senior leaders achieved this objective. The training explained the behaviours expected of leaders who are committed to building a safety culture and provided guidance on the standards and attitudes necessary to deliver improvements in safety performance. Having raised awareness and understanding, further training of leaders and health and safety practitioners is planned to maintain the momentum created and develop visible safety leaders across the organisation. Compliance with our health and safety standards is required to protect our people from harm. During 2014 we ran a campaign 2014 priorities to communicate ‘Safety first’ as a value and embed fundamental Establish a new group value called ‘Safety first’ rules of safety in our businesses. Our critical country reviews to reinforce the importance of health and (CCRs) remain an important component of supporting those safety in everything we do businesses where fatalities have occurred in assessing their health Introduce performance-related objectives and safety management, raising awareness and sharing good linked to health and safety into our global practices. During 2014 we completed a further six reviews in leadership management group Mozambique, Saudi Arabia, Kenya, Guatemala, South Africa and India. Provide induction training for new health During 2014, 41 of our colleagues lost their lives in work-related and safety practitioners on G4S policies incidents, principally as a result of attacks by third parties and road and practices traffic incidents. This is a tragic loss for their families, friends and colleagues and constantly reminds us of the importance of our Complete six critical country reviews efforts when it comes to health and safety. Roll out Driving Force Rules campaign We continue to improve the rigour and precision with which to all businesses we report and investigate health and safety incidents. In 2014 Continue to monitor health and safety we updated our incident reporting procedures to bring them in line KPI data with widely accepted standards. As a result, while suicides are tragic events, they will no longer be reported as work-related fatalities Complete Ongoing unless they are directly attributable to a work-related incident. 22 G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 Page Title Road safety – Chile A road safety programme launched by G4S Chile in 2011 stipulates a number of key elements that aim to reduce the risk of a traffic-related incident. This includes: • every driver undertaking a defensive driving course, covering traffic and other potentially hazardous conditions • a rigorous preventative maintenance programme and a requirement that all Health and safety drivers complete a pre-trip checklist • careful route planning and driver scheduling, particularly during periods of bad weather or when fatigue could be considered a risk • introducing telematics systems to manage speed and driver behaviour • awareness campaigns, tailored to different roles and used to influence driver behaviour – including encouraging drivers to stop if they have any safety concerns. Ebola response – Sierra Leone Responding to the outbreak of Ebola in the region, G4S Sierra Leone, in conjunction with our G4S Africa head office, developed an Ebola awareness programme for our employees, incorporating posters, handouts and training. Symptom testing, hand-washing facilities and the provision of personal protective equipment were implemented in all G4S offices as part of the programme of increased preventative measures and a comprehensive contingency plan was developed. These measures greatly assisted in the prevention of infection and subsequently have been shared with other affected countries such as Mali, Nigeria and Guinea. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 G4S plc 23 Our priority areas: Health and safety continued We will continue to monitor and investigate incidents of suicide We take an interest in, recognise and reward good health and safety and will endeavour to identify anything that we may learn from practices, with awards for employees and teams who demonstrate these tragic incidents which will help to protect the future they have put ‘Safety first’ in line with our core values. Such awards well-being of our colleagues. are encouraged at business unit, regional and group level and help to share good ideas and promote safe behaviours. On a comparative basis the work-related fatalities reduced in 2014 to 41 from 49 in the prior year. Priorities for 2015 Each incident that results in the serious injury or death of Our main priorities during 2015 are to: a colleague must be thoroughly investigated so that the root causes • extend training on health and safety to the wider leadership can be determined and eliminated. During 2014 we standardised population – this focuses on the role of a leader in improving our process for investigating the most serious of incidents. We also performance, positively influencing a safety culture and raising initiated a process to share the lessons from serious incidents across awareness of significant safety risks across the organisation the group to prevent them from re-occurring. This is a continued • implement an online system to record health and safety incident area of focus as we seek to share good practice and use our data which in turn will streamline reporting, improve case learning to prevent unsafe behaviour and environments that management and enable better analysis of incidents could harm our colleagues. • improve knowledge sharing related to the root causes With more than 35,000 vehicles in the group, road traffic incidents of incidents as identified by investigations remain the largest category of fatalities in 2014 and one of our • implement themed programmes on specific health and highest risks. Following successful pilot programmes in 2013, safety issues across the group, such as road safety materials from the road safety campaign were made available to all • continue to develop the health and safety management system. regions during 2014. This included training on the Driving Force Further information on our commitment and approach to Rules, sharing best practice of vehicle inspection, driver evaluation health and safety, plus other employee issues such as labour and road incident investigation. relations, diversity and inclusion, employee engagement and the G4S human resource minimum standards can be found online at www.g4s.com/people. Work-related fatalities by region Health and safety management To help businesses implement the health and safety strategy, we have developed a management system that describes the 60 key elements which we believe will enable businesses to deliver 49 good health and safety practices and embed a safety first 41 culture. The five elements of our health and safety management 40 system are shown in the image below. 23 15 16 20 14 7 7 4 3 on 1 sul Co tati 0 Africa Asia/ Latin Europe North UK & Total Leadership uni Middle East America America Ireland con mm and learning nd cat 2013 2014 na ion Safety measurement atio and investigation and mm con uni Work-related fatalities by category c Hazard sul Co control tati on Hazard recognition 60 49 Communication and consultation 41 40 The strategy includes the recognition and control of all hazards 21 that may contribute to ‘at risk’ behaviours, the gathering and 17 19 20 14 11 monitoring of incident data to identify trends and share learning, 8 clear health and safety leadership and constant communication and consultation on all elements of health and safety to help 0 Attack Non-attack Road Total make the workplace safer. 2013 2014 24 G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 Firearms safety – global In a number of countries, where it is absolutely necessary for the protection of the lives of company employees and/or our customers and lawful, G4S security officers carry firearms. Our comprehensive policy on firearms covers a range of issues relating to firearms safety, including their control, procurement, storage and transportation. Regular refresher training, appropriate screening of employees and ongoing maintenance and repair of firearms ensure that both employees and the Health and safety firearms they use are safe to deploy. Internal firearms expertise is provided by health and safety managers, trainers and armourers who ensure robust implementation of the policy. Fatalities and life-threatening or permanently Critical country reviews (CCRs) of health disabling injuries: and safety: The group is formally notified within 24 hours of CCRs are commissioned by the group head of health and an incident by the relevant managing director. safety, on behalf of the Group Executive Committee (GEC). Within 24 hours a preliminary set of actions is completed. Countries are selected based on risk exposure Apart from the emergency response this includes and performance, particularly the occurrence of gathering the relevant information, contacting the relevant work-related fatalities. authorities and attending to the next of kin. • The objectives of the review are “to help businesses identify and take actions to prevent or mitigate An investigation team is formed and an investigation the workplace risks to the lives of our people”. is carried out, usually within 14 days. • The reviews also provide assurance to the GEC that recommended actions stemming from serious Within 28 days an investigation report is submitted incidents are being followed. to the group. • The reviews are conducted by a senior person who has a significant level of health and safety expertise and The investigation and root cause analysis is reviewed who is not in the line of management of that business. by the group head of health and safety. A specialist in a particular risk area often also takes part. A lessons learnt note is sent out by the group The health and safety processes and practices in the and/or region. business are reviewed as well as root cause analysis from any serious incidents. The regional health and safety manager will formally track the implementation of recommended actions CCR reports are reviewed by all GEC members. from the investigation. The recommended actions from the review are formally tracked by the regional health and safety manager, on behalf of their regional president. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 G4S plc 25 Our priority areas: Human rights Increasingly, customers and other stakeholders are looking to companies such as G4S to demonstrate specific actions and practices that are aligned to internationally recognised standards such as the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights (2011), the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights (2000), and the International Code of Conduct for Private Human rights Security Providers (2010). These are the standards on which we base our human rights policies and practices. There are two elements to our Progress in 2014 approach to human rights: Since the launch of our human rights policy in April 2013, we have continued to implement our human rights framework In many ways, our businesses can and embed its standards and awareness into our business policies contribute positively to the realisation and processes. The policy and its related framework aim to align the group’s practices with the UN Guiding Principles on of human rights by the range of services Business and Human Rights and to introduce additional global we offer to protect people and which guidelines where necessary. enable them to enjoy their rights. Our human rights framework supports the continued development of an ethical and sustainable business model that encourages We also recognise that we have a duty the improvement of standards, job creation, community support and broader beneficial impacts on societies throughout the world. to ensure that we are not at risk of To date, we have made significant progress in embedding violating human rights through the our human rights practices – specifically in 2014 we have: services we provide, the customers • further embedded human rights standards and awareness we work with, the suppliers we use into our business policies and processes or through the unfair or inappropriate • incorporated human rights risk analysis in the group’s new risk and compliance systems and processes treatment of our own employees • conducted a full review of G4S’ business to identify countries and others who are in our care. that are deemed to be at high risk of violating human rights – creating our human rights heatmap • commissioned a review of the heatmap risk assessment process by an independent expert to ensure that it meets current best practice standards • implemented a process of human rights control self-assessment for G4S businesses that operate in high-risk countries – human rights control self-assessments were conducted in 19 countries during 2014 • carried out 112 internal audits, covering a range of issues including ethics and sustainability standards and commenced specific human rights audits for businesses operating in high risk countries • conducted 6 CSR reviews, including human rights risk assessments, on proposed new market entries or new business opportunities on behalf of the Group Executive Committee and CSR Committee • commissioned an independent expert review of the human rights and legal implications of G4S operations and contracts with the Israeli government • signed up to the UN Global Compact’s Business for 2014 priorities Peace platform in September. Continue to embed human rights risk assessment and due diligence into our wider business processes Initiate audits of the group’s new human rights policy in higher-risk countries Complete Ongoing 26 G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 Raising human rights standards – global G4S is a founder signatory to the International Code of Conduct for Private Security Providers (2010). A multi-stakeholder initiative, the code was developed by representatives of the security industry (including G4S), civil society and the Swiss, UK and US governments. Based on international human rights standards, the code sets out the principles for security operations in so-called “complex environments” – areas experiencing or recovering from disaster or unrest and where governments and the rule of law are weak. It covers recruitment, vetting and training of staff, the use of force by security officers, including the handling of firearms, health and safety, and reporting and complaints handling. The development of a governance and oversight mechanism for the code led to the launch of the ICoC Association, a non-profit body established to ensure accountability and compliance of its members. G4S Risk Management became a founder signatory to the ICoC Association at its launch in September 2013. Human rights Mine action – global G4S’ mine action operations support humanitarian and reconstruction programmes with physical security and stockpile management, bomb disposal and the removal of landmines and unexploded ordnance. G4S Ordnance Management personnel are recognised as experts in the location, identification and safe removal of landmines and other explosive remnants of war and the destruction of conventional weapons and stockpiled munitions. Our specialist teams have carried out operations across the world, including in Afghanistan, Bosnia, Cyprus, Iraq, Lebanon, Nepal and South Sudan. Since 1997 our sustainable and humanitarian programmes have located and destroyed more than 195,000 landmines and over 20 million items of unexploded ordnance. In the process, as well as saving lives, G4S teams have returned over 973 square kilometres of land to productive use, either for agriculture or commerce, and cleared more than 40,000 houses, allowing people to return to their homes. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 G4S plc 27 Reducing re-offending – UK HMP Parc, one of six prisons managed by G4S in the UK, is renowned for the innovative initiatives it has put in place to help reduce re-offending and provide prisoners with the best possible opportunities to re-enter their community as rehabilitated individuals. These include the Invisible Walls project, during which advice is given to prisoners and their families on relationships, parenting, debt, education and employment, and other areas. There is also a team of specialists who are working with colleagues at the prison to support prisoners with learning difficulties. In 2014 the Butler Trust, an influential charity that highlights and shares best practice within the criminal justice system, recognised the efforts of G4S personnel at HMP Parc in “transforming the management and care of prisoners with learning difficulties”. The award was presented to four G4S managers by HRH Princess Anne at a ceremony in Buckingham Palace. UN Global Compact: Business for Peace – global In 2014, G4S committed its support for the UN Global Compact Business for Peace initiative. Business for Peace is designed to help companies implement responsible business practices while operating in high-risk and conflict-affected areas. The initiative also aims to ensure that companies bring about positive change to the regions in which they are operating by promoting stability, positive development and the advancement of peace. G4S works alongside NGOs and governments in high-risk environments to support humanitarian, stabilisation and reconstruction efforts, and Business for Peace helps to reinforce our commitment to being a socially responsible business. 28 G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 Our priority areas: Human rights continued An open approach During its Initial Assessment, the UK NCP Papua New Guinea concluded that G4S equipment does not In February 2014 an incident took place to addressing human cause or contribute to adverse human at the Manus Island Regional Processing rights complaints rights impacts and that the company Centre (an immigration centre for carries out extensive due diligence and housing of unauthorised asylum seekers The nature of our business ongoing reviews of the potential human attempting to enter Australia by sea) rights risks of its business. in Papua New Guinea, during which means that we can a transferee was tragically killed and The Initial Assessment of the UK NCP, sometimes face complaints which was published in 2014 can be a number of other transferees and from external organisations found via g4s.com/ncp-israel2014 members of staff were injured. and those in our care. The UK NCP did accept for further Following the incident, the Australian Government, responsible for the offshore We take all complaints examination a small number of processing of transferees in the region, issues raised in the complaint in seriously and engage fully relation to Chapter II Paragraph 2 commissioned two reviews. G4S engaged fully with both reviews. in addressing concerns that and Chapter IV Paragraphs 1 and 3 of the OECD Guidelines. The findings of the first review, are raised. conducted by Robert Cornall, can We have engaged fully with the UK Israel be found via g4s.com/manusNCP assessment process for more The group has a business unit based cornellinquiry2014 than a year and at the time of publishing in Israel, which provides manned security this CSR report, the Final Statement Materials relating to the second review, and security systems for businesses of the UK NCP has not been released. conducted by the Australian Senate and individuals across the country. Committee for Constitutional and Legal This business has been criticised by Cuba Affairs, can be found via g4s.com/ pressure groups for its contracts to A complaint to the UK NCP was made manus-senateinquiry2014 – these service security systems used in prisons in in relation to a G4S business in the USA, include submissions made and evidence Israel and for servicing scanning which related to a contract won by G4S given to the committee by G4S and equipment located on the barrier Government Solutions Inc. to provide the findings of the review. between Israel and the West Bank. facilities services at the Guantanamo Bay Human rights naval base in Cuba. There has been no finding or There have been a number of recommendation in either review independent reviews of the business A process to divest the business was that G4S caused or contributed to any in Israel, the latest of which was announced long before the contract breach of human rights at the centre. commissioned in April 2014. That review was bid for and won, due to the fact concluded that the company has no causal that as a non-US parent we were unable We continue to support the police or contributory role in human rights to influence or control the operations in Papua New Guinea in their violations. The findings from the review can of the US subsidiary which was employed local investigation into the incident be found at g4s.com/israelreview2014 by the US Government on confidential at the centre. contracts. No services were provided At the group’s annual general meeting In September 2014 the Australian NCP at the site while the business was in in June 2014, the Chairman reconfirmed for the OECD received a complaint G4S ownership. decisions made previously by the company made in relation to the incident at the in relation to specific contracts: that they The UK NCP decided to reject the Manus Island Regional Processing Centre would not be renewed when they expire. complaint on the grounds that it did and we are engaging fully and openly in The group stands by that commitment. not serve the purpose and effectiveness this process. of the Guidelines for it to be considered In the UK in 2014, we engaged with At the time of this CSR Report being further by the UK NCP. the UK National Contact Point (NCP) for published, the Australian NCP has not the OECD in relation to a complaint The Initial Assessment of the UK NCP concluded its Initial Assessment. made about the business based in Israel can be found via g4s.com/ncpand the contracts described above. guantanamo2015 Occasionally other issues of this nature are raised in connection with the activities of our businesses. Whilst our goal is always to be open and transparent about such matters, sometimes contractual relationships with our customers and/or restrictions imposed by law, regulation or a court may prohibit us from commenting on them publicly. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 G4S plc 29 Our priority areas: Human rights continued Priorities for 2015 During 2015 we will continue to embed systematic human rights risk assessments and due diligence into our wider business processes, as well as building further awareness of human rights issues and our responsibility to respect them throughout all levels of the organisation. We will: • build further awareness of human rights issues and responsibilities through all levels of the group • conduct an annual review of human rights risks across the group and update our human rights heatmap • ensure that human rights risks are embedded into the group’s risk and compliance systems and processes • integrate human rights control self-assessments for businesses operating in high-risk countries into the group’s new risk and compliance software platform • ensure that human rights risks are fully understood when bidding for contracts or considering business opportunities and carry out ad-hoc assessments as required • carry out human rights risk assessments in key business areas • audit human rights risks and compliance with G4S human rights policies during internal audit assessments. We have provided further information on our approach to human rights online at www.g4s.com/humanrights 30 G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 About this report This report and our collective CSR Global Reporting Initiative We have self-declared our collected CSR reporting framework reporting framework were published in for 2014 as meeting the requirements of a GRI 3.1 report April 2015. Together, they represent the Application Level C. Our GRI Index is available to view online at www.g4s.com/gri CSR activity of G4S plc and its subsidiaries, associated undertakings and joint ventures UN Global Compact G4S plc became a signatory to the UN Global Compact in for the year ended 31 December 2014 February 2011. The world’s foremost CSR initiative, the Global and follow our 2013 CSR Report published Compact sets out ten universal principles to which businesses must adhere across the areas of anti-corruption, labour relations, in April 2014. The audited Annual Report human rights and the environment. and Accounts of G4S plc for the year G4S is proud to again reaffirm its commitment to these principles, ended 31 December 2014 contains which continue to be reflected in our family of CSR policies and further information about the company our core values. G4S remains active within the UK network of the UN Global Compact and continues to participate as a member and should be seen as the definitive source of the governing Advisory Group. for investment decisions. No significant Within our collected CSR reporting framework we have described changes from previous reporting periods the actions we have undertaken to build on and further integrate the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, have been made, including the boundaries culture, values and daily operations during 2015. and measurement methods, unless stated. Reporting frameworks Carbon Disclosure Project Since 2009, G4S has reported on the progress of its Climate Action Programme through the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). In the latest CDP report, Leadership now: UK companies and the global environmental challenge, G4S achieved a CDP score of 89(B). This represents an improvement of 14% from our score CSR framework pages of 78(C) in 2013. Statement of continued support by CEO 8 The CDP scores companies based on their climate change The UN Global Compact Principles disclosure; high scores indicate good internal data management Human rights 3, 8-11, 13, 15, 16-17, 26-30 and an understanding of climate change-related issues affecting + www.g4s.com/humanrights the company. Labour 3, 7, 8-11, 13, 14-15, 16-17, 22-25 Reporting to the CDP shows that companies are aware of their + www.g4s.com/people greenhouse gas emissions, allowing for reduction targets to be Environment 2, 13, 14, 16-17, 31 put in place as well as addressing the risks and opportunities + www.g4s.com/cap About this report that are associated with climate change. Anti-corruption 3, 8-11, 13, 14-15, 16-17, 18-21 + www.g4s.com/ethics Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 G4S plc 31 CSR online Safeguarding our integrity Securing our people Securing our environment Securing our communities A full index of CSR-related issues can be Our CSR reporting framework is led by our found online at: www.g4s.com/csrindex integrated Annual Report and Accounts and this CSR Report. These documents are supported by our website which contains a greater range of information and data on wider ethics and sustainability issues. This includes our climate action and greenhouse gas reporting, labour relations, employee diversity and other human resource minimum standards, community investment, economic impact and much more. 32 G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 www.g4s.com G4S plc Printed by Park Communications on FSC® certified paper. The Manor Park is an EMAS certified company and its Environmental Manor Royal Management System is certified to ISO 14001. Crawley West Sussex 100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based, 95% of press chemicals are recycled for further use and, on average, 99% RH10 9UN of any waste associated with this production will be recycled. United Kingdom This document is printed on Cocoon 50 Silk; a paper containing Telephone: +44 (0) 20 8770 7000 50% recycled fibre from genuine waste paper and 50% virgin fibre Email: csr@g4s.com sourced from well managed, responsible, FSC® certified forests. Registered in England No. 4992207 Designed and produced by Black Sun Plc.
