Make an impact Deloitte Croatia UNGC Communication on Progress 2015 1 Contents 3 Basic data 4 About Deloitte 5 Statement of continued support to UNGC 6 Principles 1 and 2 10 Principles 3, 4 and 5 12 Principle 6 14 Principle 7 15 Principles 8 and 9 17 Principle 10 19 Availability of Communication on Progress 20 Notes 2 Make an impact Deloitte Croatia UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2015 Basic data Company: Deloitte Address: Radnička cesta 80, 10 000 Zagreb Country: Croatia Contact: Višnja Matković, Marketing, Communications & Business Development Senior Coordinator e-mail: vmatkovic@deloittece.com Phone: +385 1 2351 900 Membership date: 13th July, 2007 Number of employees: 151 Sector: Professional services Make an impact Deloitte Croatia UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2015 3 About Deloitte About Deloitte Central Europe Deloitte is the brand under which tens of Deloitte Central Europe is a regional thousands of dedicated professionals in organization of entities organized under independent firms throughout the world the umbrella of Deloitte Central Europe collaborate to provide audit, consulting, Holdings Limited, the member firm in financial advisory, risk management, tax Central Europe of Deloitte Touche and legal services to selected clients. Tohmatsu Limited. Services are provided These firms are members of Deloitte by the subsidiaries and affiliates of Touche Tohmatsu Limited (DTTL), a UK Deloitte Central Europe Holdings Limited, private company limited by guarantee. which are separate and independent Each member firm provides services in a legal entities. particular geographic area and is subject to the laws and professional regulations The subsidiaries and affiliates of Deloitte of the particular country or countries in Central Europe Holdings Limited are which it operates. DTTL does not itself among the region’s leading professional provide services to clients. DTTL and services firms, providing services through DTTL member firm are separate and more than 4,700 people in 34 offices in distinct legal entities, which cannot 17 countries. obligate the other entities. DTTL and each DTTL member firm are only liable About Deloitte Croatia for their own acts or omissions, and not those of each other. Each of the member In Croatia, the services are provided by firms operates under the names Deloitte Ltd. and Deloitte Advisory Deloitte , Deloitte & Touche , Deloitte Services Ltd. (jointly referred to as Touche Tohmatsu , or other related “Deloitte Croatia”) which are affiliates of names. Each DTTL member firm is Deloitte Central Europe Holdings Limited. structured differently in accordance with Deloitte Croatia is one of the leading national laws, regulations, customary professional services organizations in the practice, and other factors, and may country providing audit, tax, consulting, secure the provision of professional risk services, financial advisory and legal services in their territories through services through 151national and subsidiaries, affiliates, and/or other specialized expatriate professionals. entities. 4 Make an impact Deloitte Croatia UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2015 Statement of continued support for the UN Global Compact As Office Managing Partner in Deloitte Croatia, I hereby confirm our continued support for the Global Compact. I find the Global Compact to be a valuable tool when working towards upholding social and environmental ethics throughout all links of our work. For Deloitte and Deloitte Advisory Services Rick Olcott, Partner Make an impact Deloitte Croatia UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2015 5 Principle 1 Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2 Business should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Our commitment or policy Deloitte recognizes that we have a responsibility to uphold human rights in the workplace and to use our influence and reach to foster support for human rights more broadly within society at large. We work to address human rights issues within our community. In the workplace, human rights take the form of nondiscrimination and diversity in personnel practices, professional development that aids employability, and maintaining work-life balance. Recruiting and retention activities reflect a desire to hire professionals who share Deloitte’s values and commitment to responsible business. 6 Make an impact Deloitte Croatia UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2015 Actions implemented Impact day June 2014 – Fruit refreshment “Fantasyland Travel” Fresh fruits and healthy snacks Gathered under the motto are provided in each department. “Fantasyland Travel”, more than 80 Deloitte Croatia volunteers arranged a movie projection for the protégés of the Caritas Home for the children without proper parental care. Deloitte volunteers spent the day with 45 children and their nurses in good company and excellent mood. After watching a movie children and volunteers went out for a pizza and spent a few pleasant hours together. This year we will organize a humanitarian action in form of blood donation and every volunteer who donates a blood will receive a day off. Make an impact Deloitte Croatia UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2015 7 Professional qualification Work-Life Balance In accordance with our global policy Deloitte continuously strives to that well educated and contended ensure a work environment and culture that promotes personal employees are the company's most and professional development. important asset, Deloitte enables its employees to obtain professional In Deloitte Croatia employees qualification by attending different have an opportunity for a flexible courses (ACCA, Certified Auditor, work arrangements which ASA, CISA, CFA, CPA). The company includes flexible time, reduced covers all expenses except in case of working hours, part-time arrangements and career breaks. repeated exams, which are paid by This policy has to be discussed employees themselves. In 2015, with the responsible Partner and Deloitte in Croatia educated 80 of its in each instance decisions will be employees, and the number of tailored to specific circumstances participants in this education is for the case at hand. constantly rising. All employees who are taking the exams have 4 free days for studyleave (3 days per exam for studying and one day for exam). Days which are spent on study-leave are paid like a regular working days. 8 Make an impact Deloitte Croatia UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2015 Health and well-being Child support initiative Each employee, regardless of The health and well-being of gender, receives financial support employees is of great concern to in the form of a bonus for a Deloitte, and Deloitte have put a new-born baby. This programme programme in place to help our was introduced in September employees stay healthy. All Deloitte 2007 and is a continuing Croatia employees have additional activity. health-care coverage which including systematic check-ups and consultations with specialists. In agreement with Tower fitness centre all Deloitte employees have the opportunity to attend all inclusive programs at affordable prices. Measurable results or outcomes Date of completion Percentage of Activity participants Health programme On-going 100% 4% (100% new Child support On-going parents) Make an impact Deloitte Croatia UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2015 9 Principle 3 Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4 Business should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5 Business should support the effective abolition of child labour Our commitment or policy Deloitte’s Shared Values and Ethical Principles prescribe that all interaction between Deloitte and its employees must be characterized by integrity, trust, and mutual respect. 10 Make an impact Deloitte Croatia UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2015 Actions implemented Deloitte Croatia, together with Deloitte Central Europe, made donations to areas of Croatia, BiH and Serbia that were severely impacted by last year’s flooding. Deloitte professionals’ activities in the second part of the year 2014. were directed by catastrophic flooding in Slavonia in May and our main focus became to provide humanitarian help to those who have been affected the most. Therefore Deloitte’s SheXO club organized a humanitarian concert „Deloitte for children in Gunja” with our famous violoncello performer. Concert was of fundraising nature and lots of eminent people from politics and business came, together with the former President of Croatia. With raised funds from the concert and sponsorships Deloitte opened and equipped a playroom in Gunja. At the end of the year members of the Deloitte’s She XO club visited Gunja once again, brought Christmas presents and spent some time playing with children. Deloitte received an official expression of gratitude from Red Cross for the mentioned humanitarian activities. Make an impact Deloitte Croatia UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2015 11 Principle 6 Business should support the elimination and discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Our commitment or policy A part of Deloitte’s global vision – being the Standard of Excellence among professional services firms – is a desire to become the employer of choice for the most talented experts around the world. Women make up close to 45 percent of Deloitte member firms’ global workforce. Deloitte’s global goal is to increase the percentage of women among directors and partners. Deloitte Croatia just recently named first woman Partner, Marina Tonžetić who is also a first woman Partner in Big 4 in Croatia. Deloitte is committed to establishing programmes in order to develop, mentor and prepare women to be the next generation of global leaders. Elements of future programmes will include:  Learning and leadership development opportunities designed specifically for women  Building global networks both internally and externally  More consistent and comprehensive work/life balance structure Among Deloitte Croatia’s current employees, approximately 61 percent are women. 12 Make an impact Deloitte Croatia UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2015 Diversity policy SheXO Club – programme dedicated to networking of At Deloitte, we know that cultural, business woman gender, and generation diversity are key elements of talent In 2012 Deloitte Croatia launched development. Last year we held a ‘SheXO Club’ for successful several diversity workshops across women in business with a variety Central Europe. We set up a of backgrounds, focus areas and dedicated Diversity Intranet page, interests. In the past three years, created a guidebook for parents the club has become a planning parental career breaks, networking platform for and rolled out updated attendance successful businesswomen. Since and flexible work arrangements it was established, 7 meetings policies. All are aimed at helping have been held in Croatia employees balance their career, covering such topics as personal family responsibilities, and personal development, work-life balance, development. and health. Additionally, in 2012, Deloitte Central Europe launched the SheXO Club, a project dedicated to women with exceptional performance in the business environment. The initiative brings together a network of women leaders (CEOs, CFOs, COOs, etc.) from multinational, national, and entrepreneurial companies, 3-4 times on a yearly basis. SheXO Clubs are now active in Poland, Slovenia, Bosnia, Croatia, Romania, Albania and the Czech Republic. Make an impact Deloitte Croatia UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2015 13 Principle 7 Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Green Mark Deloitte Croatia received a Green Mark from Croatian Energy Forum for its continued support of sustainable and environmentally friendly business practices. 14 Make an impact Deloitte Croatia UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2015 Principle 8 Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9 Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Our commitment or policy We believe that each company has a responsibility to minimize the impact of its business on the environment. Deloitte Croatia carries out a number of activities under the “Green Dot” umbrella that are aimed at improving our relationship to the environment. Make an impact Deloitte Croatia UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2015 15 “Green Dot” programme Activities implemented include:  Bins for collecting waste paper in all copy rooms and open office spaces  Sorting recyclable materials: paper, glass, PET, toners; 2 special bins  Recycling printer toners  Two-sided printing set as default option for all printers that have this possibility  Introducing the message “Please consider environment before printing this e-mail” as an obligatory part of all e-mails  Implementing light sensors in our office Measurable results or outcomes Date of Percentage of participants Activity completion Waste paper bins On-going 13 collection units Sorting recyclable materials On-going 100% Toner recycling On-going 100% Two-sided printing On-going 100% “Green” e-mail message On-going 100% Light sensors On-going 100% 16 Make an impact Deloitte Croatia UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2015 Principle 10 Business should work against corruption in all forms, including extortion and bribery Our commitment or policy At the heart of our business culture In particular, the principles offer are the Ethical Principles, adopted by guidance about appropriate ethical each of Deloitte’s member firms and and professional conduct covering linking directly to Deloitte’s Global areas that are critically important to Shared Values. These nine principles the member firms’ clients, their define the standards of ethical people and society. The principles behaviour that unite all the people of are: Honesty and Integrity; Ethical DTT’s member firms. Behaviour; Competence; Objectivity; Confidentiality; Fair Business Practices; Responsibility to Society; Respect and Fairness; Accountability and Decision-making. Make an impact Deloitte Croatia UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2015 17 Actions implemented Educational programme on the Ethical Principles of the member firms of Deloitte The educational programme on the Ethical Principles is mandatory for all employees. It is an online e-learning and intranet which uses examples and scenarios from real life, as well as a resource on ethical business that can be used by our experts at any time. Deloitte also regularly confirms that employees abide by independence and compliance rules, ensuring that our business practice is carried out according to accepted rules and procedures. Independence Compliance Confirmation Completing an Independence Compliance Confirmation is mandatory for all employees. Maintaining compliance with the member firm’s independence policies is an important part of a Deloitte’s professional responsibilities. Anti-Money Laundering This program covers the required minimum to ensure that employees are complying with the law in the course of their work with Deloitte. Measurable results or outcomes Activity Date of completion Percentage of participants Anti-Money Laundering December 2014 100% Ethics education December 2014 100% Independence December 2014 100% 18 Make an impact Deloitte Croatia UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2015 Availability of COP How does Deloitte Croatia intend to make this Communication on Progress available to the stakeholders? Internal and external stakeholders The Communication on Progress will be available on the website of Deloitte Croatia. Internal stakeholders The submission of the Communication on Progress will be communicated to all employees in an internal newsletter. Make an impact Deloitte Croatia UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2015 19 Notes 20 Make an impact Deloitte Croatia UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2015 Deloitte refers to one or more of Deloitte Touché Tohmatsu Limited, a UK private company limited by guarantee (“DTTL”), its network of member firms, and their related entities. DTTL and each of its member firms are legally separate and independent entities. DTTL (also referred to as “Deloitte Global”) does not provide services to clients. Please see www.deloitte.com/hr/about for a more detailed description of DTTL and its member firms. Deloitte provides audit, tax, consulting, financial advisory and legal services to public and private clients spanning multiple industries. With a globally connected network of member firms in more than 150 countries and territories, Deloitte brings world-class capabilities and high-quality service to clients, delivering the insights they need to address their most complex business challenges. Deloitte's more than 200,000 professionals are committed to becoming the standard of excellence. In Croatia, the services are provided by Deloitte Ltd. and Deloitte Advisory Services Ltd. (jointly referred to as “Deloitte Croatia”) which are affiliates of Deloitte Central Europe Holdings Limited. Deloitte Croatia is one of the leading professional services organizations in the country providing services in audit, tax, consulting, risk services and financial advisory services, through around 150 national and specialized expatriate professionals. © 2015 Deloitte Croatia Make an impact Deloitte Croatia UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2015 21
