RYNKEBY FOODS CSR REPORT 2014 CSR report 2014 CSR report 2014 Page 2 Page 3 RESPONSIBILITY FOR ONE Rynkeby Foods A/S is wholly ANOTHER AND FOR OUR owned by Arla Foods. CONTENTS Management ENVIRONMENT Executive Management Jørgen Dirksen Introduction......................................................Page 3 This report scrutinises Rynkeby's CSR status for activities in 2014, all Supply Chain About Rynkeby.................................................Page 4 based on a company culture summarised in our CSR policy. Lars Petersen UN Global Compact.........................................Page 5 INTRODUCTION Sales/Marketing I am proud to confirm that Rynkeby Foods is again this year supportMark Hemmingsen ing the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact in the areas of human Finance rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Michael Kaalund THEME 1: THE BUSINESS In this annual report we describe our actions to integrate the Global Procurement Strategy and Winning Culture.........................Page 6 Compact principles in our business system, strategy, culture and Carsten Pedersen Mission, Vision and Strategy 2018...................Page 8 daily work. We are committed to communicating with our employees, Procurement ...................................................Page 10 Board of Directors customers, consumers and partners in the most open, transparent Corporate Social Responsibility......................Page 12 Board members elected by and honest way possible. Good and Responsible Marketing....................Page 14 shareholders: Development News..........................................Page 16 Povl Krogsgaard, Also this year have we worked to ensure an improved future commuWe Get Involved................................................Page 17 Arla Foods Vice CEO. nication platform, providing more dialogue with the outside world, The World's Best News....................................Page 18 predominantly through the use of digital media. Peter Giørtz-Carlsen, Good Quality and Safe Products......................Page 20 Arla Foods, 2014 was the year in which we made suppliers fully accountable and Vice President. put people first. This has also been the basis for additional focus on Kent Skovsager, health among our employees. Arla Foods Vice President. THEME 2: PEOPLE Through Team Rynkeby we now have one of the largest charity Employees are the most Patrik Hansson, projects in the Nordic region, which promotes public health and also important resources........................................Page 22 Arla Foods, supports good causes in six countries. This constitutes a substantial Children with Cancer Design Juice.................Page 26 Vice President. contribution to public health and a chance of increasing charity. Employee Representatives on the Board of Directors Leslie Lundehøj Jørgensen, Product Developer. THEME 3: HEALTH April 2015 A Healthy Workplace........................................Page 28 Johan Høst-Madsen, Team Rynkeby..................................................Page 32 Production Controller. Responsible for this report Jørgen Dirksen Quality and CSR Manager CEO Rikke Bekker Henriksen THEME 4: ENVIRONMENT Reduction of Environmental Impact................Page 35 Energy Consumption.......................................Page 36 Water Consumption and Waste Water Discharge....................................Page 37 Overview of Rynkeby's CSR Targets................Page 38 CSR report 2014 CSR report 2014 Page 4 Page 5 ABOUT RYNKEBY FOODS A/S UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2014 Accounts: RYNKEBY FOODS A/S – DEVELOPMENTS Market leader in the Nordic markets Since January 2011 Rynkeby Foods has The UN Global Compact has two purposes, 1,200 275 been committed to the UN Global Comto encourage companies to support and imRynkeby Foods is a market leader in Denmark, Sweden 250 1,100 pact’s 10 principles to promote ethical busiplement the 10 principles in their practice and Finland and is also well represented in Norway. 225 ness practice. We are also a member of the and to encourage companies to contribute Amounts in million DKK Outside of Danish borders the route to end custom200 1,000 Global Compact’s Nordic network, a Nordic voluntary initiatives to promote the UN's ers is through our sister companies in the Arla Foods 175 forum for discussion about the implementasustainability objectives. group. 900 150 tion of the Global Compact. 125 The 10 principles are well anchored in RynThe strategy is to develop/increase these positions 800 100 The UN Global Compact is based on inkeby's CSR programme for business, the over the coming year and actions have been initiated 700 75 ternational conventions within the areas environment, people and health, as demonfor the purpose of supporting this ambition. of human rights, labour, environmental strated below. Competitively, the focus is on increasing the brand val50 600 protection and anti-corruption. ue through marketing investments in markets whilst 25 also focusing on continued streamlining throughout 500 0 the value chain. 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Primary axis: Net turnover Additionally there will be increased efforts as regards Secondary axis: Net result before tax and number of employees The company should: Rynkeby's framework the further expansion of the company's value basis, especially this year the “winning culture” (see more Net turnover Net result Number Human 1. Support and respect the protection of internationally declared The Business about this further on in this report). before tax of employees rights human rights and CSR policy Responsible procurement 2. Ensure that it does not contribute to the violation of human Supplier policy rights. People Labour rights 3. Uphold freedom of association and effectively recognise the right The Business to collective bargaining. CSR policy We must comply with the UN conventions and solve some of the issues we face, nationally and People principles that, among other things, have been internationally. 4. Combat all types of forced labour. Working environment policy defined in UN Global Compact. This means that we 5. Support the effective abolition of child labour and Responsible procurement will conduct our work in accordance with sustainWe have employee policies that ensure, among Supplier policy able principles and seek resolutions that take into other things, that all our employees are given ap6. Abolish discrimination in relation to working and employment account human and environmental circumstances. praisal interviews and the older workforce are also CSR POLICY conditions. We are especially committed to considering issues offered “senior meetings” in order to plan the final that concern the local community surrounding our years of their working life. We want to be diverse business and the high-risk countries with which and reflect the society around us in respect of age, Environment 7. Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges: The Business we cooperate. race, sex, religion and nationality. CSR policy 8. Take the initiative to promote greater environmental Responsible procurement responsibility and Supplier policy Rynkeby goes even further with regard to social We will not make promises that we cannot keep responsibility. We are involved with a number of and CSR will not just be a showcase of all the 9. Encourage the development and prevalence of environmentally Environment voluntary activities that help improve a number of good things we do. It will be a factual tool used to friendly technologies. Environmental policy social and environmental areas. Small steps are identify vulnerable areas that we can help develop better than none and we believe that if everyone and improve. lends a helping hand we will be better equipped to Anti10. Counteract all types of corruption, including extortion and The Business corruption bribery. CSR policy Supplier policy Responsible procurement People CSR report 2014 CSR report 2014 Page 6 Page 7 1. Theme: THE BUSINESS A winning culture In 2014 Rynkeby gave its employees a For a number of years we at Rynkeby unique offer, in connection with Team have worked with five core values that Rynkeby 2015, to stimulate developRYNKEBY WINNING CULTURE are deeply anchored and implemented ments in employee health. Rynkeby ofStrategy and winning culture Internally this means that Rynkeby... Which means that through their own ... and that the employee, through their In relation to the outside world this throughout the entire organisation: fered all its employees the opportunity to actions managers must... own actions... means that... cycle to Paris during working hours and We protect quality to borrow a bicycle on which to train for Has employees who take Be a role model and bearer of Takes ownership of their own We set the standard in our We get involved and ride to Paris. An offer that more than responsibility for the company's cultural values responsibilities/tasks market success We will win half of employees accepted and an offer Convert Rynkeby’s strategy to Takes the lead, shows initiative We will always win We develop that has already created a movement Is a team comprising the best milestones and actions and imagination solutions We are a responsible company employees, who inspire promoting healthier employees as the Consistently monitor targets and Challenges and develops business We respect one another one another We generate increased value for our spinning premises have been frequently draw attention to/celebrate results procedures in the search for customers and consumers Is in constant development ”best in class” used during winter. Make decisions at the correct time For the last couple of years we have We have the best products with The Team Rynkeby offer also had the Works determinedly and is Delegate and ensure that Accepts/learns from mistakes the best quality focused especially on We will win . In ”best in class” purpose of strengthening the internal responsibility is taken Supports shared targets and 2014 we launched our new strategy for We create results winning culture while also assisting Is ambitious and realistic in its Ensure that employees develop decisions 2015–2018, which is about how we will objectives We are a preferred partner colleagues to reach a shared goal. The Takes shared responsibility for win in the Nordic region through strong Ensure the next generation of We are the strongest brand in project has a number of similarities to Draws attention to and recognises managers their own development brands. In the Nordic region we have its successes and motivation our industry our daily work in which we, together, will many strong competitors and it is thereEnsure employees are motivated We are proud of our company conquer a major challenge (in this case, and involved in work Is a good team player fore important that we practice winning cycling to Paris) and we need everyone Has trust and expectations in We are Team Rynkeby every single day. Promote cross-organisational to make extra efforts to succeed (in this cooperation colleagues doing their jobs We launched our strategy internally by context additional training, teamwork Is a role model in relation to bringing all our employees together at and good spirits). Rynkeby's values Midtfyns Fritidscenter (leisure centre) At Rynkeby we have also continued to Is an ambassador for Rynkeby for a day in which we would practice winwork on the term followership which ning under the headings from the new Management terms: Welfare terms: Image terms: is about managers developing their strategy. We attempted to build strong employees to the next level and acting as Role model/inspiring Competitiveness/commitment We can + brands, conquer the Nordic region and Result-oriented/ambitious Enterprising We will + role models to comply with our values. create independence. A day that clearly Developing Bearer of cultural values We dare! demonstrated that Rynkeby has a great Involving Responsibility & pride = We will win! number of employees who have a desire to win, both individually and as a team. CSR report 2014 CSR report 2014 Page 8 Page 9 During the strategy day employee MISSION: VISION: groups were challenged on the main subjects of Strategy 2015–2018, here in We are accountable for everything we do We make it easy for everyone to enjoy a and secure high quality natural fruitand glass of natural fruit and vegetable juice the exercise We will be independent . vegetable products in a convenient manner. from Rynkeby every single day. STRATEGY 2015–2018 2018 Ambition Mission, Vision and Strategy 2018 Profitable growth through strong brands in the Nordic region Must Win battles 1 2 3 Create brand preference World champions in the Enhance independence Nordic region Three Strong brands Conquer the Nordic region Strong CSR activities CSR report 2014 CSR report 2014 Page 10 Page 11 SUPPLIER POLICY Rynkeby sets out both ethical and quality-related requirements for suppliers and we do our best to ensure that the international rights set out in the UN Global Compact and quality and food safety agreements are upheld. We are very much aware that as a small company in a major market we are unable to solve the social challenges in PROCUREMENT global society, but that with our focus on e.g. human rights and anti-corruption in high-risk countries we contribute to (RAW MATERIALS) ensuring that the requirements are met. Accountability in the global raw material industry Rynkeby’s Code of Conduct We uphold our requirements and continThe juice industry especially is a global We do everything we can to ensure that ue working to ensure that our suppliers business in which raw materials hail our raw material suppliers comply with are members of SGF-IRMA (Sure Global from the entire planet. Demand in the the requirements set out in our Code of Fair) but we must acknowledge that as a EU has risen to such a high level for cerConduct and have obtained the signaminor player in the global juice market tain raw materials that the import pertures of all our raw material suppliers we are unable to drive this on our own. centage will constitute a larger proporin relation to this. The Code of Conduct We have identified alternative certification of the need. This is the case for the specifies requirements concerning comtion schemes and standards that could most traded juice concentrate – orange, pliance with applicable legislation and provide us with equivalent security. For but grape juice concentrate and pinealso covers the areas of: Human rights, social rights, alternatives could include: apple are also among the most popular labour rights and good ethics. RFA, IFOAM, FLO, ISO 26000, Fair Trade flavours, as are passion fruit, cranberry, or National Ministry of Labour. We are melon and guava. Brazil supplies well SGF/IRMA and Code of Conduct working to determine new targets for the above 80% of the EU's need for orange SGF (Sure Global Fair) is a German strategy period running until 2018. concentrate. industry organisation that certifies more Source: www.aijn.org than 400 fruit farmers and suppliers of Examples of consequences in relation raw materials in more than 60 countries to the Code of Conduct At Rynkeby Foods we have an extremely for authenticity and quality of raw mateAt the beginning of 2014 we entered into high focus on sustainable production, rials as well as Code of Conduct (human dialogue concerning a business relationhigh quality, secure supply and not least rights, labour rights and anti-corrupship with a large European raw material on our suppliers complying with our tion). We do however find that there are producer but as it was unwilling to sign Code of Conduct and produce in accordgenerally more raw material suppliers our Code of Conduct this ended up being ance with the Global Compact principles. who elect not to become members of the deciding factor for us not entering With the increasing globalisation this SGF but we have also found that the into an agreement. will be an area that we will constantly percentage has marginally increased This is an example of how we consider focus on to provide assurance and safety from 2013 to 2014, although the amount the Code of Conduct important and how to our customers and consumers. of raw materials has fallen. However, we, as a company, are ready to face the these raw materials are primarily from consequences should our Code of ConSupplier authorisation and evaluation suppliers with which we have a good and duct requirement not be met. Please see We have a structured process for the long-standing business relationship, form at the bottom of the page. authorisation of new suppliers and which contributes to the necessary secuconduct ongoing supplier evaluations rity just as all of our main raw material, in order to ensure responsible supplier orange from Brazil, is from SGF-certified management. suppliers. TARGETS Targets and Results 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2014 SGF suppliers of fruit, berries and vegetables 69% 71% 63% 65% 75% SGF raw materials (fruit, berries and vegetables) 81% 84% 76% 70% 65% 90% Suppliers supporting the Code of Conduct 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% CSR report 2014 Page 12 Rynkeby involved with a new CSR platform The European Fruit Juice Association (AIJN) has in recent years worked to obtain EU support for a project to help develop CSR activities across the entire juice industry. The project work commenced in 2013 and together with a long line of other stakeholders (juice producers, specialists, NGOs (non-governmental organisations), etc.) Rynkeby will work towards increased sustainability. The collaboration with AIJN concerning a CSR platform is continuing Rynkeby is continuing to participate in the collaboration with the European Fruit CORPORATE SOCIAL Juice Association (AIJN) concerning a CSR platform to develop CSR work across the entire juice industry. RESPONSIBILITY The collaboration also includes other stakeholders in the European juice industry, e.g. producers and NGOs. THE OBJECTIVE of the Fruit Juice CSR Platform is to inspire and support the Oranges are Rynkeby Foods’ most imporEuropean fruit juice industry to integrate corporate social responsibility (CSR) in tant raw material and we have therefore their business operations and core strategy. invested in the labour conditions linked to orange harvesting and production. Presentation of educational THE VISION of the Fruit Juice CSR Platform is a thriving and resilient juice sector creating income stability and prosperity for all stakeholders involved in the We strive to produce our products in the material to plantation employees. global value chain. The Platform is designed to enable companies to collaborate most sustainable manner possible and on these global challenges. we have zero tolerance for the violation of Among other things the collaboration has resulted in the ”Fruit Juice CSR Platform” human rights. being able to present a CSR Sector Roadmap in November to provide inspiration and tools for implementation of CSR across the entire fruit juice production supply Our ambition is to proactively influence conditions were being complied with. social and health-related benefits such chain. our suppliers and sub-suppliers in order This time the focus was on the labour as free-of-charge access to doctors and to ensure that they comply with Rynkeconditions at the fruit farmers that are dentists, legal assistance, access to As part of the collaboration, Rynkeby is committed to working in accordance with by's Code of Conduct for suppliers. The sub-suppliers (external plantations) to hairdressers and life insurance – a trade six principles inspired by the UN Global Food and Agriculture Business Principles Code of Conduct regulates ethical, social the producers. union will also verify and inspect labour (FABs). These principles will form the foundations for the continued development and environmental responsibilities. All conditions in plantations and factories of strategic CSR in collaboration with other stakeholders in the fruit juice industry/ our raw material suppliers have signed We visited several plantations, large and every single day. sector. Rynkeby Foods’ Code of Conduct and small, and identified no critical areas. As Read more at www.juicecsr.eu all our Brazilian orange suppliers are additional verification of the conditions According to the trade union leader, SGF-certified. we asked an external agency, TÜV RheinRynkeby was the first juice producer to land, to conduct an audit of CSR and visit them. When asked directly about Respect human rights, In Rynkeby's 2013 CSR report we wrote labour conditions at the factory, internal the scope of the problems he clearly about the Brazilian orange industry, plantation and external plantation. The responded that any issues that arise are Aim for food security, create acceptable working which is the largest independent fruit report contained only three minor comonly minor issues such as correct work health and nutrition conditions and help industry in the world and which will ments for the external plantation, one clothing, which the trade union will help communities to thrive therefore be subject to continued focus. of which was that at the home of one of rectify. the orange pickers and their family the Be environmentally Encourage good In 2013 and 2014 the Swedish media auditors had noted that there was less We believe that the best way in which responsible – protect published a couple of extremely critical than one metre between the beds in one to contribute to the improvement of the governance articles concerning labour conditions of the bedrooms. Promises of rectificaBrazilian orange industry is to make and enhance the and accountability for Brazilian orange pickers, addressing tion were made for all comments. every effort on site, as described below, environment slavery-like conditions and toxic herbiWe also conducted an extraordinary visit and through the relevant organisations cides as examples. to a trade union, Sindicato dos Empresuch as the European Fruit Juice AssoEnsure economic Promote access and gados in Matao , situated at the heart ciation, AIJN, also due to the fact that viability and share transfer of knowledge, For this reason we chose to visit Brazil of the Brazilian orange area. A Brazilian Brazil is a player that we cannot do withagain in 2014 to ensure that our retrade union has a somewhat different out in the global market and one that value skills and technology quirements concerning e.g. human role to a Danish trade union. In Brazil a comprises more than 10,000 plantations and labour rights and environmental trade union provides its members with and in excess of 200,000 workers and their families. CSR report 2014 CSR report 2014 Page 14 Page 15 GOOD AND RESPONSIBLE MARKETING Rynke returns In 2014 Rynke will be resurrected for TV advertisements and other marketing items. It would be easiest and cheapest to use so-called reared Hollywood apes. We do not believe in the use of live animals in advertisements as they could suffer harm. We have therefore opted to make use of the expensive and most recent 3D technology available, so Rynke is not a live orangutan but a 3D animation. We have also chosen to support the work of the organisation Save the Orangutan to save the orangutan and its habitats in Borneo. Facts about Save the Orangutan Save the Orangutan is an organisation that works to save and rehabilitate Borneo's red apes, the orangutan. Lone Dröscher Nielsen from Denmark is the woman behind the world's largest rehabilitation centre for orangutans, COMMUNICATION AND MARNyaru Menteng, in Borneo, which, since At Rynkeby we consider a healthy financial We adapt our marketing, communication the mid-90s, has fought to protect the situation to be a prerequisite for long-term and behaviour in general based on an ethical red Asian anthropoid ape and to slow sustainability. The company cannot exist precautionary principle. If permitted by law down the felling of its home, the rainwithout earnings. We therefore use marketwe also aim to communicate the healthy forest. With help from dedicated ing and communication as tools to generate stories. Nevertheless, we do not advertise contributors, Nyaru Menteng works to a preference for our products, in order to calorie-rich products (e.g. juice with added ensure the survival of the wild orangutan strengthen our company and image and thus sugar) to children under the age of 13. and slow down the clearing of its rainKETING POLICY also create increased sales. forest home. We apply Fair Speak to all types of commuWe always aim to conduct decent and valuanication with our stakeholders, ensuring that 15,000 Danish individuals and 50 Danish ble marketing and communication with our we can always look each other in the eye. companies help the Dane Lone Dröscher stakeholders. On a day to day basis we refer Our aim is for Rynkeby to have zero cases Nielsen make a real difference for to this as Fair Speak and the expression or injunctions from authorities in respect of orangutans in Borneo. Through Save covers correct information, etc. presented in misleading information to consumers. the Orangutan they help save, rehabila valuable and decent manner. itate and return orangutans to the wild that have become homeless as a result of rainforest clearing or that have been kept illegally as pets. CSR report 2014 CSR report 2014 Page 16 Page 17 NEWS FROM THE DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT WE GET INVOLVED Rynkeby 50 God Morgen Green Juice School for Girls In 2013 our development department In spring 2014 we launched God Morgen The national network for school-busiworked to develop an alternative to Green, a mixture of 50% vegetables and ness collaboration, Jet-Net.dk, coordijuice, with fewer calories, in order to 50% fruit. God Morgen Green allows nated by the House of Natural Sciences, increase the focus on consumer health you to drink your vegetables, making it holds an annual event called Girls' Day without compromising on quality and easier to consume the six recommended in Science for the purpose of encournaturalness. fruit and vegetables per day. aging more girls to choose an education in natural sciences. The girls have the This resulted in the launch of a nectar Rynkeby will continue developing opportunity to meet female role models series in 2014 under the name Rynkeby products containing vegetables as a who can inspire the young girls and tell 50, containing 50% fewer calories than supplement or alternative to juice and them about their work while also elimjuice. Rynkeby 50 is sweetened using other fruit drinks. inating the prejudices girls may have sweeteners from the Stevia plant, a plant against natural science subjects. originating from South America and that Rynkeby was given the opportunity to has been used as a natural sweetener participate in the campaign and chose to for hundreds of years. provide a Juice School for Girls. Around 30 girls from Midtfyns Gymnasium (upper secondary school of Mid-Funen) participated in the Juice School , where they had the chance to taste and mix juice from concentrate, among other things. In the tasting workshop the girls were presented with 13 small glasses of juice and squash in different colours and had to guess the flavours based on taste, smell and appearance. Elsewhere in the laboratory the girls were tasked with mixing thick concentrate with water in order to achieve the correct juice consistency and taste. This gave the girls the chance to independently try out the subject of natural sciences and find that it could also be exciting and fun. Facts about Jet-Net.dk Jet-Net.dk is a nationwide network for school-business collaboration, formed to awaken, stimulate and retain children and adolescents’ understanding of and interest in natural sciences and technology. The purpose is for pupils to make decisions about secondary and upper secondary school education based on good insight into the jobs that can be accessed through natural sciences and technological educations. CSR report 2014 CSR report 2014 Page 18 Page 19 RYNKEBY AND TETRA PAK ARE ONCE MORE SUPPORTING THE WORLD'S BEST NEWS As in the previous year, in 2014 Rynkeby The good news on the juice carton was and Tetra Pak once again entered into that 9 out of 10 children in developing The World's Best News (WBN) consists collaboration with the UN organisation countries are now attending school. of a completely unique collaboration The World's Best News . Rynkeby and Tetra Pak wanted to between the UN, Danida and more than help spread the positive messages 100 Danish development organisations, The World's Best News (WBN) is a news and by handing out free juice it also small and large. campaign that communicates progress generated high levels of interest among and positive results in developing consumers. The World's Best News also receives incountries. valuable help from the Danish business 5,500 cartons of juice were also community and has entered into partIn the morning of 12 September 2014 handed out by WBN during the large nerships with more than 100 companies The World's Best News was issued mass meeting on Bornholm, where who help communicate the message to together with a specially designed 250 the positive message was also people in various ways. ml juice carton from Rynkeby. Around communicated to politicians, journalists 130,000 juice cartons were handed and other participants at the mass The World's Best News communicates out from Nuuk, to Jutland, Funen meeting. the specific progress that is taking place and Falster, across Zealand and on in developing countries. They provide inBornholm. On each juice carton one of formation about e.g. the positive results the good news items from The World's that are achieved in the work to abolish Best News could be read. global poverty. CSR report 2014 CSR report 2014 Page 20 Page 21 Facts in 2013* GOOD QUALITY AND 26% of the Danish po pulation knows that juice has no adde d sugar SAFE PRODUCTS 30% of the Danish po that juice is made fro pulation knows m 100% fruit 74% of the Danish po pulation knows As the header states, good quality and safe products that one glass of juice can replace one of the recommended are crucial parameters to Rynkeby. Through good six pieces of fruit/ vegetables per day management of raw materials, supply, production and final products we ensure that our products comFacts in 2014* ply with our own strict requirements. Management 29% of the Danish po pulation knows is conducted in accordance with our quality system, that juice has no adde d sugar certified in accordance with the ISO 22000 standard. 37% of the Danish po The system is verified once per year and in 2014 that juice is made fro pulation knows m 100% fruit there were eight minor deviations, which is a satisfactory result. 77% of the Danish po that one glass of juice pulation knows CONSUMERS can replace one of the recommended As set out in the figures on page 18, new and healthier alternatives within six pieces of fruit/ In the same way that we set out strict vegetables per day the Danish population’s knowledge of the products produced and supplied by requirements for our suppliers, our juice being made from 100% fruit with Rynkeby. Products that can make it eascustomers also place strict demands on *Millward Brown tra no added sugar and the fact that a daily ier to follow the 6-a-day recommencking based on us as a supplier. As an example, more weekly interviews wit glass of juice can replace one of the six dation but with a simultaneous focus on h Danish people. and more customers would like us to recommended pieces of fruit/vegetables consumer health, e.g. reducing calorie be certified in accordance with a GFSI has increased slightly. intake. (Global Food Safety Initiative) recognised standard, including FSSC 22000, BRC, The new 2014 marketing has focused on It is therefore also important that we alIFS and SQF. Rynkeby has therefore deincreasing awareness of Rynkeby acting ways provide reliable information about cided to become certified in accordance ber of complaints from Danish consumwith fruit pulp. The Swedish and Finnish in a natural and responsible manner. the nutritional content of our products. with FSSC 22000 in 2015. ers due to browning of orange juice has complaints are largely concerned with In 2014 Rynkeby changed the nutritional notably fallen. All orange products turn the distribution of fruit pulp in the From 2015 we will no longer focus on declarations on all packaging to ensure Status of complaints: brown over time and if customers save the products. We have noticed an increase measuring consumers' knowledge about compliance with the new EU labelling In spite of excellent management of the products until the expiry date a product in complaints concerning both too juice. Instead we will continue to develop rules for nutritional declarations. entire supply chain and processes and will appear brown when compared to a much fruit pulp in products and too numerous product checks both during freshly juiced product. It would appear little fruit pulp in products. Rynkeby has and after production, we continue to rethat consumers have now become used also implemented several measures to ceive enquiries from consumers who are to there always being a cheap alternative optimise the distribution of fruit pulp and not happy with our products for various within the Rynkeby product range and that going forward we will work on stabilising reasons. they therefore do not have to stock up. dosing even more, but this is a difficult process that is causing some technical COMPLAINTS The key figure for consumer complaints from the Danish market continued to fall The table on page 15 also shows that challenges. in 2014 and the number of complaints there are major differences in consumer behaviour in the Nordic countries. Sales None of the consumer complaints TARGETS has actually more than halved. It is difficult to explain this notable drop in com(measured in numbers of litres) are pracreceived concerned a risk to food safety, Complaints per 100 million litres 2011 2012 2013 2014 2014 plaints, especially when viewed in light tically the same in Denmark and Swewhich is our primary target in respect Denmark 304 429 271 127 max. 300 of the number of consumer complaints den but the number of complaints from of complaints. One single customer has in our other two major markets, Sweden Swedish customers is nearly seven times however complained that she felt ill after Sweden 908 1,070 811 845 max. 700 and Finland, having markedly increased greater than from Danish customers. drinking a juice, but subsequent assessFinland 89 2,161 667 816 max. 700 compared to 2013, especially in Finland. ments found that the juice was not the Unlike Denmark, sales in Sweden and cause of the discomfort. However, we can ascertain that the numFinland predominantly comprise juice CSR report 2014 CSR report 2014 Page 22 Page 23 2. Theme: PEOPLE In order to achieve the strategy targets and results that we set out and work towards at all times, our employees are the most imporEmployees are the most important resources tant resource we have. For this reason we prioritise employee job satisfaction, happiness and health highly in the way in which the company is run, both generally and with regard to management. Satisfactory ed to the assessment. In 2014 the results employee turnover of the assessment were calculated at EMPLOYEES – TARGETS AND RESULTS The company wishes to retain a good 4.1, corresponding to the same result in 2013. The result is weighted by averTARGETS and stable employee group with approage and as such there have been both 2011 2012 2013 2014 2014 priate turnover in order to continuously bring in new inspiration and expertise improvements and setbacks compared Employee turnover 10% 18% 15% 14% 12% to the company. An employee turnover to 2013. of 12% has previously been assessed Employee satisfaction (total score) 4.2 4.1 4.1 4.1 > 4.0 as fulfilling this wish. In this context In 2015 we will predominantly work There is a good balance between your work employee turnover is measured as the on four areas that all (sum of multiple and your personal life 4.2 4.2 4.1 4.1 > 4.0 number of resignations in relation to sub-questions) have a total score of 3.8 the number of employees. In 2013 the or 3.9. These areas are the business Psychological working environment/ turnover frequency was high at 15% but system (primarily satisfaction with work number of victims to bullying 6% 3% 1% 3% 0% in 2014 it has fallen to just over 14%, in tools and IT systems), organisation You generally feel happy and motivated 4.5 4.4 4.4 4.3 > 4.0 particular reflecting a positive decrease (primarily general follow-up, shared in logistics/distribution and among salresponsibility for issues and good ideas aried employees, while there has been a being converted to action) and finally Rynkeby produces beverages and other liquid fruitto and understood by our employees, focusing especially on small increase in production, although the winning culture, which is relatively based products at the factory in Ringe. The work is high risk departments. this is where the turnover frequency is new to the measurement and an area conducted responsibly, taking into account employee WORKING ENVIRONMENT POLICY lowest. that we have focused on in 2014 and safety, health and job satisfaction. This also applies to Working environment organisation that will continue influencing the entire external employees and visitors. Our working regulations are used to know, manage and We are generally satisfied with the fall organisation in 2015. For all areas action We are protective of the good working environment reduce the working environment impact caused by our opercompared to 2013, but the company plans have been or will be established in that we consider to be the basis for good and efficient ations. We also conduct risk assessments together with our still remains some way off its target, the individual responsible departments production. working environment organisation and use these to establish for which reason we will also focus on in order to increase satisfaction to a specific targets and action plans for how we can improve our decreasing employee turnover in 2015, minimum of 4.0. Safe workplace working environment efforts. especially within the logistics/distriRynkeby wishes to be a responsible employer when it butions team but also in the salaried In general, with regard to the communicomes to the working environment and as a minimum Near-misses and work-related accidents employee group. cation of ESA, the results are addressed the company will comply with applicable laws and regWe will establish and maintain procedures to efficiently at business meetings (general) and at ulations in this area. We will ensure that we are one manage near-miss situations and work-related accidents. Employee satisfaction assessment (ESA) all departmental meetings, the latter step ahead when it comes to legislative requirements We will also ensure that contractors and visitors are familiar For a number of years the company has focusing on the results in each area and and other requirements by entering into open dialogue with and comply with relevant requirements set out in our conducted annual employee satisfaction what the area needs to focus on or the with stakeholders, including authorities and business working environment management system. assessments (ESA) in which the assesssupport required from other departpartners, with regard to the company's working enviment itself contains around 75–80 quesments in order to improve results and ronment activities. Job satisfaction tions that must be answered using a scale improve employee satisfaction. We will actively work to ensure that our employees are happy from 1 to 5 and the company's target is Training and education and that no one feels isolated in the workplace. for satisfaction to remain above 4.0. We have yet to establish specific targets We will inform, train and educate our employees to act All managers and employees are informed of Rynkeby's five for 2015–2018, but these will be estabin accordance with our rules for the working environvalues and all employees must comply with these. Should There has generally been a very good lished and communicated internally ment and work to ensure awareness of the working there still be employees who feel dissatisfied or discriminatparticipation percentage in recent years during 2015 and will be included in next environment among our employees. We will ensure ed against, we will initiate preventative and corrective efforts. and in 2014 99% of employees respondyear's CSR report. that our working environment policy is communicated continues on page 24 CSR report 2014 CSR report 2014 Page 24 Page 25 Attendance for employees paid on an hourly basis & salaried employee equivalents in % 100 98 96 94 92 90 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 ANTI-BULLYING POLICY OBJECTIVE Rynkeby Foods' objective is to be a good Diversity workplace where all employees are happy and not resolved, conflicts may develop Working environment There is no direct link between physical Attendance The company wants its employwhere we respect each other and h into destructive personal conIn the departments (production, problems and age: Salaried employees had an excellent ee composition to reflect the ave a healthy and positive working flicts and bullying. Another type warehouse, technology) where we have attendance of 98.17% in 2014, a small outside world to a high degree in environment. of bullying is characterised by the implemented ergonomics projects in 20–40 years of age: 67% experience increase of 0.47 % compared to 2013. respect of age, race, sex, religion Bullying is therefore not accepted in our victim being randomly selected, 2013 and an Ergonomic Boost in 2014, physical problems and nationality to the extent that workplace and is a problem that we want to e.g. as a scapegoat for frustrations we have surveyed physical problems. 41–50 years of age: 78% experience Attendance among all employees was this is possible in relation to the prevent and resolve in cases where in a work team or for someone to physical problems slightly lower in 2014 than in 2013, which existing employee group and new bullying is identified. demonstrate their power. Employees in the above departments Over 50 years of age: 66% experience is due to a year of both serious illness recruits. Where possible we would were asked whether they have physical problems and surgery. Please refer to the diagram also like to support employees whose Bullying can have serious consequences experienced any musculoskeletal system above. working ability is reduced, e.g. in the on health in both the short and long term, problems within the last seven days and form of light duties or flexible working, if e.g. it could lead to anxiety, depression, the results were as follows: In 2015, in order to improve these figures In 2015 we will continue focusing on onewe have roles to support this and there stress, irritability, helplessness, etc. Bullyand reduce problems we will focus on: to-one and attendance meetings. The are relevant, real jobs available. ing not only affects the victim but also the Working Environment and Occupational job satisfaction of colleagues, and the conIn the neck 13 YES 50 NO • W orking in an ergonomically correct Health Coordinators will, in collaboration 2006 we identified that 16% of RynkeIn the hand/wrist 28 YES 39 NO Senior policy sequence of this could include increased manner and using the tools provided with their managers, monitor Smiley by's employees felt bullied. Naturally, In the shoulder 27 YES 39 NO Rynkeby is proud to have an excellent negligence, lower productivity and service by Rynkeby. each week to establish whether there is this extremely high proportion was In the arms/elbows 19 YES 45 NO senior policy which means that from the level, increased absence due to sickness anything we can do to ensure that every unacceptable and constituted a real In the lower back 32 YES 33 NO date on which the employee turns 57 and greater employee turnover. • I mplementing projects for the purpose day is a good day. burning platform but it was also easy In the knees 22 YES 43 NO years of age (eight years prior to retireof automating certain work processes to bring the company together (works ment age) the employee will be offered council, employees and management) There has been constant and ongoing A total of 77% of the 69 employees asked • W orking with improvements to annual senior meetings where we will in a shared fight to show that bullying focus on this subject during the period said they have experienced pain in one facilitate work discuss opportunities and needs conis not acceptable and make it clear that 2006-2014 in the company's departor more areas. cerning their future working life, job role, such behaviour is not part of the culture ments and among management. There senior-friendly duties, early retirement, we want at Rynkeby. This work resulted, has been extensive work on the issue etc. so that the senior age, calculated among other things, in an anti-bulling and on the understanding that Rynkeby from five years before retirement age, policy, in which we have defined bullying does not want bullying, especially among can be planned in the best possible way as: the relatively few departments that have Unfortunately, 2014 has been a year in which too many employees have become injured in with regard to both the employee and the experienced such problems. spite of the focus on prevention and near-miss situations. A very large proportion of the company. Bullying in the workplace takes place when accidents are linked to us forgetting to look after ourselves during a busy day. an individual, over a prolonged period of The developments have generally been We feel certain that the senior policy can time, is exposed to repeated uncomfortvery satisfactory with decreases most The target will continue to be 0 work-related accidents. support our clear desire to retain and able and negative actions or behaviours years (with the exception of 2011 and utilise the older and more experienced that it is difficult to defend oneself against. 2014) and the number of people who feel We will become better at identifying danger, taking certain precautions and looking after workforce to benefit the company and Examples include: important information bullied has dropped from 16% in 2006 to ourselves in order to avoid injury. We will also address near-miss situations and accidents the company's other employees. regularly being withheld, excessive moni3% in 2014, the latter including employin weekly panel meetings going forward. toring of selected employees or continued ees who acknowledge that they have Bullying criticism of their work or efforts. Typical occasionally been exposed to bullying Registrations Near-misses Minor accidents Work-related The fight against bullying is an area actions associated with bullying include while none (0%) acknowledge having accidents (not resulting that Rynkeby is very proud of as the onexclusion from the social community, rubeen bullied often. per year in absence) going work to abolish bullying since 2006 mours, gossip, ridicule or severe teasing. has come to fruition and has markedly As a company this is a major success 2014 36 17 7 reduced the number of employees who Bullying often occurs as the result of that has been driven by all employees 2013 31 3 4 feel bullied. conflicts not being resolved but escalatand collaborative bodies within the 2012 52 14 6 ing instead. The conflicts may relate to company. 2011 62 12 5 As part of a nationwide survey on the work activities or professional or personal psychological working environment in conflicts between employees. If they are CSR report 2014 CSR report 2014 Page 26 Page 27 CHILDREN WITH CANCER DESIGN JUICE In 2014, children admitted to three of the on planet 'Apple', drawn by 8-year old explains that following his second opcountry's Paediatric Oncology DepartJakob, who has a tumour on the memeration on the brain in May 2014, Jakob ments created drawings together with brane of the brain. 10-year old Karoline feels much better, is healthy and is doing their siblings for a new 200 ml organic drew a butterfly, a sun and a red apple well in school. apple juice drink. for the straw. She also explains that the entire Irma The juice was called ’Børnenes egen Unique collaboration juice project was an extremely positive juice’ and was created to raise money for In addition to the children a great numexperience for Jakob. It gave Jakob the Team Rynkeby's collection for the charity ber of companies* have also contributed chance to think about something other Børnecancerfonden. to the juice at no charge – but no one than his illness and provided him with profited from the sale of the juice except hope and optimism. It was with barely In total, the childrens' work resulted for the Børnecancerfonden charity, contained pride that Jakob, who visited in 21 beautiful drawings that can all be something which is unique. Irma when the juice was launched, could seen on Team Rynkeby's website www. tell customers in the store that This is team-rynkeby.dk/bornenes-juice or on Juice sales raised more than 200,000 your lucky day, it was me who did the Irma's website www.irma.dk/bornenesDanish kroner for Børnecancerfonden drawing. juice. and the decision has therefore been made to repeat the success in 2015. When, on the last Friday before the auThree of the drawings were used on the *Tetra Pak, Irma, Nørgård Mikkelsen, etc. tumn holiday, Jakob's school, Herfølge juice packaging. The front of one design Skole, received a donation of a whole was embellished by a juicy apple tree, Jakob's drawing pallet of Irma juice for the school sports 8-year old Jakob was one of the drawn by 10-year old Mathilde, who has 8-year old Jakob was one of the childay, there was also a happy and proud children whose drawing was printed a tumour on the optic nerve. The front dren whose drawing was printed on one Jakob participating in the race together on one side of the Irma juice. of another design was a fruit rocket side of the Irma juice. His mother, Yael, with his friends. CSR report 2014 CSR report 2014 Page 28 Page 29 Team Tinkoff-Saxo's Chef Hannah Grant arranged a workshop that provided inspiration and motivation Anders Damgaard, partner in the comfor nutritional cooking. pany Peloton, has been appointed to train employees and mentally and physically prepare us for next year's trip to Paris. 3. Theme: HEALTH Rynkeby's work to improve employee health continued in 2014. Health profiles were prepared for 82% of employees at the beginning of the year, but the overall decision concerning employee health was taken just before the summer holidays. A healthy workplace Team Rynkeby for employees Spinning and collaboration with Management decided to offer all emPELOTON Diet plan for ployees the opportunity to cycle with Anders Damgaard, who is a partner in selected employees Team Rynkeby to Paris in 2015 and the company Peloton, has been appointincluded some great offers, such as the ed to train employees and mentally and Based on the questionnaire from loan of bicycles. physically prepare us for next year's trip. Peleton, a number of the subscribed Anders Damgaard's previous experibeginners were offered additional Around 120 employees (including Sweence includes working as Press and support in the form of a personal diet den and Finland) opted to accept the Communication Manager for Team Saxo plan, implemented with the assistance of challenge and a further 10 employees Bank and Bjarne Riis and being sports nutritionist Gitte Pedersen from Sundare involved in the service team. The journalist of the year in Denmark in Koncept. The diet plan does not focus on primary objective is to provide Rynkeby's 2008, so the forces that will safely guide weight alone but also on incorporating employees with a healthier lifestyle that us through the preparations for the long the importance of diet when it comes to provides energy, happiness and strength cycle trip to Paris in 2015 are highly optimal training with healthy and simple in daily life. Furthermore, there is probexperienced. diet advice, based on the individual chalably no better team building project than lenges faced by the person. 27 employa cycling team comprising very different Based on a questionnaire concerning ees accepted the offer, which launched riders at various levels of training who employees’ own assessment of e.g. in December and continues in 2015 as will train together and work through health and training levels and a mandawe approach the trip to Paris. physical and psychological hardships to tory test on the spinning cycle, employreach a shared goal. ees were split into groups and each As part of the scheme, these 27 employgroup received a customised training ees participated in a workshop together To prepare all participants and not least programme from Peloton. By now, winwith Team Tinkoff-Saxo's Chef Hannah the debutantes for the big tour to Paris ter training using spinning cycles is well Grant at the end of the year, gaining in 2015 a number of initiatives have been underway and the remainder of the story inspiration and motivation for nutriundertaken. will have to wait until next year. tional cooking. Following an interesting presentation the participants had the opportunity to cook in groups and subsequently sat down together to eat the delicious and healthy dishes. CSR report 2014 CSR report 2014 Page 30 Page 31 The Søslette race and DHL sponding to approximately 20% of emsome diet, including a broad and varied As in previous years Rynkeby is this year ployees, which is well below our target of salad bar and a great range of fish sandagain offering its employees the oppor100 people (including families) or 50% of wich fillings. Cheap fruit and vegetables tunity to participate in two recurring employees. are also available for employees to buy. running events. As far as possible the canteen will This year there will likely be more people ensure that food is as healthy as can be Firstly, the local Søslette race in Ringe in participating in the Søslette race, as by including dietary advice in the menu which you can walk, run or cycle differthe trip provides excellent training for and thus making it easy for employees to ent routes spanning different distances. participants in the large Team Rynkeby make healthy choices. Both employees and their families are Ringe 2015 team. Going forward we will invited to participate in the race, in part consider alternative measures for emHealth certification 2015 to promote employee health through ployee health rather than participation in In connection with the preparation exercise and in part to be involved with these races. for the upcoming health certification local events. through the Danish corporate sports The healthy canteen organisation Dansk Firmaidræt, Rynkeby There is also the DHL relay race in The keyhole certification (Nøglehulscerhas developed a number of policies in Odense, which is a relay race in which tificering) plan has unfortunately had to 2014 concerning health, in accordance teams of five people run five kilometres be scrapped. The administrative burden with the so-called KRAMS principles, each. The race takes place at Engen in on canteen staff was too great and the and these have been communicated Odense and employees enjoy a pleasant requirements could not, in practice, be using the company's intranet. afternoon of barbecuing and exercise. met. KRAMS is an abbreviation for the Danish words for Diet, Smoking, Alcohol, ExerIn 2014 around 40 people participated Nevertheless, the canteen continues to cise and Stress. in each of these races, a figure correfocus on a healthy, varied and flavourUnprocessed or lightly processed fruit and vegetables exercise and healthy diet positively affect both work are often healthier and consumers should eat at least and personal life and we are happy to support events 600 g of fruit and vegetables every day. A large proporthat contribute to promoting health. tion of Rynkeby products can be included in this fruit and vegetable balance as a glass of juice equals 100 g We have set out a number of health objectives that we fruit/vegetables (maximum) and can therefore replace work towards, e.g. concerning HEALTH POLICY one of the six daily pieces of fruit and vegetables (100 g) recommended by the Danish National Board of n fewer physical problems Health. n healthier food n health checks Water is the healthiest drink. Nevertheless, many conn losing weight sumers continue to drink a number of different types n more exercise and of beverages that are far from healthy. We consider our n fewer smokers products to be a healthier alternative to fizzy drinks, soft drinks without fruit and similar, as all of our prodWe acknowledge that it takes time to promote health ucts are fruit-based. in the workplace and that we are looking at a long process, which means that we are continuously idenEmployees tifying a number of focus areas to support our health The canteen offers a healthy, varied and We continuously identify focus areas to promote the objectives. flavoursome diet, including sandwiches with health of our employees. It is our clear conviction that fish fillings, and a fresh salad bar every day. CSR report 2014 CSR report 2014 Page 32 Page 33 TEAM RYNKEBY Every year, every single year, we say help others who really need help – 3. and Everyone must be registered on the pretty much the same thing when talking not least doing so as part of an incredibly intranet, pictures must be uploaded about Team Rynkeby: addictive social community team which and the first instalment must be paid by creates a strong sense of commitment riders. Larger while being completely unique. More participants This is when sponsorship work sets in More teams (26 teams in 6 countries) The factual figures for Team Rynkeby for real – first and foremost with a focus Even better can be summarised with the following on obtaining the very important kit spondata: sors – i.e. sponsors whose name/logo More money collected will be displayed on the team cycling kit. And all of this is also the case with the Number of riders: 1,200 description of Team Rynkeby 2013/2014. Number of assistants: 300 Training must be planned for winter and There is also a new dimension: We have a number of produce sponsors must be NEVER experienced such bad weather, Funds collected for children with cancer identified, future events must be disso much rain and such low temperatures in the five Nordic countries: The Faroe cussed and planned and the placement (read: COLD) as we did on the final trip to Islands DKK 960,000 – Finland EUR of logos on cycling kit must be coordiParis in July 2014. All teams needed to 860,000 – Norway NOK 1 million – Swenated. At the end of March the new bikes stick together, help each other and work den SEK 11 million and Denmark DKK and cycle kit will arrive and we can finalfor the common good. 23 ½ million. All in all 4,8 mio. euro were ly hit the roads. The general recommengiven to the Children Cancer Foundation dation is to train at a level of 2,000–2,500 But if you watch the film that has been in 2014. km before the trip to Paris starts (i.e. created you will experience the same just over 200 km per week from the bicycommitment, the same fantastic atmosAllow me to paint a brief picture of what cles being issued on April 1). phere, the same smiles and the same Team Rynkeby is when it comes to size. joy of having contributed to seriously The many events arranged to fund the making a real difference to the benefit of The whole team is put together at the project, implemented by the 26 teams, children with cancer and their families. end of August based on previous parare quite simply a chapter in their own ticipation and a minimum of 50% new right. It is incredible how much creaTeam Rynkeby is actually so much bigparticipants selected from the many intivity is displayed and how much energy ger, so much more and its reach spans terested people who have registered on is burned off at these events. We are way beyond individual participation. our website (sadly we had to turn down looking at spinning, golf, talks, music, Participating in Team Rynkeby from the around 1,000 people in Denmark alone), art auctions, lotteries, bingo, auctions, initial selection of the project/team at we then conduct a number of meetings dinner & shows, cycle races, sailing and the beginning of September 2013 to the to make the final selection before conmuch, much more. It is impossible not arrival in Paris on 10 July 2014 has been sidering the distribution of various areas to have the greatest of respect for this an experience for life. of responsibility (team captains, sponsor work, which in recent years has transmanager, attending physician, training lated into a great deal of money and not There are several reasons for this – 1. manager, service manager, finance least is a serious contributor to creating doing something great for yourself by manager, etc.) before we get everyone team spirit and a sense of responsibility focusing more on exercise and healthy measured up for bikes and cycling kit. among participants. living – 2. an excellent opportunity to CSR report 2014 CSR report 2014 Page 34 Page 35 4. Theme: THE ENVIRONMENT In order to comply with our environmenwe have reduced our product wastage tal policy we have for a number of years by more than 50% to our final figure of Reduction of environmental impact focused our work on investing in and 1.26% in 2014 (14). This has been possioptimising our cleaning routines/proble by intensively working to implement cedures in order to reduce our environpigging in our production lines, increasmental impact and costs. ing batch size and focusing on reusing excess product from a product change in All of this has naturally been implementthe subsequent production. ed without having any impact on the Please refer to the diagram below. quality of our products. Pigging is a system in which a station is added to the pipe system, allowing All our environmental targets for a pig to be placed in the pipe during 2011–2014 concerning energy, water, product changes. This allows us to sepwaste water and wastage of raw matearate the product and the water that is rials and packaging were met as early subsequently used for flushing the pipes. as 2012 but the pace continues and we Excess product can therefore be collecthave been able to demonstrate further ed and used in subsequent production of improvements. the same or a similar product. A new strategy has been established for This requires a system and discipline so 2015–2018 and this means that new tarthat employees know to use the excess Rynkeby aims to become a greener and tent possible. Should wastage still occur, gets will be set for the next four years. product and that the product is stored more sustainable company. This means we will ensure sustainable disposal. The work has been initiated but the final and used safely. that we must avoid wastage, optimise our targets have yet to be determined. It is There is also focus on increasing the processes and always strive to identify the Excess consumption also results in ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY about setting ambitious but also realistic size of the production batch. This has most sustainable solution. In practice this wastage. For this reason we continuousgoals for our environmental efforts. been done by reducing the production means that we will consider where we can ly monitor and optimise operations and frequency for each individual product. find the largest environmental benefits consumption. Reduction of wastage Naturally, this is balanced against stock and will focus our efforts accordingly. The figure shows that since 2009 (9) and service levels. Equipment Energy We design new production plants and proWe must save energy and always work cure equipment that meets or exceeds the towards energy-efficient solutions in requirements set out in relevant environPRODUCT WASTAGE existing and new processes. mental standards. in % of produced value Food waste and resources Climate changes (right axis L per production batch) We consistently work to avoid all types of We contribute to minimising global warmwastage, including food, materials, fuel, ing by continuously working to reduce 3 36,000 energy, raw materials and other types of carbon emissions. In part this takes place 2.5 resources linked to our operations. through our focus on resources and ener34,000 gy optimisation. 2 We also ensure that our waste is recycled, 32,000 reused and re-utilised to the greatest ex1.5 1 30,000 9 10 11 12 13 14 CSR report 2014 CSR report 2014 Page 36 Page 37 ENERGY REDUCTION OF WATER CONSUMPTION CONSUMPTION AND WASTE WATER DISCHARGE At Rynkeby we have employed a time in the line where the filler machine At Rynkeby we have two key figures for The graphs below show that we have rechemicals and water without having any traditional approach when it came to supplies maximum output) from 52% to water consumption. duced our water consumption by around impact on product quality. reducing our energy consumption. This 63% (approximately 20% higher output) One is our water consumption per litre 20% and waste water by around 25%. has meant that from 2010 to 2011 we has resulted in a reduction in natural of produced product. This figure is influImprovements in the transport area managed to achieve a reduction in our gas consumption of around 20% and enced by a number of factors. One factor Some of the reasons for this are, as preWe experienced a good increase in fuel energy consumption by investing in heat electricity consumption of approximately is the water included in our products viously described, larger batch size and utilisation in the area of transport in recycling and new compressors with 12%. when concentrates are used and typicalthe implementation of pigging systems 2014. On average, vehicles used 3.06 lower energy consumption, etc. ly mixed at a ratio of 1:4 between NFC which have reduced the water consumpkm/L of diesel compared to last year's The electricity supplier identified a fault and concentrate, which remains largely tion for pipe flushing. 2.91 km/L, which corresponds to an As you can see from the graphs below, in the connection for the billing reader unchanged in the period below. Another increase of 5%. this has had a positive impact on for electricity consumption in 2014, factor is the water we use to flush the Another reason is the described increase natural gas and electricity consumption which has meant that there has been an pipes between product changes and in line efficiency which means that we The target of 3.21 km/L for 2014 has not measured per 1,000 litres produced. error of around 5% in our readings. The this is therefore affected by the numproduce 20% more between the schedbeen met in spite of unremitting efforts fault has been corrected and the figures ber of product changes. A third factor uled CIP cleaning of filler machines. in recent years, including driver training However, the largest effect has been below have been adjusted. is the water we use for CIP cleaning of in energy-efficient driving and a focus on achieved by working proactively with machines and mixing tanks, as well as The large leap from 2011 to 2012 is logistics and increased transport weight. LEAN and employee involvement to In future years we will continue working other cleaning. the result of a change to our cleaning increase the utilisation of our filler on energy-saving projects, including a procedure for cleaning of mixing tanks in Improvements to fuel utilisation will conlines, thus reducing the proportion of scheduled switch to LED lighting in all The other key figure is waste water per 2012. This meant that we no longer ran a tinue to be a focus area in coming years. unscheduled downtime. production and warehouse premises litre of produced product. This figure is full CIP cleaning programme after each and new energy-saving aerators for our affected by the above factors with the mixing but replaced several CIP cleanAs you can see from the graphs below, purification system. exception of the water included in our ing programmes with flushing of the the increase in line efficiency (line products. tanks. This resulted in major savings on efficiency is the proportion of scheduled NATURAL GAS ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION WATER CONSUMPTION WASTE WATER m3 per 1,000 L produced kWh per 1,000 L produced in L per litre produced L per litre produced (right axis, line efficiency in %) (right axis, line efficiency in %) (right axis, line efficiency in %) 8 65 70 65 2.75 65 1.05 63 63 2.65 63 7.5 1 61 65 61 2.55 61 59 59 2.45 59 0.95 7 57 60 57 2.35 57 0.9 6.5 55 55 2.25 55 53 55 53 2.15 53 0.85 6 51 51 2.05 51 0.8 5.5 49 50 49 1.95 49 47 47 1.85 47 0.75 5 45 45 45 1.75 45 0.7 10 11 12 13 14 10 11 12 13 14 9 10 11 12 13 14 9 10 11 12 13 14 CSR report 2014 CSR report 2014 Page 38 Page 39 CSR targets – complete overview CSR targets – complete overview 2011 2012 2013 2014 Target in 2014 2011 2012 2013 2014 Target in 2014 Values Everyone at Rynkeby must know/com4.3 on scale 4.4 on scale Min. 4.2 for Min. 4.3 for Min. 4.2 for Consumer health Proportion of consumers who know that 33% 28% 30% 37% Min. 80% ply with our five values. Do you comply to 5.0 to 5.0 question (ESA) question (ESA) question (ESA) juice is 100% fruit with our values in everyday life? Consumer health Proportion of the Danish population who 29% 24% 26% 29% Min. 80% know that juice has no added sugar Fair Speak 0 orders/judgements concerning 1 0 0 0 0 misleading marketing. Offered to everyOffered to everyOffered to everyOffered to everyMin. once First-aid First-aid training will be offered at no 4.2 4.0 4.1 Min. 4.1 for Min. 4.2 for charge for Working Environment and one, incl training one, incl training one, incl training one, incl training per year Management Good management must be maintained and measured as part of the employee Occupational Health Coordinators. in the use of the in the use of the in the use of the in the use of the question (ESA) question (ESA) defibrillator defibrillator defibrillator defibrillator satisfaction assessment (ESA). Questions Preferably during working hours concerning management. Occupational safety Registered near-miss situations 62 52 31 36 + 100 SGF Proportion of SGF-authorised 69.2% 70.7% 63.0% 65.0% 75.0% suppliers (fruit and vegetables) Occupational safety Registered – minor injuries (no absence) 12 14 3 17 0 SGF Proportion of SGF-authorised raw 83.8% 75.8% 70.0% 65.0% 90.0% materials (fruit and vegetables) Occupational safety Registered work-related accidents 5 6 4 7 0 Code of conduct Proportion of suppliers who have 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% Employee health Proportion of employees with physical Not measured Not measured 66% Not measured Max. 35% signed the Rynkeby, ARLA or SGF COC. problems with the musculoskeletal Certification Proportion of major faults 0 0 0 0 0 Majors system identified during audits. Employee health Proportion of smokers Not measured Not measured 16% Not measured Max. 15% Local community Complaints from the local 1 1 0 0 0 complaints community (number of residents) Employee health Average number of cigarettes per day Not measured Not measured 13 Not measured Max. 10 Employee satisfaction Employee turnover 10% 18% 15% 13.90% 12% Employee health Proportion overweight Not measured Not measured 33% Not measured Max. 22% Employee health Proportion Very overweight Not measured Not measured 25% Not measured Max. 18% Employee satisfaction Total score for the company as a whole 4.2 4.1 4.1 4.1 Min. 4.0 Employee health Proportion that eats fruit and vegetables Not measured Not measured 48% Not measured Min. 57% Employee satisfaction There is a good balance between your 4.2 4.2 4.1 4.1 Min. 4.0 every day (min. 2 pieces) work and your private life Psychological working Number of victims to bullying 6% 3% 1% 3% 0% Employee health Proportion of employees exercising for a Not measured Not measured 42% Not measured Min. 60% environment minimum of 30 minutes every day Employee satisfaction Generally feels happy and motivated 4.5 4.4 4.4 4.3 Min. 4.5 Employee health Proportion of employees participating in 42% 30% 31% 20% Min. 50% the DHL relay race* Training days Number of days per year 2 weeks 1 week (+ 1 1 week (+ 1 1 week per em1 week per em(employees paid on an day's workshop day's workshop ployee/3 weeks ployee/3 weeks Attendance Attendance in % of number of employees 96.8% 96.6% 96.8% 96.4% >97.0% hourly basis) per coordinator) per coordinator) per coordinator per coordinator Environmental targets Fuel consumption (lorries) 2.96 km/l 3.00 km/l 2.91 km/l 3.06 km/l Min. 3.21 km/l Consumer complaints Denmark per 100 million litres 304 429 271 127 Max. 300 of product sold Environmental targets Electricity consumption per tonne of product 57.11 kWh 48.56 kWh 50.4 kWh 51.8 kWh Max. 53.96kWh Consumer complaints Sweden per 100 million litres 908 1070 811 845 Max. 700 Environmental targets Waste water per tonne of product 0.937 m 3 0.77 m 3 0.74 m 3 0.72 m 3 Max. 0.85 m3 Environmental targets CO2 consumption per tonne of product 16.52 kg 13.1 kg 12.9 kg 12.5 kg Max. 14.56 kg Consumer complaints Finland per 100 million litres 89 2161 667 816 Max. 700 (excluding fuel) Environmental targets Gas consumption 7.568 m3 7.336 m3 5.82 m3 5.53 m3 Max. 6.408 m3 Customer satisfaction B2B – Fact analysis, groceries Not measured No. 4 Not measured No. 4 Top 3 Environmental targets Raw material wastage of raw material 2.07% 1.61% 1.50% 1.27% Max. 2.10% consumption Involvement in local Proportion of participants (incl. family 38% 38% 30% 20% Min. 100 incl. events members) in the Søslette race in Ringe family or 50% Environmental targets Packaging wastage of packaging 1.25% 0.88% 0.98% 1.03% Max. 1.05% consumption Planet Health Miljø/klima Sundhed Forretning Mennesker Profit People
