United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress September 2015 About Power Corporation Incorporated in 1925, Power Corporation of Canada is a diversified international management and holding company with interests in companies in the financial services, communications and other business sectors in North America, Europe and Asia. Corporate Social Responsibility is fundamental to the way we, and our group of companies, do business — what we refer to as responsible management. It has been at the core of our investment philosophy, enabling us to build a resilient and sustainable business, through our role as an investor, employer and contributor to the communities where we operate. Co-CEO Statement of Continued Support Introduction and Progress since Joining As a diversified international management and holding company, we have a strong commitment to ensure our business and our investments are managed in a responsible fashion wherever they operate. Our responsible management philosophy is consistent with our commitment to the United Nations Global Compact’s (UNGC) ten principles on human rights, labour rights, environment and anti-corruption. We seek investments in companies that have sustainable business models with the potential over time to provide long-term value. These companies are responsible employers, and consistently demonstrate integrity and high ethical standards. They also understand the need to protect the environment, and to contribute to economic prosperity and to the communities where they operate. This is the essence of responsible management. It is not merely the right thing to do socially; it is the right thing to do from a business perspective. We take an active ownership approach in the companies in which we invest and we ensure that our investments continue to be managed in a manner consistent with our responsible management philosophy, including our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Statement and our commitment to the UNGC. Since joining the UNGC in September 2014, we have taken further steps to strengthen our responsible management commitments, programs and performance. The UNGC Principles have provided us with an internationally recognized policy framework to guide our efforts. This document represents our first Communication on Progress, which provides our stakeholders with an update on the actions, targets, performance indicators and outcomes of our work as it relates to the ten UNGC principles. Where relevant, we provide links to our dedicated CSR website, which provides a means of publicly documenting and disclosing our approach and practical examples of how responsible management is implemented within our business. Statement of Continued Support As we look forward, we are focused on continuing to strengthen and improve our responsible management commitments, programs and performance. We are committed to upholding the principles and values that responsible management demands, and we will continue to support the UNGC Principles over the coming year. Paul Desmarais, Jr., o.c., o.q. André Desmarais, o.c., o.q. Chairman and Deputy Chairman, President and Co-Chief Executive Officer Co-Chief Executive Officer POWER CORPORATION OF CANADA • COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS • SEPTEMBER 2015  1 Human rights principles Principle 1 Principle 2 Businesses should support and respect make sure they are not complicit in human the protection of internationally proclaimed right abuses. human rights; and COMMITMENTS / STRATEGIES / POLICIES We recognize the role we have to play in supporting and respecting the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. We believe that respecting and protecting human rights is fundamental to creating long-term sustainable value. Our commitment to respect human rights is defined by our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and our CSR Statement. IMPLEMENTATION ACTIONS PERFORMANCE Human rights are considered during our dealings with business partners • All our employees were trained and within our own investment analysis process, when relevant. We also on the Code of Business Conduct collaborate with our group companies to share knowledge and best practices and Ethics. and to identify areas of opportunity. The following provides examples of our implementation efforts: • All our employees and directors acknowledged compliance with • Trained employees on our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, which the Code of Business Conduct includes their responsibilities to respect human rights. and Ethics. • Reviewed human rights initiatives of our main subsidiaries and investments. • No breaches to the Code of Consistent with the United Nations Framework and Guiding Principles on Business Conduct and Ethics Business and Human Rights, we assessed our exposure to potential human were reported. rights risks, the policies and programs to mitigate potential human rights issues, and the processes to enable remediation measures. • Our main holdings were assessed on human rights policies • Continued group company collaborations on human rights. Many of and programs. our group companies are taking a leadership position on human rights management programs. Learn more on our CSR website POWER CORPORATION OF CANADA • COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS • SEPTEMBER 2015  2 Labour principles Principle 3 Principle 5 Businesses should uphold the freedom of the effective abolition of child labour; and association and the effective recognition of the Principle 6 right to collective bargaining; the elimination of discrimination in respect Principle 4 of employment and occupation. the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; COMMITMENTS / STRATEGIES / POLICIES We are committed to providing a respectful and equitable workplace. We do not tolerate unlawful discrimination, forced or compulsory labour, and child labour. We recognize the right to collective bargaining and freedom of association, as required by law. These commitments are articulated in our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. We have also established a Board and Senior Management Diversity Policy, to articulate our commitment to diversity. IMPLEMENTATION ACTIONS PERFORMANCE Our responsible management philosophy guides the way in which we manage • All our employees were trained and develop our workforce. We have built teams of truly exceptional people, on the Code of Business Conduct individuals who represent diverse backgrounds, with a sound ethical foundation. and Ethics. Our group companies’ workforce is valued, supported and empowered to be successful both personally and professionally. • All our employees and directors acknowledged compliance with Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics provides guidance on how employees the Code of Business Conduct should conduct our business activities. We reinforce these commitments and and Ethics. values through training and ongoing dialogue as appropriate. The following provides examples of our implementation efforts: • No breaches to the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics • Trained employees on the Code, which includes our commitment to provide were reported. a respectful and equitable workplace and to health and safety best practices. • 18% of the members of the • Ensured diversity criteria are taken into consideration when recruiting at the Power Corporation Board Board and senior management levels in accordance with our diversity policy. of Directors are women. • Implemented a new performance and career management program, which • 17% of the executive officers includes a career development component. (including the Corporation’s • Continued group collaborations on group companies’ people programs. operating subsidiaries) are women. • Provided access to an Employee and Family Assistance Program, which provides support on issues related to workplace challenges, nutrition and health, stress and other situations. Learn more on our CSR website POWER CORPORATION OF CANADA • COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS • SEPTEMBER 2015  3 Environment principles Principle 7 Principle 9 Businesses should support a precautionary encourage the development and diffusion approach to environmental challenge; of environmentally friendly technologies. Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and COMMITMENTS / STRATEGIES / POLICIES Despite our limited environmental footprint as a holding company, we are committed to environmental responsibility as underpinned by the importance we place on preventing and minimizing the impact of our activities on the environment. Our management approach to the environment is reinforced through our CSR Statement, our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and our Environmental Policy. The focus of our programs relate to climate change adaptation, greenhouse gas and energy efficiency, and waste and materials management. IMPLEMENTATION ACTIONS PERFORMANCE Our Environmental Policy anchors our environmental management practices, • 29% reduction in GHG emissions with a focus on preventing and minimizing our impacts. We work diligently to and energy in 2014 associated with reduce our environmental footprint, while working with our group companies our consumption of electricity and to support their environmental management initiatives. The following provides natural gas, since 2011, exceeding examples of our implementation efforts: our 5% reduction target. • Established a target to reduce our energy consumption and Greenhouse • Received 91 B score on the 2014 Gas (GHG) emissions by 5% from the use of electricity and natural gas at Carbon Disclosure Project. our corporate head office by 2015, using 2011 as a baseline. • Implemented measures to reduce our carbon, energy, and waste impacts and maintained our BOMA Go Green Certification related to environmental management at our corporate head office. • Established a wholly owned subsidiary, Power Energy Corporation, which is investing in clean energy and energy efficiency technologies. • Supported partnerships that favour a low carbon economy, including the David Suzuki Foundation. • Worked with suppliers to favour sustainable products, including paper, cleaning products, energy efficient products, and local sourcing. • Continued group collaborations on environmental management initiatives. • Continued to disclose our energy and GHG governance, strategy, risks and opportunities, and management programs through the Carbon Disclosure Project. Learn more on our CSR website POWER CORPORATION OF CANADA • COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS • SEPTEMBER 2015  4 Anti-corruption principles Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. COMMITMENTS / STRATEGIES / POLICIES We are committed to carrying out our business worldwide ethically and without the use of bribery in accordance with our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and Global Anti-Bribery Policy. The policy sets out our expectation with respect to anti-bribery: it prohibits our people from receiving, promising, giving, providing, or authorizing the provision of anything of value to obtain or retain business, an advantage, or favoured treatment from anyone. IMPLEMENTATION ACTIONS PERFORMANCE The success of our commitment to anti-corruption and anti-bribery relies • All our employees were trained on the diligence of our personnel. The following provides examples of our on the Code of Business Conduct implementation efforts: and Ethics, including the Global • Established an anti-corruption compliance program that includes training, Anti-Bribery Policy. due diligence of third parties and mandatory reporting. • All our employees and directors • Conducted a training program on our Global Anti-Bribery Policy for all acknowledged compliance with the Code of Business Conduct our personnel. and Ethics. • Completed annual certification of compliance with our Global Anti-Bribery Policy. • No breaches to the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics were reported. Learn more on our CSR website POWER CORPORATION OF CANADA • COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS • SEPTEMBER 2015  5 To find out more about Power Corporation: powercorporation.com powercorporationcsr.com powercorporationcommunity.com
