Yardstick of quality Annual Report 2014/2015 Durdans Hospital is an established and respected tertiary healthcare provider in Sri Lanka, focusing above all on patient care above all for Sri Lankan and overseas patients. It is a modern, multi-speciality private hospital with state-of-the-art medical facilities, conveniently located in the heart of Colombo. Since 1945, generations of Sri Lankans have been cared for by Durdans Hospital, a trusted and recognised name for patient healing. Today, it is synonymous with the medical expertise, trusted nursing care and modern facilities that has become our tradition: it’s all about caring. Vision Durdans to be acknowledged regionally as the leading healthcare partner to the community at large. Mission Excellence Our management team and professionally trained The outstanding mind set which requires us to staff supported by cutting edge technology will deliver constantly upgrade our offerings to deliver globally compatible patient care in an innovative, excellence in everything we do. trusted and safe environment. We at Durdans are committed to a customer centric culture to create a Transparency and Integrity positive impact upon all our stakeholders. Our moral uprightness, ethical values and strong Core Values principles help us deliver high professional standards whilst ensuring transparency in all our commitments. Compassion Empathy for all the lives we touch and the desire to Team Spirit help, which is abundantly expressed to the patients, The power of a cohesive group of people working their families, staff and society. together to deliver best possible outcomes in a synergistic environment. Innovation Innovating as we move forward, questioning the Collective Awareness status quo, and offering solutions which provide the Being responsible to all our patients, families, staff dynamism to what we do every day. and society to create awareness on health and wellness. Contents 1 Vision, Mission and Core Values 4 Operational and Financial Highlights 6 The Journey to World-Class Quality 10 Chairman’s Statement 14 Business Portfolio 36 Operational Review 38 Financial Review 40 The Board of Directors 42 Senior Management Team 46 Sustainability Report 56 Enterprise Governance 63 Enterprise Risk Management 71 Annual Report of the Board of Directors on the Affairs of the Group 76 Statement of Directors’ Responsibility In Relation to Financial Statements 77 Audit Committee Report 79 Independent Auditors Report 80 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 81 Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 82 Statement of Changes in Equity 83 Statement of Cash Flows 84 Notes to the Financial Statements 124 Value Added Statement 125 Ten Year Summary 126 Share Information 130 Durdans’ Island-Wide Reach 132 Notice of Meeting 135 Form of Attendance 137 Form of Proxy-Voting Shareholders 139 Form of Proxy-Non-Voting Shareholders 2 DURDANS HOSPITAL Be a yardstick of quality. Some people aren’t used to an environment where excellence is expected. Steve Jobs Yardstick of quality For seventy years, Durdans has set the standard of quality in the local healthcare industry, delivering world-class clinical expertise, stateof-the-art technology and warm patient care to the thousands of Sri Lankans who place their faith in us each day. This year we increase our stature yet again as we become the first Sri Lankan private hospital to win the Gold Seal of Approval from the Joint Commission International (JCI) the world’s biggest healthcare accreditation institution. With this achievement we proudly reinforce our position as the nation’s yardstick of quality in healthcare, a position we intend to strengthen and build upon now and in the years to come. Joint Commission International (JCI) identifies, measures and shares best practices in quality and patient safety with the world. We provide leadership and innovative solutions to help healthcare organisations across all settings improve performance and outcomes. Our expert team works with hospitals and other healthcare organisations, health systems, government ministries, public health agencies, academic institutions and businesses to achieve peak performance in patient care. The mission of JCI is to continuously improve the safety and quality of care in the international community through the provision of education and advisory services and international accreditation and certification. Annual Report 2014/2015 3 HIGHLIGHTS Operational information Governance Financial statements A quality performance OPERATIONAL AND FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS Group 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Turnover (Rs. Mn) 3,054 3,547 3,830 3,961 4,083 Profit Before Interest and Tax (Rs. Mn) 391 512 513 261 266 Profit After Interest and Tax (Rs. Mn) 158 286 300 229 224 Fixed Assets NBV (Rs. Mn) 4,000 4,310 4,239 4,158 4,107 Net Assets (Rs. Mn) 2,441 2,917 3,050 3,002 3,140 Earnings Per Share (EPS) Rs. 3.78 7.35 7.81 5.66 5.91 Dividend Per Share (DPS) Rs. 1.50 2.00 2.00 2.00 2.70 Annual Income Growth (%) 24.60 16.14 8.00 3.00 3.00 Interest Cover (times) 2.59 2.73 2.64 2.20 3.10 Net Asset Per Share (Rs.) 60.27 71.70 75.46 75.92 78.24 4.9 Turnover (Rs. Mn) Profit Before Interest and Tax (Rs. Mn) 512 513 Total 3,547 3,830 3,961 4,083 Assets Bn 391 3,054 261 266 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Profit After Interest Fixed Assets Net and Tax (Rs. Mn) NBV (Rs. Mn) Assets (Rs. Mn) 4,310 3,050 3,140 4,239 4,158 2,917 3,002 4,000 4,107 300 286 2,441 229 224 158 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 4 DURDANS HOSPITAL At Durdans we drive value for shareholders by putting long-term success over short-term gain… 3.1 Earnings Per Dividend Per Share (EPS) Rs. Share (DPS) Rs. 2.70 7.81 7.35 Total 5.91 2.00 2.00 2.00 Equity Bn 5.66 1.50 3.78 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Annual Income Interest Net Asset Growth (%) Cover (Times) Per Share (Rs. Mn) 3.10 75.46 75.92 78.24 24.60 71.70 2.73 2.59 2.64 60.27 2.20 16.14 8.00 3.00 3.00 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Annual Report 2014/2015 5 HIGHLIGHTS Operational information Governance Financial statements The journey to world-class quality LANDMARKS OF ACHIEVEMENT 1997 Durdans establishes a strategic alliance with Escorts Heart Institute and Research Centre in New Delhi, a renowned institute in the cardiac field. 1998 Commences five year Remodelling and Modernisation Programme for the hospital. 1999 Heart Command Centre and Heart Station become operational. 1939 2000 A Military Hospital commences to serve British Commences Cardiac Surgical Operations and Invasive and Military Personnel stationed in the colony of Ceylon, Interventional Cardiac Procedures. where “Durdans” now stands. 1945 1982 2001 A group of enterprising Sets up Paediatric Ward, Formal Emergency Treatment medical doctors, fired Surgical Ward and the Unit is set up. with a vision to develop Operating Theatre Complex. private healthcare in this 2002 country, takes over the 1984 Completes the five year former Military Hospital and Introduces Radiology Modernisation Programme and establishes Ceylon Hospitals Services to the public. Modernisation of the Theatre Ltd. Durdans begins its Complex. corporate voyage. 1993 Opens formal Intensive Care 2003 Durdans opens its doors to Unit. Company listed on the the Sri Lankan public with a Colombo Stock Exchange. special focus on maternity 1995 care. Sets up Endoscopy Unit. 2004 Establishment of Neonatal Unit 1968 1996 and Dialysis Unit. Maternity Ward and OPD Pathological Laboratory opens with the purpose of and Blood Bank commence Commencement of Phase I of providing highest quality operation. the Durdans expansion project. services. 6 DURDANS HOSPITAL 2005 2012 Embarks on Advanced Eye Surgery. Commenced the operation of a Diabetes & Endocrinology Centre and Implements ERP system for the Group. Dental Unit. Pioneers Cochlear Implant Surgery in the Launched a new technology for country. Cardiac Fractional Flow Reserve (FFR) Measurement System, which is used 2006 to evaluate the inner diameter of a Completes Phase I of the Expansion blood vessel. Project and establishes the Audiology Unit. A Medical Centre in Negombo 2007 and a new Satellite Laboratory in Commences Phase II of the Expansion Rathnapura were launched. Project. 2013 2008 Established the Neuro Centre. Incorporated the new subsidiary company Durdans Medical & Surgical Hospital (Pvt) Ltd (Sixth Lane Wing) as a BOI approved entity and commenced construction. 2009 2014 Commences operation of Medical and Two new Mini Satellite Laboratories opened Surgical Hospital (Pvt) Ltd (Sixth Lane in Kalutara and Gampaha Districts, and three Wing) new collecting centres established in Chilaw, Kahatagasdigiliya and Kebithigollewa. Successfully implemented web-based ERP system. 2015 Becomes the first hospital in Sri Lanka to be 2010 accredited with the Gold Seal of approval by Joint Durdans Medical and Surgical Commission International (JCI). Hospital (Pvt) Ltd was opened to the public and became fully operational. Launched the “Women’s Wellness Centre”. 2011 Installed Phillips Allura Clarity Cardiac and Durdans embarks on a quality Angiography System with Advanced Ultrasound enhancement project leading to Phillips Epiq 7. international accreditation. Introduced the Sleep Lab Test services and Autologous Platelet Rich Plasma Liquid Procedure (A-PRP) as new services during the year. Annual Report 2014/2015 7 8 DURDANS HOSPITAL Operational Information Durdans becomes the first healthcare institution in Sri Lanka to be bestowed with the highest accreditation in healthcare delivery the “Gold Seal of Approval” by the Joint Commission International (JCI) of USA for patient safety and delivery of quality healthcare. Annual Report 2014/2015 9 HIGHLIGHTS Operational information Governance Financial statements Becoming the yardstick of quality CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT We shall be committed to expand our talent pool by investing in employees’ training and development and building leadership abilities among team members for a more committed and professional service of care giving at all levels. 10 DURDANS HOSPITAL 11% Sri Lanka’s expenditure on healthcare has grown Sri Lanka’s expenditure on steadily, and based on available statistics the total healthcare has grown steadily, and based on available statistics expenditure on health has grown at a compound the total expenditure on health annual growth rate of 11% in the past 5 years. As per has grown at a compound the Annual Report of the Central Bank of Sri Lanka the annual growth rate of 11% in the past 5 years. private consumption expenditure on health continued to grow in nominal terms by 11.6% in 2014 compared to 11% in the year before. The increased expenditure reflected the change in consumer demand towards private health services. Factors such as convenience, Dear Shareholder, preference towards high quality services, increased availability and customised services supported the It is with great pride that I present this Annual Report to increased demand towards private health services. you this year as Durdans becomes the first healthcare institution in Sri Lanka to be bestowed with the highest Healthcare spending is likely to increase in the years to accreditation in healthcare delivery – the “Gold Seal come owing to changes in lifestyles and demographics. of Approval” by the Joint Commission International The share of population aged 65 years or older has (JCI) of USA for patient safety and delivery of quality risen to around 14% from around 8% in 2013. As healthcare. This benchmark achievement propels Sri the population ages, the demand for healthcare will Lanka’s entire healthcare industry to a higher standard. increase and it will require changes to the current The accreditation comes on the eve of our seventieth system which is heavily geared to improving maternal anniversary and stands testament to a long history of and child health and fighting infectious diseases. business excellence. The increase in non-communicable diseases (NCDs) will The entire team at Durdans is delighted to receive this also stress the existing system and will challenge the acknowledgement of their dedication to quality, safety Government’s continuing ability to deliver universal and service, which is the ethos they live and breathe low-cost healthcare. NCDs such as heart disease, everyday. To them, nothing is more important than diabetes, cancer and asthma are becoming more ensuring the highest quality of care for all our patients frequent among the population with the rise in aging each time they entrust their health to us. Our team’s population, urbanisation and prevalent sedentary hard work and firm commitment to excellence will make lifestyles. According to World Bank statistics, over the us an even more formidable force in the future. past 50 years, the share of deaths from cardiovascular disease has increased from 3% to 24% in 2013. Economic outlook The shortage of skilled medical professionals and Even though Sri Lanka’s healthcare is largely provided trained nursing staff is also a constraint faced by the by the Government sector, the inadequate capacity, healthcare sector in general. limited access to specialist treatment, inconsistent service standards, non-availability of complex surgical Therefore there is an opportunity for private healthcare procedures and specialist care have resulted in a growing providers to capture the population having higher demand for private healthcare services. Although major income levels and expand their services to other major Government hospitals such as the National Hospital cities thereby capturing the outstation population who Colombo and other large hospitals in major cities are will find the sector more attractive with perceived well equipped, they are primarily limited to focusing on benefits of faster, cleaner and more flexible service providing curative care rather than preventive care. delivery. The private healthcare sector also has the Annual Report 2014/2015 11 HIGHLIGHTS Operational information Governance Financial statements Chairman’s Statement opportunity of benefitting from increased opportunities available in the area of medical tourism which is still at The private healthcare sector its infancy in Sri Lanka. in Sri Lanka is a growing force due Industry outlook The private healthcare sector in Sri Lanka is a growing force due to greater investment from private players to greater investment from private as well as greater demand from the population. Hence, I believe a more effective engagement by the private players as well as greater demand healthcare providers can ensure that citizens have access to quality health services, whilst stimulating from the population. economic growth. The private healthcare industry dynamics are driven by a range of factors. They include patient volumes, level The total finance cost of the group stood at Rs. 125Mn of competition and changes in technology to name a for the year under review compared to the Rs. 187Mn few. Statistics indicate in-patient admissions at private reported in the year before. hospitals have increased more than 3 times and outpatient admissions by more than 10 times over the past Net profit (after tax) recorded by the Company for the decade. On the other hand, competition has intensified year amounted to Rs.153Mn with a net margin of 6%. in the industry, particularly in the capital, where supply The net profit after tax for the Group was Rs. 224Mn is largely concentrated due to the number and quality compared to Rs. 229Mn reported in the year before. of resident and visiting medical practitioners and the The net margin at Group level was 6% for the financial quality of services offered. year ended 31st March 2015. The Sri Lankan private healthcare industry is essentially Value creation doctor-centric as patients seek out services of a During the year, your Company introduced two particular medical professional and patronise hospitals specialised units of service, namely the ‘Sleep Lab at which they serve. Therefore patient volumes are Unit’ and the ‘Women’s Wellness Centre,’ focusing largely dependent on the number and the quality of the on providing value added services to the line of consultants visiting the hospital which in turn depend services offered by the hospital to improve the overall on factors such as location, convenience and facilities. profitability of the Company and return on investment to shareholders. The results of both units will be visible Our performance in the financial year 2015/16 as these two units are still During the year under review your Company achieved a in their infancy. turnover of Rs. 2,737Mn recording a marginal increase of 3% compared to the turnover reported last year. During this financial year, your Company established a The turnover of the Group amounted to Rs. 4,083Mn partnership with MyClinic Maldives to conduct channel compared to the turnover of Rs. 3,961Mn in the year consultations by the hospital’s resident as well as visiting before. consultants on identified core disciplines. The aim of this partnership is to promote our brand name in Maldives The total overheads incurred by the Company for the and to attract more patients from Maldives. Two year was Rs. 1,460Mn and this was a marginal increase of successful trips have been made so far and the hospital 2% compared to the year before. Increase in overheads is witnessing the subsequent positive feedback that is was mainly attributable to the increase in administration being received from the Maldivian community. costs. A significant reduction was observed in finance cost incurred by the Company during the year due to Having identified the vehicle parking issue as one of the substantial amount of loans being repaid and also due limiting factors affecting the hospital’s performance, to the interest rates that prevailed in the market during your Company has embarked on a project to build a car the year under review. The finance cost incurred by the park adjacent to the hospital premises to provide more Company for the current year amounted to Rs. 89Mn convenience to its patrons. The project is expected to compared to the Rs. 127Mn in the year before reducing commence in mid-2015 and be ready for use before the the cost of finance by approximately 30%. end of the next financial year. 12 DURDANS HOSPITAL Quality is never an accident; it is always the result of high intention, sincere effort, intelligent direction and skillful execution; it represents the wise choice of many alternatives Wiliam A Foster Our priorities for the year ahead Working closely with the Senior Management Team the Board has identified a series of key priorities for the ensuing financial year. We shall be committed to expanding our talent pool by investing in employees’ training and development and building leadership I extend our deep appreciation for the services rendered abilities among team members for a more committed and wish him great contentment in his retirement. and professional service of care giving at all levels. My sincere thanks go to the Board of Directors for their We will continue to explore new markets outside Sri invaluable guidance and worthy contribution to our Lanka resulting from the successful partnership we progress. have established with MyClinic Maldives. Opportunities are being explored in other countries where medical The management team and staff have worked tirelessly tourism initiatives can be made. not only to achieve the international accreditation, but also to maintain the quality standards achieved, and Emphasis will also be given to improve the information on behalf of the Board, I thank each and every one of technology platform of the Group as it is the backbone them for their contribution. While driving performance of our operations and key to the growth of business in improvements, they have also collectively worked future. Improving our in-house developed ERP system towards ensuring the long term sustainability of the will enable us to realise new levels of cost efficiencies organisation. The results of their collective efforts are whilst improving our service delivery dramatically. evident throughout this report and in the countless appreciative notes from our patrons. The Board is Several new value added services are already lined fortunate to have a team of this calibre that shares in up for implementation during the year 2015, thereby the vision we have for the Group. indicating the ability to witness improved business profitability in the year to come. I take this opportunity to thank the thousands of patients who have trusted us at their moments of In a competitive industry, a competitive edge over need; their continuing loyalty and faith in our abilities the others is achieved via cost management and cost propels us forward. It is important that I also extend controls. With ‘Strategy into Action 2020 (SIA 2020)’ my appreciation to the many partners we work with – focusing on improvements in all aspects including especially the medical fraternity – for their unstinted cost savings and cost controls, we believe that we can support. improve our cost management functions to gain that competitive advantage over the other players in the Finally I thank you, our shareholders, for the part you industry. have played in our journey and trust that you will stay on board as we move forward, constantly delivering Appreciation enduring value. Dr N Y Wijemanne who has extended yeomen service as Non-Executive Director over the last five and a half years retires from the Board after the Annual General Meeting. Dr Wijemanne brought to the Board his exceptional medical and surgical insight gained from an Ajith E Tudawe illustrious career in his own field of specialisation. He has Executive Chairman been a tower of strength and on behalf of the Board, Annual Report 2014/2015 13 HIGHLIGHTS Operational information Governance Financial statements Because quality matters BUSINESS PORTFOLIO Our modern healthcare facilities are backed by a dedicated team of doctors, nursing staff, paramedics and support staff exceeding 2000. 14 DURDANS HOSPITAL Durdans is not a We have set the trend and have shaped the way private random connection but a continuous healthcare is delivered in Sri Lanka making it possible to relationship that provide the ultimate experience in clinical care for the delivers a service people of this nation. focused on health and wellbeing. With a history spanning 70 years, we have constantly evolved and improved our offerings to deliver the best in private healthcare that can be easily benchmarked with international service providers. Our modern healthcare facilities are backed by a dedicated team of doctors, nursing staff, paramedics and support staff exceeding 2000. Patrons have access to over 275 visiting consultants covering almost all the disciplines. These specialists, together with our dedicated and competent team, are able to offer the best in clinical care to all who seek medical services. Hence for most, the association with Durdans is not a random connection but a continuous relationship that delivers a service focused on health and wellbeing. For Durdans it is always ‘quality of service and patient care’. Annual Report 2014/2015 15 Cardiac care Heart disease has been identified as the leading cause of morbidity and mortality in Sri Lanka. Our visionary leaders identified this trend many years ago and realised that the public cardiac care infrastructure would not be able to cope with this growing need. The pioneering stance taken to establish a world-class cardiac care centre, under the trusted Durdans umbrella has delivered and established its value to all Sri Lankans. The renowned Durdans Cardiac Centre has gained top of mind awareness at any time of need. Due to the excellence in service standards, the Centre has been able to achieve a premier position in the list of consideration. The Cardiac Care portfolio, one of our ‘Core Competencies’ covers non invasive cardiac investigations, invasive and interventional cardiology and cardiac surgical procedures. In addition we also offer support for lifestyle changes post procedure and advice on the importance of a healthy lifestyle to the patrons and well wishers, advocating a preventative platform. Our world-class facility is equipped to support any cardiac complication, as our team is fully competent to handle any emergency or planned intervention. A Heart Station equipped with ultra modern facilities and supported by renowned Cardio Thoracic Surgeons and Cardiologists including dedicated consultation chambers. A state-of-the-art Cardiac Operating Theatre fitted with ultra modern ventilators, vein harvesting machine, heart-lung machines and intra-aortic balloon pumps with round the clock support by a dedicated residential team. A Cardiac Surgical Intensive Care Unit (CSICU) with 15 beds, including facilities for paediatric cardiac surgical procedures. A state-of-the-art Alura Clarity Cardiac Catheterisation Laboratory emitting 80% less radiation than any other in the health sector is equipped with interventional X-ray system, the ultra clarity IQ technology to handle angiogram, angioplasty (stent placement), valvuloplasty and pacemaker implantation. A Digital Cath Lab to support intricate procedures. Heart Command Centre (HCC) with 15 bedded facility set up with CCU monitoring systems as well as all the modern technology available to handle any acute cardiac related issue. The team supporting the unit can be benchmarked with such teams practicing in the most advanced cardiac centres in any developed country. Our dedication to Cardiac care is relentless. We believe it is our responsibility to serve the people of the country with the best of the knowledge available in the world. Therefore, we are committed to continuously explore new developments and innovations. Learning related to this speciality ensures the transfer of such know-how as fast as possible. 16 DURDANS HOSPITAL Case Study MR ROSHAN COOK Rotablation (high speed drilling through calcium) assisted He detailed out the plans A, B, C to the family and safety leftmainstem/LAD/Lcx PTCA (coronary stenting)1st of nets should a difficulty arise, which made the family its kind in Sri Lanka and a unique case in South Asia. very confident to proceed with the new technique. Mrs Vishaka Nancy Cook (patient) and Mr Roshan Cook Rotablation assisted leftmainstem / LAD / Lcx PTCA (her son) were getting ready to leave hospital when (stenting) was conducted under the support of a intrawe visited her room barely 48hrs after this unique aortic balloon pump and impressively the patient was procedure. awake throughout the procedure and comfortable with local anaesthetia. Mrs Cook, at the age of 84 is a person who had travelled frequently overseas as her sons live around Dr Dushyanthi Perera, Consultant Anaesthetist was on the world. She was an ex-journalist for the Daily News standby if a need arises for ventilatory support, but the paper which she mentioned proudly to us. She looked procedure was carried out seamlessly and precisely, a strong nice little lady. Next to her was her strong within 2 hours without any complicationthe left main, and tall son who was beaming in happiness to see his and its two big branches had all been drilled, expanded mother up on her feet and happy. and 3 stents deployed with precision to achieve a perfect result within these 2 hours. On the night of 23rd of September 2014, Mrs Cook experienced tightness in the chest and palpitations and The patient could eat and drink immediately afterwards was investigated urgently by referral to Dr Pandula and the balloon pump could be removed after 6 hours. Athaudaarachchi, Resident Consultant interventional The patient could walk within 24 hours and was ready Cardiologist at Durdans. It was identified that she had for discharge next day. This procedure was a huge a cardiac rhythm problem brought on by lack of blood success given the technical complexity and was an supply to the heart. A coronary angiogram undertaken impressive quick recovery for the 84 year old lady. had shown heavily calcified (hardened) and severely narrowed left main and main branch narrowings upto ‘Really fantastic staff! They were all very helpful. Both 90%. She had Diabetes and Hypertension with other doctors explained the procedure and its risk factors complications. very well. Mainly, because of Dr Pandula’s excellent planning and methodical ways of handling this complex Under normal circumstances, a bypass operation procedure, we were assured and confident in going may have been the only suitable option available, but ahead with the right decision’ were the concluding joint heart team review was conducted due to the words from Mr Roshan Cook. complexity of the case; Dr Kesava Dev presented the pros and cons of open heart surgery and Dr Pandula Dr Pandula Athaudaarachchi Commented “The skill and Athaudaarachchi had given the perspective of novel technolgy for such complex procedures is here and I interventional cardiology procedure of rotablation am glad that I can offer our patients state-of-the-art assited percutaneous coronary intervention (PTCA) coronary treatment on par with the world’s developed in the left main artery. Both had spoken to Mrs Cook countries, so that they do not have to travel overseas and the family. With her medical conditions and age, to get such treatment at a huge cost and risking their the interventional approach, despite the technical lives. I wish more such patients will be sent in by their challenges, had a lower risk and a quicker return to physicians for treatment-many people did not have normalcy and was accepted. such options for a long time”. Dr Pandula Athaudaarachchi had performed many such Before I left her room, Mrs Cook stood for a photograph complex procedures in many years of his overseas with Dr Pandula and her son, with a lot of joy in her training in UK both as an interventional fellow and sparkling eyes. a consultant. He is formally recognised in UK as a trained consultant operator in this complex procedure. Annual Report 2014/2015 17 Paediatric Care Our strengths have evolved over generations and the capabilities have been sharpened with the advancing technology and development. Paediatric care is under the ‘Core Competency Category’, thus we operate a ‘Center of Excellence’. Our strengths have evolved over generations and the capabilities have been sharpened with the advancing technology and development. This speciality binds families with the service provider resulting in long term relationships that nurture the wellbeing of children. We always ensure that the support systems available are the best the country offers. Our teams work extensively to upgrade our standards with evolving knowledge and technical discoveries. Today the facility offers a paediatric care unit along with paediatric rooms equipped with centrally distributed gas lines as well as suckers. We are able to handle any paediatric need across age groups effectively and efficiently. Anything from a simple vaccination to a complex surgery will be handled by our team with dedication and commitment. The patrons will experience the high standard of our quality care, whether they visit us as an out-patient for diagnostics or as an in-patient. Our quality paediatric care is moulded by our strengths Our team includes Senior Paediatric Specialists and a support team consisting of specialists in paediatric health care nurses, dieticians, physiotherapists as well as specially trained diagnostics staff. Highly advanced infrastructure with High Dependency Unit (HDU), dedicated beds and a treatment room including monitoring facilities. A special Neonatal Intensive Care Unit (NICU) with ventilators and Pioneering Triple Photo Therapy. A child friendly dedicated out-patient area for speedy consultation. Capability to provide any advanced surgical procedure under the most sophisticated facilities. Unit is equipped with an ambulatory incubator for neonatal transfers. 18 DURDANS HOSPITAL Obstetrics and gynaecology Seventy years ago when we established this hospital we dedicated our primary focus to the area of maternity. Even today, after six decades our reputation in maternity care continues to grow and remains unblemished. We have had several generations whose every new addition to the family has seen the world with us and has been nurtured by the dedicated team at Durdans. Our team has been a part of their lives from conception to delivery, growing up and succeeding in life. We ensure our service standards are up to date and the capabilities match world-class standards. The maternity wards consist of facilities supported by state-of-the-art technological input enabling the delivery of our services at a superior level. The dedicated labour rooms, maternity theater and the private labour rooms provide the discerning patron the privacy and attention they require. The comfort, security and care offered throughout the interactions and the stay with us create a lasting impression every time. We continue to grow as a centre of excellence in Obstetrics and Gynaecology and our infrastructure and consultation facilities as well as our service levels are constantly upgraded to maintain the high quality standards we are renowned for. Annual Report 2014/2015 19 Women’s Wellness As the primary caregivers in a family, it makes sense for women to be responsible for maintaining their own good health in order to look after others well. Women, who often attend to the health and wellbeing of their families tend to neglect their own health while multitasking in an increasingly fast-paced world. As the primary caregivers in a family, it makes sense for women to be responsible for maintaining their own good health in order to look after others well. Neglecting one’s health can often lead to serious and irrevocable consequences, especially in the case of life threatening diseases. Regular check-ups are advised to identify common problems and avert fatal illnesses. Clinicians and medical staff at the Durdans Hospital Women’s Wellness Centre are committed to getting women well and keeping them healthy. We offer four women’s wellness packages that give attention to all aspects of women’s health in a comfortable and reassuring atmosphere. These packages are affordable and restore peace of mind with assured confidentiality. Special attention is given to identifying pre-cancerous conditions such as breast lumps, vaginal discharge and infections. Post-menopausal conditions such as high blood pressure, osteoporosis and high cholesterol conditions are also addressed and monitored. Additionally our expert Gynaecologists also address concerns on family planning and hormone replacement therapy or fertility issues. 20 DURDANS HOSPITAL Ophthalmology The specialist trained support team, catering to the needs of the many who seek our expertise is guided by a renowned Surgeon and his team of experts. Ophthalmology at Durdans is a ‘Center of Excellence’ and is a service that is sought after by the majority of Sri Lankans. With the growing aging population, vision related complications have become common. We conduct the highest volume of cataract operations in the private healthcare sector which bears testimony to the reputation we have earned. The specialist trained support team, catering to the needs of the many who seek our expertise, is guided by a renowned Surgeon and his team of experts. With the trust placed in our team and the high level of precision delivery, it is not a surprise that we lead the industry. Our success is strengthened by the capabilities we possess A spacious eye clinic with customised architecture to improve the process efficiency, together with a seating capacity for 100. A Laser Therapy Unit to perform advanced ophthalmology procedures. A Carl Zeiss Operating Microscope and accessories. Ocular CT machine with advanced technology. Annual Report 2014/2015 21 General Surgery The need to enhance the General Surgical capabilities at Durdans was identified a few years ago. However at that point, the lack of space prevented it from becoming a reality. With the expansion of the business and the setting up of the Sixth Lane Wing the need was fulfilled and round the clock surgical support became functional. The facility not only handles planned surgical procedure but is able to successfully handle emergency procedures. Expansion of the General Surgical facilities was a pressing need for our business. The state-of-the-art surgical complex with multiple theatres is managed by a team of exceptionally competent Surgeons, nursing staff and technicians who are committed to deliver a superior service. Post surgical recuperation is facilitated at dedicated surgical wards with the ideal ambiance for faster recovery. The personnel dedicated to the units are the best in the industry and are therefore capable of meeting all expectations. Our Surgical capabilities are supported by An expert Resident Consultant Surgeon, available on call for any emergencies. The state-of-the-art theatre complex and the team of experts who deliver service with excellence. Fully equipped laparoscopic theatre with advanced video system and high definition displays for accurate diagnosis and minimal interventions with the least amount of discomfort. 22 DURDANS HOSPITAL Diagnostics With the advancements in medical science, diagnostics play an important role. Precision and accuracy of diagnostics have become critical factor sought by clinicians who depend on the results to proceed with treatment. Service providers have the responsibility to ensure that the quality of the service offered lives up to the promise and the technology is constantly upgraded to meet world-class requirements. At Durdans we have achieved a reputation for precision results with speed and reliability. We are able to offer our services across the country making it possible for anyone to seek the Durdans expertise closer to home. The Durdans quality endorsement on clinical diagnostics is respected by clinicians in both the private and public sector. We make it our duty to be present in the most advantageous locations around the country and to provide the best in service in diagnostics for a wide portfolio of investigations. Our strengths in Diagnostics is supported by Renowned Consultant Pathologists and competent technical staff. The Path Lab with advanced clinical analysers, endorsed by two internationally recognised organisations in the USA, for quality assurance. The collection network that spans the country, supported by strategically placed fully fledged laboratories. The technologically advanced Radiology Department providing comprehensive interventional radiology through highly experienced, competent Radiologists. State-of-the–art, contemporary ultrasound equipment and scans to support Endoscopy, Videoendoscopy, Colonoscopy, Sigmoidoscopy and Bronchoscopy. Diagnostic centres with Echo, ECG and Treadmill ECG services etc., in central locations. Consultation facilities in identified centers to support required needs. Continuous upgrading of equipment in line with technology and service standards to support the emerging needs and knowledge. The Digital Neuro diagnostic unit which performs EEG, NCS, Polysomnography with exceptional quality to meet the needs of clinicians. Annual Report 2014/2015 23 ENT Surgery Durdans is renowned for its ENT Surgical capabilities supported by the most sophisticated equipment... Today Durdans is renowned for its ENT Surgical capabilities supported by the most sophisticated equipment in the country including an ultra modern opmi-sensera ENT microscope. Durdans also has the distinction of being the first hospital to successfully perform a Cochlear Implant with an all Sri Lankan team. A state-of-the-art Carl Zeiss ENT Microscope is utilised to perform highly intricate ENT surgical procedures. We also pay attention to enhancing ‘Audiology’ as an integral component of our path to growth. 24 DURDANS HOSPITAL Renal Care Unit Renal care is progressively being sought by many to prevent quality of life being compromised. Kidney related complications are becoming common and frequent phenomenon. Whilst the debate continues on the reasons it is evident that today’s fast paced lifestyle is not contributing positively to perfect health and wellbeing. Renal care is progressively being sought by many to prevent their quality of life being compromised. We make it our responsibility to ensure that patrons are able to live their life to the fullest even after being diagnosed with this dreaded disease. The modern Renal Care unit is equipped with dialysis facilities provided to patients with ultimate care. Our competent team of professionals is dedicated to ensure that a Kidney patient continues to live a meaningful life. Annual Report 2014/2015 25 Genito Urinary CentRE Durdans specialises in providing the most advanced treatment at its fully fledged world-class stone management unit, for any complication in the genito-urinary discipline. We are the first private healthcare institution to introduce the modern stone laser machine for minimally invasive procedures relating to the removal of Kidney stones quickly and pain-free. Our strengths include technical and clinical capabilities The Stone Laser machine as well as the high definition semi rigid Ureteroscope and Cystoscope. Renowned GU surgeons supported by highly trained and qualified nurses and technical staff make up the passionate ‘Stone Management Team’ of Durdans. A dedicated GU Theatre with state-of-the-art equipment. 26 DURDANS HOSPITAL Case Study MR M B M UVAISAR vr®vkaia frday, Tyq úiska ud Angiogram m˙laIKh i|yd fhduq lf,ah' bka miqj tu jdr®:dj ;=,ska udf.a yDofha 2014 fojk udifha mgka ks;r ks;ru ud ls' ó' 3 Block 5 la ;sfnk nj ffjoH tï' î' tµa' ryqudka muK ≥rl weú†ñka jHdhdu lf<ñ' bka udihlg úiska ud yg mejiqfõh' miqj fõ.fhka weú†k úg udf.a ol=Kq mmqj m%foaYfha fõokdjla we;súh' fuh úáka úg we;sjk ksid ud wjidkfha yDo fõokdj ord.; fkdyels fyhska ffjoHjrhl= yuqù fï nj ±kqj;a lf<ñ' uu vr®vkaia frdayf,a yDo i;aldr úfYaI{hl= jk ffjoH fla' foaõ yuqjqfKñ' Tyq udf.a m˙laIK jdr®:d tu ffjoHjrhd ud yg ECG m˙laIdjla lrk f,i n,d 2014 foieïnr® 23 jk †k oyj,a 2'30 yDo ±kqj;a lf<ah' Tyqf.a fhdackdj m˙† ud tu m˙laIdj Y,Hlr®uh is≥lf,ah' Y,Hlr®uh idr®:lj ksuùfuka lr tu jdr®:dj iu. kej; tu ffjoHjrhd yuqúh' miqj †k 9 la ±ä i;aldr tAllfha isáfhñ' bka wk;=rej ldur wxl 809 ys †k 4 la m%;sldr ,nd túg Tyq udf.a yDofha ls%hdld˙;ajfha lsis≥ widudkH 2015 ckjd˙ 08 †k ksjig meñ◊fhñ' ;;a;ajhla fkdue;s nj m%ldY lf,ah' bka wk;=rej ud tu ECG m˙laIK jdr®:dj iuÛ fld<U cd;sl frdayf,a OPD ffjoHjrhd yuqù ud yg †hjeähd frda.h ;sfnk nj mejiqfjñ' bka miqj ;=kajk ui 10 jk †k ldur wxl 45 ys isák ffjoHjrhd jk ffjoH tï' isjm%.diï uy;añh yg fï nj mejiqfjñ' bka wk;=rej ud yDofrda. úfYaI{ ffjoH f–' î' chjr®Ok cQ,s 10 jk †k yuqjqfKñ' Annual Report 2014/2015 27 Diabetes and Endocrinology Centre Managing the life of a patron who is afflicted with the dreaded disaster requires a professional approach. Today with 25% of the population categorised as at risk, early and regular interventions have become a dire necessity. Our center specialises in early detection and remedy before irreversible damage is caused to vital organs. The complete process covers detailed diagnostics, understanding the individual need, based on the status and support to manage the condition. Regular health checkups are an integral part of the process . Optimum foot care is an important component in the management of the condition. The procedure includes total foot checkup, complete foot tests, special footwear and foot treatment procedures under the supervision and guidance of a professional Podiatrist. Consultation and lifestyle management is conducted by a team consisting of an Endocrinologist or Physician which may include referrals to a Nephrologist, Opthalmologist, Vascular Surgeon, Cardiologist, Neurologist or a Nutritionist where necessary. Our center offers a holistic approach to managing and living with diabetes, which has become a common dilemma. 28 DURDANS HOSPITAL Accident & Emergency Care Unit Our A & EC unit is geared to handle medical or surgical emergencies round the clock providing the best clinical care required. Accident & Emergency Care (A & EC) is an essential component of a fully fledged tertiary care facility. An entity such as ours has to place a high level of attention to ensure the emergency care treatment facility and protocol live up to the same high standards that we are known for. Our A & EC unit is geared to handle medical or surgical emergencies round the clock providing the best clinical care required. The facility is supported by the most advanced technology used in the best hospitals of the world, including a mobile fleet of ambulances which is capable of supporting emergencies, by being constantly connected to the base with monitoring systems. Annual Report 2014/2015 29 OrthopAedic Our team led by the most renowned Orthopaedic Surgeons in the country, supported by a specially trained, dedicated team of clinical staff... Orthopaedic procedures have become a necessity with the rapidly aging population and the sedentary high pressure lifestyle led by the majority of the corporate workers. Attention is sought for chronic as well as acute complications by most and thus the renowned Orthopaedic Centre at Durdans today has become the ultimate solution. The dedicated Orthopaedic Surgical Theatre, with the state-of-the-art technology and infrastructure enables the handling of procedures from minor to major complexity. These span from arthroscopy procedures to major orthopaedic surgeries such as knee and hip replacements. Our team led by the most renowned Orthopaedic Surgeons in the country, supported by a specially trained, dedicated team of clinical staff ensures the delivery of world class treatment right here on our soil. The treatment includes rehabilitation after the surgical procedure. Our strengths are based on our resources Orthopaedic care at Durdans is headed by the most renowned and skilled senior Orthopedic Surgeons in Sri Lanka. The dedicated Orthopaedic Theatre with the latest state-of-the-art technology. Highly experienced, dedicated nursing and technical staff. The dedicated Orthopaedic Centre with ample facility for consultation and follow up. 30 DURDANS HOSPITAL Dental Care The Oral Health of the Sri Lanka population seems to be under severe stress. According to the latest statistics released by the Ministry of Health and Nutrition, Sri Lanka’s 20 million population accounts for 1.2 Million cavities. It is known that children and adults suffer from both teeth and gum problems. Thus the need for professional dental care needs little justification. It is our belief that dental care should be a regular routine, and could result in a beneficial effect on the current condition of oral health. Our Dental Care unit managed by the expert resident Dental Surgeon delivers holistic and convenient solutions. The specially designed unit equipped with modern investigative and treatment procedures, provides a friendly environment. We have managed to enhance the experience of a patient to a level of excellence. The Dental Surgery Unit at Durdans also offers the specialist services of an Oro-Maxillofacial surgeons for the prevention, diagnosis, treatment of diseases and irregularities involving the teeth, gums and other tissues of the mouth. In addition, injuries and defects, both functional and aesthetic, of the oral and facial region are also treated with advanced technology by the experts in our team. Annual Report 2014/2015 31 Case Study DR M G M S ZURFICK The Words That Heal at Durdans Hospital All my life I’ve been a sportsman. To say that sports has been the centre of my life is not an exaggeration. My name is Dr M G M S Zurfick and this is how a simple man was able to heal me with his words and his medicine. A 11 years of experience, and had treated and healed sportsman who has represented Sri Lanka in a plethora many patients in Hyderabad, India before moving to Sri of sports like wrestling, power lifting, boxing, archery, Lanka to carry on his work. athletics, billiards, snooker and motor racing. I was also called upon to represent many of the sporting My first impression of Dr Dev was “what a simple man”. bodies for these sports throughout my illustrious He looked at my reports and was very positive about the career. A gem merchant and investment consultant by situation right from the start. When I first went to him, profession, I also had the privilege of taking Sri Lanka’s I was afraid of what might happen after surgery. My valuable treasures to the world and was entrusted by lifestyle was an active one that I feared being bedridden the Government of Sri Lanka to carry with me one and a burden to my family. The first time I was asked to of our island’s most precious gemstones to Japan. I get myself admitted for the surgery, I went to Dr. Dev endeavoured much to see trade ties between Sri Lanka and told him I couldn’t go through with it because I had and countries like Japan, Korea and Pakistan increase fever. Instead of getting angry with me, Dr Dev just said significantly. Another passion was to be a voice for the that’s ok, you can come back when you’re ready. But he voiceless, and I also spent much of my life campaigning was also very firm in letting me know the consequences for stroke prevention, cancer, crime prevention and of delaying my surgery. When I finally did go in, Dr Dev most recently for the freedom of Rizana Nafeek, a with simple words was able to calm my nerves and gave young woman wrongfully convicted and subsequently me the confidence to go through the surgery. It is no executed in Saudi Arabia for the murder of a fourwonder that Dr Dev is one of Durdans Hospital’s most month-old who was under her care. sought after Cardiac Surgeons today. At the age of 70 and having had such an active lifestyle, Time and time again, it has been proven that it is not I did not expect illness to strike. When the chest pains just medicine that brings healing. The environment, continued I consulted a well-known surgeon who care and attitude of the caregivers is also of great after many tests revealed that there were at least 7 importance to ensure that a patient is comfortable and significant blocks in my heart which were causing the healing is expedited. This is what I experienced at severe blockages. This particular doctor took one look Durdans Hospital. Not only was Dr Dev an inspiring at my reports and simply said, “I’m sorry but in this doctor, but the care I received from the rest of the staff state, you might just drop dead while walking”. I was at Durdans and the environment in which the care was appalled at the way this particular doctor handled the given is also exemplary. Today, post-surgery I have situation. When you go to see a doctor with such a recovered remarkably and I even have the ability to serious situation, you expect them to help you and continue my active lifestyle. My first doctor wrote me give you some comfort. I don’t mean that doctors need off for dead, but here I am still swimming and wrestling to lie about a patient’s condition, but even if it is life and living my normal life all with the confidence that threatening, there is a way to break the news. Dr Dev gave me. Doctors only do their best to save the lives of their patients and that is exactly what Dr Dev Disappointed by the first opinion, I then heard of did. What our country and the people need is more Cardio Thoracic Surgeon Dr Kesava Dev at the Durdans doctors like him who are not just medically qualified Hospital. Before going to see Dr Dev, I researched in to but have a heart for people. Dr Dev is really an asset to his career and found that Dr Dev carried with him over Durdans Hospital. 32 DURDANS HOSPITAL Neurology Our broad spectrum of neurological services include a systematic approach in providing patient information, patient education, engagement and support The growing need for Neuro care was clearly established a couple of years ago and our decision to provide this much needed service was confirmed after a careful study. The Neurological Centre was created with the latest technologies available in the world and we are committed to monitor the rapid progress in this area of specialisation. At Durdans Hospital the team is supported by several highly qualified Consultant Neurologists and Neuro Surgeons to treat neurological conditions. Our broad spectrum of neurological services includes a systematic approach to providing patient information, patient education, engagement and support through advanced surgical procedures and extensive caring support through the whole rehabilitation process. We use a connected multidisciplinary approach as a contemporary world-class hospital and our specialists will work colsely with other medical experts who treat the patient to provide a holistic treatment protocol. Post surgical rehabilitation also plays a critical part in the program. We are geared to handle the process with well established physiotherapy programs as required. Annual Report 2014/2015 33 Case Study MRS MADUKA DAHANAYAKE I was a patient, who was suffering from a slip disc of 9th June 2014 and had an appointment for Dr condition which was cured successfully through a surgery Sanjeewa made for the same afternoon. At this point, I by Dr Sanjeewa Garusinghe. My story is as follows: was in a situation where I could not even control urine. I am 49 years old. I was diagnosed with a minor slip Dr Sanjeewa asked me to take another MRI since the disc problem when I was 25 years. However, this did previous one was around a month old. Once again not bother me since I didn’t have any major problem painkillers had to be administered in order to take a until January 2014. The first symptom I experienced proper MRI because my leg could not be fully stretched was a minor back ache which started in the beginning out. Dr Sanjeewa personally monitored this MRI and of January 2014. I took no notice of this until the back examined it immediately and took an immediate ache extended to my right leg. The pain mainly occurred decision to have the surgery the next day. I was not at night but later on the pain progressed to the extent very confident about having the surgery because it was that I couldn’t sit or stand in one position for more than quite a serious one and therefore considered Ayurvedic a few minutes. When the pain gradually increased, I treatment as well. However, Dr Sanjeewa assured me visited an Orthopaedic doctor at the recommendation that I would be in capable hands and that the surgery of the Gynaecologist. This doctor requested an X-ray was the only definite solution to the problem. My and after examining this he could not pronounce a husband contacted the doctor from Oman to understand definite ailment and recommended routine exercise the situation. He was very much convinced with the and pain killers. I did as the doctor asked, however the doctor’s explanation. Then my husband requested the exercises only increased the pain in my leg. doctor to proceed with the operation. I requested this procedure be done at Durdans Hospital because I have When I visited the doctor again he once again a long history with the hospital. Ever since my first prescribed painkillers and asked me to stop the routine admittance at Durdans in 1997 I have visited Durdans exercise. When this didn’t work and the pain continued for treatment for minor problems as well as several to increase the doctor asked me to take an MRI. By this surgeries along with the caesarian delivery of my three point in time, the pain was so severe I could not even children. stretch my leg in order to take the MRI and the doctors had to prescribe painkillers and numbing agents in The surgery was done on 10th June 2014 and during order to take a proper exam. It took 2-3 days to get a the hours leading up to the surgery the staff at Durdans proper MRI. The Orthopaedic doctor examined the MRI did the necessary pre arrangements and everyone results and concluded that I had a slip disc. was very supportive and helpful. The surgery was completely successful and I was sent home the very This was the first proper diagnosis of the disease and next day. The pain I had suffered for almost 6 months was made in May 2014. This doctor stated that there had disappeared and the relief I felt was immense. was no specific cure for this and that bed rest and painkillers were the only solution. I took the doctor’s I extend many thanks to Dr Sanjeewa Garusinghe advice to no avail. The pain was already unbearable. and Dr Saroja Dharmasiriwardena for their immediate response to my problem and the efficiency with which It was at this particular time that my sister, in Sri I was treated. I also extend a special thanks to my Lanka, told me about a TV show in which Dr Sanjeewa family doctor Dr Neelanthi Britto for her advice and Garusinghe (Neuro Surgeon) discussed a patient with a immeasurable help during this time. similar disease. This prompted me to consult my family doctor Neelanthi Britto, who advised me to go to Sri Lanka for treatment. I flew to Sri Lanka on the morning 34 DURDANS HOSPITAL Stroke Centre A stroke is an interruption of the blood supply to any part of the brain. It is sometimes called a ‘brain attack’. Every 45 seconds, someone in Sri Lanka has a stroke, which occurs more frequently in men. High blood pressure is the number one reason for a stroke. The risk is also increased with age, family history, smoking, diabetes, high cholesterol and heart disease. Other risks include alcohol consumption, excess body weight, illicit drug use and sleep disorders. Durdans Advanced Stroke Treatment makes available cutting-edge stroke treatment such as Tissue Plasminogen Activator treatment (rTPA) for the people of Sri Lanka. Stroke is the number one cause of preventable disability worldwide and the fourth ranked cause of death of all hospital deaths in Sri Lanka. Our vision is to minimise disability through speedy corrective treatment. Annual Report 2014/2015 35 HIGHLIGHTS Operational information Governance Financial statements Operational Review As one of the most iconic Brands in Healthcare delivery Durdans have touched the in Sri Lanka, we at Durdans have strived to sustain our revenue in line with the previous year’s operations. lives of millions of people over During the year under review, the market has been generations in the last seven fiercely competitive through the private healthcare sector embarking on capacity building by adding over decades and continue to do so 1000 Beds during the last few years, which includes new entrants to the private healthcare industry. While every day whilst conforming to the Durdans enhanced its products and service portfolios, the competing healthcare operators too have increased quality standard of a World-Class their service portfolios. Healthcare Institution We have maintained our competitive advantage through innovative approaches in the way private healthcare is delivered in Sri Lanka and staying committed to our goals and objectives mapped out in our Strategic Road Map up to 2020. In this process, we have touched the lives of millions of people over generations in the last seven decades, and continue to do so every day whilst conforming to world-class healthcare standard, empowering our highly trained skilled human capital, and investing in cutting-edge technology. Year-on-year we have recorded several achievements that have contributed to our operational efficiency and service excellence. Below, we share with you our accomplishments during the year under review. Gold Seal of Approval The main focus of Durdans was achieving what we commenced three years ago to inculcate the quality assurance program in our corporate DNA. Reaching exceptional achievements in its journey of seven decades as a healthcare provider, Durdans Hospital has been accredited with the ‘Gold Seal of Approval’ by 80% Joint Commission International (JCI). This was the most Philips Allura Clarity FD10 with IQ technology which outstanding qualitative achievement in the history of includes a comprehensive set Durdans. Durdans is now on par with the top league of system-wide improvements of healthcare institutions in the world. Our journey has that virtually ends the tradeoff between X-ray dose and been eventful and challenging, but we have maintained image quality and dramatically dedication and quality throughout, while striving for reduces X-ray dose typically up to 80%. excellence in clinical care, resulting in an accreditation which is the decisive measure that sets the standard for the best practices in the international healthcare 36 DURDANS HOSPITAL arena. In the history of healthcare in Sri Lanka, Durdans are detected early. All women’s wellness packages became the first healthcare institution to be endorsed are tailored to suit each individual and includes a by JCI, which is considered the Gold Standard in Global consultation with a lady consultant to discuss lifestyle, healthcare. This accreditation leads to transforming medical history, family history and any concerns patient safety and delivery of quality healthcare. JCI regarding health. identifies, measures and shares best practices and is an evaluator of the most rigorous international standards Upgrading of EEG Unit in quality and patient safety. It provides leadership and The existing EEG equipment has been upgraded with a innovative solutions to help healthcare organisations Digital Polysomnography unit, strengthening diagnostic across all settings to improve performance and capabilities. outcomes. Setting up of New Laboratories Cardiac Catheterisation Laboratory and Heart Four new laboratory branches have been set up Station in Kiribathgoda, Jayawardenapura, Wadduwa and Durdans Heart Centre continuously strives to improve Balangoda, extending the island-wide reach of Durdans. quality of care and has done so with the introduction of a revolutionary new generation of interventional X-ray systems, the Philips Allura Clarity FD10 with IQ technology which includes a comprehensive set of system-wide improvements that virtually ends the trade-off between X-ray dose and image quality and dramatically reduces X-ray dose typically up to 80%. Establishing the Stroke Centre with Cutting Edge Tissue Plasminogen Activator Treatment (rTPA) Until 1995, no adequate clinical treatment was available for patients suffering from stroke the world-over and there were no means of influencing the outcome of their disease, which could range from severe neurological deficit to death. Today, imaging enables accurate diagnosis, appropriate treatment decisions and monitoring of many neurological diseases. The Neurologist can gain deeper insight into the central and peripheral nervous systems. Stroke can be diagnosed and treated shortly after the occurrence of the incident with a tremendous impact on the patient’s survival and quality of life. Establishing of a Women’s Wellness Centre A Women’s Wellness Centre provides a specialised attention to all aspects of women’s health in a comfortable atmosphere. Women are increasingly interested in screening to ensure that any disease such as cancers of the breast, ovary, uterus or cervix as well as non-cancers such as heart disease and osteoporosis Annual Report 2014/2015 37 HIGHLIGHTS Operational information Governance Financial statements Financial Review A complex macro-economic environment and challenging The revenue of the Company increased to Rs. 2.7Bn sector specific business conditions resulted in the during the year compared to Rs. 2.6Bn in the year Company reporting mixed results for the current financial before recording an increase of 3%. The post-tax profit year. The Company and the Group however continued of the Company for the year was 153Mn as against the to maintain operational sustainability showcasing the previous year’s Rs. 158Mn. ability to withstand the external and internal shocks in the medium to long term. Gross Profit Margin The Gross Profit Margin of the Group declined to 56% Sri Lanka Economy compared to the Gross Profit Margin of 57% reported In 2014, the Sri Lankan economy grew by 7.4% in the year before. This is attributable to the upward driven by domestic consumption and infrastructure pressures witnessed on input costs at a time when the investments. Inflation remained at low single digit levels Group as a whole did not increase its service prices for throughout 2014 reflecting the impact of demand two consecutive years taking into consideration the management policies, improved supply conditions, spending capacity of the people and the severe market downward revision of administered prices and competition resulting from the increased bed capacity effectively contained inflation expectations. Interest in the city of Colombo. rates declined to historically low levels with the Central Bank taking a relaxed monetary policy stance and due Earnings Before Interest and Tax(EBIT) to the excess liquidity in the domestic money market During the year under review, the EBIT at Group level supported by low inflation expectations. decreased to Rs. 391Mn (FY 2013/14: Rs. 447Mn). The combined administrative and other operating expenses Sri Lanka is projected to reach upper middle income were Rs. 1.96Bn as against Rs. 1.85Bn in the previous levels in the medium term with sustained high growth year resulting in an increase of 6%. The increase in -low inflation conditions supported by appropriate administrative expenses was mainly on account of staff economic policies. The new government is expected to salaries and other benefits to the staff and increased uphold policies of good governance and transparency establishment costs arising from year on year inflationary which would support a high growth path through an effects. improved investor friendly environment. Finance Expenses Revenue and Profits During the year under review, the finance expenses In the year under review, Group revenue increased by declined by 33% compared to the year before resulting 3% to Rs. 4.1Bn compared to the revenue reported from settlement of term loans obtained and also due to the year before. The revenue growth together with reduction in market interest rates. During the year under continued operational improvements and constant review, the Group settled term loans amounting to focus on managing the operational costs resulted in Rs. 392Mn as against the previous year’s loan the Group posting an Earnings Before Interest and Tax settlements of Rs. 344Mn. (EBIT) of Rs. 391Mn in the year under review. The interest cover of the Group while being at very The post-tax profits of Group declined marginally to comfortable levels in the past years further improved record Rs. 224Mn in the year 2014/15 from Rs. 229Mn to 3.1 times from 2.2 times in the previous year due to in 2013/14. decrease in finance expenses. 38 DURDANS HOSPITAL Taxation The share price of Durdans fluctuated from a low of Rs. Group tax expenses increased to Rs. 42Mn compared 90.30 to a high of Rs. 119.00 during the year for voting to Rs. 32Mn in the year before. The effective tax rate shares and a low of Rs. 70.20 to a high of Rs. 89.90 for on the Group profits was 7% compared to 12% in the non-voting shares. previous year. The Net Asset Value of the Company is the amount by Return on Capital Employed which Total Assets exceed Total Liabilities. This measure The return on capital employed for the Group was 7.1% is used to assess the profitability, creditworthiness and as against previous year’s 7.6%. solvency of the Company. During the past few years the Company has shown a consistent growth in the Capital Expenditure Net Asset per Share. Net Asset per Share recorded for During the year total capital expenditure incurred the financial year 2014/15 was Rs. 78.24 as against by the Group amounted to Rs. 255Mn. This included Rs. 75.92 last year. Net Asset per Share reflected a 3% investments totaling Rs. 191Mn made on revenue growth as at end March 2015 compared to the year generating medical equipment. before. Cash Flow The Group’s total equity increased to Rs. 3,140Mn Net cash flow from operating activities at Group compared to the Rs. 3,002Mn reported in the year increased from Rs. 424Mn in FY 2013/14 to Rs. 527Mn before. in the FY 2014/15. Net cash used in investing activities at Group level declined to Rs. 234Mn as against Rs. 235Mn reported in the year before despite the increase in investments made to acquire Property, Plant and Equipment. The total investments made during the year to acquire Property, Plant and Equipment was Rs. 255Mn as against Rs. 192Mn in the year before. However, proceeds from sale of Property, Plant and Equipment for the year generated a sum of Rs. 33Mn at Group level during the year under review compared to the loss on disposal of assets amounting to Rs. 72Mn recorded in the year before. Net impact of the above two transactions resulted in cash flows used in investing activities recording a decrease in the year under review. Cash flows used in financing activities amounted to Rs. 242Mn as against Rs. 323Mn reported in the year before. The reduction in cash used in financing activities was despite the re-payment of interest bearing loans which amounted to Rs. 392Mn during the year under review compared to Rs. 344Mn in the year before. Share Price, Net Assets and Total Equity Basic earnings per share of the Group increased to Rs. 5.91 from Rs. 5.66 in the previous year. The Company’s earnings per share decreased marginally to Rs. 4.52 from Rs 4.66 in the year before. Annual Report 2014/2015 39 HIGHLIGHTS Operational information Governance Financial statements The quality of our leadership THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Ajith Erandan Tudawe President of WONCASouth Asia from May 2010 to Chairman 2013. He was awarded the Honorary Fellowship of the Royal College of General Practitioners of the UK in Ajith Tudawe holds a Bachelor’s degree in Accounting November 2008. He also serves as the Deputy Chairman from the United Kingdom. He is a Fellow of the Institute of the South Asian Board of the RCGP-International of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales, a S.A., and as the Patron of the South Asia Primary Care Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Research Network. Lanka, a Fellow of the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants in the UK, Fellow of the CPA Australia and Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Marketing in the UK. Sathis Prithiviraj Tudawe He is also a past president of the ACCA Sri Lanka. Ajith Board Member / Senior Vice PresidentAdministration Tudawe is a Group Director of Tudawe Brothers (Pvt) Ltd, Chairman Technical and Maintenance Subcommittee including all its Subsidiaries and Associate Companies. Sathis Tudawe in his capacity as the Senior Vice President – Adminstration supervises the technical and Upul Dulip Tudawe maintenance aspects of the business. He chairs the Executive Vice-President/ Director Technical and Maintenance Committees including the Hospital Safety and Preparedness Meeting. Upul Tudawe holds a BSc in Microbiology from Texas Tech University as well as a BSc in Medical Technology from In addition, he also advises and guides the security and the University of Texas Health Science Centre Houston, transport related operations. He is a Group Director Texas, USA. He is a Member of the American Society of Tudawe Brothers (Pvt) Ltd., its Subsidiaries and of Clinical Pathology (ASCP) and also of the Australian Associate Companies and has over 39 years experience Institute of Medical Scientists (AIMS). Upul Tudawe acts in the Construction Industry. as a Group Director of Tudawe Brothers (Pvt) Ltd, including all its Subsidiaries and Associate Companies. Y Nimal Ranjith Piyasena Board Member Dr A D Preethiraj A Wijegoonewardene Board Member / Senior Vice-President Medical Nimal Piyasena is the Managing Partner of Y R Piyasena & Company. He is also the Vice-Chairman of Hotel Star Preethi Wijegoonewardene has a MBBS from India, with Dust in Pottuvil. a Postgraduate Diploma in Family Medicine from the Postgraduate Institute of Medicine (PGIM) – Colombo. He is a Fellow of the College of General Practitioners of Asoka S Abeyewardene Sri Lanka. He functioned as the President of the College Board Member of General Practitioners of Sri Lanka (2004 – 2007), Past President of Sri Lanka Medical Association (SLMA) 2002. A S Abeyewardene is a Fellow of The Institute of He was elected as the Regional President of WONCA – Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, Fellow of the MESAR (World Organisation for Family Doctors – ME/SA Certified Management Accountants of Sri Lanka and a region) in July 2007. He was re-elected as the Regional Fellow of the Institute of Directors UK. He is a former 40 DURDANS HOSPITAL partner of KPMG Chartered Accountants. He is an risk management, auditing and consulting and business Independent Director of Ceylon Hospitals PLC and is the advisory services. He currently provides consulting Chairman of the Audit Committee and Remuneration advisory services for SMEs and Family Businesses. Committee. He is also an Independent Director of He also currently serves as a Member of the Board Durdans Medical and Surgical Hospital (Pvt) Ltd. He of Directors of Amana Holdings (Private) Limited and serves as an Independent Director of J L Morrison Son serves in the capacity of the Group Finance Director and & Jones (Ceylon) PLC and is the Chairman of the Audit Group Chairman of the Board of Directors of Aberdeen Committee of that Company. Holdings (Private) Limited. Dr Narendra Y Wijemanne Board Member Narendra Yayathi Wijemanne, having earned an MBBS (Ceylon), Fellowships at Royal College of Edinburgh and Royal College of England, joined the Board of Directors of Ceylon Hospitals PLC in year 2009. He has been serving in the public sector for over a period of 40 years. He brings to the board a vast amount of experience both locally and internationally. Prior to joining Durdans, he was the most senior Plastic Surgeon at the National Hospital of Sri Lanka. Dr Wijemanne was one of the first to volunteer as a surgeon to the Sri Lanka Army. He served in all the conflict areas supporting the forces during the major battles in the North and East at the time. He helped to set up several surgical facilities in these areas and has received several commendations from the Army Commanders and Field Commanders. He was awarded the Vadamarachchi medal for services rendered. He was a volunteer Surgeon to the Military Hospital in Colombo until 2006. Su-Ayid M Ismail Board Member Su-Ayid M Ismail is a Fellow Member of the Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, Fellow of the Chartered Management Accountants of UK and Member of the Institute of Internal Auditors. He is a former Partner of Ernst & Young Chartered Accountants and has been the Director of Risk Management for the Heraymila Investments Group, Dubai. He is the Founder/CEO of BAS Consultants Private Limited and has more than 30 years experience in the areas of financial management, Annual Report 2014/2015 41 HIGHLIGHTS Operational information Governance Financial statements The quality of our leadership SENIOR MANAGEMENT TEAM Dr R Wimal Jayantha Mumbai. He holds a Bachelor’s Degree in Management DirectorMedical Services Studies (HRM) with 2nd Class Upper from the Open University of Sri Lanka, MSc in Defence and Strategic Dr Wimal Jayantha joined Durdans Hospital in 2013 as Studies with a 2nd Class Upper from the University of the Director Medical Services. Having earned his MBBS Madras and a MBA from the Indira Gandhi National from Faculty of Medicine Colombo, he obtained a Masters Open University in India. He also holds a MPhil from the Degree in Community Medicine from the Post Graduate University of Colombo and is presently reading for his Institute of Medicine Colombo. He has undergone PhD at University of Colombo. special training in health management at University of Boston in USA and University of Birmingham in United Kingdom. He is a fellow of the College of Medical Mahanil Perera Administrators of Sri Lanka. He functioned as the Manager – Operations (Laboratory Services) President of the College of Medical Administrators from 2004 to 2005. Dr Wimal Jayantha has represented Sri Mahanil Perera joined Durdans Hospital Group in midLanka in several international forums related to health 2011 as an Assistant Marketing Manager and was management in countries such as India, Nepal, Bhutan, promoted to the Senior Management team. He has Bangladesh, Japan, China and represented Sri Lanka 25 years of hands on experience in sales, marketing at the World Health Assembly of the World Health and operations. He holds a Post Graduate Diploma in Organisation for six consecutive years. He served in the Marketing from the Sri Lanka Institute of Marketing public sector for more than 30 years and held senior and is a Life Member of the Institute. He is the Senior positions such as Deputy Director General of Health Manager responsible for the Durdans laboratory Services, Director of the National Children’s Hospital, services which has its presence islandwide. Director of the Castle Street Maternity Hospital, Director of the Kalutara General Hospital. He functioned as the National Coordinator of the Special Project on Health Aminda Tudawe Infrastructure Development to rehabilitate healthcare Manager Supply Chain institutes affected during the Tsunami. Aminda Tudawe joined Durdans Hospital in February 2011 as a Management Executive after completing Jayantha Pathiratne a BSc (Hons) degree in Business Management from Manager Human Resources the University of Wales, UK. He is presently serving as the Manager Supply Chain with the mandate to Jayantha Pathiratne joined Durdans Hospital in 2004 as enhance the equity of the corporate brand whilst being the Human Resources Manager. He is a Fellow Member responsible for creating a world-class customer service of the Institute of Personnel Management Sri Lanka experience throughout the organisation. He is directly and also was a Council Member of the Institute. He has in charge of all the critical business functions covering been functioning as a member of the Wages Board for the supply chain and has been responsible for driving the Nursing Homes Trade since 2006. He is an alumni efficiency and effectiveness whilst maintaining integrity of INSEAD and the recipient of HR Leadership Award and ethical practices. for 2010-11 at the Global HR Excellence Awards held in 42 DURDANS HOSPITAL Dr Jithendri Perera Anagi Karunasena Manager – Medical Services Manager Finance Dr Jithendri Perera took over the responsibility as the Anagi Karunasena is a graduate in Management Deputy Manager Medical Services in November 2012. Studies from the University of Sri Jayewardenepura She is an MBBS Graduate from Rajiv Ghandhi University and an Associate Member of the Institute of Chartered in Bangalore, India. Post qualifying experience was Accountants of Sri Lanka. She has more than 15 years gained at two hospitals in India and subsequently in Sri of post-qualifying experience in the fields of accounting, Lanka as an Intern at the Negombo Base Hospital. She finance and banking. Her career spans across numerous joined Durdans in November 2006 and has acquired fields of businesses which includes manufacturing, knowledge on the operations across the Group. She was construction, infrastructure development, hotel, absorbed into the management team in 2012. Currently printing, finance and banking to name a few. in her capacity as the Manager Medical Services her responsibilities support all the functions under the She also has completed her postgraduate studies in medical services . She was the Senior Manager incharge Business Administration (Masters Degree) from the of the Quality Assurance Department that co-ordinated Post Graduate Institute of Management of Sri Lanka both clinical and non-clinical activities to achieve and is also an Associate Member of the Institute of Joint Commission International (JCI) accreditation for Bankers of Sri Lanka. Durdans Hospital. Shan Hasan Marketing Manager Shan Hasan joined Durdans Hospital Group in January 2015 in the capacity of Marketing Manager in the Senior Management Team. He is a proven Sales & Marketing Professional with over 25 years of progressive work experience in developing, growing, energising and sustaining Corporates and their Brands in diverse business verticals such as Office Automation, Retail Automation, Telcommunications, Healthcare and Healthcare IT. He holds a Post Graduate Diploma in Business Administration from the Oxford Institute of Management, UK and an MBA from Universidad Empreserial, Costa Rica. Annual Report 2014/2015 43 44 DURDANS HOSPITAL Sustainability Report Sustainability and ongoing performance assessment is already factored into our strategic planning and risk management strategies. Annual Report 2014/2015 45 HIGHLIGHTS Operational information Governance Financial statements Quality conscious SUSTAINABILITY REPORT We believe that it is vital to stick to our core values, have them guide the decisions we make, the services we deliver and our interactions with all our stakeholders. 46 DURDANS HOSPITAL Durdans has a strong Sustainability and ongoing performance assessment commitment to safety and quality, and this are already factored into our strategic planning and is reflected in our risk management strategies. We have reported our organisation-wide performance across a comprehensive range of indicators approach... on record, providing insights into sustainability issues and their drivers across all areas of our business including details of metrics that evaluate and track our performance. As a Company employing approximately 2,000 staff and caring for over 17,000 in-patients and 380,000 out-patients every year, we recognise that we have an enormous responsibility to ensure that we maintain the highest standards of quality and safety; that we provide a great place to work; and that in all areas, we operate our business according to the philosophy “People Caring for People”. We believe that it is vital to stick to our core values, have them guide the decisions we make, the services we deliver and our interactions with all our stakeholders. Whilst we are a world-class healthcare organisation in Sri Lanka, we also have a vision to be one of the most respected companies in the country and to this end we take a leadership role in shaping the industry that we are in, through our focus on the environment, good corporate governance and societal issues at large. This sustainability report enables us to advance our aim to be one of the best corporate entities in the country. It reflects our commitment to the community and the Annual Report 2014/2015 47 HIGHLIGHTS Operational information Governance Financial statements Quality conscious Sustainability Report Durdans has developed a comprehensive Clinical Governance Framework based on an integrated approach to clinical risk management and continuous quality improvement. role we play in society. This report discloses how we Assisting our healthcare professionals and Visiting perform as a Company across a range of indicators Medical Practitioners to monitor the safety and and we believe that through disclosure, we can make quality of the care they provide; constant improvements to the way we go about our Ensuring accountability for the safety and quality business. Taking pride in our achievements and actively of care at all levels of our organisation, right seeking new ways of doing things better, has always through to the Board of the Durdans Group; been and will continue to be the Durdans Way. At all time we endeavors to fulfill their governance Patient Care responsibilities by demonstrating strong strategic At Durdans we are committed to ongoing improvement leadership in safety and quality, supporting the staff of patient care in all areas. While we have an excellent and accredited medical practitioners in their efforts record in delivering quality patient care and managing to provide safe, high quality care, monitoring and risks, the Company continues to focus on improvements responding to the performance of patient care systems that will keep it at the forefront of healthcare delivery. in both in-patient and out-patient settings. To this end, Durdans prides itself on listening and responding to the needs of its patients. We continually We have developed a comprehensive Clinical Governance evaluate and improve on all aspects of our performance Framework based on an integrated approach to clinical through customer satisfaction surveys and formal and risk management and continuous quality improvement. informal feedback processes. This Framework measures four major areas of We have a strong commitment to safety and quality organisational performance including: and this is reflected in our organisation-wide approach to: 1. Clinical Risk Management (making sure our Creating a safe environment and systems of work services are safe and minimising risk of error) for our staff; The company culture promotes and encourages Reviewing and improving on a continuous basis, staff to report incidents, risks and near misses; the performance of our patient safety and quality Policy for Incident Management outlines the systems; process for assessing and investigating incidents; Clinical policies are developed in accordance with evidence based best practices; 48 DURDANS HOSPITAL Clinical, risk and safety policies are reviewed on a regular basis and updated as required; Has a strategy and policy for ‘whistle blowers’. 2. Clinical Effectiveness (making sure that the clinical services we provide are effective) reported through to the Company’s Risk Management Quality and Safety Indicators are used to measure Committee and the Board. and monitor performance; Quality plans are initiated when significant issues Accreditation is an important driver for safety and quality are flagged; improvement. Through Joint Commission International Quality and Safety Indicators are benchmarked (JCI) accreditation, we have been able to assess our nationally; level of performance in relation to established national Serious clinical incidents are reported and and international standards and to implement ways to investigated; continuously improve service delivery. Clinicians are represented on the Governance Committee and expert clinical advisory panels; Human resources High risk areas are audited on a regular basis; The Company’s commitment to the health and safety Quality performance and safety issues are of employees and all persons who visit the hospital is reported to the Senior Management; a key business principle. The Company believes that all All facilities meet the standards for accreditation. injuries and industry related diseases are preventable and to this effect, it strives continuously to make 3. Effective Workforce (making sure our staff is improvements in this area. competent and up-to-date) Durdans has a process for checking credentials, In addition, the Company continues to reduce the registration and scope of practice for all clinical overall rate of workers’ compensation (as a percentage disciplines; of total remuneration) in all jurisdictions, which is The Company has targeted education and another indicator of improving safety performance. competency requirements in all clinical areas with a particular focus on high risk areas; Every person working in or utilising a Durdans facilityEmployees are orientated and updated on quality be they staff, patients visitors, has a right to personal and risk systems. safety. 4. Consumer Participation (involving our patients Threatening, abusive or physically violent behavior is and carers in their care) not accepted from anyone under any circumstances. Consumers participate in our risk management Any such behavior will result in action being taken and and quality improvement activities; such action may include: Consumer complaints and feedback processes a prompt medical response where appropriate; are managed in a timely way; a formal warning; Consumer feedback from Patient Satisfaction being asked to leave the premises or discharge Surveys are taken for strategic and business from the facility; planning; utilisation of security services; and/or Open disclosures between clinicians and police being notified and legal action implemented. consumers are actively promoted when plans get deviated. We pride ourselves on the continuous relationships we are building among our staff and doctors. Performance across these areas at Durdans is closely monitored by the hospital’s Clinical Governance Unit and Annual Report 2014/2015 49 HIGHLIGHTS Operational information Governance Financial statements CREATING a sustainable Durdans prides itself on environment listening and responding to the needs of its patients. We continually evaluate and improve on all aspects of our performance through customer satisfaction surveys and formal and informal feedback processes. 50 DURDANS HOSPITAL Our commitment Our internal policies and processes aim to provide to world-class staff at all levels with career expansion, training and quality development opportunities. Durdans is recognised for its commitment to staff through the fostering and development of a special culture which recognises that our people are the key to our success. Both in regard to Board-level appointments and executive appointments, the Company remains committed to selecting the best person for the role. In selecting new directors, the Company has regard to the skills, experience and perspectives represented on the Board and are considered potential “gaps” identified based on the current and projected activities of the Group. Age Diversity At Durdans, we recognise the valuable role each age group plays in the Company and thus will continue Durdans recognises that to pay attention to the welfare and wellbeing of all protecting the environment is a key responindividuals, with equal treatment to all irrespective of sibility of the business. the age group they belong to. The need to protect the environment for current and future generations Training and Development is clear. We have been supporting the learning and development needs of our clinical and non-clinical employees. We provide staff at all levels with career enhancement and professional development opportunities. Annual Report 2014/2015 51 HIGHLIGHTS Operational information Governance Financial statements Quality conscious Sustainability Report status despite expansions that have taken place within the premises requiring more energy. As healthcare is a significant producer of emissions with energy being a lead contributor, Durdans contribution to reducing emissions and energy use is significant. Air conditioning represents 40% to 50% of the Company’s total energy consumption with lighting a further 20%. Therefore, targeting these two areas can produce further benefits. The hospital has embarked on a project to install a new generation closed circuit heat pump system with an indirect heating system requiring very low maintenance, operating and running costs. The proposed new system will also produce cold exhaust air as a by-product of its operation, which may be used by the hospital for space cooling. The proposed new system is being evaluated against Environment the current Diesel Hot Water Boiler System and giving Durdans recognises that protecting the environment is up on the use of the diesel boiler will bring in not only a key responsibility of the business. The need to protect cost savings but also lowering the risk of fire and other the environment for current and future generations hazardous occurrences. This in turn will result in lower is clear. Durdans also acknowledge that reducing insurance premiums payable to insurers. unnecessary waste and minimising consumption of scarce resources must be treated with the same importance as financial sustainability in terms of Waste Production meeting the expectations of patients and staff. Durdans Hospitals produce a variety of waste streams including has invested significant resources in this area and is general waste (e.g paper, cardboard, glass, plastics currently working on several environmental initiatives and food) and clinical waste (e.g infectious waste) that that will lead to better outcomes for all in the medium requires special handling and disposal. to long term. Durdans engages in a wide variety of sustainable The hospital complies with the regulations laid down waste management practices aimed at achieving by the Central and Provincial Environment Authorities improvements in waste management such as best and is equipped with the Environment Protection practice waste segregation and promotion of recycling. License which is issued on an annual basis after closely monitoring and observing the organisation’s operations Governance from an environmental safety perspective. The Durdans Group is committed to delivering high quality health care services and ensuring long-term, Energy Consumption sustainable shareholder returns. The Board recognises Energy consumption at Durdans has remained fairly the importance of good governance in achieving these steady in the past few years and demonstrates that corporate objectives, in discharging its responsibilities some of the initiatives taken by Durdans Hospital over to all stakeholders and in addressing the broader the years have been successful in maintaining the role of the Company as a good corporate citizen. The 52 DURDANS HOSPITAL Company’s governance framework is designed to ensure that the Company is effectively managed, that statutory obligations are met and that the culture of personal and corporate integrity – The Durdans Way – is reinforced. Social Indicators Through our operations and our policies and practices, Durdans makes a genuine attempt to improve the quality of life of our employees, their families, the local community and society at large. Durdans engages a wide Community Support Program Durdans commits significant funds and resources variety of sustainable waste each year to philanthropic activities and initiatives that support the wider community. In particular, we management practices aimed recognise that we have an important role to play in the training and development of the future medical and at achieving improvements in nursing workforce and to this end, we commit major resources to this area. waste management, such as best Through our widespread lab network, we work closely practice waste segregation and with Government hospitals and other charitable organisations to uplift the standards of services offered promotion of recycling. by such institutions to the community at large. Durdans has donated to government hospitals and program the hospital took the initiative to conduct a charitable institutes across the country through its free health camp which carried out tests such as Fasting island wide lab network and has made significant Blood Sugar (FBS), Lipid Profile, Electro Cardio Gram funding commitments to assist these organisations for (ECG) and Blood Pressure checks and provided test their infrastructure development projects as well. results within two hours. The patients who had adverse results were provided free consultations by Consultant Durdans Hospital has been expanding its diagnostic Cardiologists and General Physicians on site. With Laboratory network throughout the island and during Durdans Hospital having Sri Lanka’s most experienced the post war period the hospital was one of the first Cardiologists and Cardio Thoracic Surgeons who have few to setup a Laboratory in Jaffna. As the people living performed over 25,000 Cardiac procedures to date, in Jaffna had little access to health screening the annual through this free Health Camp the hospital was able CSR Program for FY 2014/15 focused on the people in to reach the general public and grant free access to the Jaffna peninsula. specialists. The free health program was patronised by over 500 participants and their interest and enthusiasm Coronary Heart related deaths in Sri Lanka account for shown towards the program was immense. over 11% of all deaths and with the belief that early detection leads to control and prevention of heart deceases, the focus of this year’s CSR program was on heart related ailments. As such, during the CSR Annual Report 2014/2015 53 54 DURDANS HOSPITAL Governance & Risk Management The Board safeguards the effectiveness of the business and comprises members representing key management disciplines such as Medical, Finance, Engineering and Marketing thereby effectively and efficiently contributing to the betterment of the organisation, maintaining a macro perspective of the ongoing operations. Annual Report 2014/2015 55 HIGHLIGHTS Operational information Governance Financial statements Enterprise Governance Conformance Measurements management disciplines such as Medical, Finance, The composition of the Board of Directors Engineering and Marketing, thereby effectively and The Board comprise of eight Directors including two efficiently contributing to the betterment of the Executive Directors and six Non-Executive Directors. organisation, maintaining a macro perspective of the The names of the Directors and their profiles are given ongoing operations. The Board also monitors financial on Pages 40 and 41 of this report. performance against plans whilst observing and regulating the management committee and the sub The presence of the six Non-Executive Directors committees. conforms to the stipulated rules of the CSE of having more than one third of the total as Non-Executive Formal planned Board Meetings are held on a periodic Directors. The Board comprises of individuals who basis with papers for discussion being circulated well in have competencies and skills in both technical and advance together with the meeting agenda to ensure commercial aspects and are thus able to add extensive full, well deliberated participation of all members at the value to the strategic decision making and monitoring meetings. processes. Committees under the Purview of the Board. Chairman (a) Remuneration Committee The Chairman, also an Executive Director of the This committee consists of three Non-Executive Company, holds the supreme position of the Company. Directors. Mr A S Abeyewardene acts as the Chairman The Chairman always encourages the contribution of of the committee while Mr Y N R Piyasena and Dr N Y innovative ideas by all members of the team which Wijemanne occupy the other two slots. The Chairman has resulted in continuous upgrades to the functional of the Company plays the role of an observer in the excellence of the Company. process. Responsibilities of the Board The Finance Management Consultant joins the The Management Team is primarily responsible to map committee by invitation when compensation packages the direction of the business based on the identified are being reviewed. The Committee meets once a year needs of the Company. The Board is responsible to to review policy framework related to the remuneration validate the management team recommendations of the Senior Management Team, Executive Directors for strategic direction. The Board also ensures the and the Chairman. The key focus of the committee Company’s overall performance is in line with the plans is to ensure that high performers are recognised and it has created whilst making sure the risks are well rewarded. All rewards are linked to individual and managed and that organisational ethics are upheld with organisational performance, thus serving as a key utmost respect. Operational accountability lies with the motivator for the team. management team based on the set plan. The Board also approve the annual business plan in the form of (b) Audit Committee SIAs’ (Strategies in to Actions) of the Company and The Audit Committee oversees the preparation, plays an active role in deciding on the investments presentation and adequacy of disclosures and the relevant for the business. integrity of the Financial Statements, Risk Management Processes and Internal Controls of the Company. It is Effectiveness of the Board also the responsibility of this committee to oversee The Board safeguards the effectiveness of the the organisation’s compliance with financial reporting business and comprises of members representing key requirements and other relevant reporting requirements, 56 DURDANS HOSPITAL Enterprise Governance Framework at Durdans Shareholders Board of Directors Remuneration Audit Committee Chairman/ President Commmittee Executive Director Executive Management Group Management Committee Committee External Auditor Internal Auditors Critical Care Medical Services Technical Business Development Committee Committee Committee Committee Management Team Credentialing and Medical Ethics Medical Audit Privileging Committee Committee Procurement Committee Risk Management Committee Pharmocotheraputic Quality Assurance Committee Committee Infection Control and Condemnation Prevention Committee Committee Hospital Safety and Emergency Legal Compliance Preparedness Committee Committee information requirements as per the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007 and other relevant financial reporting The Manager Medical Services, Finance Manager, Human regulations. The Committee is also responsible Resources Manager, Marketing Manager, Manager for independently evaluating and monitoring the Operations – Laboratory Services and Medical Centres performance of the External Auditors and the internal and the Manager Supply Chain attend the meetings audit function of the Company. Additionally, it is the by invitation. The Internal Auditors Messers Ernst & responsibility of this committee to ensure compliance Young Advisory Services (Pvt) Ltd are represented by a with applicable laws and regulatory requirements Director and his team by invitation as well. and determine the appointment, evaluation, terms of engagement and fees of the Auditors. (c) Group Management Committee (GMC) The Group Management Committee assumes overall The Audit Committee comprise of four Non-Executive responsibility for all strategic and operational functions Directors namely Mr A S Abeyewardene; Chartered and is only preceded by the Board. The committee Accountant (Chairman of the Committee), Mr A S comprises of the Chairman, Executive Director, Senior M Ismail; Chartered Accountant, Dr N Y Wijemanne Vice President Administration, Senior Vice President and Mr Y N R Piyasena. The Company’s Chairman; Medical, Vice President Critical Care, Director Medical Mr Ajith Tudawe and the Executive Vice President; Services, Manager Medical Services, Manager Human Mr Upul Tudawe participate at meetings by invitation as Resources, Manager Marketing, Manager Operations Executive Directors. – Laboratory Services and Medical Centres, Manager Supply Chain and the Finance Manager. Annual Report 2014/2015 57 HIGHLIGHTS Operational information Governance Financial statements Governance Report Professional Development (CPD) and Continued Medical The GMC acts as the intermediary body to validate Education (CME) programs of doctors and nurses. The strategic decisions that need to be made by the observations of this committee are reported to the Executive Management Committee. The GMC may seek Group Management Committee (GMC) on a monthly Board approval where necessary on matters related to basis. macro implications. (g) Procurement Committee (d) Executive Management Committee (EMC) Supply chain efficiencies are critical to the entire hospital The Executive Management Committee comprises group and hence the Company strives to upgrade of the Chairman, Executive Director, Director Medical the processes by benchmarking its procurement Services, Manager Medical Services, Manager Human applications with the best practices adopted in the field Resources, Manager Marketing, Manager Operations of supply chain management. – Laboratory Services and Medical Centres, Manager Supply Chain and the Finance Manager. This committee Thus, the establishment of a procurement committee meets on a weekly basis and takes the responsibility for is to ensure purchasing efficiencies and control all the operational efficiency of the organisation. purchases within the hospital group. The team is required to deliver buying efficiencies and display (e) Critical Care Committee (CCC) transparency and best practices in the purchasing The Committee is chaired by the Vice President Critical procedure. Care and comprises of the Vice President Medical Services, Executive Director, Manager Medical Services, The committee meets once a month and comprises the Manager Human Resources, two medical officers Director Medical Services, Manager Medical Services, from the Critical Care Units, Chief Nursing Officer and Manager Supply Chain, Manager Marketing, Manger Matrons. The Senior Consultant Cardiac Surgeon and Operations Laboratory Services and Medical Centres, the Senior Consultant Cardiac Anesthetist attend the Manager Human Resources and the Finance Manager. meetings by invitation. The team is guided by the Chairman and the Executive The committee discusses all pertinent issues related to Vice President of the Company. the Critical Care Units and issues related to Infection Control throughout the organisation. The committee (h) Credentialing and Privileging Committee observations are reported to the Group Management (C & PC) Committee (GMC) at its monthly meetings. Having achieved the world recognised accreditation for quality care and patient safety from Joint Commission (f) Medical Services Committee (MSC) International (JCI), the Company continues to improve This committee is chaired by the Senior Vice President and upgrade the quality standards of its operations. Medical. The other members to the committee are In doing so it is required to match the skill set of the Executive Director, Critical Care Director, Director medical professionals involved in their respective Medical Services, Manager Human Resources, Manager disciplines to make the Company’s business operations Medical Services, Chief Nursing Officer, Resident more meaningful. Thus the objective of this committee Physician, Resident Pediatrician and the Senior Medical is to screen all consultants and medical officers Officer. The committee meets once a month to address providing their services to the hospital to ensure their the issues pertaining to the medical management of credentials are on par with the services undertaken. the full hospital such as patient complaints, issues concerning doctors and nurses and all other aspects This committee comprises of the Consultant of patient care, logistical problems of patients, Microbiologist, Senior Vice President Medical Services, accommodation, medical and nursing staff concerns etc. Director Medical Services, Manager Medical Services and The committee also addresses the aspects of Continued other competent team members who are capable and experienced to carry out their duties in the committee. 58 DURDANS HOSPITAL (i) Medical Ethics Committee organisation including setting up the best practices and This committee is responsible to facilitate good regular audits to ensure adherence to set processes. governance and ethical practices in the organisation by being an advisory body to the management. The (m) Infection Control and Prevention Committee committee comprises of the Senior Vice President This committee chaired by the Consultant Microbiologist Medical Services, Consultant Physician, Director comprises the Executive Vice President, Senior Vice Medical Services, Manager Medical Services, Chief President Medical Services, Vice President Critical Care, Nursing Officer and others representing the medical Director Medical Services, Manager Medical Services, and nursing profession of the organisation, along with Chief Nursing Officer, all Resident Consultants, as well external support from a member of the public. The as other relevant members in attendance. committee meets once a month. The committee which meets once a month establishes (j) Medical Audit Committee the scope of the functional and critical measurements This committee is responsible to independently monitor, that needs tracking on a routine basis. The key objective review and report to the Chairman of the Company on of the committee is to ensure that all parameters clinical governance and where appropriate, facilitate are kept within the acceptable norms required as per and support through its independence the attainment international benchmarks. of effective processes and clinical care protocols. (n) Condemnation Committee The committee is made up of the Senior Vice President The key function of this committee is to streamline Medical, Director Medical Services, Manager Medical the condemnation process and to ensure that ethical Services, Chief Nursing Officer, Resident Consultants and safe measures are adopted by the Company in and the Medical Record Room Officer. The committee disposing the condemned items/medical waste etc. meets on a monthly basis. The Committee meets once a month or as and when (k) Quality Assurance Committee required and is chaired by the Executive Vice President. The committee which meets once a month has its The other members of the committee are the Senior Vice meetings chaired by the Chairman and attended by the President Administration, Finance Manager, Manager Senior Vice President Medical Services, Vice President Operations – Laboratory Services and Medical Centres, Critical Care, Director Medical Services, Manager Manager Supply Chain, Manager Medical Services along Medical Services, Marketing Manager, Manager with relevant departmental heads. Operations – Laboratory Services and Medical Centres, Manager Human Resources, Manager Supply Chain, (o) Legal Compliance Committee Finance Manager and other members as relevant. The responsibility of this committee is to identify, understand and advice on compliance to all laws and This committee has the mandate to ensure that all regulations governing the hospital operations. The quality parameters identified in the Standard Operating key task of the committee is to be updated with the Procedures (SOPs’) are assessed against the established information pertaining to such rules, regulations, Key Performance Indicators (KPIs’) and early attention laws, statutes, ordinances governing the hospital and is given to any deviations. The process is aligned to escalate any changes having an impact on the hospital the organisation wide quality drive that has been operations to the top management for their information benchmarked against world-class standards. and necessary action. (l) Pharmocotherapeutic Committee This committee is headed by the Executive Vice The committee which gathers once a month works with President and comprises the Director Medical Services, the objective of streamlining the systems and processes Manager Medical Services, Manager Human Resources, related to all pharmocotherapeutic issues across the Manager Operations – Laboratory Services and Medical Annual Report 2014/2015 59 HIGHLIGHTS Operational information Governance Financial statements Governance Report Centres, Manager Supply Chain, Finance Manager and systems of the Company by carrying out periodic Chief Nursing Officer. review on internal control processes. In this regard, the Board has employed a Senior Chartered Accountant (p) Hospital Safety and Emergency Preparedness to provide the required knowledge and guidance on Committee finance matters to ensure the financial and operational This committee has the mandate to provide a safe controls, ethical conduct and compliance with legal and and secure environment to both patients and staff in regulatory requirements at all times. the hospital. The committee is headed by the Senior Vice President Administration. Other members to the In light of the above, the Company wishes to keep committee are departmental heads who are involved in you informed that it has complied with the mandatory the functioning of the committee. disclosure requirements of Corporate Governance for listed Companies in Sri Lanka issued by the Colombo (q) Accountability and Audit Stock Exchange (CSE) as set out below. The Board has taken necessary steps to ensure the integrity of the accounting and financial reporting Rule No. Area Covered Requirement Compliance Details Status 7.10.1 Non-Executive Two or one third of the total Compliant Six out of eight Directors Directors number of Directors, whichever are Non-Executive Directors is higher, should be NonExecutive 7.10.2(a) Independent Two or one third of NonCompliant Five out of six NonDirectors Executive Directors, whichever Executive Directors are is higher, should be independent independent 7.10.2(b) Non-Executive Each Non-Executive Director Compliant All Non-Executive Directors should submit a declaration Directors have submitted of independence / nonthe declaration in the independence prescribed format 7.10.3(a) Disclosures relating The names of the Directors who Compliant to Directors determined to be independent will be set out in the Annual Report 7.10.3(b) Disclosures relating A determination has to be Compliant to Directors made by the Board as the independence or the nonindependence of Non-Executive Directors 7.10.3(c) Disclosures relating Brief resume of each Compliant Pages 40 to 41 of the to Directors independent Director should be Annual Report disclosed in the Annual Report 60 DURDANS HOSPITAL Rule No. Area Covered Requirement Compliance Details Status 7.10.4 Remuneration A listed company shall have a Compliant Page 56 to the Annual Committee Remuneration Committee Report provide the Remuneration Committee Report 7.10.4(a) Remuneration i) Remuneration committee Compliant The Remuneration Committee shall comprise of Committee comprises of Composition a minimum of two two independent Nonindependent NonExecutive Directors and one Executive Directors or a Non-Executive Director majority of independent Non-Executive Directors whichever is higher ii) A Non-Executive Director Compliant Mr A S Abeyewardene, shall be appointed independent Non-Executive as Chairman of the Director functions as the Committee by the Board Chairman of the Committee 7.10.4(b) Remuneration The Remuneration Committee Compliant Refer Remuneration Committee shall recommend the Committee Report on Page remuneration of the Chief 56 Executive Officer and the Executive Directors 7.10.4(c) Remuneration The Annual Report shall set out; Compliant Page 56 to the Annual Committee i) Names of Directors Report comprising the Remuneration Committee ii) Statement of Compliant Page 56 to the Annual Remuneration Policy Report under Remuneration Committee iii) Aggregate remuneration Compliant Page 118 to the Annual paid to Executive and Report Non-Executive Directors 7.10.5 Audit Committee A listed company shall have an Compliant Refer Audit Committee Audit Committee Report on Page 56 Annual Report 2014/2015 61 HIGHLIGHTS Operational information Governance Financial statements Governance Report Rule No. Area Covered Requirement Compliance Details Status 7.10.5(a) Audit Committee The Audit Committee shall Compliant The Audit Committee comprise of two independent comprises of three Non-Executive Directors or a independent majority of independent NonNon-Executive Directors Executive Directors whichever is higher The Chief Executive Officer Compliant The Chairman and the and Chief Financial Officer Finance Manager of shall attend Audit Committee the Company attend to meetings committee meetings on invitation One Non-Executive Director Compliant Mr A S Abeyewardene who is a member of a functions as the Chairman professional accounting body of the Audit Committee shall be appointed as Chairman of the Audit Committee by the Board 7.10.5(b) Audit Committee Audit Committee shall have Compliant Refer Audit Committee functions as set out in section report on Page 77 7.10.5 of the listing rules 7.10.5(c) Audit Committee The Annual Report shall; i) set out the names of Compliant Refer Page 77 to the Annual Directors that comprises Report the Audit Committee ii) make a determination Compliant Refer Page 77 to the Annual of the independence Report of the Auditors and disclose the basis for such determination iii) contain a Report of Compliant Refer Page 77 to the the Audit Committee Annual Report setting out the manner of Compliance of the functions 62 DURDANS HOSPITAL Enterprise Risk Management Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) is the process Risk Management Committee – The function of of planning, organising, leading and controlling the the committee includes proactively mapping activities of an organisation in order to minimise the the potential risks, assessing the likelihood of effects of risk on an organisation’s capital and earnings. occurrence and assessing the impact of each event on the business There are various important ERM frameworks, each of A risk awareness culture is being created which describe an approach for identifying, analysing, throughout the organisation by educating responding to, and monitoring risks and opportunities, the team leaders on the risks faced by the within the internal and external environment in which organisation. This awareness and training has the Company operates. The risk response strategy been put into practice in each functional area, broadly adopted by the Durdans Group is identified as thereby mitigating and managing the operational follows: level risks of the organisation The accountability and responsibility of each 1. Avoidance: exiting the activities giving rise to risk type of risk has been identified and reviewed 2. Reduction: taking action to reduce the likelihood periodically or impact related to the risk Empower business areas and departments to be 3. Alternative Actions: deciding and considering responsible for managing risk in accordance with other feasible steps to minimise risks the organisation’s Risk Management Policy and 4. Share or Insure: transferring or sharing a portion reward risk optimisation initiatives. All necessary of the risk, to finance it training has been provided to all departments for 5. Accept: no action is taken, due to a cost/benefit the successful monitoring and management of decision identified risks Generate continuous assessment and The management of the Company through continuous improvement – the process is monitored on an monitoring of internal control activities carried out ongoing basis for necessary interventions by reviewing of analytical reports or management committee meetings with relevant experts makes The Risk Management Process at Durdans a conscious effort to understand the risk response The following process is in place: strategy required to achieve the corporate objectives. Identifying potential risks Identifying the level of impact in the event it With almost seven decades of experience, the Company occurs has become competent in taking calculated risks thus Identifying the likelihood of occurrence supporting the ultimate corporate objectives. The Mapping the risk in a Risk Rating Matrix learning made over several decades has also generated Deciding on an action plan to mitigate or manage strong ability within the organisation in creating a the risk strategic competitive advantage by managing risks in a proactive manner. While risk management is The Risk Management Committee has the full prudent and pragmatic, the following processes and responsibility of applying an effective Risk Management methodologies have been implemented by the Company Strategy in the Company. The identified risk and to ensure maximum effectiveness. In light of the above, suggested methodologies to manage the risks are the processes are validated periodically to ensure their reported to the Group Management Committee which best fit to the emerging needs of the Company. Annual Report 2014/2015 63 HIGHLIGHTS Operational information Governance Financial statements Enterprise Risk Management reviews the same for the effectiveness of the action The Company’s fundamental business philosophy plan and monitors the implementation thereafter. revolves around the excellent medical, clinical and aftercare services extended to its patients. To further The impact of the event is estimated by ascertaining the strengthen the ability to mitigate risks the Company possible loss that would be incurred by the Company in uses an Adverse Incident Reporting Mechanism which the event the risk occurs. A five point ranking is used has been found to be very effective to date. to assess the gravity; very high, high, moderate, minor and insignificant. With the awarding of the Joint Commission International accreditation, the operations of the entire hospital now The likelihood of occurrence is also categorised in a covers the full business operation in maximum depth, similar manner; rare, unlikely, possible, likely and almost ensuring that world-class best practices are in place certain. The probability of occurrence is assigned using at Durdans. Given the Company’s continuous drive to the extensive experience the team has in the business. innovate and improve the way healthcare is delivered in The risks are further classified on dual parameters of Sri Lanka, the JCI accreditation has set your company’s the likelihood of occurrence and the impact on the operations even further apart from all other contenders business using assessment of Very High Risk, High Risk, in the industry. The Company’s commitment to this Moderate Risk, Minor Risk and Insignificant Risk. significant improvement further endorses its dedication towards ensuring the best of care to all its patients. Clinical Risk Further to the above, the good Clinical Risk Management Clinical risks are detrimental to the operations of the processes adopted by the Company include: Company. As such mitigating the same high quality standards and safety standards are of paramount Credentialing medical staff importance on a day-to-day basis. Due to the severity Incident monitoring and tracking of the impact such risks can cause the business, the Risk Complaints monitoring and tracking Management Team deliberates extensively to identify Infection control any potential risk to the patients, thereby ensuring Medical record documentation preventive measures are in place at all time. The following table explains how the risk mapping is done at Durdans 5 Very High 4 High Impact 3 Moderate 2 Minor 1 Insignificant Rare Unlikely to Possible to Likely to Almost occur occur occur certain to occur 1 2 3 4 5 Likelihood of Occurring 64 DURDANS HOSPITAL Operational Risk process has been a success that the Company has Operational risks are identified as those risks that achieved to date and ensures that potential industry damage property or interrupt business. Hence, the risks are mitigated and operations continue with a operational risk management at Durdans attempts strong growth momentum. to minimise risks associated with operations, assets, environment and personnel. The entire organisation The Company’s planning starts from understanding is covered by a fire protection system while insurance current and emerging needs and aligning its offering is obtained to the maximum possible extent to cover to deliver the ideal solution to fit the needs. During any damage arising from unforeseen events to the the process, it continues to keep vigil on emerging operations as well as business profits. innovations in healthcare in the developed world and accessing with pride the technical resource based An annual review of operational risks are carried out knowledge and competencies. by an external risk management organisation and outcomes are reported to the Board of Directors for Some of the fundamental reasons for the Company to information and where necessary for appropriate have an edge over its contenders in mitigating industry action. risk is being innovative in offering unique services, ensuring value for money, maintaining high quality Economic Risk standards and improving efficiencies brought into the The Company operates in a highly volatile and a processes to deliver a patient friendly service. dynamic environment where various factors impact the economy and the country which in turn affects the Financial Risk business in general. The Company’s continuous drive to invest in advanced technology invariably requires seeking finance for With healthcare being an essential service, the investments. Being mindful of the gearing level of the Company is to a certain extent insulated compared entity, the Company ensures it manages its borrowings to some other industries. However, the company has with due care. The Company ensures at all times that been very agile in identifying potential risks that could all financial obligations are met on time. Further, the impact its business plan and generate proactive steps management places the utmost diligence on monitoring to mitigate the same. The Company follows a detailed the fluctuations in the market pertaining to interest management review process enabling the team to take rates and uses extensive negotiations to obtain the prompt action to reverse any negative impact urgently. best return for the Company. With the collective experience of the team at the helm, generally anticipating changes are effectively done and The liquidity position of the company is monitored very the adverse impact minimised always. closely and cash flows are managed on a daily basis with extreme care. Any investment opportunity is backed by Industry Risk an extensive feasibility report study prior to embarking The healthcare industry has expanded at a rapid on the project so that the Return on Investment (ROI) pace in the past decade. The Company has witnessed is guaranteed. that significant investments are being made by its contenders in the private healthcare space resulting Credit Risk in a large number of beds being added to the sector. With corporate customers and insurance companies While this indicates the opportunities that prevail in comprising a significant share of the business portfolio, the industry for growth some concerns have surfaced receivables are closely monitored to reduce the risk regarding the long term sustenance of this capacity. arising from the grant of credit. In order to strengthen Considering the foregoing it is therefore important the process of granting credit to corporates the to create the strategic direction of the business in a Company adopts a strict credit evaluation process meaningful manner. The focused strategic planning of each client and credit limits and credit periods are Annual Report 2014/2015 65 HIGHLIGHTS Operational information Governance Financial statements Enterprise Risk Management granted upon evaluation of the credit application. As monitored and where necessary improvements and a control measure, the internal operating procedures modifications are made to the existing processes to have been developed to avoid any unauthorised credit further enhance the safety of the patients. limits being entered into the operating system without the knowledge and approval of the management of the Human Resources Company. The Company continues to value its people as the most important asset of the organisation as it is the people Reputation Risk who make the corporate vision a reality by delivering Damage to reputation causes irreparable loss to the the utmost care the patrons seek. Every employee brand and brand image. Hence, guarding our reputation epitomises the values of the Company while at work as by carefully following laid down guidelines to handle well as outside their working hours. The caring nature consumer grievances has always been a key area of of the staff is part of their DNA. concern to the Company. In consideration of this, the Durdans team places a greater focus on making every However, unlike a few years ago, the current dynamic experience a memorable one to each patron at every private healthcare sector makes it necessary that we touch point of service. Constant improvements to an constantly enhance the people agenda in a manner already well established way of operation is undertaken beneficial to the employee as well as the Company. by the management on a day-to-day basis taking into Hence, the Company is constantly addressing the needs account the feedback received from all stakeholders for of its staff members and taking steps to constantly an improved service. motivate employee engagement through a performance driven culture. In doing so, every team member is made Patient and Staff Safety to understand how his/her functions will deliver value The risk arising due to lack of safety measures for to the organisation’s performance, thereby enhancing patients and staff are considered to be of high their commitment to uphold the best service delivery importance at a corporate level. As such in depth expected by patrons. evaluation of such risks are carried out on a routine basis to map out all potential areas of risks by clearly The Company in the past several years has taken steps to defining the actions that should be in place. transform its organisational culture to create a cohesive team environment. Continuous efforts are being taken Exposure to the environmental risk is a challenge in to improve communication between management and the present day context. Hence, the Company takes staff and team leaders and their units to disseminate the responsibility to review and discuss such risk and information across the organisation in a more effective implement preventive actions where necessary. In this and efficient manner. Results of the annual employee regard, vaccination against infections such as Hepatitis satisfaction survey carried out by the Human Resources B is administered to staff members who are exposed Department are collated carefully and corrective action to such diseases. Further, regular screening tests are taken to improve/address the concerns of employees conducted for staff of critical care units to minimise where necessary. hospital borne infections. Awareness programs are also initiated for medical and clinical staff and healthcare Information Security professionals to mitigate some of the most challenging Day-to-day operations at the Hospital are run on a issues. fully fledged in house developed ERP system and the security of the information and the uninterrupted Patient safety is of paramount importance to the service of the system are of utmost importance for the Company and the international accreditation bestowed continued operations of the Company. The loss of data on the ‘Durdans Brand’ and the connected measurable due to technical failures, system down times, threat of elements ensuring patient care are continuously viruses and data security are some of the key concerns 66 DURDANS HOSPITAL the Company has identified and steps taken to minimise the risks arising from same. The system currently runs on a high end VMware vSphere 4 server and system down time is zero due to the availability of a backup server. In a bid to improve the security of servers, the accessibility is restricted to identified persons of the Company. Patient data is handled in a very confidential manner ensuring security. The Company has taken measures to install firewalls to protect unauthorised access to sensitive information which is patient related and otherwise. Further, spam controls and mail firewalls also protect the system which would otherwise get affected from regular communications between internal and external parties in their day-to-day business operations. External labs are also connected to the main office system via a secure IP-VPN connection. Annual Report 2014/2015 67 68 DURDANS HOSPITAL Financial Statements We have evolved over 69 years to deliver the best healthcare available in Sri Lanka. Today Durdans Hospital is reputed for award-winning, expert healthcare services that are benchmarked to international standards. Annual Report 2014/2015 69 Contents 71 Annual Report of The Board of Directors on the Affairs of the Group 76 Statement of Directors’ Responsibility in Relation to Financial Statements 77 Audit Committee Report 79 Independent Auditors Report 80 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 81 Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 82 Statement of Changes in Equity 83 Statement of Cash Flows 84 Notes to the Financial Statements 124 Value Added Statement 125 Ten Year Summary 70 DURDANS HOSPITAL Annual Report of the Board of Directors on the Affairs of the Group General 4. Auditors Report The Directors have pleasure in presenting their report The Company’s external auditors, Messrs. B R De Silva & and the audited financial statements of the Company and Co, performed the audit on the Financial Statements for the Group for the year ended 31st March 2015 and the the year ended 31st March 2015. The Auditor’s report on Auditor’s Report on the Consolidated Financial Statements. the Financial Statements is given on Page 79 of the Annual Report as required by Section 168 (I) (c) of the Statutes. This report provides the information as required by the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007, the Listing Rules of the 5. Accounting Policies Colombo Stock Exchange and recommended best practices A summary of the significant accounting policies adopted on Corporate Governance. This report was approved by in the preparation of the Financial Statements is given the Board of Directors on 21st May 2015. on Pages 84 to 95 of the Annual Report as required by Section 168 (I) (d) of the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007. 1. Principal activities and business review The policies adopted are consistent with those adopted in Ceylon Hospitals PLC is the holding company that the previous financial year. directly owns the Durdans Heart Surgical Centre (Pvt) Ltd and Durdans Medical and Surgical Hospital (Pvt) Ltd 6. Results and dividends constituting the Ceylon Hospitals Group. 6.1 Gross Revenue The total revenue of the Group for the year ended 31st The Chairman’s Statement and Financial Review sections March 2015 was Rs. 4.1Bn (31st March 2014 – Rs. 3.9Bn). are incorporated into this report by reference. They contain details of development and performance of the 6.2 Profit and Appropriations Group’s businesses during the year, an indication of the The profit before income tax of the Group for the year key performance indicators and information regarding ended 31st March 2015 was Rs. 266Mn (31st March 2014 principal risks and uncertainties together with information – Rs. 261Mn) and the profit after tax for the year ended equivalent to that required for a business review. 31st March 2015 was Rs. 224Mn (31st March 2014-Rs. 229Mn). The details of profit relating to the Group are The measures taken by the Company to manage its risks given on Page 80 of this report. are detailed in the report titled Enterprise Risk Management on Page 63 of this report. 6.3 Dividend on Ordinary Shares The Directors recommended an interim dividend of Rs. 2. Future Developments 2.70 per ordinary share for the year ended 31st March The Group intends to continue to pursue a strategy 2015 to be paid in the month of June 2015. No further of focusing on its core business activities. In order to dividends have been recommended. achieve this the Group will concentrate on enhancing the performance of its surgical care and outpatient services in Prior to recommending the dividend, in accordance with addition to general medical and nursing care. Section 56 (2) and (3) of the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007, the Board of Directors signed a Certificate stating that, Further information on future developments is provided in in their opinion, based on the available information, the the Chairman’s Statement of this report. Company will satisfy the solvency test immediately after the distribution is made and have obtained a certificate 3. Financial Statements of the Company and the from the Auditors in terms of Section 57 of the Companies Group Act. The Financial Statements of both the Company and the Group duly certified by the Finance Manager and approved 6.4 Provision for Taxation by two directors in compliance with sections 152, 153 and Income tax for 2015 has been provided on taxable 168 of the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007 are given from income arising from the operations of the Group and has Pages 80 to 123 of the Annual Report Annual Report 2014/2015 71 HIGHLIGHTS Operational information Governance Financial statements been disclosed in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting by Section 168 (I) (h) of the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007 Standards. The Group has also provided deferred tax on are given below. all known temporary differences using the liability method as permitted by the Sri Lanka Accounting Standard Mr A E Tudawe Chairman – Executive No. LKAS 12. Director Mr U D Tudawe Executive Director Information on Income Tax Expenses and Deferred Taxes is Mr S P Tudawe Non-Executive Director given in the Notes to the Financial Statements on Page 98 Dr A D P A Wijegoonewardene Non-Executive Director of this Annual Report. Mr Y N R Piyasena Independent, NonExecutive Director 6.5 Reserves Mr A S Abeyewardene Independent, NonThe Group’s total reserves as at 31st March 2015 amounted Executive Director to Rs. 1.86Bn (2014 – Rs. 1.74Bn). The movement of the Dr N Y Wijemanne* Non-Executive Director reserves are given on Page 82 under ‘Statement of Changes Mr Su-Ayid M Ismail Independent, Nonin Equity’ and in the Notes to the Financial Statements of Executive Director this Annual Report. *Will retire from the date of the AGM 6.6 Property, Plant & Equipment, Investments 8.2 Independence of Directors Properties, Leasehold Properties and IntanThe Board has made a determination as to the gible Assets independence of each Non-Executive Director and confirms Details of capital expenditure incurred on property plant that three of the Non-Executive Directors meet the criteria & equipment are given in the Notes to the Financial of independence in terms of Rule 7.10.4 of Listing Rules. Statements from Pages 99 to 100. Each of the independent Directors has submitted a signed 7. Creditor Payment and dated declaration of his independence against the For all trade creditors, it is the Group policy to: specified criteria. Agree and confirm the terms of payment at the Mr Y N R Piyasena has served more than eleven years commencement of business with that supplier on the Board. The Board taking into account all the Pay in accordance with any contract agreed with the circumstances is of the opinion that Mr Y N R Piyasena is supplier or as required by law, and nevertheless independent. Continually review payment procedures and liaise with suppliers as a means of eliminating difficulties Mr S P Tudawe and Dr A D P A Wijegoonewardene play and maintaining good working relationships a consultative role in the Group Management Committee. 8. Directors 8.3 Re-election of Directors 8.1 List of Directors In Accordance with the Articles of Association of the The Board of Directors of the Company as at the date of Company and the Corporate Governance Code Dr A D P this report comprise of eight having extensive medical, A Wijegoonewardene will retire by rotation at the Annual financial and commercial knowledge and expertise. The General Meeting in June 2015 and being eligible, will offer qualifications and experience of the directors are given in himself for re-election with the unanimous consent of the Directors. the ‘Board of Directors’ section from Pages 40 to 41 of this Annual Report. 8.4 Recommendation for re-election Mr A S Abeyewardene shall vacate office as per the Names of the persons who held office as Directors of the requirements of Section 210 of the Companies Act No. Company as at 31st March 2015 and the names of the 07 of 2007 and a separate resolution will be tabled at persons who ceased to hold office as Directors of the the forthcoming Annual General Meeting to obtain the Company at any time during the year 2014/15, as required sanction of the shareholders to re-appoint him a Director of the Board as per Section 211 of the Companies Act. 72 DURDANS HOSPITAL 8.5 Disclosure of Directors Dealings in Shares Directors’ Interest in Ordinary Shares of the Company As at 31st March 2015 2014 No. of Shares No. of Shares Voting Non-Voting Voting NonVoting Mr A E Tudawe 205,052 205,052 Dr A D P A Wijegoonewardene 175,418 175,418 Mr S P Tudawe 307,936 307,936 Mr U D Tudawe 170,616 170,616 Mr Y N R Piyasena 553,134 553,134 Mr A S Abeyewardene 1,440 1200 1,440 1,200 Dr N Y Wijemanne 762 762 Mr A S M Ismail 100 8.6 Remuneration and Other Benefits transactions carried out during the year are disclosed on Directors’ remuneration and other benefits in respect of Pages 116 to 118 of this Report. The Directors declare that the Company for the financial year ended 31st March 2015 they have complied with the provisions of the Code relating is given in Note 31.5 to the Financial Statements on Page to full disclosure of related party transactions entered into 118 of this Annual report as required by Section 168 (I) (f) during the financial year ended 31st March 2015. of the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007. 9. Articles of Association 8.7 Directors’ interests in Contracts or Proposed The Articles of Association of the Company may be Contracts amended by passing of a special resolution. Directors have no direct or indirect interest in any contract or proposed contract with the Company for the year ended 10. Stated Capital 31st March 2015 other than those disclosed on Pages 116 The stated capital of the Company as at 31st March 2015 to 119 of this Annual Report. was Rs. 916Mn comprising 33,872,726 ordinary shares. (2014 – Rs. 916Mn) made up by 25,527,272 voting shares The Directors have declared all material interests in and 8,345,454 non-voting shares). Details of the Stated contracts involving the Company and refrained from voting Capital are given in Note 16 to the Financial Statements on on matters in which they were materially interested. They Page 102 to the Annual Report. The rights and obligations have also disclosed their interest in other companies so attached to the ordinary shares are set out in the Articles as to ensure that they refrain from voting on a matter in of Association of the Company, a copy of which can be which they have an interest. obtained from the Secretaries upon request. 8.8 Related Party Transaction 11. Share information In terms of the Code of best Practice on related party Details of share-related information are given on Pages disclosures there were no non-recurrent related party 126 to 129 of this Annual Report and information relating transactions entered into during the course of the financial to Earnings, Dividends and Net Asset per Share is given in year, the lower of the aggregate value exceeding 10% of the Financial Highlights on Page 4 of this Annual Report. the Equity or 5% of the assets. 12. Public holding of shares in the Company No recurrent related party transactions, the aggregate The public shareholding as at 31st March 2015 for value of which exceeds 10% of the Consolidated Revenue/ Voting and Non-Voting shares were 23.2% and 81.45% Income have been carried out during the financial year respectively. ended 31st March 2015. Details of all related party Annual Report 2014/2015 73 HIGHLIGHTS Operational information Governance Financial statements Annual Report of the Board of Directors on the Affairs of the Group 13. Substantial Shareholding 18. Risk Management and System of Internal Substantial shareholders are required to notify their Control interests in accordance with Section 200 of the Companies 18.1 Risk Management Act and oblige shareholders to comply with the notification Specific steps that have been taken by the Company are obligations to the Company contained in the Rules of the detailed on Pages 120 to 122 of this Annual Report Colombo Stock Exchange. 18.2 System of Internal Control The Twenty Largest Shareholders of the Company as at The Board of Directors has established an effective and 31st March 2015 are indicated on Pages 128 and 129 of comprehensive system of Internal Controls to ensure that this Annual Report proper controls are in place to safeguard the assets of the Company, to detect and prevent fraud and irregularities, 14. Corporate Donations to ensure that proper records are maintained and Financial During the year, the Company made donations to Statements presented are reliable. Monthly Management charity amounting to Rs. 1.6Mn (2013-Rs. 2.35Mn). The Accounts are prepared, giving management relevant, information given above on donations form an integral reliable and up-to-date Financial Statements and key part of the Report of the Board of Directors as required performance indicators. by the Section 168 (I) (g) of the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007. The Audit Committee reviews on a regular basis, the reports, policies and procedures to ensure that a comprehensive 15. Statutory Payments internal control framework is in place. More details in this The Directors, to the best of their knowledge and belief regard can be seen on Pages 77 and 78 of this Annual are satisfied that all statutory payments due to the Report. Government and in relation to employees have been made to date. The Board has conducted a review of the internal controls covering financial, operational and compliance controls 16. Events after the Reporting Period and risk management and have obtained reasonable There have been no material events occurring after the assurance of their effectiveness and successful adherence reporting date that would require adjustments to or therewith for the period up to the date of signing the disclosure in the Financial Statements other than as Financial Statements. disclosed in Note 29 to the Financial Statements on Page 115 of this Annual Report. 18.3 Audit Committee The composition of the Audit Committee and their Report 17. Going Concern is given on Pages 77 and 78 of this Annual Report. The Board of Directors has reviewed the Company’s business plans and is satisfied that the Company has 19. Corporate Governance adequate resources to continue its operation in the The Company is committed to high standards of Corporate foreseeable future. After considering the financial position, Governance. The main Corporate Governance practices of operating conditions, regulatory and other factors and such the Company are set out from Pages 56 to 62 of this Annual other matters required to be addressed in the Corporate Report. The Directors acknowledge their responsibility for Governance code, the Directors have a reasonable the Group’s Corporate Governance and the system of expectation that the Company possesses adequate internal control. resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future. For this reason, they continue to adopt the Going 20. Appointment of External Auditors Concern basis in preparing the financial statements. The Financial Statements for the year have been audited by Messrs. B R De Silva & Co, Chartered Accountants, who Details of the adoption by the Group and the Company offer themselves for re-appointment. A resolution to reof the going concern basis in preparing the financial appoint them as Auditors and authorise the Directors to fix statements are set out in the financial review within the their remuneration will be proposed at the Annual General business review section and are incorporated into this Meeting. report by reference. 74 DURDANS HOSPITAL 21. Auditor’s Remuneration and Interest in Contracts with the Company The Group audit fees paid for the year 2014/15 amounted to Rs. 2.1Mn. Apart from that, the Company has engaged Messrs. B R De Silva & Co; the External Auditors to advice on taxation and accounting matters for the year under consideration. As far as the Directors are aware, the Auditors do not have any other relationship or interest in contracts with the Company. 22. Annual General Meeting The 2015 Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at the ‘Auditorium’ Durdans Hospital, 11th Floor, Colombo 03 at 9.0 a.m. on Tuesday 30th June 2015. 23. Notice of Meeting Details of the Annual General Meeting are given in the Notice of Meeting. 24. Acknowledgement of the Contents of the Report As required by Section 168 (1) (k) of the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007 the Board of Directors hereby acknowledge the contents of this Report. For and on behalf of the Board, A E Tudawe Chairman Dr A D P A Wijegoonewardene Director 21st May 2015 Annual Report 2014/2015 75 HIGHLIGHTS Operational information Governance Financial statements Statement of Directors’ Responsibility in Relation to Financial Statements The following statement which should be read in conjunction The Directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge with the Auditor’s Statement of their responsibilities, as all taxes, duties and levies payable by the Company and set out in their report, is made with a view to distinguish its subsidiaries, and all contributions, levies and taxes the respective responsibilities of the Directors’ and the payable on behalf of and in respect of the employees of Auditors, in relation to the financial statements. the Company and its subsidiaries, and all other known statutory dues as were due and payable by the Company The Companies Act No. 07 of 2007 requires that the and its subsidiaries as at the reporting date have been paid Directors prepare the financial statements and circulate it or where relevant provided for. among shareholders. These financial statements comprise of a Statement of Comprehensive Income, which presents By order of the Board, a true and fair view of the profit or loss of the Company and its subsidiaries for the financial year and a Statement of Financial Position, which presents a true and fair view of (Sgd) the state of affairs of the Company and its subsidiaries as Nexia Corporate Consultants (Pvt) Ltd at the end of the financial year. Secretaries to the Company Since the Directors are satisfied that the Company has adequate resources to continue in business for the foreseeable future, the Financial Statements continue to be prepared on ‘going concern’ basis. The Directors consider that in preparing the financial statements disclosed on Pages 80 to 123 the Company and its subsidiaries have used appropriate accounting policies, consistently applied and supported by reasonable and prudent judgment and estimates and that all accounting standards which they consider to be applicable have been followed. The Directors have the responsibility for ensuring that the Company and its subsidiaries keep accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy the financial position of the Company and its subsidiaries and which enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the provisions of the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007. The Directors have general responsibility for taking reasonable steps to safeguard the assets of the Company and its subsidiaries and in this regard to give proper consideration to the establishment of appropriate internal control systems, with a view to preventing and detecting frauds and other irregularities. 76 DURDANS HOSPITAL Audit Committee Report Role of Audit Committee Services (Pvt) Ltd., represented by a Director of that The role of the Audit Committee is to assist the Board’s Company, attend the meeting by invitation. oversight of the Company’s Accounting and Financial Reporting processes, the internal control and risk The views and the discussions of the Audit Committee are management systems, compliance with legal and communicated to the Board of Directors quarterly at the regulatory requirements, external auditor’s performance, Board Meetings. qualification and independence and the adequacy of the internal audit coverage of the Company as detailed in the Objective of the Audit Committee Audit Committee Charter which has been approved by the The Audit Committee is empowered to examine the Board. Financial Reporting Process and to review the adequacy of the internal controls established by the management, Composition of the Audit Committee disclosure of Accounting Policies, Compliance with The Audit Committee is a sub-committee of the Board of Sri Lanka Accounting Standards, Statutory Laws and Directors and consists of three Independent NonExecutive Corporate Governance and any other as detailed in the Directors and one Non-Executive Director with expertise terms of references. and ability in their respective fields who bring their collective business expertise to bear in the deliberations of Financial Reporting the committee. Brief profiles of each member are given in The Audit Committee has reviewed Quarterly Financial Pages 40 to 41 of this report. Statements submitted to Colombo Stock Exchange for the financial year 01st April 2014 to 31st March 2015, Meetings of the Audit Committee prior these statements being submitted to the Board of The Audit Committee had five meetings during the year Directors for their approval. under review and attendance of committee members are as follows: The Committee has reviewed and discussed in detail with the External Auditors and the Management, the Annual Name of the Director Attendance Audited Accounts for the year ended 31st March 2015 of the Company prior to publication. Mr A S Abeyewardene – Chairman (Non-Executive / Independent Director) 4/5 Internal Audit The Audit Committee reviewed and discussed in detail, the Mr Y N R Piyasena – Member monthly Internal Audit Reports submitted by the Internal (Non-Executive / Independent Director) 5/5 Auditors for the months from December 2013 to August 2014 relevant to the financial years 2013/14 and 2014/15 Dr N Y Wijemanne – Member and a special review report presented on a focused (Non-Executive Director) 5/5 business unit in the month of November 2014. Mr Su-Ayid M Ismail Member The observations detailed in the Internal Audit Reports (Non-Executive / Independent Director) 3/3 together with their recommendations, status of the implementation and subsequent actions taken by the management were discussed at the meetings with the On invitation; Internal Auditors to ensure the operating effectiveness Mr Ajith Tudawe – (Executive Director) of the internal controls that have been designed and Mr Upul Tudawe – (Executive Director) implemented throughout the financial year. The Finance Manager, Director Medical Services, Manager The Committee is of the view that adequate internal Medical Services, Marketing Manager, Supply Chain controls and procedures have been established by the Manager and Human Recourses Manager attend the Audit management to ensure the effectiveness of the operations Committee Meetings by invitation. In addition, the Internal of the Company and to safeguard its assets. Auditor of the Company, Messer Ernst & Young Advisory Annual Report 2014/2015 77 HIGHLIGHTS Operational information Governance Financial statements Audit Committee Report The Internal Auditors submitted the Internal Audit Plan for the financial year 2014/2015, to the Audit Committee and after a detailed review and discussion; the Internal Audit Plan was approved by the Audit Committee. The Committee is of the view that the Financial Statements of the Company have been prepared in accordance with the Sri Lanka Financial Reporting Standards (SLFRS/ LKAS) and the Accounting Policies have been adequately disclosed. The Committee also ensured that there is effective interaction between the Internal Auditors and the External Auditors. External Auditor The Audit Committee has reviewed and discussed in detail with the External Auditors and the Management, the Annual Audited Financial Statements and the Management Letter of the Company at its meeting on 19th May 2015. The Committee requested the External Auditors to independently examine the Internal Audit Reports and to report in their Management Letter for the ensuing year, their observations as to the implementation of the recommendations made by the Internal Auditors. The Committee met Messers B R De Silva & Company, Chartered Accountants, prior to commencement of the annual audit to discuss the audit scope, approach and methodology to be adopted. A special Audit Committee meeting was convened to discuss the Management Letter issues highlighted by the External Auditors and management’s responses thereto. The Committee having evaluated the independence and performance of the External Auditors has recommended to the Board that Messers B R De Silva & Company, Chartered Accountants, be re-appointed as the auditors of the Company for the financial year ending 31st March 2016. (Sgd) A S Abeyewardene Chairman Audit Committee 19th May 2015 78 DURDANS HOSPITAL Independent Auditors Report 1. Report on the Financial Statements 4. Opinion We have audited the accompanying Financial Statements In our opinion, so far as it appears from our examination of of Ceylon Hospitals PLC, the Consolidated Financial the Financial Statements, the Company maintained proper Statements of the Company and its subsidiaries as at that accounting records for the year ended 31st March, 2015 date, which comprise the Statement of Financial Position as and the Financial Statements give a true and fair view of at 31st March, 2015 and the Statement of Comprehensive the Company’s state of affairs as at 31st March, 2015 and Income, Statement of Changes in Equity and Statement its financial performance and cash flows for the year then of Cash Flows for the year then ended, and a summary ended, in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards. of significant Accounting Policies and other explanatory notes. In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of the company 2. Board’s Responsibility for the Financial as at 31st March, 2015 and of its financial performance Statements and cash flows for the year then ended, in accordance with The Board of Directors (“Board”) is responsible for the Sri Lanka Accounting Standards. preparation of these financial statements that give a true and fair view in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting 5. Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Standards and for such internal control as Board determines Requirements is necessary to enable the preparation of financial As required by section 163 (2) of the Companies Act No. 07 statements that are free from material misstatements, of 2007, we state the following: whether due to fraud or error. a) The basis of opinion and scope and limitations of the 3. Auditor’s Responsibility audit are as stated above. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audit. We conducted b) In our opinion: our audit in accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards. We have obtained all the information and Those standards require that we comply with ethical explanations that were required for the audit and requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain as far as appears from our examination, proper reasonable assurance whether the financial statements accounting records have been kept by the Company. are free from material misstatement. The financial statements of the Company give a true and fair view of its financial position as at 31st An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit March, 20015, and its financial performance and evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the cash flows for the year then ended in accordance financial statements. The procedures selected depend on with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards. the auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of the The financial statements of the Company, and the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, Group comply with the requirements of section whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk 151and 153 of the Companies Act. assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation of the financial statements that give a true and fair view in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal control. An audit also includes B. R. DE SILVA & CO. evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used Chartered Accountants and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by Colombo 05. Board, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. 21st May 2015 We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion. Annual Report 2014/2015 79 HIGHLIGHTS Operational information Governance Financial statements Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income GROUP COMPANY For the year ended 31st March, 2015 2014 2015 2014 Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Note Restated Restated Revenue (3) 4,083,366,708 3,961,267,670 2,736,867,797 2,647,083,795 Cost of Sales (1,782,755,334) (1,712,886,153) (1,149,104,701) (1,074,403,032) Gross Profit 2,300,611,374 2,248,381,517 1,587,763,096 1,572,680,763 Other Operating Income (4) 35,446,576 34,006,051 33,839,552 32,972,288 Overheads Administrative Expenses (1,640,322,338) (1,544,317,781) (1,173,688,255) (1,106,907,716) Other Operating Expenses (321,072,566) (310,820,812) (256,353,460) (242,379,805) Finance Cost (5) (125,005,484) (186,727,812) (88,863,922) (127,019,440) Finance Income (5.1) 15,800,707 19,485,773 59,296,956 41,516,492 (2,070,599,681) (2,022,380,632) (1,459,608,681) (1,434,790,469) Share of Profit from Equity Accounted Investee (6) 641,709 1,160,418 Profit before Taxation (7) 266,099,978 261,167,354 161,993,967 170,862,582 Taxation (8) (42,312,023) (32,093,202) (8,778,140) (12,861,768) Net Profit after Taxation 223,787,955 229,074,152 153,215,827 158,000,814 Other Comprehensive Income Net Gain/(Loss) on Gratuity Valuation (10,003,382) 14,241,009 (6,921,632) 13,760,841 Net Gain/(Loss) on Available for Sale Financial Assets 1,215,945 1,674,425 72,000 724,000 Other Comprehensive Income for the Year, Net of Tax (8,787,437) 15,915,434 (6,849,632) 14,484,841 Total Comprehensive Income for the Year, Net of Tax 215,000,518 244,989,586 146,366,195 172,485,655 Profit Attributable to: Equity Holders of the Parent 200,087,605 191,642,958 153,215,827 158,000,814 Non Controlling Interest 23,700,350 37,431,194 223,787,955 229,074,152 153,215,827 158,000,814 Total Comprehensive Income Attributable to: Equity Holders of the Parent 191,696,155 207,247,358 146,366,195 172,485,655 Non Controlling Interest 23,304,363 37,742,228 215,000,518 244,989,586 146,366,195 172,485,655 Earnings Per Share Basic (9) 5.91 5.66 4.52 4.66 The Significant Accounting Policies and the notes from Pages No. 84 to 123 form an integral part of these Financial Statements. 80 DURDANS HOSPITAL Consolidated Statement of Financial Position GROUP COMPANY As at 31st March, Note 2015 2014 2015 2014 Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Restated Restated ASSETS Non-Current Assets Property, Plant & Equipment (10) 4,107,469,951 4,158,467,815 1,912,273,485 1,952,110,989 Investments in Subsidiaries (11) 1,441,831,424 1,426,229,924 Investment in Equity Accounted Investee (6) 2,679,467 2,037,757 229,960 229,960 Other Financial Assets (20) 40,069,187 30,934,109 24,766,641 16,802,581 Prepaid Rent 600,000 660,000 4,150,818,605 4,192,099,681 3,379,101,510 3,395,373,454 Current Assets Inventories (12) 229,774,914 254,094,602 177,989,428 178,648,795 Trade and Other Receivables (13) 131,498,930 123,005,489 87,035,212 84,734,806 Prepayments (13.1) 109,066,982 66,872,833 86,393,257 56,023,164 Amounts due from Related Parties (14) 3,645,726 3,817,251 94,223,729 281,803,957 Other Financial Assets (20) 226,284,074 210,633,694 86,471,722 95,414,667 Cash and Cash Equivalents (15) 80,807,002 48,455,914 66,520,514 37,554,415 781,077,628 706,879,783 598,633,862 734,179,804 Total Assets 4,931,896,232 4,898,979,464 3,977,735,372 4,129,553,258 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity Attributable to Equity Holders of the Parent Stated Capital (16) 916,366,104 916,366,104 916,366,104 916,366,104 Revaluation Reserve (17) 532,338,890 532,338,890 532,338,890 532,338,890 Available for Sale Reserve 6,776,981 5,812,500 972,000 900,000 Revenue Reserves (18) 1,322,190,986 1,199,204,763 1,200,392,838 1,121,844,095 2,777,672,961 2,653,722,257 2,650,069,832 2,571,449,089 Non Controlling Interest (19) 361,828,865 348,632,803 Total Equity 3,139,501,826 3,002,355,060 2,650,069,832 2,571,449,089 Non-Current Liabilities Interest Bearing Loans & Borrowings (20.3) 436,943,219 589,690,760 326,502,788 430,251,448 Other Non Current Financial Liabilities (20.2) 53,562,550 77,369,863 53,562,550 77,369,863 Deferred Revenue (21) 27,344,600 28,684,600 Retirement Benefit Obligation (22) 118,870,297 98,168,128 100,569,734 84,523,979 Deferred Tax Liabilities (23) 108,549,276 97,547,307 57,736,399 72,635,114 717,925,342 862,776,058 565,716,071 693,465,004 Current Liabilities Bank Overdrafts 315,438,033 334,810,632 209,597,311 226,765,286 Interest Bearing Loans & Borrowings (20.3) 403,590,276 391,549,772 275,062,023 233,091,275 Other Non Current Financial Liabilities (20.2) 13,750,000 13,750,000 13,750,000 13,750,000 Trade and Other Payables (24) 337,119,628 283,027,095 217,425,132 178,968,057 Taxation Payable (25) 4,571,127 10,710,847 5,541,532 9,974,077 Amounts due to Related Parties (14) 40,573,470 202,090,471 1,074,469,064 1,033,848,346 761,949,468 864,639,166 Total Equity and Liabilities 4,931,896,232 4,898,979,464 3,977,735,372 4,129,553,258 These Financial Statements are in compliance with the requirements of the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007. Anagi Karunasena Finance Manager The Board of Directors is responsible for the preparation and presentation of these Financial Statements. Signed for and on behalf of the Board by, A E Tudawe A D P A Wijegoonewardene Chairman Director 21st May 2015 Annual Report 2014/2015 81 HIGHLIGHTS Operational information Governance Financial statements Statement of Changes in Equity Note Stated Revaluation General Available Accumulated Total Non Total Capital Reserve Reserve for Sale Profits Controlling Reserve Interest Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. GROUP Balance as at 01st April 2013 as Previously Reported 916,366,104 532,338,890 4,822,163 4,346,999 1,098,464,383 2,556,338,539 494,335,061 3,050,673,600 Effects of Adjusting Prior Period Error 26 (22,598,207) (22,598,207) (22,598,207) Balance as at 01st April 2013 Restated 916,366,104 532,338,890 4,822,163 4,346,999 1,075,866,176 2,533,740,332 494,335,061 3,028,075,393 Net Profit for the Year Restated 191,642,958 191,642,958 37,431,194 229,074,152 Other Comprehensive Income Net Gain/ (Loss) from Gratuity Valuation 14,138,899 14,138,899 102,110 14,241,009 Net Gain/ (Loss) on Available for Sale Financial Assets 1,465,501 1,465,501 208,924 1,674,425 Dividend Paid Ordinary Shares (15,709,917) (15,709,917) Acquisition of Non Controlling Interest (87,265,433) (87,265,433) (167,734,569) (255,000,002) Balance as at 31st March 2014 916,366,104 532,338,890 4,822,163 5,812,500 1,194,382,600 2,653,722,257 348,632,803 3,002,355,060 Net Profit for the Year 200,087,606 200,087,606 23,700,349 223,787,955 Right Issue 4,398,500 4,398,500 Other Comprehensive Income Net Gain/(Loss) from Gratuity Valuation (9,355,931) (9,355,931) (647,451) (10,003,382) Net Gain/(Loss) on Available for Sale Financial Assets 964,481 964,481 251,464 1,215,945 Dividend Paid Ordinary Shares (67,745,452) (67,745,452) (14,506,800) (82,252,252) Balance as at 31st March 2015 916,366,104 532,338,890 4,822,163 6,776,981 1,317,368,823 2,777,672,961 361,828,865 3,139,501,826 Note Stated Revaluation General Available for Accumulated Total Capital Reserve Reserve Sales Reserve Profits Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. COMPANY Balance as at 01st April 2013 as Previously Reported 916,366,104 532,338,890 4,822,163 176,000 967,858,484 2,421,561,641 Effects of Adjusting Prior Period Error 26 (22,598,207) (22,598,207) Balance as at 01st April 2013 Restated 916,366,104 532,338,890 4,822,163 176,000 945,260,277 2,398,963,434 Net Profit for the Year Restated 26 158,000,814 158,000,814 Other Comprehensive Income Net Gain/(Loss) from Gratuity Valuation 13,760,841 13,760,841 Net Gain/(Loss) on Available for Sale Financial Assets 724,000 724,000 Balance as at 31st March 2014 916,366,104 532,338,890 4,822,163 900,000 1,117,021,932 2,571,449,089 Net Profit for the Year 153,215,827 153,215,827 Dividend Paid Ordinary Shares (67,745,452) (67,745,452) Other Comprehensive Income Net Gain/(Loss) from Gratuity Valuation (6,921,632) (6,921,632) Net Gain/(Loss) on Available for Sale Financial Assets 72,000 72,000 Balance as at 31st March 2015 916,366,104 532,338,890 4,822,163 972,000 1,195,570,675 2,650,069,832 82 DURDANS HOSPITAL Statement of Cash Flows GROUP COMPANY For the year ended 31st March, 2015 2014 2015 2014 Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Cash Flows from/(used in) Operating Activities Net Profit before Income Tax Expenses 266,099,978 261,167,354 161,993,967 170,862,582 Adjustments for Inventory write off/ (write in) 9,527,371 (2,732,186) 2,684,088 806,708 Bad Debts write-off 5,853,463 813,287 5,391,452 10,854 Depreciation Charge for the Year 282,397,411 269,924,603 144,664,848 135,801,751 Finance Income (15,800,707) (19,485,773) (59,296,956) (41,516,492) Finance Costs 125,005,484 186,727,812 88,863,922 127,019,440 Amortisation of Deferred Rent 100,000 (1,340,000) (1,340,000) Profit on Disposal of Property, Plant & Equipment (9,095,926) (3,087,605) (9,174,228) (3,087,605) Bad Debts written back 156,573 (Increase)/Decrease in Financial Instruments (1,540,422) 1,674,425 (1,441,564) 724,000 Share of Profit from Equity Accounted Investee (641,709) (1,160,418) Provision for Defined Benefit Plans 25,616,778 23,841,310 21,090,189 19,603,831 Operating Profit/(Loss) before Working Capital changes 687,421,722 717,782,809 353,435,718 409,041,642 (Increase)/ Decrease in Inventories 12,060,127 (42,128,385) (3,681,795) (45,232,588) (Increase)/Decrease in Trade and Other Receivables and Prepayments (53,268,204) (5,728,519) (36,772,056) (14,578,572) Increase/(Decrease) in Trade and Other Payables 53,260,495 (17,071,971) 38,457,075 (22,646,476) Increase/(Decrease) in Related Party Dues 171,525 (5,205,352) 26,063,226 14,801,965 Cash Generated from Operations 699,645,665 647,648,582 377,502,168 341,385,970 Finance Costs Paid (125,005,484) (181,857,949) (88,863,922) (127,019,440) Defined Benefit Plan Costs Paid (14,917,990) (11,423,438) (11,966,065) (10,990,639) Income Tax Paid (32,294,666) (29,686,287) (23,037,347) (16,711,996) Net Cash from/(used in) Operating Activities 527,427,524 424,680,908 253,634,834 186,663,895 Cash Flows from/(used in) Investing Activities Acquisition of Property, Plant & Equipment (255,042,208) (191,694,493) (128,385,404) (138,111,614) Proceeds from issuance of Share Capital 4,398,500 8,990,942 Proceeds from Sale of Property, Plant & Equipment 32,738,588 (71,683,119) 32,732,288 8,990,942 (Acquisition) / Disposal of Other Investments (21,760,772) 2,859,628 (6,895,606) Finance Income 5,743,394 19,485,773 44,167,590 41,516,492 Net Cash Flows from/(used in) Investing Activities (233,922,498) (234,900,897) (48,625,898) (94,499,786) Cash Flows from/(used in) Financing Activities Receipts from Interest Bearing Loans & Borrowings 642,550,000 310,000,000 592,550,000 280,000,000 Re-payment of Interest Bearing Loans & Borrowings (797,007,034) (343,608,101) (668,077,911) (186,174,314) Investment in Subsidiary (255,000,002) (15,601,500) (255,000,002) Dividends Paid (87,324,305) (34,726,346) (67,745,452) (34,726,346) Net Cash Flows from/(used in) Financing Activities (241,781,338) (323,334,449) (158,874,863) (195,900,662) Net Increase/(Decrease) in Cash and Cash Equivalents 51,723,688 (133,554,438) 46,134,074 (103,736,552) Cash and Cash Equivalents at the beginning of the Year (286,354,720) (152,800,281) (189,210,872) (85,474,319) Cash and Cash Equivalents at the end of the Year (234,631,032) (286,354,719) (143,076,798) (189,210,871) Analysis of Cash & Cash Equivalents Cash at Bank Overdrawn (315,438,033) (334,810,632) (209,597,311) (226,765,286) Cash in Hand and at Bank 80,807,002 48,455,914 66,520,514 37,554,415 (234,631,032) (286,354,719) (143,076,798) (189,210,871) Annual Report 2014/2015 83 HIGHLIGHTS Operational information Governance Financial statements Notes to the Financial Statements 1. CORPORATE INFORMATION subsidiaries of the Company and the Share of Profit from 1.1 General the Equity Accounted Investee . The details of subsidiaries Ceylon Hospitals PLC is a Limited Liability Company and Equity Accounted Investee are as follows: incorporated and domiciled in Sri Lanka and listed in the Colombo Stock Exchange. The registered office and the principal place of business are situated at No.3, Alfred Year of Percentage of Place, Colombo 3. Incorporation Ownership 1.2 Parent Enterprise and Ultimate Parent EnterSubsidiaries prise Durdans Heart Surgical The consolidated financial statements of the Company for Centre (Pvt) Limited 1999/2000 78.02% the year ended 31st March 2015, comprise the Company Durdans Medical and and its subsidiaries. (together referred to as the ‘Group’). Surgical Hospital The ultimate holding company is Durdans Management (Pvt) Limited 2007/2008 81.40% Services Limited. Equity Accounted Investee Ceygen Biotech Pvt Ltd 2009/2010 46.00% 1.3 Principal Activities and Nature of Operations During the year the principal business activities of the group were as follows: 2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 2.1 General Accounting Policies Name of the Company Nature of the Business 2.1.1 Basis of Preparation of Financial Statements The consolidated financial statements of the Group have Ceylon Hospitals PLC Providing healthcare services. been prepared in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting Durdans Heart Surgical Providing Cardiac Surgical Standards comprising (SLFRS/LKAS) as issued by the Center (Pvt) Ltd Operations and Interventional Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka (ICASL). Procedures. Durdans Medical and Providing healthcare services. These financial statements presented in Sri Lanka Rupees Surgical Hospital have been prepared on a historical cost basis except for (Pvt) Ltd the revaluation of certain property, plant and equipment, Ceygen Biotech (Pvt) Ltd Providing and Supplying of derivative financial instruments and available-for-sale Molecular Biological, financial assets that have been measured at fair value. Biochemical, Biotechnological Reagents, Kits, Equipments & 2.1.2 Statement of Compliance Accessories for Molecular The Consolidated Financial Statement of Ceylon Hospitals diagnostic and research PLC and its subsidiary companies have been prepared in purpose. accordance with the Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (SLAS) as laid down by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of 1.4 Date of Authorisation for Issue Sri Lanka (ICASL) and the requirements of the Companies The financial of statements for the year ended 31st March Act No. 07 of 2007. 2015 were authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution of the Board of Directors on 21st May 2015. 2.1.3 Going Concern The Directors have made an assessment on the Company’s 1.5 Companies in the Group ability to continue as a going concern and they certified Subsidiaries and Equity Accounted Investee that the Company has adequate resources to continue The Group Financial Statements include the results of the its operations in the foreseeable future. Therefore, these Durdans Heart Surgical Centre (Pvt) Limited and Durdans financial statements are prepared on going concern basis. Medical and Surgical Hospital (Pvt) Limited which are 84 DURDANS HOSPITAL 2.1.4 Materiality and Aggregation goodwill associated with the operation disposed of is Each material class of similar items is presented separately included in the carrying amount of the operation when in the Financial Statements. Items of dissimilar nature determining the gain or loss on disposal of the operation. or function are presented separately unless they are immaterial. (d) Intra-Group Balances and Transactions Any unrealized gains/losses from the intra-group 2.1.5 Consolidation Policy transactions are eliminated in preparing the Consolidated (a) Basis of Consolidation Financial Statements. Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are those enterprises controlled by the (e) Investment in Equity Accounted Investee Company. Control exists when the Company has the The Group’s investment in its equity accounted investee is power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and accounted for using the equity method. Equity accounted operating policies of an enterprise so as to obtain benefits investee is an entity in which the Group has a significant from its activities. The financial statements of subsidiaries influence. are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that Under the equity method, the investment in equity control ceases. accounted investee is carried in the statement of financial position at cost plus post acquisition changes in the Group’s The interest of the outside shareholders of the Group is share of net assets of the equity accounted investee. disclosed separately under the heading of “Non Controlling Goodwill relating to the equity accounted investee is Interest”. Losses within a subsidiary are attributed to the included in the carrying amount of the investment and is non-controlling interest even if that results in a deficit neither amortised nor individually tested for impairment. balance. The Statement of Comprehensive Income reflects the A listing of the Group’s significant subsidiaries is set out in share of the results of operations of the equity accounted Note (1.5) to the financial statements. investee. Where there has been a change recognised directly in the equity of the equity accounted investee, the (b) Financial Year Group recognises its share of any changes and discloses All Companies in the Group have a common financial year, this, when applicable, in the statement of changes in equity. which ends on 31st March. Unrealised gains and losses resulting from transactions between the Group and the equity accounted investee (c) Goodwill are eliminated to the extent of the interest in the equity Goodwill is initially measured at cost, being the excess of accounted investee. the aggregate of the consideration transferred and the amount recognised for non-controlling interest over the The share of profit of an equity accounted investee is net identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed. shown on the face of the income statement. This is Following the initial recognition goodwill is measured at the profit attributable to equity holders of the equity cost less any accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill accounted investee and therefore is profit after tax and is reviewed for impairment, annually or more frequently non-controlling interests in the subsidiaries of the equity if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the accounted investee. carrying value may be impaired. The financial statements of the equity accounted investee For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired are prepared for the same reporting period as the Group. in a business combination is from the acquisition date, Where necessary, adjustments are made to bring the allocated to groups of cash-generating units that are accounting policies in line with those of the Group. expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination. After application of the equity method, the Group Where goodwill forms part of a cash-generating unit and determines whether it is necessary to recognise an part of the operation within that unit is disposed of, the additional impairment loss on the Group’s investment in its Annual Report 2014/2015 85 HIGHLIGHTS Operational information Governance Financial statements Notes to the Financial Statements equity accounted investee. The Group determines at each 2.1.8 Taxation reporting date whether there is any objective evidence 2.1.8.1 Current Taxes that the investment in the equity accounted investee The provision for income tax is based on the elements is impaired. If this is the case, the Group calculates the of income and expenditure as reported in the financial amount of impairment as the difference between the statements and computed in accordance with the recoverable amount of the equity accounted investee and provisions of the Inland Revenue Act. its carrying value and recognises the amount in the ‘share of profit of from equity accounted investee’ in the income The profits of Durdans Medical and Surgical Hospitals (Pvt) statement. Limited are exempt from Income Tax for a period of 6 years from the date on which the Company first commenced to Upon loss of significant influence over the equity accounted make profit under the BOI Agreement No.2618 of 20th investee, the Group measures and recognises any retaining September 2007. investment at its fair value. Any difference between the carrying amount of the equity accounted investee upon loss 2.1.8.2 Deferred Taxation of significant influence and the fair value of the retaining Deferred Tax is provided in full, using the liability method investment and proceeds from disposal is recognised in on temporary differences arising between the tax base profit or loss. of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial statements. Deferred tax is determined using 2.1.6 Foreign Currency Transactions tax rates that have been enacted or substantially enacted The Group’s consolidated financial statements are by the reporting date and are expected to apply when presented in Sri Lanka Rupees (“Rupees”), which is also the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the the parent company’s functional currency. Transactions in deferred income tax liability is settled. foreign currencies are translated in to Sri Lanka Rupees (“Rupees”) at the foreign exchange rate prevailing at the The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed date of the transaction. at each reporting date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign available to allow all or part of the deferred tax asset to be currencies at the reporting date are translated in to rupees utilised. Unrecognised deferred tax assets are reassessed at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that date. Foreign at each reporting date and are recognised to the extent exchange differences arising on translations are recognised that it has become probable that future taxable profits will in the Statement of Comprehensive Income. allow the deferred tax assets to be recovered. Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of 2.1.9 Events after the Reporting date historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the All the material events after the reporting date have been exchange rates as at the dates of the initial transactions. considered and appropriate adjustments/ disclosures have Non-monetary items measured at fair value in a foreign been made, where necessary. currency are translated using the exchange rates at the date when the fair value is determined. The gain or loss 2.2 Valuation of Assets and their Measurement arising on translation of non-monetary items is recognised Bases in line with the gain or loss of the item that gave rise to 2.2.1 Inventories the translation difference (translation differences on items Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable whose gain or loss is recognised in other comprehensive value, after making due allowances for obsolete and slow income or profit or loss is also recognised in other moving items. Net realisable value is the price at which comprehensive income or profit or loss respectively). inventories can be sold in the ordinary course of business less the estimated cost of completion and the estimated 2.1.7 Comparative Information cost necessary to make the sale. Comparative Information has been reclassified, wherever necessary, to conform to the current year’s presentation and classification. 86 DURDANS HOSPITAL The cost incurred in bringing inventories to their present 2.2.3 Property, Plant & Equipment location and conditions are accounted for as follows: (a) Cost and Valuation Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost, net of Drugs & Dressings At actual cost on accumulated depreciation and/or accumulated impairment weighted average losses, if any. Such cost includes the cost of replacing basis component parts of the property, plant and equipment X-Ray Films & Chemicals At actual cost on and borrowing costs for long-term construction projects if weighted average the recognition criteria are met. When significant parts of basis property, plant and equipment are required to be replaced Pantry Provisions At actual cost on at intervals, the Group derecognises the replaced part, and weighted average recognises the new part with its own associated useful basis life and depreciation. Likewise, when a major inspection General Issues & Reagents At actual cost on is performed, its cost is recognised in the carrying weighted average amount of the plant and equipment as a replacement if basis the recognition criteria are satisfied. All other repair and maintenance costs are recognised in the income statement Net realisable value is the estimated price at which as incurred. The present value of the expected cost for the inventories can be sold in the ordinary course of business decommissioning of the asset after its use is included in less the estimated costs of completion and the estimated the cost of the respective asset if the recognition criteria costs necessary to make the sale. for a provision are met. 2.2.2 Cash and Cash Equivalents Land and buildings are measured at fair value less Cash and cash equivalents are defined as cash in hand, accumulated depreciation on buildings and impairment demand deposits and short term highly liquid investments losses recognised after the date of the revaluation. readily convertible to known amounts of cash and subject Valuations are performed with sufficient frequency to to insignificant risk of changes in value. ensure that the fair value of a revalued asset does not differ materially from its carrying amount. For the purpose of cash flow statement, cash & cash equivalent consists of cash in hand and deposits in banks Any revaluation surplus is recognised in other net of outstanding bank overdrafts that are repayable on comprehensive income and accumulated in equity in demand and form an integral part of the Group’s cash the asset revaluation reserve, except to the extent that management. it reverses a revaluation decrease of the same asset previously recognised in the income statement, in which Investment with short term maturities i.e. three months or case the increase is recognised in the income statement. A less from the date of acquisitions is also treated as cash revaluation deficit is recognised in the income statement, equivalents. except to the extent that it offsets an existing surplus on the same asset recognised in the asset revaluation reserve. The Cash Flow Statement Any balance remaining in the revaluation surplus in respect The Cash Flow Statement has been prepared using of an asset is transferred directly to Accumulated Profits ‘‘Indirect Method’’ of preparing cash flows in accordance on retirement or disposal of the assets. with the LKAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows, on cash flow statements whereby gross cash receipts and gross cash The Company Policy is to revalue the company Land and payments on Operating Activities, Investing Activities and Building between 3-5 years. Financial Activities are recognised. Annual Report 2014/2015 87 HIGHLIGHTS Operational information Governance Financial statements Notes to the Financial Statements (b) Depreciation (d) Derecognition The provision for depreciation is calculated by using An item of Property, Plant and Equipment is derecognised straight line basis on the cost or valuation of all Property, upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are Plant and Equipment other than freehold land, in order to expected from its use or disposal. Any gain or loss arising write off such amounts over the following estimated useful on derecognition of the asset calculated as the difference lives. The principal annual rates used are: between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount. Gains or losses on derecognition are recognised Buildings @ 2.5% in profit or loss and gains are not classified as revenue. Plant & Machinery @ 10% Electrical Equipment @ 10% 2.2.4 Leases Furniture & Fittings @ 10% Finance Leases Sundry Equipment @ 10% Finance leases which transfer to the Group substantially all Telephones @ 20% the risks and benefits incidental to ownership of the leased Electrical Power Plant & Transformer @ 10% item, are capitalised at the commencement of the lease Air Conditioners @ 10% at the fair value of the leased property or, if lower, at the Motor Vehicles @ 10% present value of the minimum lease payments. Linen @ 50% Computer Equipment @ 10% A leased asset is depreciated over the useful life of the asset. However, if there is no reasonable certainty that the Durdans Heart Surgical Centre (Pvt) Limited Group will obtain ownership by the end of the lease term, Cardiac Catheterisation Laboratory @ 10% the asset is depreciated over the shorter of the estimated Theatre & CSICU Equipment @ 10% useful life of the asset and the lease term. Furniture & Fittings @ 20% Computer Equipment @ 25% The corresponding principal amount payable to the lessor Electrical & Other Equipment @ 20% is shown as a liability, lease payments are apportioned Motor Vehicles @ 20% between the finance charges and reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the Durdans Medical & Surgical Hospital (Pvt) Limited remaining balance of the liability. The interest payable Buildings @ 2.5% over the period of the lease is transferred to an interest Computer Equipment @ 10% in suspense account. The interest element of the rental Medical Equipment @ 10% obligations applicable to each financial year is charged to Furniture & Fittings @ 5% the Statement of Comprehensive Income over the period Curtaining & Linen @ 50% of the lease. Other Equipment @ 10% Operating lease payments are recognised as an operating Depreciation of an asset begins when it is available for expense in the Statement of Comprehensive Income on a use and ceases at the earlier of the date that the asset straight-line basis over the lease term. is classified as held for sale and the date that the asset is derecognised. 2.2.5 Capital Work-In-Progress The cost of Capital Work-In-Progress is the cost of purchase (c) Restoration Cost or construction together with any related expenses Expenditure incurred on repairs and maintenance of thereon. Property, Plant & Equipment in order to restore or maintain the future economic benefits expected from originally Expenditure Incurred on Capital Work-In-Progress for assessed standard of performance, is recognised as an permanent nature or for the purpose of increasing the expense when incurred. earning capacity of the business has been treated as capital expenditure. 88 DURDANS HOSPITAL Capital Work-In-Progress is transferred to the respective receivables, quoted and unquoted financial instruments asset accounts at the time of the first utilisation or at the and derivative financial instruments. time the asset is commissioned. Subsequent Measurement 2.2.6 Intangible Assets The subsequent measurement of financial assets depend An intangible asset is initially recognised at cost, if it is on their classification as follows: probable that future economic benefit will flow to the enterprise, and the cost of the asset can be measured Financial Assets at Fair Value through Profit or Loss reliably. Following the initial recognition, intangible assets Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss include are carried at cost less any accumulated amortisation and financial assets held for trading and financial assets any accumulated impairment losses. designated upon initial recognition at fair value through profit or loss. Financial assets are classified as held for Intangible assets with finite lives are amortised over the trading if they are acquired for the purpose of selling or useful economic life and assessed for impairment whenever repurchasing in the near term. This category includes there is an indication that the intangible asset may be derivative financial instruments entered into by the Group impaired. The amortisation period and the amortisation that are not designated as hedging instruments in hedge method for an intangible asset with a finite useful life are relationships as defined by IAS 39. Derivatives, including reviewed at least at each financial year end. separated embedded derivatives are also classified as held for trading unless they are designated as effective Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are tested for hedging instruments. Financial assets at fair value through impairment annually either individually or at the cashprofit and loss are carried in the statement of financial generating unit level. position at fair value with changes in fair value recognised in finance income or finance costs in the Statement of 2.2.7 Financial Instruments initial recognition and Comprehensive Income. subsequent measurement The Group evaluates its financial assets held for trading, i) Financial Assets other than derivatives, to determine whether the intention Initial recognition and measurement to sell them in the near term is still appropriate. When the Group is unable to trade these financial assets due Financial assets within the scope of LKAS 39 are classified to inactive markets and management’s intention to sell as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, loans them in the foreseeable future significantly changes, and receivables, held-to-maturity investments, availablethe Group may elect to reclassify these financial assets for-sale financial assets, or as derivatives designated as in rare circumstances. The reclassification to loans and hedging instruments in an effective hedge, as appropriate. receivables, available-for-sale or held-to-maturity depends The Group determines the classification of its financial on the nature of the asset. This evaluation does not affect assets at initial recognition. any financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss using the fair value option at designation. All financial assets are recognised initially at fair value plus, in the case of assets not at fair value through profit or loss, Derivatives embedded in host contracts are accounted for directly attributable transaction costs. as separate derivatives and recorded at fair value if their economic characteristics and risks are not closely related Purchases or sales of financial assets that require delivery to those of the host contracts and the host contracts are of assets within a time frame established by regulation or not held for trading or designated at fair value though convention in the marketplace (regular way trades) are profit or loss. These embedded derivatives are measured recognised on the trade date, i.e., the date that the Group at fair value with changes in fair value recognised in the commits to purchase or sell the asset. reassessment only occurs if there is a change in the terms of the contract that significantly modifies the cash flows The Group’s financial assets include cash and short-term that would otherwise be required. deposits, trade and other receivables, loans and other Annual Report 2014/2015 89 HIGHLIGHTS Operational information Governance Financial statements Notes to the Financial Statements Loans and Receivables sale reserve. Interest income on available-for-sale debt Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets securities is calculated using the effective interest method with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted and is recognised in profit or loss. in an active market. After initial measurement, such financial assets are subsequently measured at amortised Available-for-Sale Financial Investments cost using the effective interest rate method (EIR), less The Group evaluates its available-for-sale financial assets impairment. Amortised cost is calculated by taking into to determine whether the ability and intention to sell them account any discount or premium on acquisition and in the near term is still appropriate. When the Group is fees or costs that are an integral part of the EIR. The unable to trade these financial assets due to inactive EIR amortisation is included in finance income in the markets and management’s intention to do so significantly Statement of Comprehensive Income. The losses arising changes in the foreseeable future, the Group may elect from impairment are recognised in the income statement to reclassify these financial assets in rare circumstances. in finance costs. Reclassification to loans and receivables is permitted when the financial assets meet the definition of loans Held-to-Maturity Investments and receivables and the Group has the intent and ability Non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable to hold these assets for the foreseeable future or until payments and fixed maturities are classified as held-tomaturity. Reclassification to the held-to-maturity category maturity when the Group has the positive intention and is permitted only when the entity has the ability and ability to hold them to maturity. After initial measurement, intention to hold the financial asset accordingly. held-to-maturity investments are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less impairment. For a financial asset reclassified out of the available-forAmortised cost is calculated by taking into account any sale category, any previous gain or loss on that asset that discount or premium on acquisition and fees or costs that are has been recognised in equity is amortised to profit or loss an integral part of the EIR. The EIR amortisation is included over the remaining life of the investment using the EIR. in finance income in the Statement of Comprehensive Any difference between the new amortised cost and the Income. The losses arising from impairment are recognised expected cash flows is also amortised over the remaining in the Statement of Comprehensive Income in finance costs. life of the asset using the EIR. If the asset is subsequently The Group did not have any held-to-maturity investments determined to be impaired, then the amount recorded in during the year ended 31 March 2015. equity is reclassified to the income statement. Available-for-Sale Financial Investments Derecognition Available-for-sale financial investments include equity and A financial asset (or, where applicable a part of a financial debt securities. Equity investments classified as availableasset or part of a group of similar financial assets) is for-sale are those, which are neither classified as held derecognised when: for trading nor designated at fair value through profit or loss. Debt securities in this category are those which are The rights to receive cash flows from the asset have intended to be held for an indefinite period of time and expired. which may be sold in response to needs for liquidity or in response to changes in the market conditions. The Group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from the asset or has assumed an obligation After initial measurement, available-for-sale financial to pay the received cash flows in full without investments are subsequently measured at fair value material delay to a third party under a ‘passwith unrealised gains or losses recognised as other through’ arrangement; and either (a) the Group has comprehensive income in the available-for-sale reserve transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of until the investment is derecognised, at which time the the asset, or (b) the Group has neither transferred cumulative gain or loss is recognised in other operating nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards income, or determined to be impaired, at which time the of the asset, but has transferred control of the asset. cumulative loss is reclassified to the income statement in finance costs and removed from the available-for90 DURDANS HOSPITAL When the Group has transferred its rights to receive cash for impairment and for which an impairment loss is, or flows from an asset or has entered into a pass-through continues to be, recognised are not included in a collective arrangement, and has neither transferred nor retained assessment of impairment. substantially all of the risks and rewards of the asset nor transferred control of it, the asset is recognised to the If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss extent of the Group’s continuing involvement in it. has been incurred, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the assets carrying amount In that case, the Group also recognises an associated and the present value of estimated future cash flows liability. The transferred asset and the associated liability (excluding future expected credit losses that have not yet are measured on a basis that reflects the rights and been incurred). The present value of the estimated future obligations that the Group has retained. cash flows is discounted at the financial asset’s original effective interest rate. If a loan has a variable interest rate, Continuing involvement that takes the form of a guarantee the discount rate for measuring any impairment loss is the over the transferred asset is measured at the lower of the current effective interest rate. original carrying amount of the asset and the maximum amount of consideration that the Group could be required The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the to repay. use of an allowance account and the amount of the loss is recognised in the income statement. Interest income ii) Impairment of Financial Assets continues to be accrued on the reduced carrying amount The Group assesses at each reporting date whether and is accrued using the rate of interest used to discount there is any objective evidence that a financial asset or the future cash flows for the purpose of measuring the a group of financial assets is impaired. A financial asset impairment loss. The interest income is recorded as part of or a group of financial assets is deemed to be impaired if, finance income in the Statement of Comprehensive Income. and only if, there is objective evidence of impairment as a Loans together with the associated allowance are written result of one or more events that has occurred after the off when there is no realistic prospect of future recovery initial recognition of the asset (an incurred ‘loss event’) and all collateral has been realised or has been transferred and that loss event has an impact on the estimated to the Group. If, in a subsequent year, the amount of the future cash flows of the financial asset or the group of estimated impairment loss increases or decreases because financial assets that can be reliably estimated. Evidence of an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, of impairment may include indications that the debtors the previously recognised impairment loss is increased or or a group of debtors is experiencing significant financial reduced by adjusting the allowance account. If a future difficulty, default or delinquency in interest or principal write-off is later recovered, the recovery is credited to payments, the probability that they will enter bankruptcy finance costs in the Statement of Comprehensive Income. or other financial reorganisation and where observable data indicate that there is a measurable decrease in the Available-for-Sale Financial Investments estimated future cash flows, such as changes in arrears or For available-for-sale financial investments, the Group economic conditions that correlate with defaults. assesses at each reporting date whether there is objective evidence that an investment or a group of investments is Financial Assets carried at Amortised Cost impaired. For financial assets carried at amortised cost, the Group first assesses whether objective evidence of impairment In the case of equity investments classified as availableexists individually for financial assets that are individually for-sale, objective evidence would include a significant significant, or collectively for financial assets that are not or prolonged decline in the fair value of the investment individually significant. If the Group determines that no below its cost. ‘Significant’ is evaluated against the original objective evidence of impairment exists for an individually cost of the investment and ‘prolonged’ against the period assessed financial asset, whether significant or not, it in which the fair value has been below its original cost. includes the asset in a group of financial assets with Where there is evidence of impairment, the cumulative similar credit risk characteristics and collectively assesses loss measured as the difference between the acquisition them for impairment. Assets that are individually assessed cost and the current fair value, less any impairment loss on Annual Report 2014/2015 91 HIGHLIGHTS Operational information Governance Financial statements Notes to the Financial Statements that investment previously recognised in the Statement of Separated embedded derivatives are also classified as held Comprehensive Income. for trading unless they are designated as effective hedging instruments. Gains or losses on liabilities held for trading Future interest income continues to be accrued based are recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income. on the reduced carrying amount of the asset, using the rate of interest used to discount the future cash flows Loans and Borrowings for the purpose of measuring the impairment loss. The After initial recognition, interest bearing loans and interest income is recorded as part of finance income. If, borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost in a subsequent year, the fair value of a debt instrument using the effective interest rate method. Gains and losses increases and the increase can be objectively related to an are recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised when the liabilities are derecognised as well as through the in the income statement, the impairment loss is reversed effective interest rate method (EIR) amortisation process. through the income statement. Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any iii) Financial Liabilities discount or premium on acquisition and fees or costs that Initial recognition and measurement are an integral part of the EIR. The EIR amortisation is Financial liabilities within the scope of LKAS 39 are classified included in finance costs in the Statement of Comprehensive as financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss, Income. loans and borrowings, or as derivatives designated as hedging instruments in an effective hedge, as appropriate. Financial Guarantee Contracts The Group determines the classification of its financial Financial guarantee contracts issued by the Group are those liabilities at initial recognition. contracts that require a payment to be made to reimburse the holder for a loss it incurs because the specified debtor All financial liabilities are recognised initially at fair fails to make a payment when due in accordance with the value and, in the case of loans and borrowings, carried terms of a debt instrument. Financial guarantee contracts at amortised cost. This includes directly attributable are recognised initially as a liability at fair value, adjusted transaction costs. for transaction costs that are directly attributable to the issuance of the guarantee. Subsequently, the liability The Group’s financial liabilities include trade and other is measured at the higher of the best estimate of the payables, bank overdrafts, loans and borrowings, financial expenditure required to settle the present obligation at the guarantee contracts, and derivative financial instruments. reporting date and the amount recognised less cumulative amortisation. Subsequent measurement The measurement of financial liabilities depends on their Derecognition classification as follows: A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the liability is discharged or cancelled or expires. Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss When an existing financial liability is replaced by another Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss from the same lender on substantially different terms, include financial liabilities held for trading and financial or the terms of an existing liability are substantially liabilities designated upon initial recognition as at fair value modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as a through profit or loss. derecognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability, and the difference in the respective carrying Financial liabilities are classified as held for trading if they amounts is recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive are acquired for the purpose of selling in the near term. This Income. category includes derivative financial instruments entered into by the Group that are not designated as hedging instruments in hedge relationships as defined by LKAS 39. 92 DURDANS HOSPITAL Offsetting of Financial Instruments quoted share prices for publicly traded subsidiaries or Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and other available fair value indicators. the net amount reported in the consolidated statement of financial position if, and only if, there is a currently The Group bases its impairment calculation on detailed enforceable legal right to offset the recognised amounts budgets and forecast calculations which are prepared and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, or to separately for each of the Group’s cash-generating units to realise the assets and settle the liabilities simultaneously. which the individual assets are allocated. These budgets and forecast calculations are generally covering a period of five Fair Value of Financial Instruments years. For longer periods, a long term growth rate is calculated The fair value of financial instruments that are traded and applied to project future cash flows after the fifth year. in active markets at each reporting date is determined by reference to quoted market prices or dealer price Impairment losses of continuing operations, including quotations (bid price for long positions and ask price for impairment on inventories, are recognised in the Statement short positions), without any deduction for transaction of Comprehensive Income in those expense categories costs. consistent with the function of the impaired asset, except for a property previously revalued where the revaluation For financial instruments not traded in an active market, was taken to Statement of Comprehensive Income. In this the fair value is determined using appropriate valuation case, the impairment is also recognised in Statement of techniques. Such techniques may include using recent Comprehensive Income up to the amount of any previous arm’s length market transactions; reference to the current revaluation. fair value of another instrument that is substantially the same; a discounted cash flow analysis or other valuation For assets excluding goodwill, an assessment is made at models. An analysis of fair values of financial instruments each reporting date as to whether there is any indication and further details as to how they are measured are that previously recognised impairment losses may no longer provided in Note 20. exist or may have decreased. If such indication exists, the Group estimates the asset’s or cash-generating unit’s Impairment of non-Financial Assets recoverable amount. A previously recognised impairment The Group assesses at each reporting date whether loss is reversed only if there has been a change in the there is an indication that an asset may be impaired. If assumptions used to determine the asset’s recoverable any indication exists, or when annual impairment testing amount since the last impairment loss was recognised. The for an asset is required, the Group estimates the asset’s reversal is limited so that the carrying amount of the asset recoverable amount. An asset’s recoverable amount is does not exceed its recoverable amount, nor exceed the the higher of an asset’s or cash-generating unit’s (CGU) carrying amount that would have been determined, net of fair value less costs to sell and its value in use and is depreciation, had no impairment loss been recognised for determined for an individual asset, unless the asset does the asset in prior years. Such reversal is recognised in the not generate cash inflows that are largely independent of Statement of Comprehensive Income unless the asset is those from other assets or groups of assets. Where the carried at a revalued amount, in which case the reversal is carrying amount of an asset or CGU exceeds its recoverable treated as a revaluation increase. amount, the asset is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount. In assessing value in use, 2.3 Liabilities and Provisions the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their Liabilities classified as current liabilities on the reporting present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects date are those, which fall due for payment on demand current market assessments of the time value of money or within one year from the reporting date. Non-current and the risks specific to the asset. In determining fair value liabilities are those balances that fall due for payment after less costs to sell, recent market transactions are taken one year from the reporting date. Provisions are recognised into account, if available. If no such transactions can be when the Group has a present obligation (legal or identified, an appropriate valuation model is used. These constructive) as a result of a past event, it is probable that calculations are corroborated by valuation multiples, an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate Annual Report 2014/2015 93 HIGHLIGHTS Operational information Governance Financial statements Notes to the Financial Statements can be made of the amount of the obligation. The expense A rental fee of Rs.16,339,600/which was paid in relating to any provision is presented in the Statement of 2005/2006 is being amortised over such period Comprehensive Income net of any reimbursement. commencing from financial year 2005/2006 to 2034/2035 by Rs.540,000/per annum. If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are discounted using a current pre-tax rate 2.3.2 Retirement Benefit Obligations that reflects, where appropriate, the risks specific to the (a) Defined Benefit Plan Gratuity liability. Where discounting is used, the increase in the Employees are eligible to receive a gratuity payment of half provision due to the passage of time is recognised as a month’s salary per year of service at the end of service finance cost. provided the employee has provided 5 years of service. Defined benefit plan is a post employment benefit plan All known liabilities have been accounted for in preparing other than a defined contribution plan. The present value the financial statement. of the defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries using Projected Unit Credit Method Estimates and Assumptions (PUC) as recommended by LKAS 19 Employees benefits. The preparation of the financial statements in conformity The defined benefit liability is recognised in the Reporting with SLFRS requires management to make judgments, Date. estimates and assumptions that affect the application of accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, The actuarial gains and losses are charged or credited to liabilities, income and expenses judgments and estimates Statement of Comprehensive Income in the period in which are based on historical experience and other factors, they arise. The assumptions based on which the results of including expectations that are believed to be reasonable the actuarial valuation was determined as at 31st March under the circumstances. Hence, actual results may differ 2015, are given below. However, according to the Payment from those estimates and judgmental decisions. of Gratuities Act No.12 of 1983, the liability for the gratuity payment to an employee arises only on the completion of Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on 5 years of continued service with the Company. an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimates are revised a. Average Rate of Interest 9% (Per annum) and in any future period affected. b. Average Rate of Salary Increase – 8% Information about significant areas of estimation uncertainty and critical judgments in applying accounting c. Average Retirement Age – 55 years policies that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements is included d. The company will continue in business as a going in the following notes: concern Note 27 – Deferred Tax Asset/Liability The liability is not externally funded. Note 29 – Measurement of Employee Benefits Note 32 Provisions (b) Defined Contribution Plans Employees’ Note 37 Contingencies Provident Fund & Employees’ Trust Fund 2.3.1 Deferred Revenue Employees are eligible for Employees’ Provident Fund Rental income received upfront for the rent of space to Contributions and Employees’ Trust Fund Contributions in Durdans Heart Surgical Centre (Pvt) Limited is treated as accordance with the respective Statutes and Regulations. deferred revenue as follows; 2.4 Income Statements A rental fee of Rs.31,500,000/which was paid in Revenue Recognition 2000/2001 is being amortised over such period Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable commencing from financial year 2000/2001 to 2034/2035 that the economic benefits will flow to the Group and the by Rs.900,000/per annum. revenue and associated costs incurred or to be incurred 94 DURDANS HOSPITAL can be reliably measured. Revenue is measured at the (b) For the purpose of presentation of the Statement fair value of the consideration received or receivable net of Comprehensive Income, the Directors are of of trade discounts and sales taxes. The following specific the opinion that the function of expenses method, criteria are used for the purpose of recognition of revenue. presents fairly the elements of the Company’s performance and hence, such presentation method (a) Rendering of Services is adopted. Revenue from rendering of services is recognised in the accounting period in which the services are rendered or 2.4.1 Borrowing Costs performed. Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of an asset that necessarily (b) Interest takes a substantial period of time to get ready for its Interest Income is recognised on an accrual basis. intended use or sale are capitalised as part of the cost of the respective assets. All other borrowing costs are (c) Dividends expensed in the period they occur. Borrowing costs consist Dividend income is recognised when the Group’s right to of interest and other costs that the Group incured in receive the payment is established. connection with the borrowing of funds. (d) Rental Income 2.4.2 Dividend on Ordinary Shares Rental income is recognised on an accrual basis. Dividend on ordinary shares are recognised as a liability and deducted from equity when they are recommended (e) Deferred Revenue and declared by the Board of Directors and approved by The revenue to be recognised over 35 years, which is the the shareholders. Interim dividends are deducted from agreed lease period. equity when they are declared and are no longer the discretion of the Group. (f) Others Other Income is recognised on an accrual basis. 2.4.3 Effect of Sri Lanka Accounting Standards Issued but not yet Effective (g) Gains or Losses on the disposal of Property, The following SLFRS have been issued by the Institute of Plant and Equipment Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka that have an effective Net gains and losses of a revenue nature on the disposal date in the future and have not been applied in preparing of Property, Plant & Equipment and other non current these Financial Statements. Those SLFRS will have an assets including investments have been accounted for in effect on the accounting policies currently adopted by the Statement of Comprehensive Income, having deducted the Group and may have an impact on the future financial from proceeds on disposal, the carrying amount of the statements. assets and related selling expenses. (a) SLFRS 9-Financial Instruments: Classification Expenditure Recognition and Measurement (a) Expenses are recognised in the Statement of SLFRS 9, as issued reflects the first phase of work on Comprehensive Income on the basis of a direct replacement of LKAS 39 and applies to classification and association between the cost incurred and the measurement of financial assets and liabilities. The Group earning of specific items of income. All expenditure will quantify the effect in due course. incurred in the running of the business and in maintaining the Property, Plant & Equipment in a This standard was originally effective for annual periods state of efficiency has been charged to income in commencing on or after 01st January 2015. However, arriving at the profit for the year. effective date has been deferred subsequently. Annual Report 2014/2015 95 HIGHLIGHTS Operational information Governance Financial statements Notes to the Financial Statements Group Company For the year ended 31st March, 2015 2014 2015 2014 Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. 3 REVENUE Revenue 4,083,366,708 3,961,267,670 2,736,867,797 2,647,083,795 4 OTHER OPERATING INCOME Reversal of Impairment of Receivables 1,579,146 1,441,564 Deferred Income of Residential Fees 1,340,000 1,340,000 Sundry Income 24,771,504 30,918,446 21,883,760 28,544,683 Profit on Disposal of Property, Plant & Equipment 9,095,926 3,087,605 9,174,228 3,087,605 35,446,576 34,006,051 33,839,552 32,972,288 5 FINANCE COST Loan Interest 91,891,414 147,698,242 63,403,691 95,676,022 Debenture Interest 9,112,500 10,762,500 9,112,500 10,762,500 Interest Expenses on Overdrafts 22,434,296 22,636,481 14,865,537 15,155,523 Other Interest 646,182 688,446 561,102 483,252 Amortisation of Rent Deposits 72,280 72,280 Net Loss on Financial Liabilities at Fair Value through Profit or Loss 4,869,863 4,869,863 Loan Processing Expenses 921,092 921,092 125,005,484 186,727,812 88,863,922 127,019,440 5.1 Finance Income Interest Income 14,935,991 17,939,896 7,531,803 7,951,235 Amortisation of Deferred Rent 106,384 106,384 Dividend Income 664,763 1,439,493 51,565,200 33,458,873 Foreign Exchange Gain 199,952 199,952 15,800,707 19,485,773 59,296,956 41,516,492 96 DURDANS HOSPITAL 6 INVESTMENT IN EQUITY ACCOUNTED INVESTEE The company has a 46% interest in Ceygen Biotech (Pvt) Ltd, which is involved in the production and supply of Molecular Biology, Biochemical and Biotechnology reagents for Molecular Diagnostic and research purposes. Ceygen Biotech (Pvt) Ltd is a private limited liability company. The following table illustrates summarised financial information of the Ceygen Biotech (Pvt) Ltd : Group Company As at 31st March, 2015 2014 2015 2014 Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Current Assets 7,095,202 3,310,109 Non-Current Assets 4,532,652 3,998,955 Current Liabilities (5,802,926) (2,879,157) Non-Current Liabilities Equity 5,824,928 4,429,907 Profit for the Year 1,395,020 2,522,647 Share of Profit from Equity Accounted Investee 641,709 1,160,418 Carrying Amount of the Investment (6.1) 2,679,467 2,037,757 6.1 Balance at the begining of the Year 2,037,757 877,340 Share of Profit from Equity Accounted Investee 641,709 1,160,418 Balance as at the end of the Year 2,679,467 2,037,757 7 PROFIT/(LOSS) FROM ORDINARY ACTIVITIES BEFORE TAXATION Profit / (Loss) from ordinary activities before taxation is stated after charging all expenses including the following. Group Company For the year ended 31st March, 2015 2014 2015 2014 Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Directors’ Emoluments 24,722,245 15,298,588 22,130,245 12,638,868 Auditors Remuneration Internal 2,460,923 2,740,628 1,783,407 1,643,969 External 2,096,289 1,503,162 1,196,165 852,942 Depreciation 282,305,844 269,924,603 144,664,846 135,801,752 Defined Benefit Plan Costs Gratuity 25,616,779 23,841,310 21,090,189 19,603,831 Legal Fees 3,671,796 Salaries 757,611,135 718,386,126 528,006,068 509,927,440 Employee Provident Fund 59,092,213 56,157,163 47,123,918 43,660,305 Employee Trust Fund 15,188,984 14,536,639 11,767,992 10,923,124 Donations 1,710,462 2,451,925 1,550,962 2,346,675 Annual Report 2014/2015 97 HIGHLIGHTS Operational information Governance Financial statements Notes to the Financial Statements Group Company For the year ended 31st March, 2015 2014 2015 2014 Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. 8 INCOME TAX EXPENSES Income Tax (Note 8.1) 29,840,768 33,528,089 23,676,855 22,389,400 Deferred Tax 12,471,255 (1,434,887) (14,898,715) (9,527,632) 42,312,023 32,093,202 8,778,140 12,861,768 8.1 Reconcilation between Current Tax Expense and the Accounting Profit Accounting Profit before Taxation 266,099,978 261,167,354 161,993,967 170,862,582 Aggregated Disallowed Items 337,607,870 318,466,557 190,777,614 166,462,618 Aggregated Allowed Items (336,564,038) (314,571,942) (159,485,380) (151,394,576) Income not Subject to Taxation (88,395,837) (16,280,327) (48,288,592) (9,953,938) Taxable Profit 178,747,974 248,781,642 144,997,609 175,976,686 Statutory Tax Rate 12% 18,960,540 27,098,078 16,495,897 20,163,054 Statutory Tax Rate 28% 5,808,175 6,430,011 2,108,905 2,226,346 Dividend Tax 10% 5,072,053 5,072,053 Income Tax Provision 29,840,768 33,528,089 23,676,855 22,389,400 Parent Company Ceylon Hospitals PLC The Company is liable for Income Tax for the year of assesment 2014/2015 at the rate of 12%. Durdans Heart Surgical Centre (Pvt) Ltd The Company is liable for Income Tax for the year of assesment 2014/2015 at the rate of 12%. Durdans Medical & Surgical Hospitals (Pvt) Ltd The profit of the company is exempt from Income Tax for a period of 6 years from the year of Assessment 2010/2011,which the company commences to make profits or any year of assessments not later than two years recognised from the date of commencement of commerical operations whichever is earlier. 98 DURDANS HOSPITAL 9 EARNINGS PER SHARE Basic Earnings Per Share is calculated by dividing the net profit for the year attributable to ordinary shareholders over the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares outstanding during the year. Group Company For the year ended 31st March, 2015 2014 2015 2014 Profit Attributable to Equity Hoders of the Parent (Rs.) 200,087,606 191,642,958 153,215,827 158,000,814 Weighted Average Number of Shares Outstanding during the Year 33,872,726 33,872,726 33,872,726 33,872,726 Earnings Per Share (Rs.) 5.91 5.66 4.52 4.66 10 PROPERTY, PLANT & EQUIPMENT Group Freehold Medical & Furniture Computer Motor Motor Vehicles Total Land Other & Fittings Equipment Vehicles on Finance & Buildings Equipment Lease Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Cost / Valuation Balance as at 01.04.2013 2,941,880,291 1,977,194,419 174,457,529 89,259,728 57,891,463 10,505,357 5,251,188,787 Additions 29,837,493 111,256,791 12,334,516 15,114,943 22,429,924 3,700,000 194,673,667 Disposals (5,546,800) (3,650,000) (9,196,800) Balance as at 31.03.2014 2,971,717,784 2,088,451,210 186,792,045 104,374,671 74,774,587 10,555,357 5,436,665,654 Additions 8,427,145 191,426,085 7,572,415 27,505,604 20,110,959 255,042,208 Disposals/Transfers (93,798,005) (1,509,139) (31,511.74) (3,871,455) (3,505,357) (102,715,468) Balance as at 31.03.2015 2,980,144,929 2,186,079,290 192,855,320 131,848,763 91,014,091 7,050,000 5,588,992,394 Accumulated Depreciation Balance as at 01.04.2013 82,310,065 812,411,682 54,937,228 44,825,848 14,467,695 2,614,181 1,011,566,699 Depreciation Charge for the Year 42,429,091 190,274,039 15,055,895 9,965,219 8,430,380 3,769,979 269,924,603 Disposals (3,110,963) (182,500) (3,293,463) Balance as at 31.03.2014 124,739,156 1,002,685,721 69,993,123 54,791,067 19,787,112 6,201,660 1,278,197,839 Depreciation Charge for the Year 42,891,598 201,556,588 15,603,589 11,550,210 9,700,426 1,095,000 282,397,411 Disposals/Transfers (73,620,043) (833,128) (19,598) (3,317,405) (1,282,633) (79,072,807) Balance as at 31.03.2015 167,630,754 1,130,622,266 84,763,584 66,321,679 26,170,133 6,014,027 1,481,522,444 Net Book Value As at 31st March 2015 2,812,514,175 1,055,457,024 108,091,736 65,527,084 64,843,958 1,035,973 4,107,469,951 As at 31st March 2014 2,846,978,628 1,085,765,489 116,798,922 49,583,604 54,987,475 4,353,697 4,158,467,815 Annual Report 2014/2015 99 HIGHLIGHTS Operational information Governance Financial statements Notes to the Financial Statements 10 PROPERTY, PLANT & EQUIPMENT CONTD. Company Freehold Medical & Furniture Computer Motor Motor Vehicles Total Land Other & Fittings Equipment Vehicles on Finance & Buildings Equipment Lease Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Cost / Valuation Balance as at 01.04.2013 1,286,236,695 971,260,372 106,137,267 83,193,327 40,255,198 6,605,357 2,493,688,216 Additions 28,311,828 74,455,807 10,937,067 14,556,912 6,150,000 3,700,000 138,111,614 Disposals (5,546,800) (3,650,000) (9,196,800) Balance as at 31.03.2014. 1,314,548,523 1,045,716,179 117,074,334 97,750,239 40,858,398 6,655,357 2,622,603,030 Additions 8,082,317 72,326,388 6,082,650 27,183,090 14,710,959 128,385,404 Disposals/Transfers (54,343,656) (1,509,139) (31,512) (3,871,455) (3,505,357) (63,261,119) Balance as at 31.03.2015 1,322,630,840 1,063,698,911 121,647,844 124,901,817 51,697,902 3,150,000 2,687,727,315 Accumulated Depreciation Balance as at 01.04.2013 8,944,432 444,163,337 40,463,438 37,520,047 5,708,318 1,184,181 537,983,753 Depreciation Charge for the Year 9,724,875 101,992,901 11,202,088 8,856,269 3,718,416 307,202 135,801,751 Disposals (3,110,963) (182,500) (3,293,463) Balance as at 31.03.2014 18,669,307 546,156,238 51,665,526 46,376,316 6,315,771 1,308,883 670,492,041 Depreciation Charge for the Year 10,162,285 106,997,199 11,980,405 10,472,249 4,737,710 315,000 144,664,848 Disposals/Transfers (34,250,295) (833,128) (19,598) (3,317,405) (1,282,633) (39,703,059) Balance as at 31.03.2015 28,831,592 618,903,142 62,812,803 56,828,967 7,736,076 341,250 775,453,830 Net Book Value As at 31st March 2015 1,293,799,248 444,795,769 58,835,041 68,072,850 43,961,827 2,808,750 1,912,273,485 As at 31st March 2014 1,295,879,216 499,559,941 65,408,808 51,373,923 34,542,627 5,346,474 1,952,110,989 Revaluation of Land and Buildings The Company uses the revaluation model for measurement for land and buildings. The Company engaged Mr. P M B Edmund, an accredited independent valuer, to determine the fair value of its land and buildings. Fair value is determined by reference to market-based evidence. Valuations are based on active market prices, adjusted for any difference in the nature, location or condition of the specific property. The date of the most recent revaluation was 31st March 2012. Property, Plant and Equipment includes fully depreciated assets having a gross carrying amounts of Rs.61,460,118/(2014 Rs. 48,529,982/-). During the financial year, the Group acquired Property, Plant and Equipment to the aggregate value of Rs.255,042,208/(2014 Rs.94,673,667/-). Acquisitions through Cash payments amounting to Rs. 205,042,208/(2014 Rs. 193,751,630/-). The carrying value of Motor Vehicles held under finance leases as at 31st March 2015 was Rs.2,808,750/(2014 -Rs.5,346,474/). The company did not acquire any new assets under finance lease during the year. Leased Assets are pledged as securities for the related Finance Lease. 100 DURDANS HOSPITAL The carrying values of the assets if revaluation has not been carried out. Company As at 31st March, 2015 2014 Description Address Extent Rs. Rs. Land 01 No 03, Alfred Place, Colombo 03 0A-3R-30.24P 494,400,237 494,400,237 Land 02 No 05, Alfred Place, Colombo 03 0A-0R-32.68P 118,750,000 118,750,000 Building No 03, Alfred Place, Colombo 03 (01 Building) 97,340 Sq.ft 492,436,285 494,516,251 Total 1,105,586,522 1,107,666,488 11 INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES Company 2015 2014 As at 31st March, Number of Holding Carrying Directors Number of Holding Carrying Directors Shares Value Valuation Shares Value Valuation % Rs. Rs. % Rs. Rs. Durdans Heart Surgical Centre (Pvt) Ltd 9,362,035 78.02 114,331,410 114,331,410 8,581,960 78.02 98,729,910 98,729,910 Durdans Medical & Surgical Hospital (Pvt) Ltd 120,896,033 81.40 1,327,500,014 1,327,500,014 120,896,033 81.40 1,327,500,014 1,327,500,014 130,258,068 1,441,831,424 1,441,831,424 129,477,993 1,426,229,924 1,426,229,924 GROUP COMPANY As at 31st March, 2015 2014 2015 2014 Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. 12 INVENTORIES Drugs & Dressings 87,904,285 128,513,129 36,118,799 53,067,323 Lab Reagents & Consumables 107,953,546 95,118,108 107,953,546 95,118,108 Pantry Stocks 1,265,457 1,397,647 1,265,457 1,397,647 General Stocks 32,651,626 29,065,718 32,651,626 29,065,717 229,774,914 254,094,602 177,989,428 178,648,795 Annual Report 2014/2015 101 HIGHLIGHTS Operational information Governance Financial statements Notes to the Financial Statements GROUP COMPANY As at 31st March, 2015 2014 2015 2014 Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. 13 TRADE & OTHER RECEIVABLES Trade Debtors 115,754,277 114,251,906 78,433,944 81,353,050 Other Receivables 21,158,181 11,445,294 13,387,542 6,073,467 Less : Impairment Allowance for Bad Debts (5,413,528) (2,691,711) (4,786,274) (2,691,711) 131,498,930 123,005,489 87,035,212 84,734,806 13.1 Advances and Prepayments Advances 69,509,291 33,199,127 56,443,402 29,475,974 Prepayments 39,557,691 33,673,706 29,949,855 26,547,190 109,066,982 66,872,833 86,393,257 56,023,164 14 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS 14.1 Amounts Due from Related Parties Durdans Heart Surgical Centre (Pvt) Ltd 22,982,066 26,194,917 Durdans Medical & Surgical Hospital (Pvt) Ltd 67,595,937 251,791,789 Durdans Managemet Services Ltd 1,600,000 1,680,902 1,600,000 1,680,902 Ceygen Biotech (Pvt) Ltd 2,045,726 2,136,349 2,045,726 2,136,349 3,645,726 3,817,251 94,223,729 281,803,957 14.2 Amounts Due To Related Parties Durdans Heart Surgical Centre (Pvt) Ltd 3,170,633 3,187,166 Durdans Medical & Surgical Hospital (Pvt) Ltd 37,402,837 198,903,305 40,573,470 202,090,471 15 CASH & CASH EQUIVALENTS Favourable Cash & Cash Equvalant Balance 80,807,002 48,455,914 66,520,514 37,554,415 16 STATED CAPITAL 33,872,726 Shares (2013/14 33,872,726) 916,366,104 916,366,104 916,366,104 916,366,104 102 DURDANS HOSPITAL GROUP COMPANY As at 31st March, 2015 2014 2015 2014 Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. 17 REVALUATION RESERVE Balance as at the end of the Year 532,338,890 532,338,890 532,338,890 532,338,890 532,338,890 532,338,890 532,338,890 532,338,890 18 REVENUE RESERVES General Reserves Balance as at the end of the Year 4,822,163 4,822,163 4,822,163 4,822,163 4,822,163 4,822,163 4,822,163 4,822,163 Accumulated Profits Balance as at the beginning of the Year 1,194,382,600 1,075,866,176 1,117,021,932 945,260,277 Profit for the Year 200,087,606 191,642,958 153,215,827 158,000,814 Increase in the Share of Minority Interest Dividend Paid Ordinary Shares (67,745,452) 14,138,899 (67,745,452) Other Comprehensive Income Net Gain/(Loss) from Gratuity Valuation (9,355,931) (87,265,433) (6,921,632) 13,760,841 Balance as at the end of the Year 1,317,368,823 1,194,382,600 1,195,570,675 1,117,021,932 Total 1,322,190,986 1,199,204,763 1,200,392,838 1,121,844,095 GROUP As at 31st March, 2015 2014 Rs. Rs. 19 NON CONTROLLING INTEREST Balance as at the beginning of the Year 348,632,803 494,335,061 Profit for the Year 23,700,349 37,431,194 Increase/(Decrease) in the Share of Minority Interest (167,734,569) Other Comprehensive Income Net Gain/(Loss) from Gratuity Valuation (647,451) 102,110 Net Gain/(Loss) on Available for Sale Financial Assets 251,464 208,924 Dividend Paid (14,506,800) (15,709,917) Right Issue 4,398,500 Balance as at the end of the Year 361,828,865 348,632,803 Annual Report 2014/2015 103 HIGHLIGHTS Operational information Governance Financial statements Notes to the Financial Statements 20 OTHER FINANCIAL ASSETS AND FINANCIAL LIABILITIES 20.1 Other Financial Assets GROUP COMPANY As at 31st March, 2015 2014 2015 2014 Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Loans and Receivables Refundable Deposits 26,808,155 22,924,416 19,541,731 15,262,581 Deposits in Financial Institutions 226,284,074 210,633,694 86,471,722 95,414,667 Debentures 1,000,000 1,000,000 Total Loans and Receivables 254,092,229 233,558,110 107,013,453 110,677,248 Available for Sale Investments Equity Shares in Listed Companies 9,648,122 8,009,693 1,612,000 1,540,000 Equity Shares in Non Listed Companies 2,612,910 2,612,910 Total Available for Sale Investments 12,261,032 8,009,693 4,224,910 1,540,000 Total Other Financial Assets 266,353,261 241,567,803 111,238,363 112,217,248 Total Current 226,284,074 210,633,694 86,471,722 95,414,667 Total Non Current 40,069,187 30,934,109 24,766,641 16,802,581 Loans and Receivables Refundable Deposits and Fixed Deposits in Financial Institutions Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. After initial measurement, such financial assets are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method (EIR), less impairment. Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any discount or premium on acquisition and fees or costs that are an integral part of the EIR. The EIR amortisation is included in finance income in the income statement. The losses arising from impairment are recognised in the income statement in finance costs. Available for Sale Investment Quoted Equity Shares The Group has investments in listed equity securities. The fair value of the quoted equity shares is determined by reference to published price quotations in an active market. Impairment on Available for Sale Financial Investments For Available for Sale Financial Investments, the Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is objective evidence that an investment or a group of investments is impaired. In the case of equity investments classified as Available for Sale, objective evidence would include a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the investment below its cost. The determination of what is ‘significant’ or ‘prolonged’ requires judgment. In making this judgment, the Group evaluates, among other factors, historical share price movements and the duration or extent to which the fair value of an investment is less than its cost. 104 DURDANS HOSPITAL 20.2 Other Financial Liabilities GROUP COMPANY As at 31st March, 2015 2014 2015 2014 Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Financial Liabilities at Fair Value through Profit or Loss Redeemable Debentures 67,312,550 91,119,863 67,312,550 91,119,863 Total Financial Liabilities at Fair Value through Profit or Loss 67,312,550 91,119,863 67,312,550 91,119,863 Total Current 13,750,000 13,750,000 13,750,000 13,750,000 Total Non Current 53,562,550 77,369,863 53,562,550 77,369,863 Financial Liabilities at Fair Value through Profit or Loss In 2007, the Company issued Rs.100 Mn redeemable debentures to Lanka Venture PLC (LVL) and pays 12% interest on the debentures. Of these debentures, Rs. 68.75 Mn will be settled in 5 equal annual installments from June 2013 to June 2017 with the company having the option to prematurely settle. As per the Debenture Agreement between LVL, the Company is required to exchange the remianing 3,125,000 debentures to 2,500,000 ordinary shares of Durdans Medical & Surgical Hospital (Pvt) Ltd (DMSH) before 30th June 2016. In the event the said Debentures remain unexchanged for Ordinary Shares of DMSH, the Company shall redeem such Debentures at Rs. 10.00 per debenture. As DMSH does not have any intention to list its shares in the Colombo Stock Exchnage (CSE) to date, it has been agreed with LVL by letter dated 04.12.2014 that the 3,125,000 Debentures remaining unexchnaged for shares as per clause 4.3.1 to the original Debenture Agreement shall be redeemed in two (2) instalments of 1,500,000 Debentures and 1,625,000 Debentures on 30.09.2015 and 30.09.2016 respectively and that a continued return of Rs. 1.20 per Debenture shall be paid for the said 3,125,000 Debentures until they are redeemed in full. 20.3 Interest Bearing Loans & Borrowings Group Note Re-payable Re-payable Total Total within one after one as at as at year year 31.03.2015 31.03.2014 Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Bank Loans 20.3.1 402,837,898 434,939,623 837,777,521 975,830,218 Lease Creditors 20.3.2 752,378 2,003,596 2,755,975 5,410,313 403,590,276 436,943,219 840,533,496 981,240,531 Annual Report 2014/2015 105 HIGHLIGHTS Operational information Governance Financial statements Notes to the Financial Statements 20 OTHER FINANCIAL ASSETS AND FINANCIAL LIABILITIES CONTD. 20.3 Interest Bearing Loans & Borrowings Contd. Company Note Re-payable Re-payable Total Total within one after one as at as at year year 31.03.2015 31.03.2014 Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Bank Loans 20.3.1 274,510,515 324,499,192 599,009,707 659,268,433 Lease Creditors 20.3.2 551,508 2,003,596 2,555,105 4,074,290 275,062,023 326,502,788 601,564,811 663,342,723 20.3.1 Bank Loans Group LENDER WITHIN AFTER TOTAL DATE REPAYMENT SECURITY ONE YEAR ONE YEAR OBTAINED TERMS Rs. Rs. Rs. DFCC Bank 500 Million Loan 71,428,572 148,809,521 220,238,093 09.03.2010 (A) (i) An agreement to mortgage over allotments of land marked as Lot 01 depicted in Plan No. 7187 dated 10th June 2008 made by Gamini B.Dodanwela, Licensed Surveyor of the land bearing assessment No. 03, Alfred Place situated at Colpetty within the Municipality Council limits of Colombo ontaining in extent 0A-3R-30.24P, together with the buildings standing thereon owned by the company. (ii) A tripartite agreement assigning 86,000,001 ordinary shares of the Durdans Medical and Surgical Hospital (Pvt) td held by the company as equity investment. 100 Million Loan 14,285,712 33,333,343 47,619,055 09.03.2010 (B) Primary Mortgage over equipment financed by the loan together with a Promissory Note. 150 Million Loan 30,000,000 92,500,000 122,500,000 24.10.2013 (C) Primary mortgage over movable machnery financed by the loan belonging to Ceylon Hospitals PLC 35 Million Loan 9,989,196 3,329,721 13,318,917 14.08.2012 (D) Primary mortgage over the specified Neurology Equipment purchased and Corporate guarantee from CHPLC. 10 Million Loan 5,172,222 5,172,222 26.09.2014 (F) Offer and acceptance 200 Mn Loan 20,770,733 20,770,733 23.06.2009 (E) Land Negative Pledge over an allotment of Land marked lot 1 depicted in Plan No.7123 dated 08th April 2008 made by Gamini B. Dodanwela, Licensed Surveyor, of the land called Durdans Hospital, presently bearing assessment No. 04, 06th Lane and part of assessment No.03, Alfred Place situated at Colpetty, within the Municipal Council Limits of Colombo and containing in extent 0A-1R-26.54P according to the said Plan No. 7123 together with the building standing thereon owned by the Durdans Medical & Surgical Hospital (Pvt) Ltd. 50 Mn Loan 8,333,333 41,666,667 50,000,000 16.01.2015 (G) Mortgage over equipment financed by the loan 106 DURDANS HOSPITAL LENDER WITHIN AFTER TOTAL DATE REPAYMENT SECURITY ONE YEAR ONE YEAR OBTAINED TERMS Rs. Rs. Rs. NDB Bank 150 Million Loan 62,500,009 23,958,328 86,458,337 04.04.2014 (I) (J) (Q) Primary mortgage over equipment financed 24.02.2015 30 Million Loan 30,000,000 30,000,000 05.04.2013 (H) Revolving Loan Facility 30 Million Loan 30,000,000 30,000,000 10.03.2014 (K) Lien over Fixed deposit to be build up every month Nations Trust Bank 50 Million Loan 11,124,000 25,898,000 37,022,000 24.12.2012 (L) Loan Agreement for Rs. 50.0 million Hatton National Bank 50 Million Loan 50,000,000 50,000,000 03.11.2014 (M) Company guarantee through board resolution and duly signed loan agreement. Amana Investments Bank 140 Million Loan 26,001,644 31,473,569 57,475,214 11.08.2010 (N) Primary Mortgage over MRI Scanner 175 Million Loan 33,232,476 33,970,473 67,202,950 24.12.2009 (O) Primary mortgage over Medical Equipment purchased Union Bank 15 Million Loan 05.12.2014 (P) Primary Floating Mortgage Bond over stock comprising of medicinal drugs and assignment over book debts. Total 402,837,897 434,939,623 837,777,519 20.3.1 Bank Loans Company LENDER WITHIN AFTER TOTAL INTEREST DATE REPAYMENT SECURITY ONE YEAR ONE YEAR RATE OBTAINED TERMS Rs. Rs. Rs. % DFCC Bank 500 Million Loan 71,428,572 148,809,521 220,238,093 4W AWDR + 2% 09.03.2010 (A) (i) An agreement to mortgage over allotments of land marked as Lot 01 depicted in Plan No. 7187 dated 10th June 2008 made by Gamini B.Dodanwela, Licensed Surveyor of the land bearing assessment No. 03, Alfred Place situated at Colpetty within the Municipality Council limits of Colombo containing in extent of 0A-3R-30.24P, together with the buildings standing thereon owned by the company. (ii) A tripartite agreement assigning 86,000,001 ordinary shares of the Durdans Medical and Surgical Hospital (Pvt) Ltd held by the company as equity investment. 100 Million Loan 14,285,712 33,333,343 47,619,055 80% of loan 09.03.2010 (B) Primary Mortgage over equipment financed by 3M AWDR + the loan together with a Promissory Note. 4.75% 20% of loan 12W AWPLR + 1% 150 Million Loan 30,000,000 92,500,000 122,500,000 4W AWPLR + 24.10.2013 (C) Primary mortgage over movable machinery 2% p.a. financed by the loan belonging to Ceylon Hospitals PLC 10 Million Loan 5,172,222 5,172,222 4W AWPLR p.a. 26.09.2014 (F) Offer and acceptance Annual Report 2014/2015 107 HIGHLIGHTS Operational information Governance Financial statements Notes to the Financial Statements 20 OTHER FINANCIAL ASSETS AND FINANCIAL LIABILITIES CONTD. 20.3.1 Bank Loans Company Contd. LENDER WITHIN AFTER TOTAL INTEREST DATE REPAYMENT SECURITY ONE YEAR ONE YEAR RATE OBTAINED TERMS Rs. Rs. Rs. % NDB Bank 150 Million Loan 62,500,009 23,958,328 86,458,337 AWDR 04.04.2014 (I) (J) (Q) Primary mortgage over equipment financed + 1.5% p.a. 24.02.2015 30 Million Loan 30,000,000 30,000,000 Negotiable 05.04.2013 (H) Revolving Loan Facility Revolving at the time of granting the loan Nations Trust Bank 50 Million Loan 11,124,000 25,898,000 37,022,000 12W AWPLR 02.07.2013 (L) Loan Agreement for Rs. 50.0 million + 1.5% p.a. (subject to a floor rate of 13.5% p.a. reviewed quarterly) Hatton National Bank 50 Million Loan 50,000,000 50,000,000 Money Market 03.11.2014 (M) Company guarantee through board resolution Interest Rate and duly signed loan agreement. Union Bank 15 Million Loan Money Market 05.12.2014 (P) Primary Floating Mortgage Bond over stock interest Rate comprising of medicinal drugs and assignment over book debts. Total 274,510,515 324,499,192 599,009,707 20.3.2 Lease Creditors Group Gross Liability Name of Lease Creditor and Balance New Repayments Balance Description of Asset on Finance Lease As At Leases As At 01.04.2014 Obtained 31.03.2015 Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. NDB Bank JMC Double Cab 1,212,834 (1,212,834) Allion Motor Car 1,423,604 (1,220,232) 203,372 Toyota Motor Car 4,129,650 (867,456) 3,262,194 6,766,088 (3,300,522) 3,465,566 108 DURDANS HOSPITAL Finance Charges Allocated to Future Years Name of the Lease Creditor and Balance New Repayments Balance Description of Asset on Finance Lease As At Leases As At 01.04.2014 Obtained 31.03.2015 Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. NDB Bank JMC Double Cab 149,032 (149,032) Allion Motor Car 87,582 (85,080) 2,502 Toyota Motor Car 1,119,162 (412,073) 707,089 1,355,776 (646,185) 709,591 Present Value of Lease Creditors 5,410,312 2,755,975 Lease Creditors Company Gross Liability Name of the Lease Creditor and Balance New Repayments Balance Description of Asset on Finance Lease As At Leases As At 01.04.2014 Obtained 31.03.2015 Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. NDB Bank JMC Double Cab 1,212,834 (1,212,834) Toyota Motor Car 4,129,650 (867,456) 3,262,194 5,342,484 (2,080,290) 3,262,194 Finance Charges Allocated to Future Years Name of the Lease Creditor and Balance New Repayments Balance Description of Asset on Finance Lease As At Leases As At 01.04.2014 Obtained 31.03.2015 Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. NDB Bank JMC Double Cab 149,032 (149,032) Toyota Motor Car 1,119,162 (412,073) 707,089 1,268,194 (561,105) 707,089 Present Value of Lease Creditors 4,074,290 2,555,105 Annual Report 2014/2015 109 HIGHLIGHTS Operational information Governance Financial statements Notes to the Financial Statements 20 OTHER FINANCIAL ASSETS AND FINANCIAL LIABILITIES CONTD. 20.3.1 Bank Loans Contd. (A) In 84 equal monthly installments of Rs. 5,952,380/after a grace period of 12 months. (B) In 84 equal monthly installments of Rs. 1,190,476/after a grace period of 12 months. (C) In 60 equal monthly installments of Rs. 2,500,000/after a grace period of 10 months. (D) In 42 equal Monthly installements of Rs. 833,333/after a grace period of 6 months. (E) In 48 equal monthly installments of Rs. 4,166,667/after a grace period of 12 months. (F) In 9 equal monthly installments of Rs. 738,889/after a grace period of 13 months. (G) In 48 equal monthly instalments of Rs. 1,041,667/after a grace period of 6 months. (H) Repayable on demand. (I) In 23 equal monthly installments of Rs.3,333,333/and a final installment of Rs.3,333,341/-. (J) In 23 equal monthly installments of Rs.2,916,666/and a final instalment of Rs. 2,916,682/-. (K) Settlement maximum in 90 days. (L) In 53 equal monthly installments of Rs.927,000/and one installment of Rs.869,000/-. (M) Settlement maximum in 90 days. (N) In 72 monthly installments as per the schedule given by the lender commencing after a grace period of 12 months. (O) In 84 monthly installments as per the schedule given by the lender commencing after a grace period of 12 months. (P) In 1-30 days with the option to rollover up to a maximum of 90 days. (Q) In 24 equal monthly installments of Rs. 1,875,000/-. 20.4 FAIR VALUES GROUP Set out below is a comparison by class of the carrying amounts and fair values of the Group’s financial instruments that are carried in the financial statements. Carrying Amount Fair Value As at 31st March, 2015 2014 2015 2014 Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Financial Assets Trade & Other Receivables 131,498,930 123,005,489 131,498,930 123,005,489 Other Financial Assets Loans and Other Receivables 254,092,229 235,479,129 254,092,229 233,558,110 Available for Sale Financial Investments 12,261,032 2,234,753 12,261,032 8,009,693 Cash and Short-Term Deposits 80,807,002 48,455,914 80,807,002 48,455,914 Total 478,659,193 409,175,285 478,659,193 413,029,206 Financial liabilities Interest Bearing Loans & Borrowings 837,777,521 975,830,218 837,777,521 975,830,218 Obligations under Finance Leases 2,755,975 5,410,313 2,755,975 5,410,313 Trade and Other Payables 337,119,628 283,027,095 337,119,628 283,027,095 Bank Overdrafts 315,438,033 334,810,632 315,438,033 334,810,632 Financial Liabilities at Fair Value through Profit & Loss 67,312,550 91,119,863 67,312,550 91,119,863 Total 1,560,403,706 1,690,198,120 1,560,403,706 1,690,198,120 110 DURDANS HOSPITAL 20.4 FAIR VALUES COMPANY Carrying Amount Fair Value As at 31st March, 2015 2014 2015 2014 Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Financial Assets Trade & Other Receivables 87,035,212 84,734,807 87,035,212 84,734,807 Other Financial Assets Loans and Other Receivables 107,013,453 108,353,727 107,013,453 110,677,248 Available for Sale Financial Investments 4,224,910 640,000 4,224,910 1,540,000 Cash and Short-Term Deposits 66,520,514 37,554,415 66,520,514 37,554,415 Total 264,794,089 231,282,949 264,794,089 234,506,470 Financial liabilities Interest Bearing Loans & Borrowings 599,009,707 659,268,433 599,009,707 659,268,433 Obligations under Finance Leases 2,555,105 4,074,290 2,555,105 4,074,290 Trade and Other Payables 217,425,132 178,968,057 217,425,132 178,968,057 Bank Overdrafts 209,597,311 226,765,286 209,597,311 226,765,286 Financial Liabilities at Fair Value Through Profit & Loss 67,312,550 86,250,000 67,312,550 91,119,863 Total 1,095,899,805 1,155,326,066 1,095,899,805 1,160,195,929 The fair values of the financial assets and liabilities are included at the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in a current transaction between willing parties other than in a forced or liquidation sale. The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair values: a. Cash and short-term deposits, trade receivables, trade payables and other current liabilities approximate their carrying amounts largely due to the short-term maturities of these instruments. b. The fair value of loans from banks and other financial liabilities, obligations under finance leases, as well as other noncurrent financial liabilities is estimated by discounting future cash flows using rates currently available for debt on similar terms, credit risk and remaining maturities. c. Fair value of available-for-sale financial assets is derived from quoted market prices in active markets, if available. Annual Report 2014/2015 111 HIGHLIGHTS Operational information Governance Financial statements Notes to the Financial Statements 20.5 FAIR VALUE HIERARCHY As at 31st March 2015, the Group/Company held the following financial instruments carried at fair value on the statement of financial position: The Group uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial instruments by valuation technique: Level 1: quoted (unadjusted) prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. Level 2: techniques which use inputs that have an effect on the recorded fair value are observable,either directly or indirectly. Level 3: techniques which use inputs that have an effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable market data Group Company 31.03.2015 Level 01 Level 02 Level 03 31.03.2015 Level 01 Level 02 Level 03 Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Assets measured at Fair Value Availale for Sale Financial Assets Quoted Equity Shares 9,648,122 9,648,122 1,612,000 1,612,000 Non Quoted Equity Shares 2,612,910 2,612,910 2,612,910 2,612,910 Loans and Receivables Refundable Depoits & Short Term Deposits 254,092,229 27,808,155 226,284,074 107,013,453 20,541,731 86,471,722 Trade & Other Receivables 131,498,930 131,498,930 87,035,211 87,035,211 Liabilities measured at Fair Value Other Non Current Financial Liabilities 67,312,550 67,312,550 67,312,550 67,312,550 As at 31st March 2014, the Group/Company held the following financial instruments measured at fair value: Group Company 2014 Level 01 Level 02 Level 03 2014 Level 01 Level 02 Level 03 Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Assets measured at Fair Value Availale for Sale Financial Assets Quoted Equity Shares 8,009,693 8,009,693 1,540,000 1,540,000 Loans and Receivables Refundable Depoits & Short Term Deposits 233,558,110 22,924,416 210,633,694 110,677,248 15,262,581 95,414,667 Trade & Other Receivables 123,005,489 123,005,489 84,734,806 84,734,806 Liabilities measured at Fair Value Embedded Derivatives 91,119,863 91,119,863 91,119,863 91,119,863 112 DURDANS HOSPITAL GROUP COMPANY As at 31st March, 2015 2014 2015 2014 Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. 21 DEFERRED REVENUE Balance as at the begining of the Year 28,684,600 30,024,600 Less: Amortised during the Year (1,340,000) (1,340,000) Balance as at the end of the Year 27,344,600 28,684,600 22 RETIREMENT BENIFIT OBLIGATIONS Gratuity Balance as at the begining of the Year 98,168,128 99,991,266 84,523,979 89,671,628 Provision for the Year 35,620,160 9,600,302 28,011,821 5,842,990 133,788,288 109,591,568 112,535,799 95,514,618 Payments made during the Year (14,917,990) (11,423,439) (11,966,065) (10,990,639) Balance as at the end of the Year 118,870,297 98,168,128 100,569,734 84,523,979 Note: As at 31st March 2015 the gratuity liability was valued under the projected unit credit method by Mr M Poopalanathan of Actuarial and Management Consultant (Pvt) Ltd. The liability is not externally funded. The valuation is performed in 02 year intervals. 2014/2015 2013/2014 Actuarial Assumptions Used (a) Discount Rate 9% 11% (b) Incidence of Withdrawal 18% 10% (c ) Salary Increment Rate 8% 10% (d) Retirement Age 55 years 55 years Group Company For the year ended 31st March, 2015 2014 2015 2014 Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Expense recognised in the Statement of Income Current Service Cost 14,818,284 12,233,827 11,792,551 9,739,952 Interest Cost 10,798,494 11,607,483 9,297,638 9,863,879 Actuarial (Gain) / Loss 10,003,382 (14,241,008) 6,921,632 (13,760,841) Total included in the Staff Cost 35,620,160 9,600,302 28,011,821 5,842,990 Annual Report 2014/2015 113 HIGHLIGHTS Operational information Governance Financial statements Notes to the Financial Statements GROUP COMPANY As at 31st March, 2015 2014 2015 2014 Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. 23 DEFERRED TAXATION Balance as at the begning of the Year 97,547,307 98,982,194 72,635,114 82,162,746 Provision for the Year 12,471,255 (1,434,887) (14,898,715) (9,527,632) Balance as at the end of the Year 108,549,276 97,547,307 57,736,399 72,635,114 Deferred Tax Provision as at the end of the Year is made up as follows; Deferred Tax provision from: Temporary Difference of Property, Plant & Equipment 122,813,712 109,327,482 69,804,767 82,777,991 Temporary Difference of Retirement Benefit Obligation (14,264,436) (11,780,175) (12,068,368) (10,142,877) 108,549,276 97,547,307 57,736,399 72,635,114 24 TRADE & OTHER PAYABLES Trade Creditors 163,930,002 101,279,537 107,063,936 72,858,543 Accrued Expenses & Sundry Payables 173,189,626 181,747,558 110,361,196 106,109,514 337,119,628 283,027,095 217,425,132 178,968,057 GROUP COMPANY As at 31st March, 2015 2014 2015 2014 Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. 25 TAXATION PAYABLE Balance as at the begning of the Year 10,710,847 8,303,932 9,974,077 4,296,673 Provisions for the Year 24,768,715 32,093,202 18,604,802 22,389,400 Payments during the Year (29,464,032) (28,932,092) (22,282,140) (15,957,801) Tax Credits for WHT Deducted (1,444,403) (754,195) (755,207) (754,195) Balance as at the end of the Year 4,571,127 10,710,847 5,541,532 9,974,077 114 DURDANS HOSPITAL 26 RESTATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 26.1 INVENTORY During the year ended 31st March 2013 and 2014, lab inventories consumed amounting to Rs.22.59 Mn and Rs.14.14 Mn respectively, were not charged to income statement due to an accounting error. During the current financial year the company has restated the financial statements retrospectively as per LKAS 8, Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors. Group Company As at 31st March, 2015 2014 Periods 2015 2014 Periods prior to prior to 01.04.2013 01.04.2013 Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Statement of Financial Position Decrease in Inventory (14,141,910) (22,598,207) (14,141,910) (22,598,207) Decrease in Retained Earnings (14,141,910) (22,598,207) (14,141,910) (22,598,207) Statement of Comprehensive Income Increase in Cost of Sales 14,141,910 14,141,910 Statement of Changes in Equity Decrease in Retained Earnings (14,141,910) (22,598,207) (14,141,910) (22,598,207) Retained Earnings Brought Forward 1,061,724,266 1,075,866,176 1,098,464,383 931,118,367 945,260,277 967,858,484 1,061,724,266 1,061,724,266 1,075,866,176 931,118,367 931,118,367 945,260,277 27 CAPITAL COMMITMENTS During the year, the Company has entered into a put option agreement with Lanka Venture PLC. This commitment is pursuant to a shareholder agreement dated 22nd April 2008, in which Lanka Venture PLC is the holder of (2,122,449) ordinary shares of Durdans Medical & Surgical Hospital (Pvt) Ltd (DMSH). As DMSH has not obtained a listing for its shares to date, the Company is granting Lanka Ventures PLC the right to cause the Company to purchase the said shares during the period commencing 1st January 2015 and ending on 31st December 2018 at an option price based on a valuation made by an independent firm of valuers. 28 CONTINGENT LIABILITIES There were no contingent liabilities as at 31.03.2015 that requires adjustment to or disclosure in the Financial Statements. 29 EVENTS OCCURRING AFTER THE REPORTING DATE There were no material events occurring after the reporting date that require adjustments or disclosure in the Financial Statements. 30 DIVIDENDS This represents the first and final dividend paid at the rate of Rs.2.00 per share for the year 2013-14. Annual Report 2014/2015 115 HIGHLIGHTS Operational information Governance Financial statements Notes to the Financial Statements 31 RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURE 31.1 The Directors of Ceylon Hospitals PLC are also the Directors of the following related Companies Name of the Director Durdans Commercial Tudawe Tudawe Durdans Durdans Ceygen (Pvt) Ltd Management Marketing & Brothers Engineering Medical & Heart Biotech Services Ltd. Distributors (Pvt) Services Surgical Surgical (Pvt) Hospital Ltd. (Pvt) Ltd. Hospital Centre Ltd. (Pvt) Ltd. (Pvt) Ltd. (Pvt) Ltd. Mr A E Tudawe √ √ √ √ √ Mr S P Tudawe √ √ √ √ √ Mr U D Tudawe √ √ √ √ √ √ √ Dr A D P A Wijegoonewardene √ √ √ Mr Y N R Piyasena √ √ √ Dr N Y Wijemanne √ Mr A S Abeyewardene √ Mr A Su-Ayid M Ismail √ Name of the Company Relationship Ceylon Hospital PLC Company Durdans Management Services Ltd Immediate/Ultimate Parent Company Durdans Medical & Surgical Hospital (Pvt) Ltd Subsidiary Durdans Heart Surgical Centre (Pvt) Ltd Subsidiary Ceygen Biotech (Pvt) Ltd Associate Tudawe Brothers (Pvt) Ltd Other Affiliates Tudawe Engineering Services (Pvt) Ltd Other Affiliates 31.2 Substantial Shareholding, Immediate and Ultimate Parent Company The Company’s immediate parent company is Durdans Management Services Ltd., which holds 50.75% of the issued Ordinary Shares of the Company as at the reporting date. 31.3 Key Management Personnel Information According to Sri Lanka Accounting Standard 24 (LKAS) “ Related Party Disclosures”, Key management personnel are those having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling activities of the entity. Accordingly, the Board of Directors (including Executive and Non Executive Directors) have been classified as Key Management Personnel of the Company. 31.4 Related Party Transactions The Company carries out transactions in the ordinary course of its business with parties who are defined as related parties in Sri Lanka Accounting Standard 24 (LKAS), “Related Party Disclosures”, the details of which are reported below. 31.4.1 Transactions held with Companies in which Directors of the Company hold Other Directorships The Company has carried out transactions with entities where the Chairman or a Director of the Company is the Chairman or a Director of such entities as detailed below. 116 DURDANS HOSPITAL 31.4.1.1 Transactions held with Immediate Parent Company Name of immediate Parent Company Description of Transaction Durdans Management Services Ltd. (DMSL) DMSL provides the management and consultation services to Ceylon Hospitals PLC. During the year the company has paid Rs. 23,125,040/(Previous Year Rs. 18,413,486/-) as Management Fee to DMSL. 31.4.2 Transactions with Other Related Companies a) Company Name of Related Company Description of Transaction Durdans Heart Surgical Centre (Pvt) Ltd. (DHSC) The Company has received the services of Rs.185,921,190/(Previous Year Rs.93,565,058/-) from DHSC for the medical related activities of the hospital. The Company has paid an amount of Rs.20,612,672/(Previous Year Rs.14,078,413/-) to DHSC for the services rendered in relation with medical activities. Company provides the Management and Consultation Services to DHSC. During the year the Company has received Rs. 2.75 million (Previous Year Rs.3 million) as Management Fee from DHSC. Company has received Rs.2.75 million as operating lease rentals from DHSC during the period based on operating lease agreement engaged with two companies for the usage of Cardio Vascular Angiography System. Durdans Medical & Surgical The Company has received an amount of Rs.484,229,090/(Previous Hospital (Pvt) Ltd. (DMSH) Year Rs.262,386,337/-) from DMSH for the services rendered to the Company. Commercial Marketing & Distibuters (Pvt) Ltd The Company has paid Rs. 10,051,529/(Previous Year – Rs 4,628,867/-) to Commercial Marketing & Distributors (Pvt) Ltd for the services rendered to the Company. Annual Report 2014/2015 117 HIGHLIGHTS Operational information Governance Financial statements Notes to the Financial Statements 31 RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURE CONTD. 31.4.2 Transactions with Other Related Companies Contd. b) Group Transactions held between Related Companies (i) Durdans Medical & Surgical Hospital (Pvt) Ltd with other Related Parties Name of Related Company Description of Transaction Durdans Heart Surgical Centre (Pvt) Ltd. (DHSC) The Company has paid an amount of Rs. 10,109,218/(Previous Year Rs.8,706,361/-) to DHSC for the services rendered to the Company. Tudawe Engineering Services Limited No payments were made for engineering works of the Company’s main building during the year (Previous Year Rs. 30,272,988) (ii) Durdans Heart Surgical Centre (Pvt) Ltd. Name of Related Company Description of Transaction Durdans Medical & Surgical The Company has received the amount of Rs. 16,516,971/(Previous Hospital (Pvt) Ltd. (DMSH) Year Rs.8,706,361/-) from DMSH for the services rendered to the Company. 31.5 Transactions held with Key Management Personnel ( KMP ) of the Company or Parent Key management personnel are those persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Company as well as its related parties, directly or indirectly, including any director (whether executive or otherwise) of the Company. Group Company For the year ended 31st March, 2015 2014 2015 2014 Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Short-term employee benefits 24,722,245 23,926,894 22,130,245 17,823,411 Post employment benefits Other long-term benefits Terminal benefits Share based payments 24,722,245 23,926,894 22,130,245 17,823,411 118 DURDANS HOSPITAL 31.5.1 Loans to Directors a) Group/Company No loans have been given to directors of the Company and its parent company. b) Compensations to Key Management Personnel of the Company and its parent company. i. Company Emoluments to the directors of the Company are disclosed in Note (7) to the Financial Statements. ii Group Emoluments to the directors of the Group are disclosed in Note (7) to the Financial Statements. Other than those disclosed above, there are no material transactions held with the Key Management Personnel of the Company and its parent company. 31.6 Amounts receivable from and payable to related parties Amounts receivable from and payable to related parties are set out in Note 14 to the Financial Statements. These receivables and payables are unsecured and have no fixed repayment terms. 32 ASSETS PLEDGED AS COLLATERALS 32.1 Assets Pledged as Collaterals by the Group of Companies The following assets of the Group have been pledged as collaterals for overdraft facilities and loans obtained by the Group to the respective financial institutions concerned. 32.1.1 Assets Pledged by Ceylon Hospitals PLC Name of financial Nature of Facility Balance Securities Pledged institution facility Granted outstanding as at 31.03.2015 (Rs.) DFCC Bank Term Loan 500 Million 220,238,093 (i) An agreement to mortgage over allotments of land marked as Lot 01 depicted in Plan No. 7187 dated 10th June 2008 made by Gamini B.Dodanwela, Licensed Surveyor of the land bearing assessment No. 03, Alfred Place situated at Colpetty within the Municipality Council limits of Colombo containing in extent of 0A-3R-30.24P, together with the buildings standing thereon owned by the company. (ii) A tripartite agreement assigning 86,000,001 ordinary shares of the Durdans Medical and Surgical Hospital (Pvt) Ltd held by the company as equity investment. Term Loan 100 Million 47,619,055 Primary Mortgage over equipment financed by the loan together with a Promissory Note. Term Loan 150 Million 122,500,000 Primary mortgage over movable machinery financed by the loan belonging to Ceylon Hospitals PLC. NDB Bank Bank Overdrafts 20 Million 17,903,118 Primary mortgage of Promissory Note Rs. 50 million. Term Loan 150 Million 86,458,337 Primary Mortgage over the equipment financed by the loan. Union Bank Bank Overdrafts 25 Million 25,208,731 Primary mortgage of Promissory Note of Rs. 25 million. Commercial Bank Bank Overdrafts 48.1 Million 63,176,567 Mortgage of fixed deposits amount of Rs.48,746,979/in the name of the company together with duly executed letter of authority and letter of set off. NTB Bank Bank Overdrafts 45 Million 44,392,958 Company guarantee through Board resolution and duly signed overdraft agreement. Annual Report 2014/2015 119 HIGHLIGHTS Operational information Governance Financial statements Notes to the Financial Statements 32 ASSETS PLEDGED AS COLLATERALS CONTD. 32.1.2 Assets Pledged by Durdans Medical & Surgical Hospital (Pvt) Ltd. Name of financial Nature of Facility Balance Securities Pledged institution facility Granted outstanding as at 31.03.2015 (Rs.) DFCC Bank Project Loan 200 Million 20,770,733 Negative Pledge over an allotment of Land marked lot 1 depicted in Plan No.7123 dated 08th April 2008 made by Gamini B. Dodanwela, Licensed Surveyor, of the land called Durdans Hospital, presently bearing assessment No. 04, 06th Lane and part of assessment No.03, Alfred Place situated at Colpetty, within the Municipal Council Limits of Colombo and containing in extent 0A-1R-26.54P according to the said Plan No. 7123 together with the building standing thereon owned by the Durdans Medical & Surgical Hospital (Pvt) Ltd. Import Loan 35 Million 13,318,917 Primary mortgage over the specified Neurology Equipment purchased and Corporate guarantee from CHPLC. Amana Import Loan 175 Million 67,202,950 Primary mortgage over Medical Equipment purchased. Investment Bank Import Loan 140 Million 57,475,214 Primary Mortgage over MRI Scanner. NDB Bank Working Capital 50 Million Primary mortgage over the Furniture & Fittings and company ambulance Loan with Corporate Guarantee from Ceylon Hospitals PLC for the entire amount of loan facility. Revolving Loan 30 Million 30,000,000 Lien over Fixed deposit to be build up every month. NDB Bank Bank Overdrafts 50 Million 49,433,344 Lien over Fixed Deposit build up. 32.1.3 Assets Pledged by Durdans Heart Surgical Centre (Pvt) Ltd Name of financial Nature of Facility Balance Securities Pledged institution facility Granted outstanding as at 31.03.2015 (Rs.) DFCC Bank Term Loan 50 Million 50,000,000 Mortgage over equipment financed Commercial Bank Bank Overdrafts 10 Million 23,799,915 Over the company inventories and trade debtors balance 33 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES The Group’s principal financial liabilities, other than derivatives, comprise loans and borrowings and trade and other payables. The main purpose of these financial liabilities is to finance the Group’s operations and to provide guarantees to support its operations. The Group has trade receivables, other receivables, and cash and short-term deposits that arrive directly from its operations. The Group also holds available-for-sale investments. The Group is exposed to market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk. The Group’s senior management oversees the management of these risks. The Group’s senior management is supported by a financial acumen team that advises on financial risks and the appropriate financial risk governance framework for the Group. The finance team provides assurance to the Group’s senior management that the Group’s financial risk-taking activities are governed by appropriate policies and procedures and that financial risks are identified, measured and managed in accordance with Group policies and Group risk appetite. 120 DURDANS HOSPITAL The Board of Directors reviews and agrees policies for managing each of these risks which are summarised below. Market Risk Market risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market prices. Market prices comprise two types of risk: interest rate risk and other price risk, such as equity price risk. Financial instruments affected by market risk include loans and borrowings, deposits, available-for-sale investments and derivative financial instruments. The sensitivity analysis in the following sections relate to the position as at 31st March in 2015 and 2014. Interest Rate Risk Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument which will fluctuate because of changes in market interest rates. The Group’s exposure to the risk of changes in market interest rates relates primarily to the Group’s long-term debt obligations with floating interest rates. The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in interest rates on that portion of loans and borrowings, after the impact of interest rate changes. With all other variables held constant, the Group’s profit before tax is affected through the impact on floating rate borrowings as follows. (There is only an immaterial impact on the Group’s equity). Increase/decrease effect on profit in basis points before tax Rs. 2015 Loans & Borrowings +1% (13,152,276) -1% 13,152,276 2014 Loans & Borrowings +1% (12,970,281) -1% 12,970,281 Equity Price Risk The Group’s listed equity securities are susceptible to market price risk arising from uncertainties about future values of the investment securities. The Group manages the equity price risk through diversification and placing limits on individual and total equity instruments. Reports on the equity portfolio are submitted to the Group’s senior management on a regular basis. The Group’s Board of Directors reviews and approves all equity investment decisions. At the reporting date, the exposure to listed equity securities at fair value was Rs. 9,648,122/-. A decrease of 10% on the CSE market index could have an impact of approximately Rs. 964,812/on the equity attributable to the Group, depending on whether or not the decline is significant or prolonged. An increase of 10% in the value of the listed securities would only impact equity but would not have an effect on profit or loss. Annual Report 2014/2015 121 HIGHLIGHTS Operational information Governance Financial statements Notes to the Financial Statements 33 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES CONTD. Credit Risk Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty will not meet its obligations under a financial instrument or customer contract, leading to a financial loss. The Group is being exposed to the credit risk from its operating activities (primarily for trade receivables) and from its financing activities, including deposits with banks and financial institutions and other financial instruments. Trade Receivables Customer credit risk is managed by each business unit subject to the Group’s established policies, procedures and controls relating to customer credit risk management. Credit quality of the customer is assessed based on an extensive credit evaluation format and individual credit limits are defined in accordance with this assessment. Outstanding customer receivables are regularly monitored and Letters of Guarantees are obtained from patients who are admitted to the hospital through corporate customers. The requirement for an impairment is analysed at each reporting date on an individual basis for major clients. Additionally, a large number of minor receivables are grouped into homogenous groups and assessed for impairment collectively. The calculation is based on the actual incurred historical data. The Group does not hold collateral as security. The Group evaluates the concentration of risk with respect to trade receivables as low, as its customers are located in several jurisdictions and industries and operate in largely independent markets. Liquidity Risk The Group’s objective is to maintain a balance between continuity of funding and flexibility through the use of bank overdrafts, bank loans, debentures, finance leases and hire purchase contracts. The Group assesses the concentration of risk with respect to refinancing its debt and concluded it to be low. Access to sources of funding is sufficiently available and debt maturing within 12 months can be rolled over with existing lenders. The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities based on contractual undiscounted payments. On Less than 03 to 12 01 to 05 > 05 Total Demand 03 Months Months Years Years Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Year ended 31st March 2015 Interest Bearing Borrowings 100,897,569 302,692,708 436,943,219 840,533,495 Other Non Current Financial Liabilities 13,750,000 63,619,863 77,369,863 Trade & Other Payables 250,256,429 86,326,427 336,582,856 Amounts Due to Related Parties Bank Overdrafts 315,438,031 315,438,031 315,438,031 351,153,998 402,769,134 500,563,082 1,569,924,245 Year ended 31st March 2014 Interest Bearing Borrowings 97,887,442 293,662,328 589,690,761 981,240,531 Embedded Derivatives 13,750,000 77,369,863 91,119,863 Trade & Other Payables 192,153,316 90,873,779 283,027,095 Amounts Due to Related Parties Bank Overdrafts 334,810,633 334,810,633 334,810,633 290,040,758 398,286,107 667,060,624 1,690,198,122 122 DURDANS HOSPITAL 34 CAPITAL MANAGEMENT Capital includes ordinary shares and other equities attributable to the equity holders of the parent. The primary objective of the Group’s capital management is to ensure that it maintains a strong credit rating and healthy capital ratios in order to support its business and maximise shareholder value. The Group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it in light of changes in economic conditions. To maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the dividend payments to shareholders, return capital to shareholders or issue new shares. No changes were made in the objectives, policies or processes for managing capital during the years ended 31st March 2015 and 31st March 2014. The Group monitors capital using a gearing ratio which is net debt divided by total capital plus net debt. The Group’s policy is to keep the gearing ratio between 25% and 40%. The Group includes within net debt, interest bearing loans and borrowings, bank overdrafts, redeemable debentures, trade and other payables, less cash and cash equivalents. 31.03.2015 31.03.2014 Rs. Rs. Interest Bearing Loans and Borrowings (Note 20.3) 840,533,495 981,240,532 Other Non Current Financial Liabilities (Note 20.2) 67,312,550 91,119,863 Trade and Other Payables 337,119,628 283,027,095 Bank Overdrafts 315,438,033 334,810,632 Less : Cash and Cash Equivalents (80,807,002) (48,455,914) 1,479,596,705 1,641,742,207 Equity 3,139,501,826 2,653,722,257 Capital and Net Debt 4,619,098,532 4,295,464,465 Gearing ratio 32% 38% Annual Report 2014/2015 123 HIGHLIGHTS Operational information Governance Financial statements Value Added Statement Group Company % 2014/2015 % 2013/2014 % 2014/2015 % 2013/2014 Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Turnover 4,083,366,708 3,961,267,670 2,736,867,797 2,647,083,795 Cost of Material and Services Obtained (2,527,577,328) (2,276,871,336) (1,654,364,544) (1,540,541,136) Other Income 51,247,283 53,491,824 93,136,508 74,488,780 1,607,036,663 1,737,888,158 1,175,639,761 1,181,031,439 Distribution of Value Added To Employees Salaries and Others 67% 1,071,266,353 59% 1,025,010,532 66% 780,117,023 64% 752,289,808 To Government Income Tax 3% 42,312,023 2% 32,093,202 1% 8,778,140 1% 12,861,768 To Capital Providers Interest on Loans 8% 125,005,484 10% 181,785,669 8% 88,863,922 10% 122,077,297 Shareholders 5% 82,252,252 1% 15,709,917 6% 67,745,452 0% To Expansion and Growth Depreciation 9% 144,664,848 16% 269,924,603 12% 144,664,848 11% 135,801,752 Retained Profit 9% 141,535,704 12% 213,364,235 7% 85,470,375 13% 158,000,814 100% 1,607,036,663 100% 1,737,888,158 100% 1,175,639,761 100% 1,181,031,439 D D GROUP COMPANY ATo Employees 67% 66% C Group C Company A BTo Government 3% 1% A B CTo Capital Providers 13% 13% B DTo Expansion and Growth 18% 20% 124 DURDANS HOSPITAL Ten Year Summary GROUP 2014/15 2013/14 2012/13 2011/12 2010/11 2009/10 2008/09 2007/08 2006/07 2005/06 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Operating Results Total Income 4,083,367 3,961,268 3,830,369 3,546,523 3,054,399 2,451,031 2,171,229 1,879,645 1,638,594 1,401,325 Other Income 51,247 53,492 34,335 22,155 23,728 21,354 28,462 27,282 16,087 14,917 Finance Cost 125,005 186,728 182,428 164,558 151,094 121,781 85,678 44,262 28,320 23,408 Profit Before Tax 266,100 261,167 308,040 347,462 240,042 164,894 198,125 169,555 229,857 212,274 Income Tax 42,312 32,093 30,334 61,210 81,659 54,893 29,595 38,382 34,847 41,987 Profit After Tax 223,788 229,074 277,706 288,231 158,383 110,001 168,529 131,173 195,010 170,287 Dividend (Company) 67,745 135,491 50,809 42,341 38,812 38,812 38,812 38,812 38,812 Balance Sheet Assets Property Plant & Equipment 4,107,470 4,158,468 4,239,622 4,310,489 4,000,023 2,331,038 1,938,135 1,887,441 1,778,784 1,060,912 WIP Building in Construction 6,543 8,498 1,170,783 824,703 228,087 6,451 Other Financial Assets 266,353 241,568 169,884 193,682 95,102 102,541 158,357 70,585 101,737 131,508 Investment in Equity Accounted Investee 2,679 2,038 877 Inventories 229,775 254,095 214,699 215,965 166,722 146,229 116,901 108,360 88,636 82,671 Receivables 244,212 193,696 185,481 185,481 178,959 169,632 135,122 130,846 105,476 90,583 Deffered Revenue 600 660 760 860 2,400 2,500 2,600 1,260 5,953 9,205 Goodwill 1,341 1,341 1,341 1,341 2,022 Cash & Cash Equivalents 80,807 48,456 96,959 21,279 71,062 66,370 22,520 29,443 62,587 23,270 4,931,896 4,898,979 4,908,282 4,934,298 4,522,766 3,990,434 3,199,679 2,457,363 2,144,514 1,406,622 Equity & Liabilities Stated Capital 916,366 916,366 916,366 916,366 916,366 513,821 395,389 395,389 395,389 395,389 Reserves 1,861,307 1,737,356 1,617,374 1,512,620 1,125,265 1,447,696 1,387,373 1,202,786 1,131,389 493,919 Non Controlling Interest 361,829 348,633 494,335 488,029 400,145 393,603 401,711 44,623 42,668 36,563 Interest-bearing Borrowings 907,846 1,072,360 1,086,439 1,352,120 1,359,039 1,051,634 621,299 390,887 210,519 209,075 Provisions and Other Liabilities 569,110 489,453 544,009 518,301 504,601 361,051 289,760 314,819 282,738 200,616 Overdrafts 315,438 334,811 249,759 146,862 217,350 222,629 104,147 108,859 81,811 71,060 4,931,896 4,898,979 4,908,282 4,934,298 4,522,766 3,990,434 3,199,679 2,457,363 2,144,514 1,406,622 Annual Report 2014/2015 125 HIGHLIGHTS Operational information Governance Financial statements Share Information Distribution of Shareholders Voting Shares Resident Non Resident No. of No. of No. of No. of Shareholding Shareholders Shares % Shareholders Shares % 1 -1,000 1,966 492,017 1.93 15 5,013 0.02 1,001 -10,000 299 860,804 3.37 15 47,814 0.19 10,001 -100,000 56 1,600,079 6.27 4 222,775 0.87 100,001 -1,000,000 17 5,271,138 20.65 Over 1,000,000 1 17,027,632 66.7 Total 2,339 25,251,670 98.92 34 275,602 1.08 Categories of Shareholders No. of No. of Shareholders Shares Individual 2,280 4,492,882 Institutional 93 21,034,390 Total 2,373 25,527,272 Non-Voting Shares Resident Non Resident No. of No. of No. of No. of Shareholding Shareholders Shares % Shareholders Shares % 1 -1,000 940 250,172 3.00 7 2,831 0.03 1,001 -10,000 415 1,221,112 14.63 10 33,691 0.4 10,001 -100,000 78 2,309,004 27.67 4 146,057 1.75 100,001 -1,000,000 11 3,228,216 38.68 Over 1,000,000 1 1,154,371 13.84 Total 1,445 8,162,875 97.82 21 182,579 2.18 Categories of Shareholders No. of No. of Shareholders Shares Individual 1,393 3,300,382 Institutional 73 5,045,072 Total 1,466 8,345,454 126 DURDANS HOSPITAL Per Share Ratio 2014/2015 2013/2014 Rs. Rs. Earnings Per Share 4.54 3.76 Dividend Per Share 2.00 Net Asset Value Per Share 77.37 75.01 Market Activities Market Value Per Share 2014/2015 2013/2014 Highest Traded Lowest Traded Last Traded Highest Traded Lowest Traded Last Traded Price Price Price Price Price Price Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Voting 119.00 90.30 113.90 120.00 97.00 115.00 2-Jan-15 26-May-14 31-Mar-15 24-Jan-14 19-Apr-13 25-Mar-14 Non-Voting 89.90 70.20 75.10 87.60 68.60 77.00 12-Sep-14 26-Jun-14 13-Mar-15 16-Aug-13 7-Jan-14 31-Mar-14 Share Trading Information 2014/15 2013/14 Shares Traded Turnover Shares Traded Turnover Nos’ Rs. Nos’ Rs. Voting 700,511 77,406,284 587,626 62,858,740 Non-Voting 435,831 33,890,329 291,016 22,294,774 Annual Report 2014/2015 127 HIGHLIGHTS Operational information Governance Financial statements Share Information Top 20 Shareholders Listed As at 31st March 2015 Voting Shareholders As at 31.03.2015 As at 31.03.2014 Name of the Shareholder Country of Number of Holding Number of Holding Residence Shares % Shares % Durdans Management Services Ltd Sri Lanka 17,027,632 66.70 16,509,553 64.67 Deutsche Bank AG National Equity Fund do 997,019 3.91 1,028,900 4.03 Lawrance Tudawe Management Services (Pvt) Ltd do 598,982 2.35 598,982 2.35 Mr Y N R Piyasena do 553,134 2.17 553,134 2.17 The Ceylon Guardian Investment Trust PLC A/C No. 02 do 518,371 2.03 518,371 2.03 Mr S P Tudawe do 307,936 1.21 307,936 1.21 Cargo Boat Development Company PLC do 305,485 1.20 305,485 1.20 M J F Holdings Ltd do 270,981 1.06 270,981 1.06 Ceylon Investments PLC A/C No. 01 do 256,915 1.01 756,915 2.97 Mr A E Tudawe do 205,052 0.80 205,052 0.80 Deutsche Bank AG as Trustee to Candor Sharia Fund do 200,000 0.78 171,635 0.67 Mr A D P A Wijegoonewardene do 175,418 0.69 175,418 0.69 Mr U D Tudawe do 170,616 0.67 170,616 0.67 Deutsche Bank AG as Trustee to Candor Growth Fund do 170,220 0.67 173,111 0.68 Mr A D Tudawe do 161,984 0.63 161,984 0.63 Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC / Mr W N Tudawe do 160,000 0.63 164,091 0.64 Mr R R Tudawe do 118,262 0.46 118,262 0.46 Deutsche Bank AG Namal Growth Fund do 100,763 0.39 100,763 0.39 DFCC Bank A/C 01 do 100,000 0.39 100,000 0.39 The Sri Lanka Fund do 90,000 0.35 90,000 0.35 Total 22,488,770 88.10 22,481,189 88.06 128 DURDANS HOSPITAL Top 20 Shareholders Listed As at 31st March 2015 Non-Voting Shareholders As at 31.03.2015 As at 31.03.2014 Name of the Shareholder Country of Number of Holding Number of Holding Residence Shares % Shares % Employee Provident Fund Sri Lanka 1,154,371 13.83 1,154,371 13.83 Deutsche Bank AG as Trustee for Namal Acuity Value Fund do 800,000 9.59 800,000 9.59 M J F Holdings Ltd do 598,646 7.17 598,646 7.17 Deutsche Bank AG Namal Growth Fund do 481,000 5.76 481,000 5.76 E W Balasuriya & Co. (Pvt) Ltd do 330,619 3.96 330,619 3.96 DFCC Bank A/C 01 do 240,000 2.88 300,000 3.59 Durdans Management Services Ltd do 161,985 1.94 79,114 0.95 Mr D Ratnayake do 146,866 1.76 146,866 1.76 A Z Holdings (Pvt) Ltd do 127,440 1.53 139,024 1.67 Mr A H Munasinghe do 127,214 1.52 127,214 1.52 Deutsche Bank AG as Trustee to Condor Sharia Fund do 110,000 1.32 Waldock Mackenzie Ltd / Mr K Omprasadham do 104,446 1.25 104,446 1.25 Distilleries Company of Sri Lanka PLC A/C No. 02 do 95,869 1.15 100,080 1.20 Tudawe Engineering Services (Pvt) Ltd do 91,986 1.10 91,986 1.10 Mr D A Cabraal do 82,500 0.99 80,000 0.96 Waldock Mackenzie Ltd / Mr S P De Mel do 70,702 0.85 70,702 0.85 Mr U D Wickremesooriya do 69,272 0.83 Mr S S Sithambaranathan do 66,000 0.79 66,000 0.79 Mr P A I S Perera do 65,454 0.78 65,454 0.78 Fergasam Garment Industries (Pvt) Ltd do 65,454 0.78 65,454 0.78 Total 4,989,824 59.78 4,800,976 57.51 Annual Report 2014/2015 129 HIGHLIGHTS Operational information Governance Financial statements Durdans’ Island-wide Reach 1 Addalaichenai 56 Demanhandiya 111 Jaffna 166 Kotugoda 2 Agalawatte 57 Dematagoda 112 Jayawardenepura 167 Kuliyapitiya 3 Ahangama 58 Deniyaya 113 Kadawatha 168 Kundasale 4 Akkaraipattuwa 59 Deraniyagala 114 Kadugannawa 169 Kurana 5 Akmeemana 60 Dharga Town 115 Kaduruwella 170 Kurundugahahetepma 6 Akurana 61 Dodangaslanda 116 Kaduwela 171 Kurunegala 7 Akuressa 62 Egaloya 117 Kahatagasdigiliya 172 Lenaduwa 8 Alaveddy 63 Eheliyagoda 118 Kahawatta 173 Lunawa 9 Alawwa 64 Ekala 119 Kalmunei 174 Madampe 10 Aluthgama 65 Elakanda 120 Kalpitiya 175 Madampitiya 11 Ambalangoda 66 Elayapaththuwa 121 Kaluaggala 176 Madawala 12 Ambalanthota 67 Elpitiya 122 Kalubowila 177 Madurankuliya 13 Ambanpola 68 Embilipitiya 123 Kalutara 178 Mahabage 14 Ampara 69 Eppawala 124 Kaluwanchikudi 179 Mahagirilla 15 Ampegama 70 Erawur 125 Kamburupitiya 180 Mahara 16 Ampitiya 71 Galagedara 126 Kandana 181 Maharagama 17 Anuradhapura 72 Galawela 127 Kandy 182 Mahawewa 18 Arawwala 73 Galenbindunuwewa 128 Kanthale 183 Mahipa 19 Athurugiriya 74 Galewala 129 Kapuwatta 184 Mahiyanganaya 20 Awissawella 75 Galgamuwa 130 Karandeniya 185 Maho 21 Baddegama 76 Galle 131 Karapitiya 186 Makola 22 Badulla 77 Galnewa 132 Karaveddy 187 Makuluduwa 23 Balangoda 78 Galpatha 133 Karawanella 188 Malabe 24 Balapitiya 79 Gampaha 134 Katana 189 Maligawatta 25 Balummahara 80 Gampola 135 Kathankudi 190 Malwana 26 Bambalapitiya 81 Ganemulla 136 Katikithula 191 Mannar 27 Bandaragama 82 Gelioya 137 Katugasthota 192 Maradana 28 Bandarawela 83 Gintupitiya 138 Katukurunda 193 Maradankadawala 29 Batapola 84 Girialla 139 Katunayake 194 Marawila 30 Battaramulla 85 Godagama 140 Katuneriya 195 Maspotha 31 Batticaloa 86 Gonapola 141 Katupotha 196 Matale 32 Beliatta 87 Gorakana 142 Kayts 197 Matara 33 Bentota 88 Habarakada 143 Kebithigollewa 198 Mathugama 34 Beruwala 89 Habarana 144 Kegalle 199 Matikumbura 35 Bibile 90 Hambanthota 145 Kekirawa 200 Mattakkuliya 36 Bingiriya 91 Hanguranketha 146 Kelaniya 201 Mattegoda 37 Bogawanthalawa 92 Hanwella 147 Kesbewa 202 Mawanella 38 Bokundara 93 Hasalaka 148 Keselkotuwa 203 Mawathagama 39 Bombuwala 94 Hatharaliyadda 149 Kilinochchi 204 Medawachchiya 40 Borakanda 95 Hatton 150 Kinniya 205 Meegahathanna 41 Borella 96 Hehipola 151 Kiribathgoda 206 Meegoda 42 Chavakachcheri 97 Hettipola 152 Kirillawala 207 Meerigama 43 Chilaw 98 Hikkaduwa 153 Kirinda 208 Mihintale 44 Colombo 08 99 Hindagama 154 Kobeigane 209 Minuwangoda 45 Colombo 10 100 Hingurakgoda 155 Kochchikade 210 Molagoda 46 Dalupitiya 101 Hiripitiya 156 Kollawa 211 Monaragala 47 Daluwatta 102 Homagama 157 Kolonnawa 212 Moraduwa 48 Dambulla 103 Horana 158 Kolugoda 213 Moragollagama 49 Dankotuwa 104 Horowpathana 159 Kosgama 214 Moratuwa 50 Danturei 105 Hunupitiya 160 Kotahena 215 Morawaka 51 Debarawewa 106 Ibbagamuwa 161 Kotapola 216 Moronthuduwa 52 Deheregoda 107 Imaduwa 162 Kothmale 217 Mt.Lavinia 53 Dehiowita 108 Ingiriya 163 Kotikawatta 218 Murutalawa 54 Dehiwala 109 Invil 164 Kottawa 219 Nadimala 55 Delgoda 110 Ja-Ela 165 Kotte 220 Nagoda 130 DURDANS HOSPITAL 221 Nagollagama 222 Narahenpita Medical Centre 223 Narammala Satellite Labs 224 Naththandiya Mini Labs 225 Nawagamuwa Durdans Own Collecting Centres 226 Nawala Other Centres 227 Nawalapitiya 228 Nawinna 229 Negombo 230 Nelliyadi 231 Nelubewa 232 Nikadalupotha 233 Nikaweratiya 234 Nikawewa 235 Nittambuwa 236 Nochchiyagama 237 Nugegoda 238 Nuwara Eliya 239 Oddamavadi 240 Orugodawatta 241 Padaviya 242 Padeniya 243 Padukka 244 Palawatta 245 Pallepola 246 Palmadulla 247 Pamunugama 248 Panadura 249 Pannala 250 Pannipitiya 251 Papiliyana 252 Pasgoda 253 Payagala 254 Peradeniya 255 Peralanda 256 Pethiyagoda 276 Ragama 296 Thalangama 316 Walpola 257 Pilimathalawa 277 Rajagiriya 297 Thalawa 317 Wanduramba 258 Piliyandala 278 Rajawella 298 Thalawathugoda 318 Warakapola 259 Pimbura 279 Rambukkana 299 Thammannawa 319 Wariyapola 260 Pinnawala 280 Rathanapura 300 Thavalama 320 Wathupitiwala 261 Pitigala 281 Ratmalana 301 Thihariya 321 Wattala 262 Poddala 282 Rawathawatta 302 Thirappane 322 Weeraketiya 263 Pointpedro 283 Rideegama 303 Thirunelveli 323 Weligama 264 Pokunuvita 284 Rikillagaskada 304 Thissamaharamaya 324 Welimada 265 Pokurassa 285 Ruwanwella 305 Tissa 325 Welipannagahamulla 266 Polgahawela 286 Samanthurai 306 Trincomalee 326 Weliweriya 267 Polgolla 287 Saraswathipura 307 Udugampola 327 Wellampitiya 268 Polmatai 288 Sarikkamulla 308 Unawatuna 328 Wellawatta 269 Polonnaruwa 289 Seeduwa 309 Udugama 329 Wellawaya 270 Polpitigama 290 Seeppukulama 310 Vauniya 330 Wellaweediya 271 Punchi Borella 291 Siyambalape 311 Velanai 331 Wennappuwa 272 Pussallawa 292 Slave Island 312 Veyangoda 332 Yakkalamulla 273 Puttalam 293 Sooriyawewa 313 Wadduwa 333 Yatawatta 274 Puwakpitiya 294 Tangalle 314 Walasmulla 334 Yatiyanthota 275 Raddolugama 295 Thambuttegama 315 Waligampitiya Annual Report 2014/2015 131 HIGHLIGHTS Operational information Governance Financial statements Notice of Meeting Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of 5. To re-appoint M/s. B.R. De Silva & Company, the Shareholders of Ceylon Hospitals PLC will be held on Chartered Accountants, the retiring Auditors who 30th June 2015 at the Durdans Auditorium (11th floor) at have expressed their willingness to continue in 9.00 a.m. office as Company’s Auditors for the Financial Year ending 31st March 2016 and to authorise the The business to be brought forward before the meeting Board of Directors to determine their remuneration will be: (Resolution 4). 1. To receive and consider the Annual Report of the 6. To authorise the Directors to determine donations Directors and the Statement of Accounts for the for the year 2015/2016 (Resolution 5). year ended 31st March 2015 with the Report of the Auditors thereon (Resolution 1). BY ORDER OF THE BOARD 2. To re-elect Dr A D P A Wijegoonewardene who retires NEXIA CORPORATE CONSULTANTS (PVT) LTD by rotation in terms of Article No.58 of the Articles of Association and being eligible offers himself for re-election (Resolution 2). SECRETARIES 22nd May 2015 3. To re-appoint Mr A S Abeyewardene, Director who vacates office in terms of Section 210 of the Companies 1. A shareholder entitled to attend and vote is entitled Act No. 07 of 2007 and for this purpose to pass the to appoint a proxy or proxies to attend and vote following resolution as an Ordinary Resolution. instead of him/her. 2. A proxy need not be a shareholder of the Company. “Resolved that the age limit stipulated in Section 3. A Form of Proxy accompanies this notice. 210 of the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007 shall not apply to Mr A S Abeyewardene who attained the age of 70 years in the month March 2014 and that he be appointed a Director of the Board in terms of Section 211 of the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007” (Resolution 3). 4. Declaration of Dividends The Company paid an interim dividend of Rs. 2.70 per share to all its shareholders in the month of June 2015. No further dividends have been recommended by the Board. 132 DURDANS HOSPITAL Notes Annual Report 2014/2015 133 Notes 134 DURDANS HOSPITAL Form of Attendance I hereby record my presence at the Annual General Meeting of Ceylon Hospitals PLC, held on 30th June 2015 at the Durdans Auditorium (11th Floor) of Ceylon Hospitals PLC No.03, Alfred Place, Colombo 03 at 9.00 a.m. Full Name of Shareholder :……………………………………………………………………………………………..............………………. National Identity Card No. of Shareholder :……………………………………………………………………………………………..............………………. Address of Shareholder :……………………………………………………………………………………………..............………………. .……………………………………………………………………………………………..............………………. Name of Proxy holder (If applicable) :……………………………………………………………………………………………..............………………. National Identity Card No. of Proxy holder :……………………………………………………………………………………………..............………………. Address of Proxy holder :……………………………………………………………………………………………..............………………. No. of Shares held :……………………………………………………………………………………………..............………………. Share Certificate No. :……………………………………………………………………………………………..............………………. Signature of Shareholder :……………………………………………………………………………………………..............………………. Date :……………………………………………………………………………………………..............………………. Note Shareholders are requested to: 1. Bring the Form of Attendance when attending the Meeting and hand it over at the entrance to the meeting hall. Bring the National Identity Card or Passport. 2. Shareholders appointing persons (other than Directors of the Company) to attend the Meeting are requested to indicate the number of the National Identity Card of the Proxy holder on the Form of Proxy and request the proxy holder to bring with them their National Identity Card or Passport. Annual Report 2014/2015 135 Form of Proxy-Voting Shareholders I/We………………………………............………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………..of ……………………………………………...........…....……….……………………………………………………………................being a Shareholder / Shareholders of Ceylon Hospitals PLC, hereby appoint Mr A E Tudawe or failing him Mr S P Tudawe or failing him Dr A D P A Wijegoonawardene or failing him Mr U D Tudawe or failing him Mr Y N R Piyasena or failing him Mr A S Abeyewardena or failing him Dr N Y Wijemanne or failing him Mr A Su-Ayid M Ismail or failing him Mr/Mrs/Miss………………………….………...........………………………………………......…………………………………..…………………….....of ………………………………………………………………………………as my/our proxy to attend (and vote for me/us) on my/our behalf at the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held on 30th June 2015 and at any adjournment thereof. Note If the Proxy Form is signed by an Attorney, the relative Power of Attorney should also accompany the completed Form of Proxy, if it has not already been registered with the Company. Resolutions For Against 1. To adopt the Statement of Accounts for the year ended 31st March 2015 2. To re-elect Dr A D P A Wijegoonewardene 3. To re-appoint Mr A S Abeyewardene 4. To re-appoint Auditors 5. To authorise the Board of Directors to determine donations Mark your preference with “X” Signed on this ……………………............…………….. day of ………………..................…………. 2015 …………...........................………….. Signature Annual Report 2014/2015 137 Form of Proxy-Non-Voting Shareholders I/We………………………………............………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………..of ……………………………………………...........…....……….……………………………………………………………................being a Shareholder / Shareholders of Ceylon Hospitals PLC, hereby appoint Mr A E Tudawe or failing him Mr S P Tudawe or failing him Dr A D P A Wijegoonawardene or failing him Mr U D Tudawe or failing him Mr Y N R Piyasena or failing him Mr A S Abeyewardene or failing him Dr N Y Wijemanne or failing him Mr A Su-Ayid M Ismail or failing him Mr/Mrs/Miss………………………….………………………………………………......………...........…………………………..…………………….....of ……………………………………………………………………………… as my/our proxy to attend on my/our behalf at the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held on 30th June 2015 and at any adjournment thereof. Note If the Proxy Form is signed by an Attorney, the relative Power of Attorney should also accompany the completed Form of Proxy, if it has not already been registered with the Company. Signed on this ……………………............…………….. day of ………………..................…………. 2015 …………...........................………….. Signature Annual Report 2014/2015 139 Corporate Information Name of Company Lawyers Ceylon Hospitals PLC Mr D F R Jayamaha Hector Jayamaha Law Office Brand Name No.228, Thimbirigasyaya Road DURDANS Colombo 5. Legal Form Secretaries A quoted public company with limited liability Nexia Corporate Consultants (Pvt) Ltd incorporated in Sri Lanka under the Companies 51/1A, Fife Road Ordinance No.51 of 1938 and registered under the Colombo 05. Companies Act No.07 of 2007. Registrars Company Registration Number S S P Corporate Services (Pvt) Ltd PQ 113 No. 546, Galle Road Colombo 03. Stock Exchange Listing The Ordinary Shares of the Company are listed on the Colombo Stock Exchange of Sri Lanka. Registered Office No.03, Alfred Place, Colombo 03. Bankers Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC Bank of Ceylon DFCC Bank Union Bank PLC Standard Chartered Bank PLC National Development Bank PLC Nations Trust Bank PLC Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation PLC Seylan Bank PLC Sampath Bank PLC Hatton National Bank PLC Amana Bank Auditors Messers B R de Silva & Co. Chartered Accountants No.22/4, Vijaya Kumaratunga Mawatha Colombo 5.
