Sustainability Corporate responsibility is at the heart of all we do. It shapes our policies, our mission and our actions and is essential to the success of our business. Sustainability: Our commitment to strict ethical principles and compliance Our commitment to ethical principles is integral to the way we do business, and we communicate it openly to employees and external stakeholders. u-blox is a signatory to the UN Global 1 Employees Compact and fully embraces the organization’s policies and Being at the cutting edge of creativity and innovation calls principles. The UN Global Compact is a public/private strategic for talented people: attracting and retaining them is key to policy initiative for businesses committed to aligning operations our ongoing success. and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas At the end of 2014, u-blox had a total of 625 employees, 25.8% of human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption. of them at our headquarters in Switzerland. The remaining 74.2% We report yearly on progress made in implementing the ten worked in 13 R&D centers and 11 sales and marketing offices principles. The Communication on Progress (COP) can be viewed around the globe. In the course 2014, we added 167 FTEs to our at www.unglobalcompact.com. workforce. This growth was the result of organic growth in all regions and two acquisitions. As our market activities increased, Group-wide Code of Conduct the number of FTEs in Sales, Marketing and Support rose from u-blox’ employees and business associates are from widely 101 to 117. The number of employees in Research and Developdiffering cultural backgrounds. It is, therefore, vital for us to have ment grew from 289 to 428, while those in Logistics and a set of common values. We drew up our Code of Conduct to Administration grew from 57 to 69 FTEs. ensure that all employees and other persons acting for or on behalf of u-blox clearly understand what we mean by correct Our employees behavior. u-blox’ Code of Conduct is a guideline for compliance u-blox fosters a culture that encourages employees to develop with the principles of the UN Global Compact. Our work in this their professional and leadership skills and improve their career area is ongoing and has a dual objective: to ensure business ethics prospects. Management staff receive special leadership training. of the highest possible standard and to encourage our people to As we acquire more companies abroad, virtual global teams take abide by the Code of Conduct. The Code and related information charge of an increasing number of projects. In annual appraisals, can be found on the corporate intranet in six languages. we discuss and agree upon career objectives with the employee and define individual objectives. Whenever possible, u-blox fills Anti-corruption vacant management posts and key positions with in-house u-blox takes a zero-tolerance attitude towards bribery and corrupspecialists. tion. The Group operates in some countries where corruption is widespread, so the subject is of considerable relevance and An attractive employer importance. We have an anti-bribery policy that provides guidelines u-blox aims to attract and retain talented personnel and offers its for compliance with rules and laws related to bribery and corrupemployees attractive conditions. In 2014, we spent CHF 48.0 tion. In 2014, u-blox was not involved in any investigations, legal million on salaries and social benefits (compared with CHF 37.7 disputes or incidents regarding corruption or human rights violations. million the previous year). Details of employee compensation and benefits, including information on salaries, social welfare and Insider Trading stock option plans, can be found on page 53 of financial report. u-blox has implemented a policy for all employees prohibiting the trade with u-blox shares in case of insider knowledge of facts Employees per region (end of 2014, FTE based) which could have an impact on the share price if they were publicly known. Under the policy, employees are prohibited from APAC Switzerland trading with u-blox shares in case of insider know-how. 22% (135) 25% (154) Funding of political organizations 8% Americas u-blox does not fund or subsidize political parties. (48) 45% Confidentiality and data protection (277) u-blox ensures that the personal data of its employees is treated confidentially. u-blox complies with all applicable data protection laws. Rest of EMEA Page 42 | Sustainability Sustainability: u-blox is a fair and non-discriminatory employer and ensures that employees enjoy equal opportunities and equal treatment. Women accounted for 14.6% of the workforce at the end of 2014 (previous year 15.2%). There are no women in the management 2 Social commitment team, and the Board of Directors comprises one woman and six An essential component of our corporate social responsibility is to men. The relatively low proportion of women in the workforce is provide active support to communities in which we are both due to the large number of engineering positions within the comdirectly and indirectly involved. Our involvement mobilizes our pany, for which recruitment potential among women is very limited. financial, human and technological resources to push ahead with change and make communities stronger. Education and health are Employee satisfaction is assessed in the course of annual two of the main areas in which we are actively involved, and in performance review meetings. Performance and compensation are 2014 we took a leading role in two new projects. linked to both Group and individual goals. Every other year we conduct a detailed employee satisfaction survey. The 2014 survey Bringing electricity to a hospital in DR Congo gave our people the opportunity to voice an anonymous opinion Lack of electricity is one of the major problems facing hospitals about the working environment, and 76% of them participated. and health centers, both urban and rural, throughout the Employee commitment is very high level: 86% expressed the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Lukula is a poor township attitude “to give my best.” some 90 kilometers from the sea. GRAFA, a Swiss NGO, has set up a hospital to offer affordable medical services to all, including Compensation and promotion are based on clearly defined the poorest people in the community. The hospital accepts any individual and corporate goals. Regular assessment of individual patient, regardless of financial situation, religion or tribe. performance is well established throughout the company. Staff turnover in 2014 was just 8.9% (previous year 8.6%), reflecting a Conditions in the hospital are dire. Without a reliable power stable workforce. u-blox has a solid reputation as an attractive source, it is unable to store blood or medicines under suitable company to work for, and in 2014 it was voted one of conditions, sterilize equipment or even guarantee continuous light Switzerland’s top 100 employers. during surgical operations. The most obvious and practical answer to the central problem is for the hospital to have its own transWork/life balance and employees’ well-being formator. u-blox pledged its support to the electricity project two u-blox believes that striking a balance between employees’ life years ago and works closely with Energy Assistance, a Belgian and work is key to their long-term well-being and motivation. We organization that actively promotes humanitarian energy projects strive to offer our employees a working environment that helps worldwide. them to be more productive. We actively encourage balance by offering flexible working hours and work/pay/vacation programs Despite the problems facing the Lukula project – such as shipment together with a sabbatical after five years’ tenure with the delay of the transformator – we remain fully committed to the company. We offer interactive, real-time internal communications goal. Equipping the hospital with a reliable power source will that are accessible to employees worldwide. We regularly update permit improved handling of blood and medical supplies, sterilized our global workforce on the state of the company. equipment and more effective treatment and operations. These improvements should, in turn, have a direct and noticeable effect Performance indicators 2013 2014 on the community, such as increased life expectancy. Total headcount (end of the year) 454 625 Jobs created 78 80 Women in overall workforce 15.2% 14.6% Part-time employees 7.3% 7.2% Fluctuation 8.6% 8.9% Employees per function (end of 2014, FTE based) Logistics, admin 11% (69) Sales, marketing, 19% support (117) 70% Research & (428) development Hospital in Congo Sustainability | Page 43 Sustainability | Page 51 Sustainability: The Internet of Things facilitates home treatment for critically ill patients As populations live longer, their susceptibility to life-threatening and terminal diseases increases and puts an ever-greater strain on 4 Environment finite healthcare and hospital services. One way of easing the Product responsibility pressure is to use technology and remote monitoring to allow u-blox has a long record of compliance with demanding environseverely ill patients to remain at home. itACiH (IT support for mental standards. As a fabless semiconductor company, we advanced cancer care in the home) is a Swedish research program require the same exacting sustainability standards from our examining the feasibility of such an approach. u-blox technologies suppliers. We liaise closely with them to monitor and manage the are ideal for this purpose. We therefore welcome the opportunity potentially harmful substances and materials used at all stages of to participate in a professional project that makes use of our the manufacturing cycle. We do everything in our power to avoid products – between a patient monitor and a home hub, for conflict minerals from any source and work with key production example – in the Internet of Things. partners to identify the origin of the metals in our products. All smelters in our supply chain are clearly identified. Our suppliers Disaster relief donation have an obligation to ensure that the cassiterite, columbiteIn September 2014, torrential rainfall in Pakistan caused severe tantalite, gold and wolframite in their products are conflict-free. flooding that killed hundreds of people. u-blox made a financial We took steps to ensure that our key manufacturing partners contribution to help flood victims. The money collected was comply fully with legal, industrial and customer-specific invested in tents, shelter and other urgently needed equipment. environmental requirements. Such close collaboration requires a suitable database and management solution for environment data collection, storage, reporting and compliance checks. u-blox works with key contract manufacturers and suppliers to put new Sustainability: 3 Market measures in place that will enable more effective and efficient control over our environmental and sustainability objectives. CO2 Supply chain safety u-blox’ products are indirectly contributing to the reduction of CO2 u-blox founded its Sustainable Supplier Program in 2012. Its aim is emissions worldwide. Our products can lead to a reduction in to ensure that working conditions in the supply chain are safe, traveland transportation-related CO2 emissions, for example u-blox that workers are treated with respect and that manufacturing solutions help to optimize the routing of trucks and enhance driver processes have as little impact on the environment as possible. behavior for low emissions; in vending they can avoid unnecessary The Program is based on the EICC (Electronic Industry Citizenship travel to refill machines; in utility meters they avoid visits to read the Coalition) Code of Conduct, which covers labor and human meter; in navigation they help find the shortest route to the rights, workers’ health and safety, environmental impact, ethics destination, etc. u-blox’ direct impact on CO2 emissions is low since and management systems. In 2014, u-blox completed an u-blox outsources the manufacturing of its products to third parties. assessment of its supplier base. We will audit suppliers who do Our manufacturing partners all run individual programs for the not fulfill all social requirements in 2015 and, if necessary, draw reduction of CO2 emissions. Furthermore u-blox has implemented up plans for improvement. measures to help reduce travel-related CO2 emissions of its employees: at our headquarters, u-blox covers the cost of public transportation from home to office, encouraging employees to not use a car. Furthermore, a video-conferencing system is undergoing trials for major u-blox offices worldwide to reduce travel and so reduce the CO2-footprint of employees. Phase 1 Phase 2 Phase 3 Phase 4 Phase 5 Pre-assessment Introduction Assessment Validation Improvement and support • u-blox conducts • Suppliers declare • Suppliers complete • On-site supplier pre-risk assessment compliance with self-assessment audits if required • Collaboration u-blox’ Supplier • u-blox review • Corrective actions with suppliers Code of Conduct and feedback and verification on improvement (based on the if required planning EICC Code • Follow-up audits if required of Conduct). if required Supply chain safety: Our commitment to addressing the challenges in our supply chain is founded on five pillars. Page 44 56 | Sustainability Catching up with Thomas Christen, Senior Director Program Management with u-blox in Thalwil, Switzerland What exactly does your job entail? I’m responsible for around 50 to 60 projects at any one time. I have to decide which work package is realized when and ensure that everything’s on track and in accordance with shortand long-term objectives. We carry out a twice-yearly assessment of our projects to make sure they’re in line with market developments and look into new products, new features and new technologies. What was the biggest challenge you’ve faced? And is there any achievement you’re particularly proud of? Taking on the job of program management was the toughest thing I’ve done. I’m proud of the fact that I made it clear some of management’s aims would call for a different type of approach. Over the past six years we’ve seen a major transformation, and without some of the decisions taken back then, the company wouldn’t be in the position it is today. What do you like about working for u-blox? Being part of a company that changes from one year to the next means we can never stand still or get bored. And it calls for constant adaptation all the way from the top down. Essentially, u-blox is a democratic, socially aware company. If you have a concern or a suggestion, you can always be sure someone will Thomas Christen is a “man of the first hour.” An electronics have an open door and an open mind. Working here is a dynamic graduate who moved into software development, he joined and exciting experience all round. u-blox at the Thalwil headquarters in 2002 when the company was five years old and had just over 30 employees. Over the past And what’s the most inspiring project you’re involved in at 13 years, he’s seen a lot of change and witnessed the company’s the moment? growth from a small operation driven by the dynamism of an Our innovative ideas and new customer requirements. To achieve imaginative group of founders to a global company that this, we’re working on a brand-new generation of positioning specialized in GPS products, followed by cellular and, most chips, which poses an enormous technological challenge. And it’s recently, short range products. also hard to predict how the processes will work for new and emerging markets or what sort of expectations those markets Thomas, tell us how you came to u-blox have. I’d been working in Singapore for two years leading a multi-ethnic software development team for a semiconductor company that And what can you tell us about life outside u-blox? sold its products all over Asia. My hands-on experience of training I’m a happily married family man with four children aged five to staff in the Asia-Pacific region was certainly an advantage when nine, and I spend as much of my leisure time as possible with I applied for the job with u-blox, but I think I was pretty well them. I live about an hour from headquarters in a small village. qualified for the job, too (smiles modestly). I joined the company I love its simplicity and the peace and silence: it’s the perfect as a second-level support engineer, which meant I was coaching balance to my life at work. And I recharge my batteries by either field application engineers and sales people in Asia. cycling, inline skating or skiing. How did you move from that job to your present position? By 2008, we’d reached a pretty critical situation. We were growing fast but project handling was an haphazard affair and we made no distinction between hardware and software, and that led to coordination problems. The Executive Committee decided we needed professional project management and asked me to take on the responsibility for setting it up. So I soon found myself in charge of R&D projects in Thalwil and later in Reigate, GB and Espoo, FIN. employees | Page 57 SustainabilitySustainability 53 45
