2015 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S 2 0 15 2 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS INDEX 3. LETTER FROM OUR MANAGING PARTNER 4. IK INVESTMENT PARTNERS: WHO WE ARE 5. THE IK WAY: OUR INVESTMENT PROCESS 6. RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT: OUR BUSINESS PHILOSOPHY 7-8. ADHERING TO THE UNGC PRINCIPLES 9. EXAMPLES OF PORTFOLIO COMPANY INITIATIVES 10-11. IKARE: IK'S EXTENDED COMMITTMENT I K I N V E S T M E N T PA R T N E R S C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S 2 0 15 3 LETTER FROM OUR MANAGING PARTNER In this, our first annual Communication on Progress, I am pleased to confirm that IK Investment Partners remains committed to supporting the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. WE WOULD LIKE to take this opportunity to describe how we are integrating the Global Compact’s principles into our business strategy and our culture. We are also making this information available to all our stakeholders. Becoming a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact in 2014 was a decision that we took with due consideration of the obligations that it entails. We view our participation in the Global Compact as a longterm project and we take the responsibilities that come with it very seriously. At IK, our commitment is two-fold. First, as a private equity firm, we need to ensure that our internal way of working complies with and advances the Ten Principles of the Global Compact. Second, we need to encourage the companies in which we are invested to comply with and advance those principles. The most important step that we have taken this year covers both those areas. We have significantly improved and strengthened our investment process, from the moment that we consider an opportunity, through the investment period and until the point of exit from that investment. “We have started the journey; it will undoubtedly take time but we have already and achievements around responsible investing and ESG issues and report back to IK. delivered meaningful change. We look This updated and rigorous process has been constructed over the past year and we believe it will drive continuous improvement in the way that forward to delivering further improvements we and our portfolio companies address human rights, labour, over the coming year and beyond.” environment and anti-corruption. Moreover, it highlights the way in which private equity firms can deliver positive change, through strong and effective governance and a focus on responsible investment. We have developed a proprietary approach to the way in which we Overall, we believe that we have made clear progress over the past year. structure and monitor investments, known as the IK Way. As with any long-term project, we believe that it is best to take measured An ESG component was added in 2012 which has since been further steps. We have started the journey; it will undoubtedly take time but we updated and strengthened. have already delivered meaningful change. We look forward to delivering We explain our work in more detail below. In essence, however, we further improvements over the coming year and beyond. have taken two steps. First, we have formalised our initial assessment of portfolio companies’ approach to ESG issues. Second, we have added a new layer of governance to our investment process, in the form of an Audit & ESG Committee, which will report to the Board of Directors of each portfolio company. This committee will be charged with ensuring that the company has a robust ESG plan and then monitoring the implementation of that plan on CHRISTOPHER MASEK an annual basis. The Committee will review the company’s key activities Managing Partner, IK I K I N V E S T M E N T PA R T N E R S C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S 2 0 15 4 IK INVESTMENT PARTNERS: WHO WE ARE IK Investment Partners is a European private equity advisory group with Nordic roots, operating across Northern Continental Europe. Deeply committed to fostering sustainable growth, we have helped more than 90 companies expand and develop, since we were founded in 1989. WE BELIEVE THAT with growth comes responsibility, so we are mindful of Over the years, we have created a set of core values, which provide the our responsibilities as owners and our social and environmental foundation for our investment process and ownership strategy and serve obligations. As such, we strive constantly to make a difference to our as guiding principles for all our investments. The IK core values are portfolio companies, our investors and to society. We focus on delivering long-term positive change to portfolio PROFESSIONALISM – we have a disciplined investment strategy, which is companies, taking businesses with strong positions in their local markets carried out by professionals representing a broad range of nationalities and turning them into international leaders. In so doing, we foster with a wide range of experiences community involvement and work to create a better society. ETHICAL STANDARDS – we adhere to high ethical standards regarding Over the years, we have developed a unique footprint, centred on investment in, and management of, portfolio companies investments in the Nordics, DACH region, France and Benelux. RELATIONSHIPS – we build and foster long-term relationships based on We invest in four broad sectors; consumer goods, industrial goods, care professionalism and trust, and we work closely with portfolio company and business services. In each of our investments, our Funds aim to build management teams lasting value by fostering fundamental performance improvements through COMMITMENT – we are committed to our investors, partners and portfolio active engagement. companies in everything we do OPERATIONALLY FOCUSED – we have a proven and strategic operating VALUE CREATION THROUGH RESPONSIBLE OWNERSHIP approach to long-term value creation Our investment approach is built around making a difference to our PERFORMANCE – we have a strong investment track record with an portfolio companies and investors in the IK Funds. With our support, experienced, cohesive and stable investment and support team companies in our portfolio expand, develop and improve their performance. Responsible investment plays a fundamental role in that journey. Having accumulated more than 25 years’ experience in the private equity market, we recognise that effective environmental, social and ” governance (ESG) policies can contribute to value creation within portfolio companies and enrich society more broadly. To that end, ESG issues have become ingrained in our investment methodology and responsible investment is an integral part of our operations. We believe that active value creation is the most effective way to deliver OUR AMBITION IS growth as responsible owners. Active ownership involves working in partnership with management, TO BUILD BE T TER BUSINESSES, providing strategic, financial and operational support. With IK’s guidance, our portfolio companies operate more effectively, and are encouraged to CAPABLE OF SUSTAINABLE, make ESG issues an integral part of their business strategy. LONG-TERM DE VELOPMENT. We invest in companies with local market strengths and help them to become international leaders. We look for businesses with dedicated, enthusiastic and responsible management teams and the potential to grow and contribute to society. Through committed, active ownership, we have built a strong track record of successful growth, generating consistent returns across economic cycles and thereby supporting growth within the communities in which we operate. Our ambition is always to build better businesses, capable of sustainable, long-term development. I K I N V E S T M E N T PA R T N E R S C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S 2 0 15 5 THE IK WAY: OUR INVESTMENT PROCESS IK aims to build stronger and more sustainable companies. Responsible investment plays a fundamental role in that endeavour. During our ownership, we encourage companies to act responsibly, because we recognise that effective environmental, social and governance (ESG) policies can contribute to value creation and enrich society more broadly. TO ENSURE A structured approach to investment, we have created a toolkit, the portfolio, company boards are responsible for ensuring that management teams IK Way, which guides our methodology from the moment that we consider a are mindful of their ESG responsibilities. Ultimately, the board must ratify and potential investment to the point at which we divest the company. Attention to approve a company’s work on responsible investment and ESG. ESG issues was already a key part of the IK Way but this year we have made important changes to further integrate ESG seamlessly into the IK Way and to MONITORING PROGRESS AND ENCOURAGING IMPROVEMENT strengthen our commitment to responsible investment. As part of IK’s stewardship of its portfolio companies, we hold an annual partners’ meeting where every company is discussed in depth. This includes BEFORE AN INVESTMENT IS MADE an assessment of each company’s progress across ESG issues. Overall, we When IK considers an investment decision, a detailed presentation is made believe that we have made noteworthy progress this year. In 2014, we to the Investment Committee. This presentation includes risk screening for commissioned an external consultancy to provide an ESG report on every actual and potential ESG issues and further assessment of potential ESG new investment that we undertook, including extensive analysis of individual risks and opportunities. IK’s approach and ambition to ESG is not only about companies’ strengths and weaknesses from an ESG perspective and mitigating risks but also about adding value by using, for example, ESG comprehensive advice on how to deliver short and long-term improvements. factors to improve business practices. Frequently, external ESG consultants This year, we have added to our stewardship, via the Audit & ESG are appointed to conduct further due diligence in this area. Committee, which monitors activities and encourages management teams to implement the improvements suggested within the ESG reviews. We have IN THE EARLY DAYS strengthened our ESG processes across the board, reinforcing our Once an investment is made, the investment team presents a 100-day plan. governance of portfolio companies and engaging with them directly to This year, we have stipulated that the plan include an express and formal highlight the benefits of improved ESG performance. We remain committed commitment to implement an ESG review, conducted by specialist to further positive change in 2016 and beyond. consultants. These reviews provide an extensive analysis of individual companies’ strengths and weaknesses from an ESG perspective. But they do INTEGRATED IN OUR METHODOLOGY not simply assess the status. They also provide comprehensive advice on how to deliver improvements, both in the short term via quick wins and in the longer-term via strategic and tactical developments. Encompassing in-depth Sourcing Execution interviews with senior members of portfolio companies’ management teams & Selection and relevant professionals at IK, the reports are detailed but accessible in their approach, with guidance on the next steps to be taken. Completed reviews are also shared with portfolio company boards so that their findings can be discussed and acted upon. We believe these reviews are a tangible demonstration of our commitment to responsible investment. Importantly too, Active Ownership Exit they allow us to measure and record ESG improvements. STRONGER GOVERNANCE DURING THE HOLDING PERIOD This year, we have also made a significant step forward in our portfolio company governance, stipulating that every company board must appoint an Audit & ESG Committee. The committee is responsible for monitoring and reviewing a EXAMPLES OF INITIATIVES IN 2015 company’s policies and approach towards ESG issues, using the ESG review as Further strengthened our ESG governance with the appointment of an Audit & ESG committee a basis for its work. The committee also prepares detailed annual reviews, for every portfolio company, responsible for monitoring and reviewing a company’s policies and which are analysed and discussed alongside the annual accounts. This approaches towards ESG committee sits directly beneath the Board of Directors of the portfolio company. Formalised commitment to implement external ESG reviews on all new investments Each investment team within IK is responsible for ensuring that this process is Conducted annual ESG reviews of our current portfolio companies adopted by portfolio company boards in their jurisdiction. Across the IK Conducted ESG reviews of new portfolio companies I K I N V E S T M E N T PA R T N E R S C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S 2 0 15 6 RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT: OUR BUSINESS PHILOSOPHY As owners of over 90 companies since 1989, the IK Funds as well as their Investment Advisor, IK Investment Partners Limited, are deeply aware of their responsibilities towards those businesses and to society at large. IK aims to build better companies: investing responsibly plays a fundamental role in that journey. USING THE IK WAY as a structured investment toolkit, we have embedded IK COMMITS TO: corporate social responsibility into every stage of our investment process Integrate the above principles into our decision-making processes from the moment that we consider potential investments. Assess ESG factors during the due diligence process for potential During our ownership, we encourage companies to act responsibly, investments because we recognise that effective environmental, social and governance Encourage portfolio companies to follow the above principles and relevant (ESG) policies can contribute to value creation and enrich society more ESG-related, international conventions and standards broadly. Provide relevant ESG training and support to IK employees involved in the We also commission independent ESG reports on every new investment process enabling them to work in accordance with the above investment, providing analysis of strengths and weaknesses and advice on commitments delivering change. Recognising our broader responsibilities, we endeavour to behave REFERRAL LIST: ethically and with consideration for all our stakeholders, including The sectors listed below are considered potentially sensitive from an RI employees, customers, suppliers, management teams and industrial viewpoint and are not areas in which IK would contemplate direct advisers. Above all, we are mindful of our responsibility to society. investment. Referral is required to IK senior management for approval in Responsible investment is integral to IK’s business philosophy. We principle, at the earliest opportunity, where investment is contemplated in a strive constantly to institute and maintain high standards of governance company which touches one of the following activities: and business ethics within our firm and our portfolio companies. Working with management teams, we help them recognise and manage Gambling the opportunities and risks associated with Environmental, Social and Tobacco Governance issues. We believe this is the right course to follow and are Alcoholic spirits keenly aware that ESG factors may materially affect the reputation and Pornography value of companies within our portfolio and IK itself. This list is not exhaustive – referrals will also be made where investments IK IS WELL POSITIONED TO INVEST RESPONSIBLY BECAUSE: associated with similar risks are contemplated. IK Funds perform detailed due diligence before acquisition IK Funds are actively represented on the board of portfolio companies IK WILL NOT INVEST IN COMPANIES THAT: Responsible investment is embedded in the IK Way Have contributed to systematic denial of basic human rights We recognise our responsibility to society at large Demonstrate a pattern of non-compliance with environmental regulations Show a pattern of engaging in child labour or forced labour Responsible Investment – Principles and Commitments IK’S RI COMMITMENTS ARE BASED ON THE FOLLOWING PRINCIPLES: Respect for the internationally proclaimed human rights principles Equal opportunity independent of gender or race Freedom of association and the right to bargain collectively Working conditions which meet basic health and safety standards Promotion of environmental responsibility Implementation of anti-corruption guidelines I K I N V E S T M E N T PA R T N E R S C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S 2 0 15 7 ADHERING TO THE UNGC PRINCIPLES IK is committed to adhering to the UNGC principles and ensuring that our portfolio companies adhere to these principles as well. HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR PRINCIPLE 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of PRINCIPLE 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and internationally proclaimed human rights the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining PRINCIPLE 2: make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses PRINCIPLE 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour PRINCIPLE 5: the effective abolition of child labour Support for individual and collective human rights is a fundamental part PRINCIPLE 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment of the culture at IK Investment Partners. We support the Universal and occupation Declaration of Human Rights and we will never carry out business with countries and regimes where flagrant human rights abuses are known, As a firm with strong Nordic roots, IK Investment Partners believes that a such as torture, politically motivated disappearance, etc. good working environment and equal opportunities for all are a As owners of companies with operations across the globe, we are fundamental right for every employee. deeply aware of our responsibilities around human rights. We As part of our Responsible Investment policy, we will not invest in a encourage our portfolio companies to support human rights and we are company that shows a pattern of engaging in child labour or forced committed to continued progress both within IK Investment Partners labour. Both within our firm and among our portfolio companies, we and among our portfolio companies. support diversity and we actively encourage employee engagement, development and promotion. We believe that, as owners, we have a responsibility to lead by example. As such, our Human Resources Policy supports best practice in terms of labour and employment, including equal opportunities and ” diversity. We also have a Health and Safety Policy, run a health surveillance programme and carry out safety compliance audits of all offices. Our portfolio companies employ more than 30,000 people and we stress that employees’ rights and working conditions must be respected. IK INVESTMENT PARTNERS For many of our management teams, this is a priority. In 2015, 65% of our portfolio companies had a Human Resources policy and 9% of them BELIE VES THAT A GOOD implemented that policy during the past 12 months. In addition, more WORKING ENVIRONMENT than 40% of our portfolio companies had a code of conduct policy in 2015 and 29% of them implemented that policy during the past 12 AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES months (and during their first year with IK as their owner). We are committed to continued progress both within IK Investment FOR ALL ARE A FUNDAMENTAL Partners and among our portfolio companies, with regard to fair, equal RIGHT FOR E VERY EMPLOYEE. and effective labour conditions. I K I N V E S T M E N T PA R T N E R S C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S 2 0 15 8 ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to PRINCIPLE 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, environmental changes including extortion and bribery PRINCIPLE 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility IK Investment Partners does not condone corruption, extortion or PRINCIPLE 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally bribery in any form. friendly technologies As an owner of companies with operations around the world, robust anti-corruption policies and regulatory compliance play an essential IK Investment Partners supports the UNGC’s environmental principles and we role in our ability to do business ethically and with integrity. endeavour to uphold them within our firm and across our portfolio companies. We understand the damage caused by bribery and corruption and We believe in the promotion of greater environmental responsibility and we we work hard to guard our employees and those of our portfolio firms encourage our portfolio companies, where relevant, to develop sustainable against their corrosive influence. products, services and solutions. IK Investment Partners is compliant with the Bribery Act and does We actively encourage our portfolio companies to be mindful of their not participate in corruption, bribery or extortion. Our Compliance environment and we monitor their progress throughout our holding period. Officer is responsible for anti-corruption within IK Investment Partners External consultants provide initial input and the Board of Directors of every and our Anti-Corruption Policy sets out what could be considered portfolio company ensures review and assessment of environmental policies. bribery in terms of business operations and relations. The Policy also 41% of our portfolio companies now have an environmental policy and covers the receiving of hospitality and gifts and IK Investment Partners 47% of portfolio companies have a responsible supply chain policy and/or provides staff with regular training and updates. We also have a waste management policy. Whistle blowing Policy and Conflicts of Interest Policy. We are committed to delivering continued progress on environmental In 2015, as part of a regular programme, we provided staff with issues both within IK Investment Partners and among our portfolio anti-corruption training and industrial advisors and portfolio company companies. management with other compliance training. We encouraged portfolio ” companies which had not yet adopted formal anti-bribery policies to do so. In 2015, 35% of our portfolio companies had an anti-bribery policy. In addition, 41% of our portfolio companies had a code of conduct in 2015 and 29% of those companies implemented the policy during the THIS YE AR, AS OWNERS, WE past 12 months. HAVE FURTHER STRENGTHENED OUR ESG STE WARDSHIP, WITH THE APPOINTMENT OF AN EXAMPLES OF INITIATIVES IN 2015 AUDIT & ESG COMMIT TEE FOR Supported portfolio companies to implement or update relevant policies for their E VERY PORTFOLIO COMPANY, respective businesses Conducted annual ESG reviews of our current portfolio companies REPORTING DIRECTLY TO THE Conducted ESG reviews of new portfolio companies BOARD OF DIRECTORS. Provided staff, industrial advisors and portfolio company managements with relevant training within ESG areas Participated in UN Global Compact meetings, training and webinars I K I N V E S T M E N T PA R T N E R S C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S 2 0 15 9 EXAMPLES OF PORTFOLIO COMPANY INITIATIVES PORTFOLIO CASE STUDY: ENVIRONMENTAL EVAC Evac, the world’s leading provider of waste and water management systems for the shipbuilding, offshore, and construction industries, has pioneered a new technology to reduce ship waste tenfold and cut operational costs by 25 per cent. The advanced waste compaction system creates dry briquettes that are ten times denser than traditional plastic bags of waste. Inspired by witnessing the way in which sawmills create briquettes, Evac’s technology is similar but more compact. The resultant space savings, combined with reduced diesel and energy consumption, deliver a dramatic reduction in operating costs. Cleaner than bagged waste and presenting a much lower fire risk, the briquetting technology could also be used on offshore oil platforms. Sector: Industrial goods Fund: IK VII Fund Country: Finland Status: Unrealised PORTFOLIO CASE STUDY: SOCIAL ATTENDO With 18,000 employees, Attendo is the 19th largest employer in Sweden. A leading provider of health and care services in the Nordics, the company’s core philosophy is that it can only provide quality care by employing quality staff. As such, it is extremely focused on attracting, retaining and motivating qualified employees. Most of the staff are female, the workforce is highly diverse and it includes a wide mix of ethnic minorities. To encourage members of staff to feel involved in the company and valued by it, Attendo has developed a shared vision, Empowering the Individual, and a set of common values, built around competence, commitment and care. As part of this drive to empower staff, Attendo carries out regular surveys to measure job satisfaction and has created an award-winning quality development system to improve the lives and security of its clients and patients. Formalising its approach to labour, the company has implemented clear, official policies covering HR, equality and diversity, as well as a group-wide code of conduct. Sector: Care Fund: IK 2004 Fund Country: Sweden Status: Realised PORTFOLIO CASE STUDY: GOVERNANCE AMPELMANN Ampelmann is a pioneer in offshore access solutions, which it leases to companies around the world. The company has an Anti-Bribery Policy, which applies to both employees and subcontractors, and a dedicated Anti-Bribery section in its Supplier Code of Conduct. These documents set out clear rules related to receiving and providing gifts and states that Ampelmann has a zero tolerance policy towards bribery and corruption. Employees are encouraged to report any deemed violations of the Anti-Bribery Policy to their manager or the Board, they can do this anonymously and information is treated confidentially during the process of investigation. The company has started a high-level assessment of corruption risk in the countries where it operates and identified employees who require training and actions for reporting on anti-bribery and corruption (ABC). Senior management report that there have been no ABC incidents to date. During 2015, Ampelmann appointed an Anti-Bribery Officer, who has updated the company’s Anti-Bribery Policy and the guidelines on anti-bribery, gifts and hospitality. ABC training is also being arranged for those people considered at risk. Sector: Industrial goods Fund: IK VII Fund Country: Netherlands Status: Unrealised I K I N V E S T M E N T PA R T N E R S C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S 2 0 15 10 IKARE IK’S EXTENDED COMMITMENT IKARE is the venture philanthropy arm of IK Investment Partners. Founded and supported by IK Investment Partners, IKARE uses venture philanthropy principles to make a positive long-term impact. ENGAGING IN PHILANTHROPY has been an integral part of IK’s culture the Stamp Out Sleeping Sickness (SOS) initiative, a public private partnership since the firm was founded in 1989. But, as the IK partnership developed, launched in response to an emergency situation in Northern Uganda, where the partners wanted to adopt a more structured approach to charitable two strains of Sleeping sickness were on the brink of converging with donations and link them more closely to their core business. The potentially catastrophic consequences. Sleeping sickness is a parasitic partnership wanted to make a difference, wanted to federate staff and disease transmitted by tsetse flies, affecting not only humans but also cattle, wanted to leave something sustainable behind. That is why IKARE was set where it is known as Nagana. up as an independent charity, imbued with the principles of venture Under the SOS initiative, graduate veterinary students from Makerere philanthropy. As such, IKARE aims to overlay private equity investment University in Kampala, Uganda, supervised by their professors and faculty techniques, and other business expertise and practices, into these causes members, treated 250,000 cattle, curing them first of the parasites with an or 'investees', thereby contributing more than just funding. injectable drug and then spraying their legs and bellies. This prevents Launched in 2006, IKARE initially focused on combating Rhodesiense reinfection and thus reduces the number of tsetse flies in the area. The sleeping sickness in Uganda. Working in partnership with local and emergency intervention was extremely successful. It reduced the prevalence international stakeholders, IKARE helped to avert more than 1,000 cases of the of parasites in cattle by almost 70 per cent and, crucially, helped to prevent disease. Since then, IKARE has opened up private sector animal care in the continued spread of the acute form of sleeping sickness among people in Uganda, helping vets to set up independent rural practices and providing rural communities. The intervention spawned an idea, as it became clear that farmers with local access to advice and treatment for their cattle. Along the the districts at risk lacked veterinary services infrastructure. Working with local way, IKARE has created new jobs and taken hundreds of people out of public bodies and veterinary pharmaceutical group CEVA (a former IK portfolio poverty. company), IKARE provided start-up financing and mentoring support as a number of these vets set up shop. Since 2009, IKARE has established a RECENT INITIATIVES network of vets and self-employed spray persons (who work closely with the During the first six months of 2015, an ambitious initiative was carried out in vets) has been established across seven districts in Northern Uganda. The 3V Northern Uganda to try and root out the remaining instances of sleeping Vets, as they came to be called, and their spray person networks, advise sickness in the region. Initiated and sponsored by IKARE, this focused on a farmers on general animal health matters and the importance of spraying spraying campaign in a specific area of Northern Uganda. Farmers were cattle on a regular basis. offered one free spray treatment for every treatment they bought and spray Intuitively approaching the challenge at hand, IKARE was determined to persons visited them at their homes to minimise daily disruption for the control the spread of sleeping sickness in a sustainable way, like a traditional farmers. private equity investment. IKARE has therefore provided not just targeted The campaign was very encouraging. IKARE and its partners expected to financial support to the vets but also advice and other non-financial support, spray around 120,000 cattle but ultimately 180,000 animals were sprayed and such as training, so they are better able to make a strong societal impact. over time more farmers joined the programme and increased not only the total Today they are sustainable business owners in their own right and can work number of cattle they had sprayed but the proportion of those sprayed at their with the Ugandan government in the control of sleeping sickness. In other own cost. The campaign was accompanied by a widespread awareness programme, including regular radio advertisements, to heighten awareness of the importance of regular spraying. The multi-faceted approach appears to have worked as farmers have become more vigilant towards their cattle. The EXAMPLES OF INITIATIVES IN 2015 activities should help to bridge the remaining gaps in sleeping sickness control Initiated and sponsored a spraying campaign in districts of Northern Uganda, resulting in and surveillance with far-reaching effects on animal and human health in 180,000 cattle being sprayed Uganda. Supported a widespread campaign to heighten awareness of sleeping sickness and prevention WHAT IS THE BACKGROUND? Embarked on a partnership with Shifo Foundation to further explore the link between human Sleeping sickness is a debilitating and ultimately fatal disease, which and animal health. Shifo is dedicated to saving children from dying of preventable diseases threatens more than 70 million people in sub-Saharan Africa and around 10 Participated at EVPA, European Venture Philanthropy Association, meetings and trainings million people in Uganda alone. In 2006, IKARE was one of the founders of I K I N V E S T M E N T PA R T N E R S C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S 2 0 15 11 FACTS ABOUT IKARE MORE THAN 250 JOBS CRE ATED PHILANTROPHY IS PART OF IK’S CULTURE 600,000 CAT TLE TRE ATED I K I N V E S T M E N T PA R T N E R S
