Cybercom Group Company Presentation and Sustainability Report 2014 B A We work every day at Cybercom to connect people, machines and services to get them to work more smoothly together. We call this Connectivity, and the result is intelligent solutions that can achieve more and that give more. Properly used, IT shrinks distances and gives greater opportunities to more people. Connectivity represents easier, cleaner and more secure business and society in which we come closer to one another. 2 The year in brief 34 Sustainable business 4 Cybercom in 3 minutes 36 Dedicated employees 6 CEO comment 42 High ethical standards 10 The market 44 From the chairman 14 Strategy of the board 16 Targets and outcomes 45 Code of conduct 20 Services provided 46 Cybercom’s voice in public debate 22 Packaged solutions 26 Clients 50 GRI index 32 Sustainability ABOUT THE REPORT This report is Cybercom’s combined annual report and sustainability report for 2014. It is presented as the Company Presentation and Sustainability Report, and as the statutory Annual Report, which includes the director’s report, financial statements and corporate governance report. The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), and the corporate governance report complies with Chapter 6, Section 6 of the Annual Accounts Act and Item 10 of the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance. Cybercom’s sustainability report is presented in accordance with the GRI G4 international guidelines for sustainability, Core Option. The GRI index can be found on pages 50–51, and more information about indicators, methods and assumptions can be found in a GRI appendix at www.cybercom.com/griappendix. Cybercom signed the UN Global Compact in 2011, and complies with its ten principles for responsible business. This report is Cybercom’s annual communication about how we live up to and work with these principles. Company Presentation and Sustainability Report B A B A B B A A B A 1 Company Presentation and Sustainability Report The year in brief 2014 KEY EVENTS Cybercom continued to strengthCybercom was awarded expandUN Secretary-General Ban Kien its position in security and ed assignments by the Swedish moon visited Cybercom together was engaged by the Swedish Tax Armed Forces and the Swedish with Swedish Prime Minister Agency and the Finnish PopulaDefence Materiel Administration Fredrik Reinfeldt and Migration tion Register Centre to develop (FMV), including an assignment Minister Tobias Billström to disnational identification services for for development and implemencuss migration issues, technology citizens in Sweden and Finland. tation of logistics systems over and sustainability. Cybercom was four years. also exclusively invited to participate in the UN Climate Change Cybercom was entrusted by Summit in New York to discuss Ericsson to deliver several new agCybercom’s Compliance Portal innovative technologies as tools ile teams and, as a consequence, was selected for the managefor a sustainable future. established a new office in Kista. ment of information security by several new clients, including Svenska Spel, Eltel and Stockholm Cybercom and the Swedish Cybercom continued its major County Council. Film Institute created an app development and administration called Tillgänglig Bio that has project of web-based services for audio description so that people students and training providers Cable & Wireless Communicawith visual impairments can for the Finnish National Board of tions selected Cybercom for sevexperience film with through a Education. eral Connectivity Management smartphone or tablet. The service assignments for mobile networks was launched with the film Genin the Caribbean. tlemen at the Film Festival. Cybercom won several new framework agreements, such as with SIDA, the Swedish Tax AgenCybercom was awarded Cybercom’s contract as an expert cy, the Swedish Enforcement outsourcing business for the departner to TomTom was expandAuthority and the E-identification velopment of infotainment with ed in Poland for the development Board, and Tele2 chose CyberVolvo Group Trucks Technology. of digital mapping services. com as its strategic partner for machine-to-machine communication (M2M). Cybercom implemented WyWalCybercom launched its Procurelet’s Multipay mobile payment ment Check tool, which is free service so that e-retailers can of charge for everyone in the Cybercom was re-awarded a offer mobile phone payments to industry, both colleagues and contract to manage and develop connected consumers. clients, to help businesses and Finnish media company MTV’s government agencies to procure consumer-based e-services. MTV more secure IT. has the most comprehensive Cybercom’s software for wireless range of e-services in Finland, Bluetooth® technology, blueGO, including on the websites MTV.fi, continued to gain ground among Cybercom’s headquarters and Katsomo.fi and Luukku.com. international automakers. Stockholm office moved to a new activity-based facility located centrally in Stockholm. 2 Company Presentation and Sustainability Report The year in brief SEKm 2014 2013 2012 KEY FIGURES Sales 1,262.9 1,195.1 1,339.2 Operating profit, EBIT 65.8 60.2 -11.4 EBIT margin, % 5.2 5.0 -0.9 Profit/loss for the period 48.8 41.5 -53.1 Earnings per share, SEK 0.27 0.23 -0.67 No. of employees 1,307 1,267 1,335 SEKk 2014 2013 2012 GENERATED AND DISTRIBUTED DIRECT ECONOMIC VALUE Generated direct economic value Revenues 1,262,887 1,195,135 1,399,202 Distributed direct economic value Employee benefits -824,303 -793,840 -892,081 Other external expenses -345,921 -314,732 -476,539 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment -26,373 -26,199 -29,857 Capital losses – – -11,792 Net finance income/expense -2,490 -6,904 -16,354 Tax -14,440 -11,811 -25,314 Dividend* 9,022 – – Charitable donations -521 -142 -352 Economic value retained 39,817* 41,507 -53,087 *) Provided that the Annual General Meeting approves the Board’s proposal, equivalent to 18.5% of net profit Employee benefits, 65.27% DISTRIBUTED VALUE 2014 Other external expenses, 27.39% Depreciation, amortisation and impairment, 2.09% Net finance income/expense, 0.20% Tax, 1.14% Dividend, 0.71% Charitable donations, 0.04% Economic value retained, 3.16% 3 Company Presentation and Sustainability Report Cybercom in 3 minutes We make everyday services more secure, easier and more sustainable Cybercom is an innovative IT consulting firm that was founded in Sweden in 1995. We assist companies and organisations to benefit from the opportunities of the connected world and to enhance their competitiveness. 4 Company Presentation and Sustainability Report Cybercom in 3 minutes Some of our largest clients Alma Media Group • Cable & Wireless Communications • Ericsson Finnish National Board of Education • Millicom • MTV Swedish National Police Board • Saab • Swedish Tax Agency • Sony Mobile Stockholm County Council • Volvo Connectivity Offering Clients Employees We help our clients to connect We provide consulting services, Our strength and our excellent We are more than 1,300 employtheir products or services from strategy and advice, testing and references in Connectivity position ees in seven countries, with over a business perspective. Connecquality assurance, system develus as a preferred partner of clients 60% in Sweden. Our average tivity is about the new realities opment, systems integration and who selectively choose suppliers age is 38, and 90% of us have a and new opportunities that we support for secure IT solutions. to secure stronger and more university degree. Our core values face, in which companies, cities, Once services are established, sustainable development. Our are innovation, passion and trust, electronic devices and people are we assist with system administraclients are mainly in telecoms, and we live by these in our daily online, all the time. Many compation and hosting in cloud-based industry and the public sector, operations and in our deliveries. nies have been able to restructure services. A typical Cybercom as well as in commerce and the their entire business and to enassignment may be the developmedia. These are leading compahance their profitability through ment of standards for systems in nies and authorities that require Connectivity. For us, Connectivity e-health, development of mobile systems, applications, products also stands for sustainability – our applications or digital services to and services to communicate with clients can save both time and enhance the quality of commueach other quickly, efficiently and resources through innovative nication between companies securely – and in the right way. and climate-smart Connectivity and clients or society and users, solutions. controlling electronic equipment such as elevators or driverless trains, developing services to measure and optimise energy consumption, or building a new mobile network. Cybercom locations Sweden Finland Poland Dubai Gothenburg Helsinki Lodz Telecom Our principal market is the Huskvarna Tampere Warsaw Nordic region, with operations in Karlskrona Turku Sweden, Finland and Denmark. Telecom Linköping Singapore In our international operaPublic sector Commerce Malmö Industry Industry Telecom tions, we have major centres of Stockholm Media excellence that both support the Sundsvall Nordic business and represent Östersund India their own specialised operations. Denmark These are located in Poland, Telecom Mumbai Public sector Copenhagen India, Dubai and Singapore. Telecom Industry Industry Commerce Telecom Public sector Banking and finance 5 Company Presentation and Sustainability Report CEO comment We live in exciting times Cybercom has devel­ We seek to be our clients’ foremost business balanced in 2014, and exists mainly in three partner in the connected world. We work segments: telecom, industry and the public oped substantially in every day at Cybercom to connect people, sector. This provides a stable foundation and machines and services in order to get them to a way for us to mitigate the risk of decreasing 2014, and so has our work smarter together. We call this Connecdemand in specific industries. It also provides world, not least be­ tivity, and the result is intelligent solutions an opportunity for skills transfer between that can achieve more and that give more. companies, organisations and public authorcause of the opportu­ Properly used, IT strengthens businesses, ities, with Cybercom acting as a catalyst. Our nities offered by tech­ shrinks distances and gives greater opportuniadvisory team of consultants is sought after ties to more people. Connectivity represents to manage transformations of operations and nology. During the year an easier, more efficient and more secure sobusinesses, and this is moving us higher up we came closer and ciety in which we come closer to each other. our clients’ value chains. We have increased This is what we are passionate about at Cyour investment in these services during 2014. closer to our goals and bercom; we want to boost the performance One of our objectives is to increase our achieved one of our of our clients, their clients, our employees proportion of turnkey projects. This is in line and our fellow human beings in a connected with our strategy to be closer to our clients’ key milestones, to once world. This is the path to a better and more core business, and is also an enabler for us to again become a growth sustainable future for our clients and for us create more sustainable profitability. It is also as a company. Connectivity is boundless, it these assignments that create the conditions company. Cybercom sets the path for new ways of doing business for Blended Delivery through our centres of and for knowledge transfer, and it democexcellence in Poland and India. Our geographhas taken market ractises, eliminates distance, improves energy ic breadth and global delivery capabilities are share – an achieve­ efficiency, alleviates administrative burdens increasingly critical in business dialogue. and creates more time to just be present – if ment that shows we we want it to. Viable structural capital are making a stronger We are working in the right direction, but we impression and that Agile change management can deliver better results by conceptualising strengthens our business our Connectivity offer­ position our services – benefitting from our expertise, our unique experience and innovative culture ing is attractive. We are in the midst of a positive journey – in a number of priority areas of high growth. of transformation towards our goals (see Our reusable solutions help to create greater pages 14-17). We are building a larger Nordic value for both our clients and for Cybercom. business and developing our sales processes We have packaged these more clearly during by using a key account structure. This has the year, and adapted them into attractive yielded excellent results during the year. We market offerings. are forging stronger links with our selected This is an important investment to strengthen clients and supporting them in their changes. our brand and our profitability going forward. It’s about creating efficiency and stronger For example, our performance in the public competitiveness through benefitting from sector has been excellent with our digital the opportunities of the connected world – as identification services in both Sweden and well as about managing the risks through our Finland. Digital identification services are one unique security expertise. of our packaged services, a valuable part of Our client portfolio has become more our structural capital. Our packaged services 6 Company Presentation and Sustainability Report CEO comment have improved our internal ability to work across company and country boundaries, and Cybercom is now a more integrated corporate business. We still have efficiency gains to achieve by becoming even more focused on growth. Implementation of our long-term industry and among our employees. our client offering and by ensuring that our strategy and our ability to quickly adapt to Our voice has been heard in the public cost structure supports it. changes in the market will be even more debate, and we have been invited to imporimportant in future. In the current market, tant talks with new businesses and in new we are building up partner networks with contexts. An example of this was when UN A borderless business consultants and suppliers to create a healthy Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon chose to environment and more seamless ecosystem. discuss the world’s future and cross-border Cybercom operates in a highly competitive supply of skills with Cybercom during a visit market. Throughout 2014, we saw a Nordic to Stockholm in May. He invited Cybercom as Innovation oxygenates environment of both initiatives and restraint, a role model to represent the new innovative with several new and active providers from our future technology and expertise necessary to enable far and wide. Major procurements were Connectivity in itself is a great enabler for sustainable development in the world. We conducted, and much time has been spent implementing tough business goals and for consequently participated in the UN Week in on dealing with price pressure, which could improved sustainability. Our strength and our New York in September. adversely affect quality and lead to short-term excellent references position us as a preferred Cybercom is part of a large global transactions that could harm our clients’ deliveries. partner of many clients who selectively choose formation through the daily efforts of our Cybercom took several initiatives to counter suppliers to secure a stronger future. This is dedicated employees. It is my role, and the this, including the launch of our Procurement important for our employees, and is having role of management, to release each employCheck, which we offer free of charge to the an increasing impact in the target groups we ee’s vision and ability, creating a dynamic and entire industry to help businesses and governrecruit from. In 2014, 330 new employees innovative working environment. I am pleased ment agencies to procure more secure IT. It is joined us and more than half of these were that that we are achieving greater and greater a concentrate of the internationally estabunder 30. This is significant for Cybercom, and success with each year, as evidenced by our lished regulations and an important checklist. is something we are actively working towards. employee survey. Another indication of the The price pressure in the market is not One challenge for us and for our industry is success of these efforts is that our employee sustainable, and it is positive that fewer and the future supply of skills. According to the Euturnover decreased significantly for the third fewer procurers are relying on negotiating on ropean Commission, there will be a shortage consecutive year. This is a win for us. price as the strongest parameter. Procureof over one million programmers in Europe by In 2012, we laid the foundation of the ments conducted entirely on price often 2020. This is a reality we deal with daily, and strategy we follow today and, accordingly, we bring short-term gains, short-lived solutions, we see our recruitment base as global. Our redeveloped the company to be profit-making in sometimes at the expense of security, and sponsibility is to increase both interest in, and all its parts in 2013. The next step was to return sometimes the irresponsible use of resources understanding of, IT among young people, the company to growth, which we achieved in and investment. A false economy. Cybercom including more young women. Cybercom has 2014. We are now aiming to create more value seeks to play an active role in countering this taken several initiatives in this area together for our shareholders, clients and employees trend. with various forward-moving partners and by developing our operations closer to our The market situation in recent years appears organisations. We are proud that the goals of achieving more profitable growth and unlikely to change in the near future. We AllBright Foundation recognised Cybercom generating more sustainable business with a navigated well through 2014, and our growth as the best in our industry in terms of numbers DNA of passion, trust and innovation. of 6% in a market that is growing by 3% is a of women in management and on the board, clear testament to that. Our profitability did but we can improve this. We want to Niklas Flyborg not follow the same favourable trend as our increase the proportion of women in the President and CEO 7 Cybercom implements assignments for clients in many places in the world. In Rwanda, we are helping an operator with mobile networks. Mobility in developing countries enables entrepreneurship among disadvantaged people, and access to the internet contributes to the dissemination of knowledge. A CYBERCOM CONNECTIVITY B Thought approaching action As the world shrinks, more ideas become reality, technology becomes available and more people are given opportunities. Company Presentation and Sustainability Report The market Borderless technology lays the foundation for our future The amazing technological advancements of recent years have brought the emergence of entirely new ways to consume goods and services. These in turn are creating new markets and the need for entirely new business models. Cloud services, per­ sonal privacy, mobility, security and sustainability are corner­ stones on which future operations must be based. The number of connected devices in the world by 2020 Cybercom’s growth in 2014. (an increase of over 50% from today’s levels) Estimated industry average 3%. Source: ABI Research Source: Radar Group International The number of vehicles with internet 42% of the global access will increase more than six-fold population will own by 2020. Source: IHS Automotive a smartphone by the end of 2015. Source: Forrester Research Estimated increase in the global market value of IoT solutions from 2013 to 2020. Source: IDC forecasts 10 Company Presentation and Sustainability Report ’’ The market Today’s tech-savvy users demand more and can do more on their own IT’s role in companies has changed and has perts predict that, within five years, one in ten Through analysis of the collected big data, become a crucial part of business strategies, white goods will be connected to a data cloud companies can also draw conclusions about giving modern leaders new challenges when that allows the user to remotely control home how the end customer uses the product, in it comes to the inclusion of connectivity in appliances using a mobile phone. The IoT constant dialogue in real time. And based on their operations, business and in the actual shifts IT and computing power into the actual this information, the next generation of prodservices. products, from having previously been on the ucts and offers can be made even better. Where information is stored, and how users sideline. There are two distinct tracks: The There is huge potential in connectivity, with access it, are also changing. Today’s tech-savproducts are supplied connected to a cloud of effects such as more rapid time to market, vy users demand more and can do more on peripheral services, with built-in sensors that better-developed products, increased sustaintheir own. This requires effective use of secure record data. The data collection can be used ability and greater cost efficiency. Cybercom’s and reliable networks to manage the increasto update bugs, diagnose faults and predict strategy is founded on these connectivity oping complexity of the networked landscape. maintenance needs, which in turn leads to portunities and builds on our vision of being The Internet of Things (IoT) is the platform increased availability and reliability. our clients’ foremost business partner in the on which value-added services are built. Exconnected world. Market trends Machine-to-machine Internet of Things Digitisation driving the M2M has taken the step beyond Things are connect to cloud The public sector’s extensive debusiness being one-to-one communicaservices and can be managed, velopment of e-services is one of tion and today often involves updated and operated irrespecmany examples of how connecinterconnected systems between tive of where they are. tivity is increasingly becoming an many devices that convey inforimportant part of the way society mation that can assist businesses functions for businesses and and individuals. individuals. Delivery models Security Sustainability Cloud services Companies are investing in All roads to our digital future pass New lifestyles and values are Users can access all the services online solutions and e-commerce through security, but applications taking hold. Ethics are becoming they need – and only pay for services to reach new customers will need to take a more active increasingly important and more what they use. Brings positive and markets. role, opening the way for multiand more companies and organieffects of reduced IT investment faceted security strategies. sations are embracing sustainabiland increased sustainability. ity in their business models. 11 11 Company Presentation and Sustainability Report The market Different business drivers In order to be a credible business partner we must understand our clients’ business and business models. It is equally important to evaluate our clients based on what defines their client relationships. This is one of the main keys to our success. Connectivity is an enabler for both increased companies to understand the different driving production and resource efficiency, particularforces. Industry is becoming more efficient ly through energy savings. Different drivers through machine-to-machine, or is becoming and business logic govern the different smarter through the Internet of Things. perspectives in the connected world. This Public authorities and agencies are widening insight creates solutions for a more sustainatheir services to users, and society is becoming ble future. With more connected devices more integrated and efficient. Similarly, cities (mobile phones, screens, machines and are becoming smart and more user friendly people) in the world, demand for secure for residents. More and more consumers are technical solutions is increasing continuously. becoming digital, connected, more aware The market potential is enormous. Society, and agile. New services are being created and different services and businesses are going new unexpected companies are changing the digital, and as a result expectations are rising rules of the game in a market that is becoming among consumers of what technology can global and growing at a very rapid pace. achieve, but this places greater demand on 12 Company Presentation and Sustainability Report The market M2M Industry is becoming more efficient through M2M, or is becoming smarter through the Internet of Things. Connected Connected Connected Connected Industry Consumer City Citizen Our clients here are mainly B2B, Our clients are suppliers of Clients in Connected City are Our clients are the public sector often with a product-based products and services to the conmainly companies offering services and companies that provide serbusiness. They usually have the sumer market, such as telecom associated with a secure, clean vices to citizens linked to welfare ambition to develop and maxoperators, automotive manufacand resource-efficient society. Inand agencies that ensure security, imise value, and they price their turers and product development telligent transport systems, online service and participation. The offering based on how well they companies. Key drivers are need navigation systems, communicadrivers are mainly influenced by solve end user problems. Key fulfilment, news value, user expetion between vehicles and smart legislation, cost savings, producdrivers are primarily about costs. rience and brand loyalty among systems for energy and water tivity and policy initiatives. end customers. This is about supply, all aimed at optimising the Examples of assignments: creating a desire to own someoperation of cities. The drivers are Examples of assignments: Everything from basic web thing in order to enhance sales, often influenced by policy initiaIdentification solutions for ausystems that, for example, and also about holding a dialogue tives, productivity and legislation. thorities in Sweden and Finland. coordinate logistics to save time with customers and allowing Signature services for the Swedish and fuel, to complex systems that them to influence the services. Examples of assignments: Tax Agency. University application manage usage and result in reEverything from security processprocedure for the Finnish National duced resource requirements and Examples of assignments: es for information management Board of Education. lower energy use in production. Smart alarms for Verisure, cusand compliance to remote control tomer experience management systems for the transport and for Tigo, infotainment solutions infrastructure within buildings or and blueGO for international auexternally in the urban environtomakers, and a mobile app with ment. payment solution for SF. 13 Company Presentation and Sustainability Report Strategy Agile process of transition towards profitability target The priority over the past three years, to enhance profit­ ability through strategic action, streamlining and transi­ tion, has borne fruit. We laid the foundation in 2012, and in 2013 we developed the company to be profit-making in all its parts. In 2014, we returned the company to growth. We are getting closer and closer to our goals. Strategic transition More Organisation integrated More Offering focused More Client portfolio balanced Client Higher assignment relationships volume per client More turnkey Assignments assignments Common measurable People planning HR practices 14 Company Presentation and Sustainability Report ’’ Strategy Cybercom has returned to growth and is taking market share Connectivity – a sustainable Balanced portfolio of clients and Meanwhile, we are able to observe that business larger assignment volumes complex projects are on the increase. The demand for customised value increases when Sustainable business is an important part of We have deliberately adjusted our client the services are purchased by the business our strategy, and we are positioning ourselves portfolio in recent years by actively reducing operations. In this case, they are not as techniwith a comprehensive range of services that our client numbers. We focus on strategically cally oriented as IT departments, but are more enable sustainability. Wider utilisation of selected clients to whom we can deliver greatinclined to buy based on expertise and brand, Connectivity improves the sustainability of er business. As a key supplier offering greater and are more likely to require turnkey assigncompanies and organisations, saving time and value, we increase the profitability of each ments. Cybercom will increase its proportion resources through, for example, smart cities, piece of business and simultaneously build of turnkey assignments and achieve an even less freight, fewer production errors and up stronger relationships with our clients. We balance of the two business models. Our reduced energy use. have historically had a high level of exposure objective is for assignment business (turnkey to the telecom sector, and we have developed assignments and projects) and transaction valuable and important telecom and internet business (consulting services) to each repreAn integrated company with a expertise that can be applied in all industries. sent 50% of our total delivery. uniform approach Clearer client follow-up allows us to generate Step by step, we are melding Cybercom into closer client relationships, and an important Blended Delivery an integrated organisation with a common part of this is the establishment of our key sales structure, common support functions account managers, who make a greater imThe shift towards a greater share of profesand consistent global delivery capabilities. By pression with our clients through cross-selling sional turnkey assignments also gives us even applying a consensual approach with a comand turnkey solutions. greater opportunities to provide Blended mon culture and with common values, we are Delivery. By staffing our assignments with even better able to work across boundaries, different skills and experience from our Business models between countries and offices, and allocate various countries, based on the nature of the resources and skills to best effect. Corporate purchasing of IT has changed assignment, we can reduce our costs without radically in recent years, and projects have revenues being affected. This is possible bebecome more complex. Cybercom has two cause we are the interface with the client and Focused service portfolio main business models that address clients’ we are responsible for strategy and delivery. Previously, Cybercom was a broad-based changing purchasing patterns. provider of IT solutions, assisting our clients It has been a long time since IT was simply Value-creating employee on many different issues and with a relatively an issue for IT departments. Today’s clients small share of each client’s business. Today are increasingly involved in the business organisation we focus on three service areas where we can operations of their companies. Meanwhile, Cybercom’s success is based largely on close offer the greatest business value: Connectivity the focus of demand in IT is shifting from client relationships through our dedicated and Management, Connectivity Solutions and servers and network devices to services and skilled employees. We will continue to drive Secure Connectivity. We have conceptualised solutions. We see two clear trends in buying the development of a group-wide approach, our structural capital into packaged services habits today. with uniformly conducted people planning. to enhance sales volumes in areas with high Transactional purchasing, or buying Efforts such as common methods and training growth, making it easier for our offices to sell expertise by the hour, is in decline, according will allow us to clearly structure our employee our services. to Radar Group. Here, the client knows what organisation to address client needs based on they want and buys specific expertise based our offering. on price and simplicity. 15 Company Presentation and Sustainability Report Targets and outcomes Nordic leader Cybercom should be regarded as the most well-known and respected brand in Connectivity among clients and employ­ ees, on the labour market, and among our shareholders. Over the next two years we will become a leading provider of Connectivity services in the Nordic market, combined with a valuable global delivery capability. Target met Financial targets The board established long-term financial targets and guidelines for Cybercom in 2011. Positive development Negative development Area Description of target Outcome 2014 Status Profitability Cybercom shall be one of the more profitaEBIT margin was 5.2% (5.0). ble companies among its closest comparable competitors and achieve an EBIT margin of 10%. Growth Cybercom shall strive to achieve growth of 10% Sales increased by 6% (-11). annually over the business cycle. Acquisition policy Organic growth and profitability are the key There were no acquisitions during the year. objectives for Cybercom, but selective acquisitions that create value and contribute to growth will be assessed against this strategy. Debt policy Cybercom shall have net debt that does not Net debt amounted to 6% (10). exceed 30% of equity over time. Dividend policy Cybercom shall pay a dividend to its shareholders Considering the company’s improved financial of at least 30% of net profit, provided that no position and stabilised profitability, the board special considerations exist with regard to the proposes that the AGM endorse a dividend of SEK company’s financial position or plans. 0.05 per share, representing 18.5% of net profit. 16 Company Presentation and Sustainability Report Targets and outcomes Operating targets Area Description of target Outcome 2014 Status Client portfolio We will achieve a balanced client portfolio with Telecom 32% (36) 30% of sales from telecom, 30% from the public Public sector 29% (25) sector and 30% from manufacturing industry. Industry 23% (22) Other 16% (17) Client base We will broaden our client base so that our ten The ten largest clients accounted for 40% (43) largest clients account for no more than 35% and the largest client accounted for 15% (13) of of sales and so that no single client accounts for sales. more than 15% of sales. Assignment types We will achieve an even distribution of sales Turnkey assignments and projects 39% (38) between consulting services and turnkey Consulting services 61% (62). projects/solutions in our assignments. Our role as We will enhance the dedication of our employees Our employee motivation index an employer by providing them with an attractive working entotalled 610 (583). vironment, good terms and conditions, and useful opportunities for professional development. We are actively working to increase our diversity to create a dynamic and innovative working environment. We measure this through a group-wide employee survey called Cybercom People Voice, in which our long-term goal is 700 out of a possible 1,000 on the employee motivation index. Sustainable We will increase the amount of sustainable busiAt Cybercom’s ten largest clients, 27% of assignbusiness ness with our clients. We measure this by looking ments have contributed to improved sustainability at what business contributes to sustainable develthrough efficiency, cost savings or a reduced opment and responsible use of resources through, degree of exploitation of the earth’s resources. for example, cost savings, efficiency, security and reduced use of resources that have a negative environmental impact. Business ethics High ethical standards will be a part of our DNA 37% of Cybercom’s employees, including the and permeate all our activities and all our business. entire board and senior management team, have In December, Cybercom launched its internal certicompleted the certification. No incidents have fication in anti-corruption and the code of conduct. been reported. Better systems will be introduced We will measure and monitor the number of certifor monitoring the supplier code of conduct. fications in the group. We monitor the number of possible incidents in the group and the number of suppliers and partners that have signed Cybercom’s code of conduct for suppliers and partners. Environmental We will reduce our CO² emissions as a result of Since 2011, CO² emissions as a result of travel impact travel per revenue krona by at least 5% between per revenue krona have decreased by approxi2011 and 2015. mately 17%. 17 A CYBERCOM CONNECTIVITY B Easier to share Connectivity makes it easier to share things with each other. This saves you money and gives nature a break, without you even having to think about it. Company Presentation and Sustainability Report Services provided We empower our clients in a connected world We live in a digital world in which the Internet of Things, ma­ chine-to-machine communication and mobility are common­ place. It is estimated that every person on earth will have on average 2.7 online mobile devices by 2017. To understand this future is to understand that the key to success lies in the devel­ opment of Connectivity. We therefore offer flexible services based on business value and sustainable Connectivity solutions. With our service areas in the connected world, we enhance security, reduce time to market and improve our clients’ performance. It is estimated that every person on earth will have on average 2.7 online mobile devices by 2017 20 Company Presentation and Sustainability Report Services provided Connectivity Connectivity Secure Management Solutions Connectivity Expertise and advice for mobile networks New business and services to more people, Secure and accessible business around the clock Cybercom provides advice, industrial and Businesses are becoming increasingly digital security analysis, expansion and upgrades of We help our clients to develop existing and and mobile, while demands for accessibility, networks, and development of new mobile new services and to build intelligence into privacy and protection are intensifying. We networks. Our consulting services facilitate products, systems and mobile solutions. By identify and minimise IT risks for our clients at and streamline the expansion and modernigetting to know our clients’ businesses we an early stage. We develop security policies sation of the networks that connect people can develop communication solutions with and compliance services, establish risk manand equipment, wherever they are. Our main clear potential to streamline processes and agement techniques and provide advice on fields in Connectivity Management are mobile improve user experiences. Our clients can how sensitive data can be protected. network quality, operational efficiency, benefit from digital opportunities to enhance customer experience management and green their relationships with their end customnetworks. ers, boost growth, reduce costs, improve productivity and become more profitable. Our expertise covers areas such as connected devices, platform development and online strategies, hardware, embedded systems, cloud-based solutions, digital channels and operational efficiency. e Advic > ti lopm nistra on > Deve e Delivery n mi process ta d nd a Cybercom delivers the d s s entire chain – irrespecSupp ion ort ut tive of service area. an > ol 21 Company Presentation and Sustainability Report Packaged solutions Viable capital structure offers enhanced client value We are constantly developing our expertise and experience in the field of Connectivity. By conceptualising our services into a number of priority areas of high growth, we can help to create maximum value for both our clients and Cybercom. 22 Company Presentation and Sustainability Report Packaged solutions Customer Experience Compliance Management Management Our Customer Experience Management (CEM) Successful compliance management requires a package of services helps mobile operators to comprehensive connected methodology, deobtain a comprehensive view of how the end signed to protect and enhance business value. user experiences quality of service. Cybercom Our Compliance Management solutions are collects and collates both the subjective expedesigned to be able to handle a wide range of rience of end customers and actual network compliance processes and maintain accountperformance to identify improvements. ability throughout the client’s organisation. Effective changes can improve the end user’s Cybercom’s Compliance Portal is a concrete experience of the service. A sustainability support to control content, reduce costs, manimpact of CEM is that performance improveage risk and comply with applicable requirements reduce the daily battery consumption ments. The portal is designed to make this easy of mobile phones, resulting in shorter chargand flexible, while providing an easy view of ing times and lower power consumption. the organisation’s compliance in real time. Thanks to Cybercom’s CEM services, mobile “AB Svenska Spel is certified to ISO/IEC operator Tigo Rwanda has been able to im27001, WLA and PCI DSS, and as part of plement measures to reduce customer churn efforts to strengthen our internal governance and increase data usage, which resulted in we are currently implementing compliance increased revenue. CTO at Tigo Rwanda: system support. Cybercom’s portal meets “The outcome of Cybercom’s CEM service our needs to achieve success with this,” says enabled us to identify areas for improvement Jörgen Myhlén, group head of security, AB that have a direct impact on the experience of Svenska Spel. Tigo’s users. ’’ ’’ The outcome of Cybercom’s Cybercom’s portal meets CEM service enabled us to our needs to achieve success identify areas for improve­ with this,” says Jörgen My­ ment that have a direct hlén, group head of security, impact on the experience of AB Svenska Spel. Tigo’s users. 23 Company Presentation and Sustainability Report Packaged solutions Connected Cybercom blueGO Identity In a connected organisation there is a risk of Cybercom blueGo is a software product that aspects of security becoming an obstacle to enables manufacturers of automotive infotaincollaboration. But at Cybercom, we work with ment systems to integrate Bluetooth® easily security solutions that instead become an enaand securely, reducing both development costs bler. We implement major turnkey assignments and time to market. The technology provides for national infrastructure in e-identification motor vehicle manufacturers with the latest and e-health, and solution deliveries around Bluetooth® functionality in a system that funcour own flexible log-in platform, IdentityHub, tions with all mobile phones on the market. for secure access to information, e-services and Cybercom blueGo is growing in popularity applications regardless of whether they are among all of the world’s major automobile internal, with partners or in the cloud. manufacturers and their suppliers. The product Cybercom has for many years been responhas enabled our clients to minimise their sible for application support and development numbers of complaints thanks to a powerful of Inera’s important HSA Directory Service, and well developed design that is continuously which manages information about individsubject to comprehensive compatibility testing uals, functions and units at county councils, with the mobile phones on the market. During municipalities and private healthcare providers. 2014, more than 10 million vehicles were E-health services at the national level in Sweequipped with integrated Bluetooth® technolden like the 1177 Vårdguiden, Pascal, Nationell ogy from Cybercom. Patientöversikt and Mina vårdkontakter are examples of services that retrieve contact information and/or permission-based information from the directory service. “The requirements for permission administration and access control are becoming more stringent, and it would not be possible to introduce effective national security solutions without HSA. We are very pleased with Cybercom, which is a benchmark for a provider that takes responsibility for all aspects,” says Henrika Littorin, service manager at Inera. ’’ ’’ We are very pleased with More than 10 million vehicles Cybercom, which is a bench­ have integrated Bluetooth® mark for a provider that technology from Cybercom. takes responsibility for all aspects. 24 Company Presentation and Sustainability Report Packaged solutions Cloud Services E-health Secure cloud services help clients to improve Our services in e-health ensure safety and their information availability, increase scalabilservice in the home for patients and elderly citity and reduce their costs. izens. Our concepts in this field provide major Cybercom’s cloud service has enabled sustainability gains and user benefit, and inFinnish media company MTV to achieve signifclude digital safety alarms and sensors, secure icant cost savings by using only the capacity solutions for information management and needed for the operation of digital platforms administration of the national HSA directory. and services. Energy consumption is also reIn Stockholm, residents can chat with social duced since no server capacity stands unused. services and get their questions answered “We are very pleased with Cybercom and through the online “Socialrådgivning på nätet” we rely on their expertise in system deploysocial service. A secure e-ticketing system ment, support and cloud services. Switching provides the user with a code to retrieve the to Cybercom’s cloud service provided us with response. a cost-effective and sustainable solution with “Cybercom has been responsible for the round-the-clock support, which is essential for technical development of the service, which our growing business in online entertainment. has been very popular, particularly due to its We regard Cybercom as a reliable partner,” good usability and support. We are now invessays MTV’s Jyri Kyllönen. tigating the possibility of cooperating closely on this solution so that all the county’s municipalities can operate the service together,” says Alexandra Göransson, who is department head of social services in Stockholm. ’’ ’’ We are very pleased with Cybercom has been respon­ Cybercom at MTV, and we sible for the technical devel­ rely on their expertise in opment of the online social system deployment, support services, which have been and cloud services. very popular, particularly due to their good usability and support. 25 Company Presentation and Sustainability Report Clients A strategic business partner We will enhance our clients’ success. It is important to us that this can be seen in the statistics – our clients give us high ratings. The opinions of Cybercom’s clients in this year’s client survey. My experience is that Cybercom: ’’ ’’ Behaves honestly ’’ ’’ Does what it says Is easy to Is passionate and forthrightly it will do work with ’’ Is skilled at building strong ’’ ’’ ’’ Takes responsi­ relationships Is available Responds bility if prob­ with us when I need it quickly lems arise 26 Company Presentation and Sustainability Report 98% Clients of our clients would happily recommend us ’’ Our vision is to Bo Strömqvist Head of Sales be our clients’ Some of at Cybercom foremost busi­ our clients ness partner. Our desire to deliver results means we work very closely with our clients. We need to Alma Media Group understand their whole business and know all the Cable & Wireless company’s objectives. It is Communication therefore particularly pleasing to see that our Ericsson clients appreciate us and give us high ratings in key areas Finnish Board such as responsibility, strong of Education relationships and reliability. Millicom MTV Swedish National Client survey Police Board Cybercom is well placed in suppliassignments with great passion. Saab er assessments by service buyers, Cybercom is well above the industry Swedish Tax according to the TNS Sifo survey of average on the Client Satisfaction customer satisfaction and perIndex (CSI). We have a CSI of 75, Agency ceived quality. This year’s client while the industry average for IT Sony Mobile survey confirms the picture of companies in Northern Europe is 67, previous surveys, and shows that according to the TNS Sifo customer Stockholm our clients appreciate our skilled satisfaction survey conducted in County Council consultants and their high level of November 2014. technical expertise. We are easy to Volvo deal with, we are available, we take responsibility and we carry out our 27 Company Presentation and Sustainability Report Client cases It is important for the Swedish Tax provide major advantages from a Agency to develop e-services. These sustainability perspective, in that should be easy for citizens and busiorganisations reduce their costs and nesses, and should simplify processes environmental impact is lessened Connected Citizen for the Tax Agency. Digital signatures through the elimination of paper are an important component of many letters and transportation. The e-services. Cybercom was awardgreat financial savings come from Swedish Tax ed the contract to deliver the Tax the organisation avoiding the heavy Agency: Should Agency’s new signature service, which manual handling. The benefits for be easy and works with both the current system individuals and businesses are in secure for e-identification (BankID and improved efficiency, faster processing Telia) and with the new Federation and enhanced security. ’’ services for Swedish e-identification, provided for the public sector by the E-identification Board and enabled by Digital signatures Cybercom. The service will be brought are an important into operation in 2015. component of Digital signature services also many e-services. The Traffic Administration at Stockchange over time. As this is done at holm County Council uses an extremely the procurement stage, the work also complex IT environment to administer affects evaluations and acceptance of public transport in Stockholm. There the solution. Connected City are frequent technology procurements “Compliance Portal has made it posin this area, often worth billions. Cybersible for us to create clarity about the Stockholm com won a contract to use method and prevailing information security and risk County Council: system support to enhance information situation in our procurement processes security to include suppliers during the and technology solutions,” says Torsten Compliance procurement phase. Regenholz, Chief Information Security Portal By managing information security Officer at Traffic Administration. We issues using the Cybercom Complihave succeeded in creating a holistic, ance Portal, the Traffic Administration repeatable and structured approach to is able to provide a method for capturthe governance of information security. ing security issues without complicatNow we have a decentralised working ing the procurement process. From model in place that makes it possible the suppliers’ side, the solution looks to see not only where operations and like an internet survey. providers require information and IT The Traffic Administration then security support, but also how well our builds up a huge knowledge base own governance works. against a set of requirements that may 28 Company Presentation and Sustainability Report Client cases Remaining at the forefront while of Sweden’s most popular, currently providing a good mobile experience has 1.5 million downloads and traffic is a challenge for many companies. SF through the app accounts for about Bio has succeeded, thanks largely to one-third of all SF Bio’s traffic. Connected Consumer its agile collaboration with Cybercom “Right from the start it was about in which everything from usability exdemonstrating that we were at perts and graphic artists to interaction the forefront and about gaining a SF Bio: designers and business developers foothold,” says Anna Rosang, Nordic Half of our digital have worked with the cinema compabusiness area manager for digital traffic is already ny’s future mobile presence. media at SF Bio. “We had early metaWhen the first version of the SF data available that could have been mobile Bio app was launched several years used, but which had its limitations at ago, it allowed users to view trailers the other end – including the size of a and reserve seats in the auditorium. mobile screen. This is less of a problem Gradually, it has been developed to today. With an agile approach, we include ticketing and has become have been able to work our way formuch faster. The app allows SF Bio to ward and find the right path together reach its customers with various offers with Cybercom.” and messages. The app, which is one The interest in solutions for secure the new checkout system, ITAB chose self-service checkouts and payments Cybercom as its technology partner in stores has increased significantly in to strengthen its own development recent years. Market-leading shopfitdepartment. Connected Industry ter ITAB has now introduced the next According to ITAB’s CEO Ulf Rostgeneration of smart self-checkout edt, there are powerful arguments for system, called EasyFlow. The customer the grocery industry to invest in this ITAB: simply places the goods on a conveyor type of self-service checkout, not least Sustainable belt and the system automatically for the working environment. workplace detects and registers all the items, “A system like EasyFlow improves even those without barcodes. In availability since the self-service checkthe autumn of 2014, EasyFlow outs can always be open, helping to was installed for the first time in a optimise in-store customer flow. Shop Swedish store and the plan is for the owners also have great potential to system to gradually spread to stores improve their working environment in Sweden and elsewhere in Europe. for staff, who can be relieved of During the development project for monotonous checkout work.” 29 A CYBERCOM CONNECTIVITY B More with less Connectivity creates better products that require fewer resources. It provides a cleaner world. Company Presentation and Sustainability Report Sustainability One of Cybercom’s most important objectives is to grow with good profitability while taking responsibility for how people, the environment and society are affected by our activities. Sustainability in focus Through ongoing dialogue with the groups we are run operationally within our various have identified as our stakeholders, our emregions. In addition to their regular work, ployees, clients, shareholders and trade unions, CSR ambassadors are tasked with being we ensure that we act responsibly and in line involved in Cybercom’s sustainability work with expectations and the targets we have set. for a certain number of hours per week. Responsibility is defined in our commitment Being an ambassador also includes providing to the Global Compact, our code of conduct information about Cybercom’s sustainability and in our sustainability goals. Efforts to efforts and the Global Compact principles achieve our sustainability goals are an imporat different levels in the company. Together tant part of our business plan and contribute with the management, CSR ambassadors set to achieving our overall vision. annual objectives and lead the dialogue on We have identified three focus areas for our what is essential for Cybercom in terms of sustainability work: dedicated employees, sussustainability and how we can use our power tainable business and high ethical standards of innovation to create a positive difference. that should permeate our activities and all our During the year, our three CSR ambassadors business. Anna Benckert, Tarmo Pajunen and Karin Oling Learn more about our goals and outcomes worked to develop anti-corruption training, for 2014 on pages 16-17. to update Cybercom’s codes of business ethics and conduct, and to contribute to SOS Children’s Villages having a stronger interface Sustainability governance with their donors. This is a project that started Sustainability initiatives are coordinated by in Finland and has not yet been launched. It has Kristina Cato, Head of Communications been developed using open source. The web and IR, with the help of a team of three application allows donors to create their own annually selected CSR ambassadors, and social network of sponsors on a world map. 32 Company Presentation and Sustainability Report Sustainability Responsibility is defined in our commitment to the Global Compact, our code of conduct and in our sustainability goals. Areas of focus for sustainability Sustainable Dedicated High ethical business employees standards Our business will contribute We lay the foundation for High ethical standards will to sustainable development greater employee dedication permeate our business and through, for example, cost through an attractive work­ our operations. Business eth­ savings, more secure servic­ ing environment, good terms ics are a standing item on the es and reduced use of finite and conditions, and opportu­ management team’s agenda, resources. nities for interesting profes­ and something we work with sional development. in all countries where we operate. See page 34 See page 36 See page 42 33 Company Presentation and Sustainability Report Sustainable business Sustainable society through connectivity Our contribution to a more sustainable society is primarily about providing innovative, secure and resource-efficient solutions to our clients, and therefore to their users and end customers. Connectivity is our business, and is about how for machine-to-machine communication, each company operated its own servers. companies and organisations can benefit from automation, remote control and paperless Our cloud service offers automatic ordering the connected world and therefore improve document management in the workplace. of capacity as required, providing a level of their efficiency and profitability. For us, it’s One example is our e-health services, with the flexibility that appeals to clients. Associated also about sustainability broader utilisation public sector’s move towards e-services being services such as support and development of Connectivity means that companies and important in saving time and enabling more generate more business for Cybercom. Anothorganisations can save time and money by help to be provided to more people, with reer important benefit experienced by clients is reducing transport, making better use of duced environmental impact by saving paper that data and content are stored in the Nordic resources and using less energy. and electricity. Increased standardisation of countries, in accordance with regulations that Demand for more sustainable solutions identification and authorisation are crucial, are crucial for many companies and governincreased in 2014, and we see this as evidence and now that a national unified e-identity is ment agencies. that we are well positioned in a world facing to be introduced for all citizens, Cybercom is A good example is our partnership with huge environmental and social challenges and playing an important role as a trusted advisor Alma Media in Finland, which publishes the in which many companies are making more and development partner. magazine Kauppalehti. Cybercom provides informed choices of suppliers and partners. Another key part of Cybercom’s offering is Kauppalehti with a flexible cloud solution that Cybercom’s mission includes everything managing client service platforms via cloud allows it to both scale up and scale down its from helping mobile network owners to solutions and according to capacity utilisation. virtual server capacity as needed, saving both reduce their energy consumption by optimisWe conduct this work in a more energy efficient money and resources because it never coning their networks, to creating conditions way than if each platform had its own server or sumes more capacity than actually needed. Tillgänglig Bio The Tillgänglig Bio app makes the government to encourage VoiceVision app, available for it easier for people with visual regular screenings in cinemas free via Google Play or the App is democratic impairment or with reading with audio description and Store. It can also be used at and writing difficulties, such as spoken Swedish text. Cybercom home for movies through video dyslexia, to go to the movies. was judged to be the company on demand via a computer, It provides audio description that best met the requirements television or tablet. using an app, and the film to develop the solution and, “This is true democracy,” is described with dialogue together with Cybercom, they said Sweden’s Minister for through mobile earphones. developed the technology Culture and Democracy, Alice The Swedish Film Institute and and framework that makes Bah Kuhnke, at the launch, and the National Post and Telecom Tillgänglig Bio possible. thanked everyone involved. Agency were commissioned by We have also created the 34 Company Presentation and Sustainability Report Sustainable business Cybercom’s mission includes everything from helping mobile network owners to reduce their energy consumption by optimising their networks, to creating conditions for machine-to-machine communication, automation, remote control and paperless document management in the workplace. operations increased their sales with ISO 14001 environmental ronmental efforts. In conjunction and won more business over certification. with the survey we conducted a Cybercom’s several continents. The focus at the certified offictest called the Climate Account. internal To reduce travel, Cybercom es is to train personnel through a The Climate Account is intended environmental invested in an IT-based communiweb-based course from Eco Eduto raise people’s awareness of efforts cation tool several years ago, with cate. An environmental survey is their own individual climate ima view to replacing non-essential conducted every year and forms pact in their daily lives, and how physical meetings with video the basis of the company’s envithey can reduce it. conferencing. This has produced good results, and in 2014 more than 18,000 video conferences Cybercom’s greatest potential lies were held. Some other examples Number of virtual meetings 2014 in influencing our clients through of measures taken to reduce our 18,172 sustainable offerings, but of environmental impact are: course we also work actively to reduce our own environmental • Old IT equipment is sold for impact. reuse or otherwise goes for Air travel accounts for the largrecycling. est portion of Cybercom’s carbon • Printers are set to duplex emissions, and we therefore printing, and employees are Carbon dioxide emissions from air want to reduce emissions from encouraged to work digitally. travel in relation to the company’s sales air travel by at least five percent • Waste is sorted at source in the between 2011 and 2015. offices. 2014 2013 2012 2011 Emissions increased slightly in • We buy renewable electricity in Carbon dioxide emissions from air travel 2014 compared with the previous all countries except Poland. (tonnes of CO² ) 640 599 451 903 year, but are at a lower level than Carbon dioxide emissions* in base year 2011. The reason that Alongside Cybercom’s quality (tonnes of CO² /SEKm) 0.51 0.50 0.34 0.61 the number of flights increased assurance and ISO 9001 certiin 2014 is that our international fication the company complies *) Data excludes Cybercom Datamatics Information Solutions Ltd in India. 35 Company Presentation and Sustainability Report Dedicated employees Passion as a driving force It is employees with the right attitude and the right skills who create loyal clients. Our ability to develop and retain key employees and to attract new, qualified colleagues is an essential issue for our future competitiveness. Through our employees’ great engagement, excontrol how and where to perform their work. perience and desire to develop, we have created Work is an activity and not a specific place – an innovative working environment that is based and different environments create space for on community and curiosity about what we can creativity and innovation. improve. Based on our business goals and comMost of our employees have a high level of mon values, we have achieved an organisation education, and 90% have a university degree. in which continuous skills development, and But of course, we must continuously develop clear and continuous feedback ensure a high and learn more. We provide traditional level of motivation and a desire to get to grips training, but we place the greatest focus on with the work we have ahead of us. learning in the workplace and innovation in the projects we run. Working at Cybercom should be a constant journey of development. Boosting your performance Innovation is one of Cybercom’s core values, Cybercom will increase motivation and and time for innovation and practical experengagement in all parts of the company. It is ience is made possible through Cybercom’s important that we create good conditions for Fun Labs, our innovation rooms in which we each employee to be able to perform to the constantly seek new ideas and solutions. best of their ability, and to be able to develop Employee learning is continuously moniin the right direction. Employees should be tored, and the majority still have an annual happy with us, they should have interesting performance and development plan. We are assignments, be proud of their work, have working to change the nature of the perforconfidence in their managers and experience mance dialogue from an annual conversation a positive shared experience with their colinto multiple short conversations driven by the leagues. This requires leadership that is about employees themselves – who of course have getting teams and individuals to deliver maxithe best awareness of their own development mum value to our clients and thus also to us. needs. From managers using a controlled proThrough collaboration, we create an cess to annually assess their employees indiexchange of experiences and knowledge vidually on their performance, we are moving between consultants, assignments and the towards shorter feedback loops. During 2014, various parts of Cybercom. In 2014, we relo82% (81) of employees indicated that they cated our operations in Stockholm and Turku had an annual performance review. to activity-based offices, where employees 36 Company Presentation and Sustainability Report Dedicated employees Innovation is one of Cybercom’s core values, and time for innovation and practical experience is made possible through Cybercom’s Fun Labs, our innovation rooms in which we constantly seek new ideas and solutions. important tool for measuring how employees pared to the survey conducted in 2013. Our A journey of positive change view the development process, their work, employees can envisage clearer career paths Cybercom began a journey of change in 2012 their employer and their work situation. than previously. This is important to us, but we as the company’s growth and profitability The 2014 survey yielded a good response, can do even better. Our employee motivation were unsatisfactory. The plan was adjusted and showed clear improvements. Employee index added up to 610 of a possible 1,000, slightly in 2014, with positive results, and pride in Cybercom increased by ten percent, which is a good increase from the previous the company’s employees have all helped to the willingness to recommend Cybercom year (583) and a step towards our goal of 700. strengthen profitability. The recurrent emincreased by eight percent, and employee ployee survey, Cybercom People Voice, is an engagement increased by seven percent comCybercom’s three core values: 1 2 3 Innovation Passion Trust We are innovative in the We are driven by a genuine We generate trust and confiway we work and embrace passion and are proud of dence among our colleagues new technology. We are what we achieve. We are and clients by using common results-oriented and always the gurus of our niches and sense, clear thinking and add value to the business. always willing to go the extra doing what we say – always We are always in the mile to improve performance with respect for each other. forefront, we question, chaland enhance our clients’ lenge, move boundaries and businesses. We deliver change industry standards. assured quality, on time and within budget. 37 Company Presentation and Sustainability Report Dedicated employees Diversity – the best ingredient Today, IT accounts for the largest share of At the end of the year the number of employlabour immigration in Sweden. Cybercom ees in the group was 1,307 (1,267), of which has a broad recruitment base of experts with 17% (16) were women. Female managers an international background and skills. This made up 29% of the total. One of our is one reason why the UN Secretary-General recruitment goals for 2015 is to increase the Ban Ki-moon visited Cybercom in May 2014. proportion of women in Cybercom. The averWe want to offer our employees a stimulating age age at Cybercom is 38. We wish to be an and engaging working environment, with attractive workplace for younger employees, equal career opportunities for all. Our amand in 2014 we took on 170 new colleagues bition is that both genders are represented under the age of 30. at every level in the organisation. We are It should be possible to combine a career therefore striving to achieve gender balance with parenthood, and of course we encourage in management ranks and more female both men and women to take the opportunity consultants, as well as broader diversity in to take parental leave and be at home to care general. One confirmation that we are on for their children. In Sweden and Finland, the right path is the latest AllBright Report, employees are given the economic capacity which shows that Cybercom is the best in the to take parental leave through the parental IT industry in terms of gender equality. Our supplement, which means that the employmanagement team consists of 36% women, er reimburses up to a certain proportion of against the industry average of 14%, and the monthly salary. During the year, a total of 105 board comprises 33% women against the employees were on parental leave, of which industry average of 26%. 86 men and 19 women. HR key figures 2014 Best in the industry 90% 11 For the second consecutive year, Cybercom has ranked top in the industry in terms of the gender equality of its board years and management. This will hopefully have a ripple effect and help us to increase the proportion of women at all levPercentage of employees with a Average experience els of the company. Learn more about the AllBright Report university degree and their important work at www.allbright.se. Percentage of women at Cybercom Group 4 years Average length of employment 38 Average age years 36% Executive 33% Board management 38 Company Presentation and Sustainability Report Dedicated employees 39 Company Presentation and Sustainability Report Dedicated employees Future skills Over 60% of our employees are located use an app to see where a particular animal in Sweden, which in many respects is a is. Several other technology projects are leading and innovative country in IT, but ongoing. this advantage could disappear if we do not • In Gothenburg, we participate in a contest act. Since the start of the millennium, the for eighth-graders, called Next Up. Ten number of registered students in engineering different schools are involved with the comprogrammes has decreased by 22% and the petition, intended to inspire young people, number of graduating engineers by 15%, particularly girls, in the long term towards according to a report from the Swedish Assostudies and career choices that lead to a ciation of Graduate Engineers. For this reason, future in the IT sector. Next Up is a collaboCybercom works with various local initiatives ration with Swedish IT & Telecom Industries to attract young people to choose engiand Universeum. neering courses and to attract those trained • Because of a labour market shortage of Java engineers to us. skills, we drew up guidelines in 2014 for a new Java Academy. Cybercom’s Java AcadThe initiatives we have worked with include: emy will be launched in 2015 and involves • Collaboration with Malmö University on clients, partners and training providers. a project called “Internet of Things and • We organise a well-known and popular People” (http://www.mah.se/iotap). The competition every year in Poland for probenefit to Cybercom is increased knowlgramming students, called Mastercoder. edge in the field that can also be used for • The Mobile Academy is also an initiative business development. in Poland where our consultants provide • Partnership with Universeum in Gothenlectures on iOS, Android and WP. burg to get young people curious about • All parts of our business take on summer technology in an enjoyable way. Cybercom workers and students for degree projects. tags the animals with tiny Bluetooth® Low Quite often these degree projects result in Energy (BLE) transmitters and visitors can employment. ’’ Training hours Average hours of training per Our ability to develop employee per year and retain key employ­ ees and to attract new, 2014 2013 2012 Women 26 14 n/a qualified colleagues is Men 22 30 n/a an essential issue for our All employees 22 27 29 future competitiveness. Cecilia Westerholm Beer Head of HR at Cybercom 40 Company Presentation and Sustainability Report Dedicated employees Employees at Cybercom 2014 2013 Total number of Employees Percentage Employees Percentage employees (number) women (number) women Sweden 825 19% 794 19% Finland 250 11% 244 11% Poland 167 17% 134 13% India 31 29% 48 19% Singapore 19 11% 23 9% Denmark 15 7% 24 12% Total number of employees 1,307 17% 1,267 16% Sick leave Percentage of sick leave for each country (%) 2014 2013 Sweden 2.3% 1.9% Poland 2.4% 1.7% Denmark 1.8% 5.6% Finland 2.6% 2.1% India 3.0% 4.6% Singapore 0.1% 0.1% Average Cybercom 2.4% 2.0% Cybercom had nine reported work-related accidents in 2014. All were minor incidents. Staff turnover 2014 2013 2012 Employees Percentage Employees Employees (number) women (number) (number) New recruitment during the year Under 30 years 170 16% n/a n/a 30–50 years 151 20% n/a n/a Over 50 years 11 18% n/a n/a Total number of new recruits 332 18% 243 250 Percentage of new recruits 25% 19% 19% People who left during the year Under 30 years 75 12% n/a n/a 30–50 years 174 14% n/a n/a Over 50 years 30 23% n/a n/a Total number of departures 279 15% 312 481 Percentage who ended employment 21% 25% 36% 41 Company Presentation and Sustainability Report High ethical standards Responsible business High ethical standards should permeate our business and our operations. Our actions are governed by our code of conduct in all countries in which we operate, and business ethics are a standing item on the agenda of the management team. Our actions European countries, Poland has made the Information security According to the Human Rights Watch World most progress in the fight against corruption. For Cybercom, information security means Report 2014, which describes the risk of Since Cybercom requires that the organisaour ability to ensure the necessary confidenhuman rights violations in different countries, tion be imbued with high ethical standards, tiality, integrity and availability of our internal there remains a risk in the United Arab Emirour employees must, from 2014, complete an systems and information, and the systems ates (Dubai), including restrictions on free exonline course on anti-corruption. The training and information of our clients. Cybercom’s pression and association. The risks in India and includes our code of business ethics and systems and clients’ systems should be Singapore are related to discrimination based conduct, as well as various possible dilemmas managed in a safe manner and the effect of on gender, cast (India) or sexual orientation. to consider. It was launched in December any security incidents should not risk serious We make use of the Business Antiand 480 employees have completed the damage to our own business or the business Corruption Portal, developed by a number of course, including all of Cybercom’s board of our clients. We have worked systematEuropean governments and a practical tool to and management. The course has received ically with information security for many help companies avoid and combat corruption, very positive feedback from participants, and years. The starting point is the information thereby creating a better business climate. The there is substantial commitment to the issues. security policy issued by management, which portal suggests that bribery and corruption Cybercom has not experienced any cases of is reviewed and verified annually. Work on are widespread in India, although efforts are corruption in 2014. information security is planned, implemented being made to combat this. Of the Eastern Cybercom’s code of conduct is based on and monitored by a designated security group the principles of the UN Global Compact on with clear descriptions of responsibilities and human rights, labour, the environment and mandates. The security group works with the anti-corruption. It was adapted in 2012 to also principle of distributed responsibility. Cyberapply to suppliers. In 2014, we continued our com Sweden’s Chief Security Officer (CSO) Employees support efforts to get all our partners and suppliers has overall responsibility for the planning, Swedish Childhood Cancer to sign our code of conduct and to monitor implementation and monitoring. The actual Foundation compliance with the code. The company’s work on information security is then divided Cybercom works together with partner consultants and suppliers receive the into five different areas: overall information the Swedish Childhood Cancer code appended to the agreement they sign. security; work related to HR; work related to Foundation. Through an agreeCybercom’s monitoring of this differs in the premises and physical security; work related ment with SEB Eurocard, Cybercom various businesses, and so far the company to IS/IT; and work associated with the various donates SEK 135 for each credit card Cybercom’s employees use during has not managed to implement uniform management functions. Our CSO is directly the year. In 2014 the total monitoring. There will be greater focus on this responsible for the work in the two areas of number of cards was 407. in the coming year. See the code of conduct in overall information security and the managebrief on page 45. ment functions. 42 Company Presentation and Sustainability Report High ethical standards Since Cybercom requires the organisation to be imbued with high ethical standards, our employees complete an online course in our code of business ethics and conduct, and in anti-corruption. At the end of the course they are given different possible dilemmas to consider. Our Head of HR is responsibe for the area of HR, the office manager is responsible for premises and physical security and the Head Collaboration with Company visits in of IS/IT is responsible for the area of IS/IT. For assignments where Cybercom has a delivery SOS Children’s a sustainable spirit responsibility, a dedicated security officer is Villages always appointed. Cybercom’s efforts to ensure information Cybercom implements assignments The Swedish Institute organises visits security are based on our guidelines for inforfor clients in many places in the world. to firms in Sweden for foreign commation security. The work is monitored and In Rwanda, we are helping an operapanies. In 2014, it chose Cybercom to evaluated through both internal and external tor with mobile networks. Mobility in host a visit by senior executives from audits. developing countries enables entrepreAfrican companies and government neurship among disadvantaged people, agencies. The five representatives and access to the internet contributes visited Cybercom to gain knowledge Client privacy to the dissemination of knowledge. By of trends and developments and to A connected world makes it possible for supporting SOS Children’s Villages in discuss opportunities in African marpeople and businesses to create, process, Rwanda, we can contribute to children’s kets in areas such as connectivity and share and distribute information in new education in a country where we have sustainability as an integral business and innovative ways. In order to protect the ongoing projects. The partnership has concept. privacy of employees and clients, Cybercom been ongoing since 2010, and Cyberworks actively to ensure compliance with the com annually contributes to the work of Swedish Personal Data Act within the comthis organisation. The donation in 2014 pany, and we help our clients to understand was some SEK 500,000, which goes the responsibility they have in their role as specifically to a school and its computer controller of personal data if they purchase lab in Ginkongoro. services from Cybercom and Cybercom is a personal data assistant. www.sos-barnbyar.se www.simanagementprogram.com 43 Company Presentation and Sustainability Report From the chairman of the board Cybercom’s business concept is based on sustainability ’’ Sustainable business is fundamentally about taking an active stance, we can eventually taking long-term responsibility for how we make a bigger difference ourselves, and also affect the world around us. We are certain affect our world positively. We work with that this generates greater economic value SOS Children’s Villages and we support their for Cybercom and therefore also for our emwork with young people in Rwanda to ensure ployees, clients and shareholders. Cybercom that children have a safe and secure childis a modern and innovative company with a hood. This means that we also contribute to focus on sustainability. We strive constantly to knowledge development in a country where implement internal innovations and improvewe have clients and ongoing projects, and this ments in the areas we can influence, such feels meaningful. The greater the opportunias by reducing CO² emissions from travel by ties for education in all corners of the world, holding more meetings digitally. We also the greater the opportunities that we can wish to be active in civic dialogue and to get together create a world in which sustainabilimore young people interested in technology ty, long-term thinking and responsible use of courses. This is important for our future. resources are central to citizens, cities, govAlthough our own operations do not have ernment agencies and companies. Together much impact on the environment, we have a with Universeum in Gothenburg, for example, unique opportunity to contribute to a more we are conducting innovative activities to sustainable world. With Connectivity as our raise young people’s interest in science and platform, we help our clients save both money technology. and resources, while reducing their environmental impact through, for example, reduced transport, better use of resources and lower energy consumption. Cybercom’s assignments may involve, for example, helping mobile network owners to reduce energy consumption by optimising network usage, or automating and remotely controlling systems for more low-resource utilisation. Among our ten largest clients, approximately 27% of our assignments have contributed to improved sustainability through cost savings, enhanced efficiency or reduced utilisation of the earth’s resources. Through an increased focus on awareness and by Hampus Ericsson, Chairman of Cybercom 44 Company Presentation and Sustainability Report Code of conduct Cybercom’s code of business ethics and conduct is based on the UN Global Compact and its principles on human Code of rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. The conduct in code was introduced in 2004 and has over the years been brief adapted to the world we live in. Cybercom’s board reviews the code annually. In 2012, a code was also drawn up for Cybercom’s suppliers to sign. 1. Comply with laws, to gender, sexual orientation, ethnic 6. C orruption and other prohibited 9. Protect our clients’ and partners’ rules and regulations origin, religion, beliefs, political business practices confidential and patented All Cybercom employees are responaffiliation or disability. All employees Cybercom complies with the Swedish information sible for acting in compliance with must show respect for each other and Anti-Corruption Institute’s Code of Cybercom requires all employees to laws and regulations applicable to for Cybercom’s business partners and Gifts, Rewards and other Benefits sign a confidentiality agreement in Cybercom’s operations and deliveries. will take responsibility for combating in Business, and works actively to accordance with Cybercom’s security In the event of an individual issue dediscrimination. Cybercom works combat corruption and unethical policy. There are clear rules for the manding it, they will seek legal advice. unabatedly to combat discrimination. practices. Employees must not give handling of, and access to, material Cybercom applies the Swedish Code This permeates the company’s policies or receive gifts, benefits or bribes belonging to Cybercom. of Corporate Governance. Cybercom’s and processes during, for example, that constitute a breach of this code. share is admitted to trading on the recruitment, setting of wage rates, Cybercom is politically independ10. Take a professional pride in the NASDAQ Stockholm exchange, and and skills enhancement. ent and does not sponsor political consultancy role Cybercom follows the Rule Book Cybercom offers salaries that organisations. Cybercom is opposed Freedom with accountability and for Issuers, NASDAQ Stockholm. comply with the minimum wage, to any form of money laundering and focus on the individual are important Cybercom presents and reports as laid down in national legislation, has taken the relevant measures to contributory factors in Cybercom becorporate information in compliance with correctly prepared employment prevent financial transactions that are ing able to attract highly skilled staff. with applicable laws and regulations, contracts. Cybercom also ensures that of criminal intent. Cybercom seeks to offer all employees including the International Financial working hours are compliant with the opportunity for personal and proReporting Standards (IFRS). local legislation. Cybercom seeks to 7. Promote accurate disclosure in fessional development. A workplace give all employees time for rest. financial reports and other public that is open, creative and flexible sets 2. Human rights Cybercom shall not in any way communications the course for being able to offer Cybercom respects human rights as utilise forced labour and will always Cybercom shall be transparent and clients professional and attractive laid down in UN conventions. Everyensure that the working relationship provide relevant information when products and services. body in the organisation must show between employee and organisation so required. This means that the respect for the integrity and dignity is at the employee’s own free will. company shall always provide fair and of all people. Cybercom will not in correct information. Cybercom’s goal any way contribute to the violation of 4. Health and safety is for all communication to contribute To sum up, Cybercom shall always human rights. Cybercom shall provide a healthy and to a stronger brand. conduct itself ethically in its dealings safe workplace in compliance with with all its stakeholders. Cybercom 3. Labour law and working internationally acknowledged stand8. Properly use company assets and shall be characterised by professionconditions ards. Cybercom works proactively to confidential information alism and integrity. Cybercom’s code Cybercom supports freedom of prevent accidents and work-related All business decisions shall be made of conduct is available in full at www. association and the right to collective illnesses. All employees are offered with the good of the company cybercom.com. bargaining. health and safety training when and in mind. All consultants will be Cybercom does not permit child if required. professional in their relationship labour. Cybercom applies the principle with Cybercom and will not pursue that a child is a person younger than 5. Environment competitive activities. 15 years of age unless national legOur aim is to minimise the compaClient trust is of vital importance islation states an older age, in which ny’s negative environmental impact. to Cybercom. All employees will case the older age applies. Cybercom Cybercom respects the precautionary treat client information in complete applies the definition of child labour principle and seeks to actively contribconfidentiality. Information about as laid down by the International ute to reducing negative environmenCybercom’s clients may only be used Labour Organisation (ILO). tal impact through responsible measin the implementation of the project Cybercom does not tolerate any ures and technological advancement. in question. This confidentiality forms of discrimination. All employees Cybercom always acts in compliance remains in force even after the project have equal rights and must never be with laws and internationally recoghas been completed. Cybercom has subjected to unjust treatment due nised directives. clear guidelines for the handling of confidential information. 45 Company Presentation and Sustainability Report Cybercom’s voice in public debate From words to action Det är svårt att ställa rätt krav på säkerhet i IT-upphandlingar, därför har Cybercom satsat på Upphandlingskollen. Handfasta Cybercom’s am­ tips som alla kan använda utan kostnad. Aktuell Säkerhet bition is to be an active voice in the Cybercom’s Bengt Berg on the Procurement Check project, media that puts Bengt Berg, Cybercom launched by Cybercom in 2014 to forward both the ”Måndagsexemplaren måste bort från marknaden” Cybercom vill hjälpa världen med säkrare IT, och lanserar mark, Polen, Indien och Dubai. Upphelp businesses and government handlingskollen finns i alla länder, i nudärför Upphandlingskollen. Ett kostnadsfritt stöd som agencies to specify better securi­ läget finns den på svenska och engelska. såväl företag som myndigheter kan använda för att ställa – Alla efterfrågar säkra lösningar. Men company’s and the den som upphandlar måste formulera bättre krav på säkerhet i sina upphandlingar. sina krav omsorgsfullt. Om du använder ty requirements in procuring IT. en cykel för att ta dig fram, då är rätt Text och foto: Jenny Persson säkerhet en cykelhjälm. Tar du dig istället fram med ett flygplan behöver du en fall– Vi vill justera spelplanen, som nu lualla som använder sig av Upphandlingsskärm. Men när upphandlare misslyckas industry’s interests tar åt fel håll. Grundproblemet till de kollen är välkomna. Vi ser det här som med att ställa bra säkerhetskrav får de en flesta säkerhetsproblem vi ser handlar ett långsiktigt projekt. Alla tjänar på att cykelhjälm till flygplanet, för den är bilTORSDAGEN DEN 11 DECEMBER 2014 11 inte om dålig teknik. Det handlar om att man inte ställer rätt säkerhetskrav i säkerheten blir bättre över lag. Vid dessa träffar är användarna välligare än en fallskärm. Vi ser många fall där köpare får med säkerhetslösningar NYHETER sina IT-upphandlingar, säger Bengt Berg, komna med återkoppling, för att prosom inte ens löser grundproblemet ENKÄT affärsutvecklare hos Cybercom. grammet ska vara MARKNADSANALYS. Är det jobbigt att hantera on various issues. I början av november lanserade man aktuellt behöver det Upphandlingskollen, som ger myndiguppdateras. Det kommjukvarulicenser? heter och företag 100 handfasta förslag mer att ske två gånger Kritiken mot mjukvaruleverantörernas på säkerhetskrav man kan använda i sina per år. licenser har puttrat länge. Hur upplever du det? upphandlingar. – Men vi kommer – Jag har varit branschen i 20 år och ser hålla oss till cirka 100 fortfarande samma brister i upphandlingkravförslag, för den This is a selection ar. Idag premieras de som inte levererar ska vara lätt att ansäkra lösningar. För de kan ge kunden ett vända. Därför vill vi lägre pris, eftersom kunden inte efterfråinte att den ska svälla gat säkerhet i sin upphandling. mer än så. Men det var Computer Sweden verkligen en utmaning För alla att stoppa vid 100 kravof articles that Förhoppningen med Upphandlingskollen förslag. Hans Lyttkens, it-strateg, Region Gotland: är att hjälpa upphandlare att hitta rätt Det är jobbigt och blir bara värre. Till att nivå på säkerheten. Det är anledningen I flera länder börja med har varje leverantör sina egna till att man valt att göra den här satsCybercom finns idag Det är mer kostnadseffektivt att investera i säkerhet i upphandlicensvillkor. Det krävs en lagbok för varje, lingsfasen av IT, jämfört med att göra det för ett system som vilket är oerhört frustrerande. Det är svårt ningen gratis och ett verktyg som alla kan i sju länder, och har redan tagits i drift. Grafen illustrerar hur mycket säkerhet man använda, såväl kunder som konkurrenter. cirka 1 300 anställda i får per investerad krona, beroende på vilken fas av IT-livscykeln att göra rätt. Leverantörerna jagar oss med – Vi kommer ha två träffar varje år, då Sverige, Finland, Danman väljer att investera i säkerhet. blåslampa trots att vi är deras kunder. De Cybercom has skickar en juridisk instans från utlandet som 24 Cybercom’s CEO Niklas Flyborg Aktuell Säkerhet 8 – 2014 kommer hit för att få in pengar. on skills shortages faced by con­ participated in over sulting firms – and by extension Bengt Sjöberg, regional it-chef, Cloetta Sverige: Nu jobbar jag inte längre med licenser själv, sedan två år tillbaka. Men det är jobbigt. the entire IT industry – and what the past year. xx Cybercoms vd Niklas Flyborg tror inte på stigande konsultpriser nästa år, vilket Redeyes analys förutspår. Kompetensbrist gäckar Om man inte har ett enterpriseavtal är hanteringen fruktansvärt besvärlig. Jag har varit inblandad i licensdiskussioner som slutat med att det kostat pengar för min arbetsgivaneeds to be done to reverse the re. Det kan vara att tekniker som inte förstått konsulter inför 2015 hur licenserna fungerar har installerat mjukvara. Oracle är en extra besvärlig leverantör. trend. Det råder försiktig optimism inför FAKTA Allra största utmaningen är priserna väntas öka med 2,0 pro2015 hos de svenska it-konsultsvårigheten att rekrytera personal cent under 2015, men att lönerna bolagen. Hälften tror på ett bättre Redeyes (47 procent). Den svårigheten har samtidigt ökar med 2,9 procent, marknadsklimat. Prispress och undersökning ökat under senaste året. vilket innebär att det fortsatt ﬁnns Britta Sandblom, it-strateg, Sollentuna kommun: kompetensbrist fortsätter gäcka De tjänsteområden med bäst risk för marginalpress. Det är jobbigt för att det tar tid att hantera 30 it-konsultbolag branschen. efterfrågan är mobila lösningar, – Jag tror inte vi ska förvänta oss dem. Det blir en hel del administration om har deltagit i enkäten, beslutsstöd samt systemutveckling. att priserna går upp, men vi kan man inte har något verktyg för att sköta det. vilket motsvarar bolag Svagast efterfrågan ﬁnns inom test, alltid göra mer, vi kan eﬀektiviEtt problem är att man köper licenser på MATTIAS med ungefär 11 000 kundrelationshantering och drift. sera vår verksamhet, säger Niklas olika platser. Det är svårt att hålla reda på MALMQVIST anställda konsulter. Det Flyborg. dem. Vi har nyligen utbildat en person som mattias.malmqvist@idg.se är fjärde året som OM MAN KOLLAR på branscher råder Förvärven under åren var ska optimera vår licensanvändning, men har Redeye genomför sin starkast efterfrågan inom myndiganmärkningsvärt få, förutom storännu inte hunnit se om det får någon eﬀekt. konsultundersökning. Analysföretaget Redeyes årliga heter, följt av handel och ﬁnans. aﬀären då Acando köpte Connecta. undersökning av den svenska itDet har också vänt för telekomAnnars var det bara Addnode och konsultmarknaden kan sammansektorn, som under ﬂera år varit Semcon som genomförde förvärv fattas i en försiktig optimism inför det segment med svagast efterunder året. Det är en utveckling 2015. 53 procent av bolagen tror att frågan. som enligt undersökningen vänmarknadsklimatet blir bättre 2015 Däremot har fordonsindustrin tas fortsätta. Bara två av tio bolag Östersunds-Posten jämfört med året före. 47 procent backat. väntas göra förvärv under 2015. tror att det blir lika, vilket alltså – Att det är myndigheter som står innebär att inget av de 30 konsultför den starkaste efterfrågan inneACANDOS VD Carl-Magnus Månsson bolag som deltar i undersökningen bär också att det är Stockholm som utesluter dock inte nya förvärv, Roland Persson, cio och cfo, Sydved: tror på sämre tider. rent geograﬁskt är dragloket nu, även om det inte blir i den storVårt företag ingår i en koncern som sköter De största utmaningarna för kommenterar Niklas Flyborg, vd leksordningen. mycket av licenshanteringen. Men det är välkonsultbolagen är prispress, svårigpå Cybercom. – Vi har varken fått blodad tand digt jobbigt om man ska sköta det själv. Man heter att rekrytera personal samt I övrigt kan konstateras från eller blivit avskräckta. Mindre förhar klart för sig hur det fungerar när man att kunderna ﬂyttar utomlands. undersökningen att konsultvärv kan komma i fråga. köper en licens. Sedan går det två tre år och så försöker man komma ihåg ... 120About Ica-anställda Delertar Abdalaziz, steget till Infosys who re­ ceived an internship at Cybercom Indiska konsultjätten Infosys tar berör både infrastruktur och appliSIFFRAN lingen av vår it-verksamhet. Med 75 affären när Ica-gruppen skalar upp kationer, och att ungefär 120 persoen kraftfull och duktig it-partner, sin it-outsourcing. ner inom Ica Gruppen och Ica Svesom kan vår miljö, skapar vi större rige kommer att erbjudas jobb hos ﬂexibilitet vid nya aﬀärskrav, klarar through a project for foreign-born Ica-gruppen räknar med att sänInfosys. Åtgärden innebär omställlättare av snabba och stora omställThure Holmström, it-chef, Arjeplogs kommun: ka sina kostnader med 75 miljoner ningskostnader under 2015, men ningar och kan bättre stötta aﬀäDet är jobbigt. Leverantörerna förändrar miljoner kronor vänfrån 2016 när de outsourcar delar ska sedan sänka kostnaderna med ren i deras verksamhetsutveckling, villkoren nästan hela tiden. Då blir vi tvungtar sig Ica-gruppen av sin it-verksamhet till den indisungefär 75 miljoner kronor från kommenterar Sven Lindskog, cfo na att utreda hur det påverkar oss. Det blir spara årligen på att ka it-leverantören Infosys. 2016. på Ica Gruppen. komplicerat om man till exempel vill skaﬀa graduates. He was offered perma­ outsourca itInfosys är ett av de globala indiska Förutom kostnadsbesparingar Affären innebär att Ica ökar ännu en dator. Man blir överraskad över de verksamheten. it-konsultbolag som under de väntas outsourcingen också ge andelen outsourcing från 20 projättetexter som beskriver licenserna. Det krävs senaste åren börjat göra sig allt bättre förutsättningar för aﬀärscent till 40 procent. en riktigt erfaren jurist för att förstå dem. mer gällande också på den nordutvecklingsprojekt inom it. nent employment after only a few iska marknaden. Ica uppger att outsourcingen – Att vi nu skalar upp outsourcingen är ett viktigt steg i utveckMATTIAS MALMQVIST mattias.malmqvist@idg.se LARS DANIELSSON lars.danielsson@idg.se days of the internship. 46 Company Presentation and Sustainability Report Cybercom’s voice in public debate SvD Näringsliv torsdag 25 september 2014 18 KARRIÄR 8 T R E N D FÖ R E TAG E N I F I N RU M M E T FAKTA FN-VECKAN ■■FN:s generalförsamling samlar varje höst världens ledare till en lång rad möten och rundabordssamtal i New York. Di Dimension ■■100 statseller regeringschefer trängdes i år med 800 representanter för näringsliv, finansbransch och organisationer. ■■Förutom klimathotet stod oroligheterna i Irak, Syrien och Ukraina på agendan, liksom den stora spridNiklas Flyborg interviewed in Di ningen av ebola Dimension about the growing i västra Afrika. OPTIMIST OM MILJÖN. Ulrich Spiesshofer, koncernchef för ABB, talar under klimattoppmötet på FN:s högkvarter i New York i slutet av september. Ericssonchefen Hans Vestberg och it-konsulten Cybercoms vd Niklas Flyborg deltog också i höstens FN-möten. FOTO: LUCAS JACKSON role of the business sector in Cybercoms vd Niklas Flyborg (t v) besöker SOS Barnbyars kindergarten i Gikongoro, Rwanda, tillsammans med medarbetaren och CSR-ambassadören Tarmo Pajunen. Cybercom är engagerat i telekomprojekt i landet. FOTO: ANNA LUNQVIST global sustainability challenges FN näringslivet = sant when he participated in the UN Global kompetens Niklas Flyborg är med på miljökonferensen, samt medverkar även på ett lunchmöte med poliNEW YORK jämfört med tiden före industrialitiker och folk från näringslivet. seringen. Där hålls det rundabordssamtal Kärleken mellan FN och näringslivet bara växer. Bland hundraABB:s Ulrich Spiesshofer sticker inte om bland annat CSR och möjligClimate Summit 2014. till globala kunder talet företagsledare som har bjudits in till årets toppmöten under stol med att han talade i egen sak heterna att skapa ett hållbart samhälle med ny teknik. när han framträdde inför hela generali New York märks flera chefer för svenska börsbolag. församlingen. Det är själva poängen, – Men ett annat mål för mig med att åka till FN är också att Ett av de hetaste samtalsämnena är klimathotet, som eftersom många av ABB:s produkter för knyta kontakter med del befintliga kunder som vi har men också kommer att diskuteras långt in på nästa år. med sig energibesparingar. med nya. Jag var till exempel i Rwanda för två veckor sedan där INGENJÖRSBRIST Svenska konsultbolaget Cybercom rekryterar har samtidigt blivit allt bättre på vi sedan flera år driver stora teleK Billigare att vara grön att rekrytera utomlands, dels via komprojekt. De afrikanska länänslan av angelägenhet är Flyborg fick en personlig inbjudan från Motsättningen mellan att agera utifrån utländska ingenjörer i parti och minut eftersom för få utbildas i Svelokalkontor i Bombay, Singapore derna är förstås jätteintresserade starkare nu. Det är inte de FN:s generalsekreterare Ban Ki-moon. ett vinstintresse och att bedriva miljörige. Cybercoms vd Niklas Flyborg är nu i New York på FN:s huvudoch Dubai, men även via sociala av att vara med i FN och berätta medier. hur de använder ”connectivitet” mot oss. Det säger ABB:s vd ”FN:s intresse för näringslivets roll vänlig verksamhet är på väg att försvinna kontor för att delta i möten om bland annat migration av arbetskraft. – Ban Ki-Moon berättade att och hur Cybercom har hjälpt FN:s perspektiv är att ett bra sätt dem att få i gång betallösningar Ulrich Spiesshofer om dynahar ökat dramatiskt på senare år”, säger för de flesta företag, eftersom grön teknik I maj i år fick konsultbolaget där Cybercom byggt upp mobilatt skapa välstånd är att folk flytvia mobilen och sådana saker, miken mellan politiker och han, efter att ha deltagit i en serie samtal i regel också är billigare. Cybercoms vd Niklas Flyborg nät, att han bjöd in Flyborg till FN tar dit där jobben finns. Vi jobbar säger Niklas Flyborg. näringsliv när Di Dimension träffar med företagsledare från olika bran”Det bästa sättet att påverka miljön är besök av statsminister Fredrik den här veckan. så på Cybercom, helt enkelt för Cybercom har drygt 70 prohonom vid FN-högkvarteret i New York. scher. att använda så lite energi som möjligt”, DAGENS INDUSTRI TORSDAG 15 MAJ 2014 NYHETER TEXT Moon. 13 Reinfeldt och FN-chefen Ban Ki– Ett av FN:s stora projekt är ju att näringslivet ska engagera sig att vi inte hittar den kompetens vi behöver i Sverige. Även om vi är cent av omsättningen i Sverige, enligt Flyborg, men många av FN-toppen i Sverige Höstens stora FN-vecka lockade alltså konstaterar ABB-chefen, som efterlyser – FN hade ett möte om migraför att skapa välstånd. När han ett svenskt företag så är våra proprojekten och kunderna är glointe bara regeringschefer och diplomater Klimatet står högst på agendan ett bredare fokus från politikerna, som tion i Stockholm i maj, och vi hörde att vi jobbar med det här så jekt väldigt globala, och vi har bala. Arbetskraftsinvandring har Gamla skrotdäck blir bränsle ERIK BERGIN anställer mycket ingenjörer från blev han intresserad. Jag ska vara lätt att använda global kompeinte bara försett bolaget med till diskussionerna om oroshärdar runt FN-veckans samtalsämnen sträckte sig hittills har riktat in sig på förnybar andra länder helt enkelt eftersom med på det stora klimatmötet tens, säger Niklas Flyborg. nödvändig kompetens utan ockom i världen. Att chefen för det svenskfrån omsorg om skogen till dataoch energi. vi inte hittar tillräckligt många och även en diskussionslunch Till FN den här veckan anlänså skapat en internationell miljö Scandinavian Enviro Systems, som ska till First North i juni, i Sverige, säger Niklas Flyborg till med rundabordssamtal om hållder runt 140 statsoch regeringsi företaget som Cybercom är schweiziska elkraftsoch automationstelefoninätverks möjligheter att sporra Minskad förbrukning är minst lika har fått sin första order. SvD Näringsliv. bar utveckling och en uppkoppchefer i samband med den årliga noga med att bevara. Dagens Industri SvD Näringsliv teknikbolaget var på plats är ett tecken utbildning och lokalisera flyktingar. viktigt, förklarar Ulrich Spiesshofer och FN-chefen imponerades så lad värld, säger Niklas Flyborg. invigningen av generalförsam– För Sverige är det väldigt bra Bolaget har, enligt uppgift till Di, tecknat en avsiktsförklaring på ett attitydskifte. Men högst på dagordningen stod tillägger att klimatsamtalen har gjort pass av konsultbolagets rekrytelingen. FN-chefen har även bjudit om vi kan utbilda fler ingenjörer, med ett kinesiskt företag som ska köpa en anläggning som ring av internationell kompetens, Cybercom har i många år haft in till en stor klimatkonferens dit men för Cybercoms del så får vi Han var nämligen långt ifrån ensam. ett klimatmöte, som markerade starthonom mer optimistisk i miljöfrågan. producerar kimrök, olja, gas och stål genom återvinning avsamt dess CSR-arbete med bland svårt att hitta tillräckligt med bland andra USA:s president tag i duktiga medarbetare överEn rad andra svenska bolagstoppar skottet för en lång förhandlingsrunda ”Folk arbetar tillsammans med öppna annat SOS Barnbyar i Rwanda civilingenjörer i Sverige. Bolaget Barack Obama kommer. allt i världen, säger han. FN:s generalsekreterare fordonsdäck. Processen är mycket lönsam. (Di) var i stan samtidigt, däribland Hans som kulminerar vid ett toppmöte i Paris sinnen.” Ban Ki-Moon diskuterade Vestberg på Ericsson och Ikeachefen nästa år. GABRIEL MELLQVIST under sitt besök i StockPeter Agnefjäll. Ett av målen är att jordens temperagabriel.mellqvist@di.se holm i går bland annat It-konsulten Cybercoms vd Niklas tur inte ska höjas med mer än 2 grader +1 203 434 50 68 arbetskraftsinvandring ERBJUDANDE PÅ med statsminister Fredrik EXKLUSIVA ETON UN Secretary-General Ban KiReinfeldt. De besökte även konsultbolaget Cybercom. Major interview in SvD Näring­ Gör som brittiska hovet och vargarna på Wall Street – klä dig i skjortor från moon visited Cybercom’s head­ sliv with Niklas Flyborg about svenska Eton. I det närmaste strykfria ”Vi fick en förfrågan om att ta håller de sig släta och välsittande från emot generalsekreteraren och morgonmöte till kvällsmingel. statsministern för tio dagar quarters in Stockholm and talked Cybercom’s role as a global sedan. Vi tvekade inte en Köp två för 1 999 kr (ord. pris sekund att tacka ja”, säger 1 299 kr/st). Finns i flera olika tyger i slim och contemporary fit. Cybercoms vd, Niklas Flyborg. Cybercom är ett it-konsultabout the challenges of the global bolag som är högst beroende employer and global supplier Erbjudandet gäller så långt lagret räcker eller av arbetskraft från andra länt o m 25/5 2014. der. Syftet med studiebesöket hos företaget var att ge en labour market during his visit to inblick i det svenska systemet för arbetskraftsinvandring. Vad betyder besöket för of sustainable solutions for the företaget? Sweden in May 2014. ”Det är väldigt viktigt för hela branschen att vi får framföra att det både finns utmafuture. ningar och möjligheter i att anställa arbetskraft från andra länder”, säger Niklas Flyborg. Cybercom säger sig vara ”gränslösa” gällande arbetskraft. De anställer folk från hela världen då företagets uppdrag ofta sträcker sig MÖJLIGHETERNAS MÖTE. FN:s generalsekreterare Ban Ki-Moon besökte, tillsammans med utanför Sveriges gränser. statsministern, Cybercom och hälsar på Sergiy Kapustin invandrad från Ukraina. I bakgrunden VARD 10–18.30, LÖRD 10–16 skrattar Patricio Barrientos Rossi, född i Chile. FOTO: JACK MIKRUT EMMA ANDERSSON SÖND 25/5 12–16 KUNGSG/SVEAV. STROMS.COM Norman hoppas Flytta Tivi hitta Tony Hendrell and Miila SAS-köpare på Det är för tillfället inte ”Det är en fråga för bolaget. aktuellt med en försäljDet är ingenting för ägaren att Päivärinne at Cybercom in ning av SAS. diskutera, utan den frågan får Det uppger finansmarkdu ställa till verkställande nadsminister Peter Nordirektören eller styrelsen”, man, som däremot inte vill säger han till Di. Finland talk to TiVi about kommentera förra veckans vinstvarning från statens flygbolag. Som ägare måste ni ändå ha haft förhoppningar på den plan som lades och de åtgärder som vidtogs. Hur har Cybercom’s cloud solutions and dig I förra veckan sänkte SAS sin dessa förhoppningar resultatprognos med uppinfriats? emot 1 miljard kronor och ”Vi tyckte att styrelsen och flaggade samtidigt för nya bolaget och de fackliga orgaFinland’s strong position in cloud besparingar. Slutsatsen är att de kraftfulla åtgärder som vidtogs i slutet av 2012, då SAS INTE AKTUELLT ATT SÄLJA SAS – NU. Finansmarknadsminister Peter Norman. nisationerna tog ett stort ansvar i den processen. Men hur resultatutvecklingen för var konkursmässigt, inte bolaget har gått, det är ingenservices. FOTO: JONAS EKSTRÖMER räcker. Den nya affärsplanen ting som jag tycker att det är 4XNG, som skulle göra flygrimligt att ägaren kommentebolaget lönsamt, ser inte ut att rar.” leva upp till styrelsens högt uppskruvade förväntningar. Försäljning långt borta En konkret förhoppning var Nytt boende? Våra tjänster Annat läge i dag att den nya affärsplanen gör det enkelt för dig att sälja. Även hos regeringen, som skulle göra det möjligt för staOch sedan hjälper vi dig hitta representerar statens 21-proten att sälja SAS. Men på den nytt. Börja på HittaHem.se centiga ägande i SAS, var Di den 9 maj. fronten ser det inte mycket ljuförhoppningarna stora på sare ut. SAS räddningsplan från 2012. borde kunna leda till ett kon”Det är inte aktuellt för tillFinansmarknadsminister kurrenskraftigt bolag”, sa han fället, men jag hoppas att vi Peter Norman (M), som är när den nya affärsplanen prekommer att hitta köpare för ansvarig för statens bolag, senterades. SAS också”, säger Peter Nori samarbete med tyckte då att planen ”var mer I dag vill Peter Norman inte man. radikal och konkret” än tidikommentera hur konkurrensMARTIN REX gare. kraftigt han bedömer att SAS martin.rex@di.se ”Det borgar för att det har blivit sedan dess. 08-573 650 55 47 A CYBERCOM CONNECTIVITY B Secure and connected We always consider function and security in our solutions. This makes you more secure. Company Presentation and Sustainability Report GRI index The following index makes reference to the GRI indicators that Cybercom has chosen to report and to the ten principles of the Global Compact. C&S = Company Presentation and Sustainability Report 2014 AR = Annual Report GRIA = GRI Appendix W = Website General Standard Disclosures Pages Remarks Global Compact Principle G4-1 Statement from the CEO C&S P.6-7, 44 G4-3 The name of the organisation AR P.1 G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services C&S P.5, 20-25 G4-5 Location of the organisation’s headquarters Stockholm G4-6 Countries where the organisation has significant operations C&S P.5 G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form AR P.1, 7 G4-8 Markets served C&S P.5, 12-13, 17 G4-9 Scale of the organisation C&S P.3, 5, 41, AR P.3 G4-10 Total number of employees C&S P.41, GRIA P.4 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining G4-11 GRIA P.5 Principle 3 agreements G4-12 Organisation’s supply chain C&S P.14-15 G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period C&S P.2 G4-14 Precautionary approach C&S P.0 Principle 7 G4-15 Externally developed initiatives to which the organisation subscribes C&S P.0, 35 G4-16 Memberships of associations – G4-17 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements AR P.29 G4-18 Process for defining the report content GRIA P.1-3 G4-19 Material Aspects identified GRIA P.2 G4-20 Aspect Boundary within the organisation GRIA P.3 G4-21 Aspect Boundary outside the organisation GRIA P.3 G4-22 Effect of restatements of information provided in previous reports GRIA P.6 G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods No significant changes G4-24 Stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation GRIA P.1 G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders GRIA P.1 G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement GRIA P.1 Key topics raised through stakeholder engagement, and how G4-27 GRIA P.1 the organisation has responded G4-28 Reporting period GRIA P.1 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report Spring 2014 G4-30 Reporting cycle GRIA P.1 G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report C&S P.51 G4-32 In accordance option & GRI Content Index C&S P.0, 50-51 G4-33 External assurance GRIA P.1 G4-34 Governance structure of the organisation AR P.39-40 G4-56 Organisation’s values, codes of conduct etc. C&S P.45 Principle 10 50 Company Presentation and Sustainability Report GRI index General Standard Disclosures Pages Remarks Global Compact Principle DMA Economic Performance C&S P.14-15 G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed C&S P.3 DMA Employment C&S P.36-37 G4-LA1 Employee turnover C&S P.41 DMA Occupational Health and Safety C&S P.36-38 G4-LA6 Absenteeism & work-related injury C&S P.41 DMA Training & Education C&S P.36-37 G4-LA9 Employee training C&S P.40 G4-LA11 Development reviews C&S P.36, GRIA P.5 DMA Diversity and Equal Opportunity C&S P.38 Principle 6 G4-LA12 Composition of organisation GRIA P.5 DMA Non-discrimination C&S P.38 Principles 1, 2 & 6 G4-HR3 Number of incidents of discrimination No cases reported in 2014 DMA Anti-corruption C&S P.42-43, 45 Principle 10 G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption No cases reported in 2014 DMA Customer Privacy C&S P.42-43 Principle 1 G4-PR8 Loss of customer data No cases reported in 2014 DMA Energy C&S P.34 Principle 8 G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organisation GRIA P.6 G4-EN5 Energy intensity GRIA P.6 DMA Emissions C&S P.35 Principle 8 G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions C&S P.35 G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas emissions intensity C&S P.35 DMA Products and Services C&S P.34 Principle 9 G4-EN27 Mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services C&S P.28-29, 34 DMA Product and Service labelling C&S P.27 G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction C&S P.27 Supplier evaluation in relation to working conditions, Cybercom will further DMA environment & human rights develop this work in 2015 For more information about this report and our sustainability work, please refer to our GRI appendix at www.cybercom.com/griappendix, or contact Kristina Cato at kristina.cato@cybercom.com 51 Company Presentation and Sustainability Report Boosting your performance 52 Design and production: Narva. Photography: Jann Lipka (pages 7, 39, 40), Tarmo Pajunen (pages 8-9, 43). Printing: Göteborgstryckeriet, 2015. NARVA Cybercom Group AB (publ) Tel. +46 8 578 646 00 Box 7574, 103 93 Stockholm, Sweden www.cybercom.com
