Solar CSR Report 2014 1 Solar A/S CSR Report 2014 Solar CSR Report 2014 1 Contents Word from the management 2 Solar at a glance 3 Our primary CSR stakeholders 4 1 Customers 6 2 Employees 7 3 Suppliers 8 4 Environment 9 5 Society 10 Corporate Governance 11 Our standards 12 Data Summary Table 13 Copyright: Solar, December 2014 Design and layout: Make® Text: Solar A/S Go to content Solar CSR Report 2014 2 Word from management Profitable growth through ethical business. It’s as simple as that. As an international sourcing and services company with involvement in 8 countries, we respect our responsibility to observe human rights. In honour of our responsibility, we are committed to upholding social and environmental standards in our operations. We have expressed our commitment by signing up to the United Nation’s Global Compact Our responsibility Supporting the Global Compact Seen in a global perspective, our society faces Solar joined the United Nations’ Global Compact 5 challenges, both socially, politically and economically. years ago to be part of the global initiative to promote In Solar, we acknowledge our responsibility to be a ethical business. We are pleased to confirm our positive driver, also when it comes to managing the continued support of the ten principles of the Global impact our business has on our society. Compact Programme. We see our involvement in the programme as an asset in our cooperation with It must make sense customers and suppliers, and as a clear advantage In a highly competitive market, our primary aim is to when it comes to attracting and retaining employees. create profitable growth for our business. And we are determined to achieve our goal through responsible In addition to demonstrating some of the CSR activities behaviour. We implement socially responsible activities that take place within Solar’s framework, this CSR report where it makes sense and where we see that we can also serves as our Communication on Progress (CoP) in create value. Some of these activities are the results of honour of our obligation to report to the UN Global large projects, while others are small everyday actions Compact. which, nevertheless, are equally important when defining Solar as a socially responsible company. Stronger together Thank you for your interest in Solar. We invite you to explore how we integrate our social responsibility into our business activities, in this report and at www.solar.eu. Anders Wilhjelm Michael H. Jeppesen CEO Group CFO Go to content Solar CSR Report 2014 3 Solar at a glance In Solar, we bundle the spend of our customers to improve their sourcing. We work with our customers to create the best offer and to proactively develop alternatives. We work with our customers to optimise their productivity, to optimise transportation cost, and to minimise required inventory. And we work with our customers to improve their employees’ skills and efficiency. All in all, we call it ‘stronger together’. The Solar Group is a proud and ambitious sourcing and services customers to meet demands for energy-efficient solutions. You can company. We offer a wide range of products and services, mainly read more about our Blue Energy concept and our new Blue Energy within electrical, heating, plumbing and ventilation technologies. app on page 9. We have made it our business to create value for our customers. Solar’s e-business concept is a tool that optimises our customers’ We deliver solutions that help our customers optimise their workflow and makes customer service more efficient. With the processes, grow their businesses, deliver better projects – and e-business concept we interact with our customers 24/7. E-busigenerate greater earnings while saving energy and lowering CO2 ness provides faster lead times, less administration and increased emissions. precision. We acknowledge the fact that we owe our success to serGlobal Compact vice-minded employees who love to turn opportunities into results. Solar is committed to the UN’s Global Compact, which contains ten We want our employees to have fun while working hard on smart principles, including human rights, working environment/labour, the solutions, and who glow with pride in our shared achievements. environment and anti-corruption. In our Code of Conduct, we have explicitly expressed our obligation to respect the human rights. You We have approximately 3,000 employees. Solar has subsidiaries can read more about this on page 8. in Denmark, Norway, Sweden, the Netherlands, Germany, Poland, Belgium and Austria. As a result of its membership, Solar is obliged to report on the activities in which we are involved within the Global Compact. Not Together, we’re one of Northern Europe’s leading sourcing and only do we report on our CO2 consumption and our compliance services companies. with ethical standards. We have taken it one step further and have established our own reporting system for our CO2 consumption. Solar is a listed company. The B shares are listed on Nasdaq You can read more about our Carbon Disclosure Project on page 9. Copenhagen and form part of the MidCap index and MidCap on Nasdaq Nordic. Executive Management The chairman of the Solar Group Board of Directors is associate Blue Energy professor, lic. scient. Jens Borum. The Executive Board of the With our Blue Energy concept, we focus fully on energy-efficient company is in the hands of CEO Anders Wilhjelm and Group CFO products and solutions. The Blue Energy concept enables our Michael H. Jeppesen. Solar CSR Report 2014 4 Our primary CSR stakeholders Customers, employees, suppliers, the environment and the society are key stakeholders to us Go to content Solar CSR Report 2014 5 We know that we are stronger together, To illustrate how we translate our and that our success is dependent on an corporate social responsibility into interaction between us, our customers, actions, we have defined 5 primary our employees and our suppliers, stakeholder groups. You can read more with due respect to society and the about the individual stakeholder groups environment which surrounds us. later in this report. 1 3 Customers Suppliers We have created our warehouse and distribution system with only The collaboration with and development of our suppliers is a one thing in mind: our customers. Solar’s customers want quick, very important asset to Solar. We set the standards high for these secure, precise and flexible delivery of the articles they need. So, suppliers – just like we do for ourselves. And we proactively look we have organised our logistics system accordingly. for solutions that provide our customers with new opportunities. That is why Solar’s customers can order articles and get in touch with us 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. That is why we distribute at night. And that is why we promise to deliver before 07:00 am if you 4 order before 6:00 pm the previous day wherever this is geographiEnvironment cally possible. 99.8% of all incoming orders are delivered without Being a socially responsible company, we cannot ignore the fact execution and distribution errors. that some of our activities can have a negative impact on our environment – this is true for practically any kind of business. The increased productivity of our customers is also reflected in Therefore, we constantly strive to find ‘greener’ ways to conduct Solar’s logistics solutions. One example is Fastbox in Denmark, our business. which has turned out to be an absolute success. The contractors experience the benefit of having the products delivered within the Energy efficient solutions are at the core of our expertise. And hour if they are missing materials in connection with an assignment. where we can, we walk the talk. Therefore, we have energy-optiThis way they are able to spend valuable time with their customers mised several of our own facilities. You can read more about one of instead of going to pick up materials. The Fastbox service has our buildings on page 9. proven its worth in large cities and has been expanded to full national coverage. 5 Society 2 At Solar, we have a responsibility to use our knowledge and compeEmployees tences in a way that benefits society at large. Solar has subsidiaries At Solar we consider our employees our most important resource. in various countries and we like to support good causes – both They allow us to reach our goals and expand our business so that globally and locally. we can continue to set new standards on the market and for our customers in future. At Solar we look for people who have the energy to move us forward with entrepreneurship, who set ambitious targets and deliver on promises. We offer challenging jobs, exciting career opportunities and individual development. Go to content Solar CSR Report 2014 6 1 Customers Significant business potential From an energy perspective, Solar aims to increase focus on the significant business potential within energy optimisation of technical fittings in existing commercial buildings. Our focus is on our customers’ In the technical fittings, i.e. within lighting, heating and ventilation, needs and behaviour. you will typically find a savings potential of 20-30% and a payback time for the investment of 3-6 years. Therefore, an investment in energy optimisation of the technical solutions can be better than To accommodate our customers’ investments made solely in energy-efficient windows and insulation (building envelopes) which typically have payback times of 10 years needs and help them become better or more. However, it is necessary to invest in both the technical are corner stones in Solar’s journey. fittings and the building envelope to take full advantage of the energy optimisation potential. Green Business Growth In 2013, Solar initiated a collaboration with the municipality of Vejen (the very area in which Solar’s headquarters are located) on the ‘Green Business Growth’ project. During a 3 year period, project Green Business Growth will offer 600 home owners a free energy check-up of their homes to illustrate how they can save money through energy-efficient solutions. To prepare for the demand which is expected to follow, Solar plays an active role in the education of local craftsmen (including installers). Through this programme, Solar helps the local professionals optimise their knowledge of new technology and solutions, and discover the business potential in the area of energy efficiency. In November 2013, the first batch of ‘Green Energy Installers’ graduated and are now offering the local citizens and businesses advice on energy-efficient solutions. The next batch of Green Energy Installers will start training in the spring of 2015. And it is a popular initiative. Since the collaboration was initiated in 2013, 200 local Vejen citizens have been through a check-up of their homes, uncovering areas up for energy optimisation. A conservative estimate indicates that over a 3 year period, the Green Business Growth project will create 300 new jobs within the building industry by promoting energy-efficient building and renovating through increased demand and supply. Our most important task is to generate value for our customers. This means that we buy on their behalf. This means that we help You can read much more about the Green Business Growth project the customers choose the products which best meet their needs, here: http://www.groenerhvervsvaekst.dk (site in Danish). and for those who need it, we supply technical support and training in the use of the products. This means that we minimise the non-productive time and the need of inventory levels of our customers. Being a first-mover in our field requires not only a broad range of quality products and solutions, but also a profound knowledge of Project Green Business Growth offering 600 energy optimisation and energy savings technology and trends. We are proactive within the area of energy optimisation and take an active role in advising our customers to optimise their businesses. Competence and experience are vital for our ability to not only boost our customers’ market share, but also to minimise costs and our carbon footprint. So, knowledge about energy optimisation, including the technical home owners a free energy check-up to identify fittings which are necessary to cash in on the savings, places high energy-efficient solutions. demands on the competences of everyone involved. Go to content Solar CSR Report 2014 7 2 Employees Group Leadership Programme As a company, we make ever increasing demands on our managers because good leadership motivates and develops employees, and because our business depends on good leadership. Solarians are can-do people with The aim is to develop our managers’ skills, enabling them to reach an ambition to make a difference. our business goals and drive organisational performance. On a regular basis, managers gain a shared understanding of their local leadership roles as well as their co-responsibility in developing the At Solar, we know that our future business as a whole. development as a company depends Career development and recruitment on developing and retaining our We want to demonstrate that employees on all levels have the opportunity to develop their career in Solar. Therefore, we focus employees. Via the Solar Business actively on career development, and we make sure that we address Academy, we offer a variety of training both low and high performance as well as look into each individual’s potential. We believe that we can heighten the internal recruitment programmes which take our employees levels by making the career paths in Solar even more visible, and by from most likely to most valuable. showing specialists and project managers that we also have career paths for them. As demographics in the workforce changes, it gives us challenges in terms of recruiting and retaining skilled employees. Therefore, we aim to promote Solar as an employer to attract potential employees and increase pride among our current employees. Check out our employer brand at http://www.solar.eu/Menu/Career. Diversity policy In Solar, we wish to offer all employees the same opportunities, regardless of gender, age, race and religion. We have expressed our position in a Diversity Policy with the aim of securing equal representation of men and women in our Board of Directors by 2017 (40% as stated in the legal requirements). The content of the diversity policy and Solar’s ability to comply with the policy is monitored by Corporate HR and our Board of Directors, and the results are communicated in our annual report. Continuous development We are continuously improving the way we do business. Innovation and optimisation of our processes, our standards and our practices are just as important as on-time delivery. Therefore, we work strategically with competency development through employee performance appraisals (EPA). Our EPAs are carried out every 12 months and enable us to work proactively with career development to the benefit of both our employees and Solar. It is important to us that our employees know that we have a deep interest in their professional development. And the EPAs are yet another step in our strive to promote open and honest communication at all levels. 3,285 Solar Business Academy and our Group Leadership Programme further strengthen our development. Since we strive to work even closer together across borders, knowledge about distance and virtual leadership as well as cultural differences have become increasingly important. Therefore, both disciplines are available in our Solar Business Academy. The Solar Business Academy is not only about leadership development. The academy also provides a strategic lift when it comes to Total number of employees, 01.12.2014 skills relating to Lean, and a range of business competencies. Go to content Solar CSR Report 2014 8 3 Solar Navigator On a periodic basis, Solar conducts an employee survey, Solar Navigator. Suppliers One of the results of the survey is a leadership index which has two primary aims: We use the results to strengthen our employees’ We base our business on responsible motivation and commitment, but we also use them as an important tool in quantifying the behaviour and competences of our managsuppliers. ers. The latest surveys demonstrated a positive development and satisfactory results. We have taken an active stand on Code of Conduct our cooperation with our suppliers, When it comes to high ethical standards, our Code of Conduct requiring that they observe a number of leads the way for employees across the group. Under the Code of Conduct, Solar is committed to comply with current legislation and principles within e.g. environment, work regulations, and to act in an ethical, sustainable and socially environment and social responsibility. responsible way in all our business activities. In our Code of Conduct, we explicitly express our obligation to respect the human rights. Every year, an audit ensures that all entities of Solar Group act in compliance with the Code of Conduct. As a business, we primarily work with approved suppliers, several of whom have also signed up to the Global Compact. The code has been signed by all employees and is accessible on our intranet and through leaflets in all languages used within the Solar also has a clear supplier strategy and product policy, which Solar Group. means that we can vouch for the products from our approved suppliers at any given time. Whistleblower scheme Since 2012, our employees have been able to confidentially report We have taken an active stand on our cooperation with our breaches of our Code of Conduct through an external whistleblower suppliers, requiring that they observe a number of principles scheme. In 2013, the whistleblower scheme was made accessible within e.g. environment, work environment and social responsibility. also to suppliers, customers and other external stakeholders, To make this possible, we have decided to focus our efforts on opening up further opportunity to report any violation of human collaborating with a limited group of responsible suppliers, which rights. The whistleblower portal is available both at our intranet, cover approx. 80% of our purchasing volume in all of our markets. at our website www.solar.eu, and directly at https://solar. whistleblowernetwork.net. The vast majority of our suppliers are required to observe the principles stated in the UN Global Compact. Taking this one step further, we also demand that they require the same thing from their sub-suppliers. Go to content Solar CSR Report 2014 9 4 Environment Also on the distribution side, we are working to reduce the emission of contaminants. Euronorms refer to the permissible emission levels, for both petrol and diesel vehicles, which have been implemented in Europe. The fleet of vehicles which services Solar is continuously monitored and updated to ensure the lowest possible emission of Solar cares about the environment contaminants in connection with the distribution of our products. and sees great potential in energy One of our distributors has managed to move their number of lorries efficiency. up to Euronorm 4 and further up. They no longer have lorries in Euronorm 3 which has been very important for Solar. By the start of 2015 they expect to have no lorries in euronorm 4 – and at least 8 This goes for our customers, but also lorries in the new euronorm 6. for ourselves. Therefore, we have Simple initiatives with great results energy-optimised several of our own In all parts of our organisation, there is a clear focus on constantly reducing our energy consumption. In 2013, we introduced a series of facilities, including an ultramodern green new Blue Energy initiatives in one of our central warehouses. This data centre, which delivers top of the resulted in a reduction of the energy consumption by an additional 8% in the central warehouse and head office. And their systemised class operational reliability in a 245 m2 approach to recycling and waste sorting in the central warehouse energy friendly, low-consumption frame. amounted to 94.78% which keeps them at best practice in the business. Blue Energy App Renewable energy Blue Energy is Solar’s energy efficient concept. With Blue Energy, Solar sees considerable potential in energy efficiency both now and we offer our customers a selection of energy efficient products and in the future. Our knowledge centre, Solar Blue Energy Explorium, services which aim at making energy-efficiency a better business for showcases how various technologies can interact through energyour customers. We provide integrated systems that are key to energy efficient solutions. The Solar Blue Energy Explorium offers inspiration savings and are durable, economical and future-proof as well. to end users as well as contractors, architects, consulting engineers, builders and politicians. Part of the Blue Energy concept is training at the Solar School so that our customers learn about the newest technology and get The Solar Blue Energy Explorium, which is based on renewable smarter when it comes to optimising both existing installations and energy sources, is categorised as an energy class 1 building and, new buildings. therefore, complies with the new legal requirements that come into force in 2015. The latest addition to our Blue Energy concept is the Blue Energy app which was introduced in 2014. The Blue Energy app gives installers Carbon Disclosure Project on the spot access to inspiration for energy efficient solutions so that Solar has established a reporting system for the company’s CO2 they can guide their customers in an eco-friendly direction. The Blue consumption. The system has been rolled out in all of our subsidiaries, Energy app also offers Solar’s loyal customers a Blue Energy and the first CO2 emission measurements have been completed. One Calculator which allows them to screen buildings and calculate of the areas being measured is CO2 emissions generated from the potential savings when they act as Blue Energy Advisor’s towards the direct burning of fossil fuels, i.e. fuel consumption relating to company end users. The Blue Energy Calculator works both within the electrical cars, lorries, etc. Another area that is measured is CO2 emissions from and heating and plumbing areas. The Blue Energy app has already purchased electricity. Also, CO2 emissions in relation to goods had more than 1,000 downloads. distribution are measured. All these measurements are reported to the Carbon Disclosure Project. Solar subsidiaries have obtained a number Find the app and much more information about our Blue Energy of ISO certifications within environmental and quality management. concept here: http://www.solar.dk/BlueEnergy/Blue+Energy We are setting up a process for collecting the correct data, and +App+online. although on the right track, we still have to develop the process. Efforts to reduce emission Solar’s Blue Energy App has had more than 1,000 Our way of doing business changes all the time, and we have changed our behaviour in several ways of working. The use of telepresence meetings instead of physical meetings has become normal work procedure, and therefore we have reduced our travelling activities. Furthermore, we have reduced the use of paper by using follow you printers. And in our buildings, we have set up energy efficient solutions that allow us to reduce purchased electricity and thereby lower the emissions. We have reduced the use of paper by using follow you printers and in our buildings we set up energydownloads efficient solutions that help us reducing purchased electricity and thereby reduce emission. Go to content Solar CSR Report 2014 10 5 Society Relay for life Throughout our subsidiaries, there are several local initiatives supporting both local and global projects. For several years, the employees in Solar have taken an active part in the ‘Relay for life’ project. Relay for life is a global fundraising movement supporting We believe that acting responsibly the battle against cancer. This year, Team Solar: Stronger Together is a natural part of our way of doing took the prize for the largest team in a local relay as they had mobilised 130 employees who ran or walked to support the good business. cause. Apprenticeship Solar has subsidiaries in various We believe that also the future job market requires skilled labour, countries and we like to support good and we acknowledge our role in adding to a skilled workforce. Therefore, Solar supports apprenticeships and other trainee causes – both globally and locally. structures in various countries. 130 employees ran or walked to support the Relay for Life project Go to content Solar CSR Report 2014 11 Corporate Governance Solar aims at transparency. As a listed company Solar A/S wants as much openness and transparency for all our stakeholders as possible. Solar views the recommendations of the Committee on Corporate Solar’s Board of Directors see it as their responsibility to ensure a Governance in Denmark as a valuable tool for ensuring sound competent management, a clear-cut organisation, effective control management, good transparency for shareholders and other and risk management tools, and to lay down and follow up on stakeholders and for efficient risk management. Solar, therefore, strategic targets with due regard for financial opportunities and the basically follows the recommendations relevant to the company. company’s management resources. Solar wishes to maintain an ongoing dialogue with the company’s In our annual report and on our website www.solar.eu, Solar lists shareholders and other stakeholders and to provide as timely and the managerial duties, including board memberships, that the detailed information about the company’s development as possible, Executive Board and individual board members have undertaken. balanced with the necessary consideration for the company’s The annual report also holds information on the number of options competitive situation. held by members of the Executive Board and any changes hereto. Moreover, the annual report states whether any members of the Solar regards shareholders, employees, customers, suppliers, Board of Directors and Executive Board own shares in the compalenders and society in general as important stakeholders. We ny. Any changes in these shareholdings are published on an believe that, in the long term, there are common interests between ongoing basis. the company’s stakeholders. As a result, we wish to focus on these long-term interests that influence the company’s ethics, policies and Our website www.solar.eu includes more information about information practices. corporate governance. Solar wants as much openness and transparency for all stakeholders as possible with due consideration of our competitiveness. The intention is to provide a timely, true and fair view of the company’s position, financial position and development potential and to make this information available to all stakeholders at the same time. Go to content Solar CSR Report 2014 12 Our standards We have developed standards and policies. Solar A/S employs about 3,000 people in 8 countries, primarily in the Northern part of Europe. To act as one company, we need clear standards. Since legal requirements and work cultures differ from country to country, we have developed standards and policies for how we want to do business. UN Global Compact In 2010, Solar implemented a Code of Conduct across the group. Solar has been an active signatory to the UN Global Compact since Under the code, Solar is committed to comply with current 2009. This means that Solar has established a reporting system for legislation and regulations and to act in an ethical, sustainable and activities covered by Global Compact’s 10 principles, which socially responsible way in all its business activities. The ethical encompass human rights, working environment/labour, environment standards have become an integral part of all new employees’ and anti-corruption. By signing up for Global Compact, Solar meets introduction programmes. the reporting requirements of the Danish authorities applicable as of 2009. Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) The Carbon Disclosure Project was launched to accelerate Solar wants to make it clear that we are committed to the UN’s solutions to climate change and water management by putting Global Compact Programme. We see our involvement in the relevant information at the heart of business, policy and investment programme as an asset in relation to customers and suppliers and decisions. In 2010, Solar disclosed our greenhouse gas emissions, a clear advantage when it comes to attracting and retaining water management and climate change strategies for the first time employees. In addition, we wish to be seen as a company in which in response to CDP’s information requests. both Danish and foreign investors can safely invest – also from an ethical standpoint. Go to content Solar CSR Report 2014 13 CDP Environment Unit 2010 2011 2012 2013 Total emissions of greenhouse gasses* Tonnes CO2e* 23,435 25,811 25,175 21,173 ... of which company cars account for (Scope 1)* Tonnes CO2e 3,529 3,970 3,250 5,159 Diesel cars* MWh 11,222 13,093 13,322 12,674 Gasoline cars* MWh 2,022 3,425 1,852 1,438 Ethanol cars* MWh 155 136 529 290 ... of which energy use accounts for (Scope 2)* Tonnes CO2e 7,492 7,462 6,993 6,907 Electricity* MWh 15,209 16,973 18,424 17,453 Heat (district heating, heating oil and gas) MWh 12,711 12,588 13,083 14,056 ... of which transport of goods by lorries accounts for (Scope 3) Tonnes CO2e 12,414 14,379 14,932 9,107 Per full-time employee (Scope 1 & 2)* Tonnes CO2e 3.73 3.19 2.87 3.62 Per € 1 million of revenue (Scope 1 & 2)* Tonnes CO2e 8.16 7.75 6.25 7.88 * There have been changes to the figures in scope 1 and scope 2. Scope 1: The number of kilometres driven in company cars was not assessed correctly in 2012 in DK and SE. Scope 3: External Transportation company in Norway has supplied high and incorrect information regarding kilometres driven in 2011 and 2012. The Solar 8000 SAP project was rolled out in DK during 2013, and as a consequence, the travel activity reduced in 2013 and returned to a more normal level. Key figures – Labour practices Total number of employees 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Total 2,955 3,585 3,564 3,290 3,285 Managers & White collars 81% 84% 85% 84% 83% Blue Collars 19% 16% 15% 16% 17% Age distribution 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Average age 42 42 43 43 44 Seniority 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 < 2 years 16% 15% 21% 15% 16% 2-5 years 31% 18% 21% 23% 21% 5-10 years 18% 39% 23% 26% 26% > 10 years 35% 28% 36% 36% 38% Employee Engagement Survey 2010 2012 Value Creation Index 707 715 Leadership index 70 72 Go to content Solar CSR Report 2014 14 Solar A/S Industrivej Vest 43 6600 Vejen Tel. +45 79 30 00 00 CVR no. 15908416 www.solar.eu http://www.linkedin.com/company/solar-as
