Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 IN THIS REPORT International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Resilient Overview Introduction 01 Our Board and Committees Corporate Governance Report 54 56 P16-21 Awards 02 Report of the Board 58 Performance highlights 03 Nomination Committee Report 62 Where we operate 04 Audit and Risk Committee Report 64 Our investment case 06 Transformation for Growth Chairman’s statement 08 Committee Report 68 Chief Executive Officer’s statement 10 Directors’ Report 69 Our strategy and key performance Directors’ Remuneration Report 76 indicators 12 Resilient FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Our business model 18 Independent auditor’s report 96 Market overview 20 Consolidated income statement 100 Statements of Responsible comprehensive income 100 Creating a sustainable business 24 Balance sheets 101 Responsible Our customers and people 26 Statements of changes in equity 102 Cash flow statements 104 P22-27 Relevant Accounting policies 105 T4G in action 30 Notes to the Financial Statements 111 Capturing digital opportunities 31 Mexico – fulfilling the promise 32 SUPPLEMENTARY Performance INFORMATION Operational review 38 Financial review 45 Shareholder Information 136 Principal risks and uncertainties 49 F or more information visit: www.ipfin.co.uk Relevant P28-37 Cautionary statement The purpose of this report is to provide information to the members of the Company. It has been prepared for, and only for, the members of the Company, as a body, and no other persons. The Company, its directors and employees, agents or advisors do not accept or assume responsibility to any other person to whom this document is shown or into whose hands it may come and any such responsibility or liability is expressly disclaimed. The Annual Report and Financial Statements contains certain forward-looking statements with respect to the operations, performance and financial condition of the Group. By their nature, these statements involve uncertainty since future events and circumstances can cause results and developments to differ materially from those anticipated. The forward-looking statements reflect knowledge and information available at the date of preparation of the Annual Report and Financial Statements and the Company undertakes no obligation to update these forward-looking statements (other than to the extent required by legislation; and the Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority). Nothing in this Annual Report and Financial Statements should be construed as a profit forecast. International Personal Finance plc (‘IPF’). Company number: 6018973. Percentage change figures for all performance measures, other than profit or loss before taxation and earnings per share, unless otherwise stated, are quoted after restating prior year figures at a constant exchange rate (‘CER’) for 2014 in order to present the underlying performance variance. OVERVIEW 1 INTRODUCTION Strategic Report Corporate Governance Our business is built around a resilient business model that delivers sustainable profitability. Financial Statements We meet the needs of our customers by providing small, unsecured, shortterm loans in an inclusive, transparent and responsible way. We are responding to changes in consumer demands by modernising the way we do business to make the most of new opportunities and ensure our offer remains relevant. 2 OVERVIEW International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 AWARDS FTSE4GOOD TOP EMPLOYER AND WORKPLACE AWARDS 2014 The numerous awards we win are testament to the high levels of service we provide and demonstrate that the products we offer are highly We are a responsible lender and this Attracting the best talent and valued and relevant to our is recognised by our inclusion in the having engaged teams is crucial customers. These accolades FTSE4Good index for the seventh year to achieving growth. We were running. Our supersector score ranks recognised with a number of awards also help increase sales, us amongst the world’s best financial in Poland, Hungary and Mexico enhance our reputation and services companies. for providing excellent working generate growth. conditions, trustworthy leadership and development opportunities. EXCELLENCE IN IFSPROSHARE CUSTOMER SERVICE Continually offering a high level of We want our employees to benefit service helps us attract and retain from their contribution to the success good-quality customers. Provident in of the business. Our international Hungary won the Excellence in Have Your Share plan was Customer Service Award 2014 in both commended for the most effective the personal service and call centre communication of an employee categories following mystery shopping share scheme and has attracted sessions and customer interviews. 2,900 employees to date. GOOD CORPORATE CITIZEN GOLDEN PURSE AWARD 2014 In Poland we won the Silver leaf Our business in the Czech Republic award for our sustainability strategy, was named Best Credit Company recognising high levels of corporate 2014 at the Golden Purse Awards. governance, human rights, Voted exclusively by the general behaviour towards employees, the public, it was ranked highest in environment and customer care. respect to customer service, simplicity In Mexico we were recognised as and price. a socially responsible company by the Mexican Centre of Philanthropy for the ninth year running. OVERVIEW 3 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS Strategic Report Our performance • Strong underlying growth of £25.4 million (21.5%) in profit before tax and £123.5M +5% 2,640 +2% exceptional items offset by additional Profit before tax (£M) Customers (’000) new business investment of £9.0 million and weaker FX rates of £11.0 million. 2012 95.1* 2012 2,415 • Profit before tax and exceptional items 2013 118.1* 2013 2,578 increased 5% to £123.5 million. 2014 123.5* 2014 2,640 • Statutory profit before tax £100.2 million. • Continued growth in customers and credit issued, although slowed as Q4 progressed. £1,022.0M +5% £783.2M +13% • New products, channel developments Credit issued (£M) Revenue (£M) and further geographic expansion will contribute to higher levels of growth in 2012 882.1 2012 651.7 2015 and beyond. 2013 1,050.8 2013 746.8 • Digital business established. 2014 1,022.0 2014 783.2 • Target capital ratio reduced and dividend pay-out ratio increased. 38.0p +7% 12.0p +29% EPS (p) Dividend per share (p) 2012 27.6* 2012 7.7 2013 35.5* 2013 9.3 2014 38.0* 2014 12.0 * Excluding exceptional items See page 38 – Operational Review 4 OVERVIEW International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 WHERE WE OPERATE We provide Provident home credit loans in eight markets in Europe and Mexico and offer Finland hapiloans in Poland. The acquisition of MCB Finance in February Estonia 2015 extends our Latvia footprint into Finland, Lithuania Latvia, Estonia, Australia and increases our presence in Lithuania Czech Poland Republic with its Credit24 and Sving brands. Slovakia Hungary Romania Bulgaria Spain Our business today POLAND AND LITHUANIA CZECH REPUBLIC AND HUNGARY SLOVAKIA We delivered good growth in A challenging trading environment Our continued focus on sustainable receivables, controlled costs tightly and new regulations resulted in a growth delivered another strong and achieved a strong profit reduction in customers and credit trading performance, record performance. National coverage issued. Changes have been customer numbers and a 24% was achieved in Lithuania and will implemented to return the business increase in profit to £24 million. support accelerated growth in 2015. to growth. 848,000 360,000 326,000 Customers Customers Customers 9,250 3,990 2,720 Agents Agents Agents £441 £529 £438 Credit issued per customer Credit issued per customer Credit issued per customer £71.0M +14% £24.3M -25% £24.0M +24% Profit before tax (£M) Profit before tax (£M) Profit before tax (£M) 2012 54.9 2012 27.1 2012 12.5 2013 62.3 2013 32.5 2013 19.4 2014 71.0 2014 24.3 2014 24.0 5 HAPILOANS Strategic Report We responded to growth in the digital credit market with the launch of our first digital offer, hapiloans, in Poland in December 2014. MCB FINANCE GROUP PLC In February 2015 we completed our acquisition of MCB Finance – a profitable digital consumer finance business established in 2006. In the coming months we will integrate our hapiloans business into MCB Finance Mexico and commence plans for the rollout of this digital business into our existing markets. Key Home credit Digital Home credit and Digital ROMANIA AND BULGARIA SPAIN MEXICO We delivered a pleasing increase in Our Our business in Mexico continued to profit to £4.9 million and continued management achieve strong growth and we are geographic expansion in Bulgaria. team is on track to deliver our MXN $660 established in profit per customer target in 2015. Madrid and we are awaiting authorisation from the Bank of 320,000 Spain to trade. We are recruiting agents and 786,000 Customers Customers expect to deliver 4,180 9,850 loans to our first customers in the second quarter Agents of 2015. Agents £342 £272 Credit issued per customer Credit issued per customer £4.9M +58% £16.5M +14% Profit before tax (£M) Profit before tax (£M) 2012 4.5 2012 9.2 2013 3.1 2013 14.5 2014 4.9 2014 16.5 6 OVERVIEW International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 OUR INVESTMENT CASE 1 2 We are a leading international RESILIENT EFFECTIVE RISK provider of consumer credit BUSINESS MODEL MANAGEMENT committed to bringing Our home credit business model We put risk management at the sustainable benefits to our is well-established, resilient and centre of our decision-making customers, employees, agents profitable. We know our customer segment well and our small-sum and have strong and effective systems which support the and the communities where loans, with forbearance features delivery of our growth strategy we operate. Our vision is to and optional weekly agent service, are well liked by our within the changing environments in which we operate. The principal make a difference in the customers. Our business model risks we face are assessed is very flexible as a result of the continuously and managed everyday lives of our customers short-term nature of our loan actively against our risk appetite. by offering simple and book. Even during times of economic crisis it has proven We have high standards of governance and the effective personalised financial to be robust and resilient. management of risks and products. opportunities is critical in order to deliver long-term shareholder value and protect our teams, assets and reputation. We have an excellent track record of creating value for our shareholders. We operate in markets where there are good growth opportunities and OUR BUSINESS F UNC TIO consumers are relatively underserved Marketi NS ng by financial services providers. We are also modernising the business tomer Cus reness Loa FUN aw a and launching more products and DIN G n re Deb CUSTOMER J channels to deliver further growth. t/ Eq Trea OUR OU R qu est uit y sur Ca y pit NEY al t scoring Credi Credit CUSTOMER FOCUS en R ev e ax nc ue /T Fina ed ds u iss den Co Divi ll e c n m a ti o n s Loa UE de VAL ice erv ands Sales See page 18 for more information See page 49 for more information 7 Strategic Report 3 4 5 A PEOPLE STRONG PROFITABLE BUSINESS FINANCIAL PROFILE GROWTH BUSINESS Our employees and agents are Our financial strength and clear There are good growth prospects for critical to meeting the needs of funding strategy are fundamental our business in the markets in which our customers and achieving our for us to fulfil our vision and achieve we currently operate and beyond. strategic goals. We are focussed our plans for growth. We have an We are expanding our geographic on attracting and retaining excellent track record of generating footprint and introducing more individuals with strong leadership sustainable, profitable growth. products and channels to attract and management capabilities, We have a well-capitalised balance new customers. In addition, we are developing our talent pipeline to sheet and are committed to also modernising our agent-led create our teams of the future and making it work harder in order business model through our T4G improving employee and agent to optimise the amount of equity programme to create more engagement. Our Board and capital in the business and sustainable and incremental senior management have enhance shareholder returns. profitable growth opportunities. extensive experience of working Growing our digital offering will in international markets together also enable us to serve a wider with home credit and wider range of consumer segments. financial services expertise. 65.2% 47.5% Agent retention (%) Equity to receivables 2012 61.1 2012 57.8% 2013 67.6 2013 50.2% 2014 65.2 2014 47.5% See page 14 for more information See page 45 for more information See page 38 for more information 8 OVERVIEW International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT We have a development strategy that is opening “We have developed into a up new opportunities robust international for growth. business with diversified funding and a strong management team.” Christopher Rodrigues Chairman Dear Shareholder, Delivering our strategy It is our people It is almost three years since we – all 38,000 of In December we announced my launched our Strategy for Growth them – who intention to retire as Chairman of and I’m delighted to see strong deliver these the Company at our 2015 AGM. progress made in opening new successes and As I enter my last few months as markets and delivering new products maintain our Chairman, I can look back on the which will drive growth in 2015 and culture years since we became a public beyond. We have continued to Delivering value company in 2007 with some expand our geographical footprint in satisfaction. We have developed into our existing markets and the planned a robust international business with launch of our Spanish business will diversified funding and a strong be an exciting growth opportunity. management team. We came We have also continued to roll out through the financial crisis with one other product and channel initiatives profit warning but no losses, indeed that we believe will add further to the the robust profit performance of the shareholder returns that we generate business reflects the attractions of from our home credit business. our focussed business model. None of this would be possible without the A particular focus for the Board in business being resilient, responsible 2014 has been to ensure the business and relevant, which forms the theme remains relevant in a fast-changing of this report and the foundation for world where technology drives our continued success. consumer demands and behaviours. We continued to modernise our Looking forward, we have a agent-led business through development strategy that is technology to make the most of the beginning to embed improved opportunities that we face in the processes and enabling technology future. The launch of our online across the organisation and our hapiloans business will allow us to product and market development service a new customer segment plans are opening up new who want a remote, digital loan. I am opportunities for growth. also delighted that we completed our first acquisition in February 2015 9 Strategic Report of MCB Finance for a total S  ee page 31 Board oversight to the change ambitions. You can read more about consideration of £23.8 million. for more programme, and sits on the these initiatives on page 26. MCB Finance is a profitable digital information on Remuneration Committee. MCB Finance As always, the Board would like to consumer finance provider offering I am delighted to welcome Dan extend its thanks to all our credit products to 121,000 active O’Connor as an independent management, employees and retail customers and in the year to non-executive director, who brings with agents for all their hard work and 31 December 2013 issued credit in him over 25 years’ experience in large efforts in 2014. But this year I would excess of €90 million. This acquisition international and financial services like to add a my particular personal fits well with our digital strategy and companies, which will help drive our thanks to all those who have been brings expertise, a proven technical Strategy for Growth. Dan will succeed on the journey with me. Your platform and new geographies to me as Chairman of the Group and commitment has never wavered and our portfolio. of the Nomination Committee at you have been a great team to our AGM on 30 April 2015. work with. 2014 results We delivered another record profit of We are all sorry to see the departure I wish Dan O’Connor every good £123.5 million before tax and of Edyta Kurek. She has brought great fortune as my successor. He has the exceptional items in 2014, and I am insights in running large sales forces experience and the commitment to confident that the progress we have and her knowledge and experience the sector to take the business and made in delivering our strategy, in many of our markets have been our team on to new heights. growth levels will increase in 2015. invaluable. We wish her well in her I look forward to watching the new full-time role and are only sad We are very much focussed on business grow and prosper in the that the demands and geographic delivering value to our shareholders. years ahead. range of her responsibilities mean We have nearly completed a £50 she has had to step down from million share buyback and also our Board. increased our target dividend ratio pay-out rate to 35% of post-tax Our people and values earnings. Subject to shareholder Our values of being respectful, approval, I am pleased to report a responsible and straightforward are final dividend of 7.8 pence per share, Christopher Rodrigues well recognised by our teams and in which will bring the full year dividend Chairman 2014 we worked hard to complement to 12.0 pence per share, an increase these behaviours with greater visibility of 29%. of our Code of Ethics. We introduced a mandatory ethics e-learning test Board changes that was tailored to our business and To help support our growth plans we in November we held a Group-wide have recruited to add to our ethics webcast for employees to experienced and talented team. As reinforce our ethical standards. mentioned in my last report, the appointment of Adrian Gardner to Our commitment to high professional FUTURE OPPORTUNITIES the Board as Chief Financial Officer standards has its rewards. Our in January 2014 not only broadened business practices have once again our senior leadership team but, received plaudits from external importantly, allowed David bodies. In Poland the team was We are modernising our Broadbent, who had previously certified as a top employer. In served as Finance Director, to take on Hungary we were recognised for business and launching the role of Chief Commercial Officer, excellence in customer service and new products to meet leading the modernisation of our in the Czech Republic as a best home credit business. non-bank provider of consumer credit. the changing needs of The Board was particularly pleased Of course it is our people – all 38,000 our customer segment. to welcome Cathryn Riley in February of them – who deliver these 2014 as non-executive director. successes and maintain our culture. Having previously worked in We have continued to invest in our technology leadership roles for major teams and in 2014 we launched two financial and healthcare providers, new learning and development Cathryn has brought invaluable programmes – Aspire and Leading See pages 30 to 37 for more information experience to our transformation for Growth. These programmes will programme. Cathryn chairs the ensure we have high-calibre Transformation for Growth managers with the leadership skills in Committee, which provides detailed place to realise our long-term growth 10 OVERVIEW International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S STATEMENT Our Strategy for Growth Record profit and strategy progress with our move into Spain and we It is our intention 2014 was a busy year for us at IPF. A expect to commence trading during in coming years is as relevant today as it year in which we delivered record the second quarter of 2015. Our drive that we will was when we launched profit, achieved a major debt to improve customer engagement is have an refinancing, launched new products evident in the number of new agent-led it almost three years ago and our first digital loans business. products we launched during the offering and a and in the last twelve We dealt with multiple regulatory year: small business loans; new digital offering months we have made changes and made significant insurance products; and prepaid in most of our progress in building a new cards. Our investment in new markets. significant progress in technology platform to enable us to technology, funded by reducing each of the core provide the services our customers other costs so that we can maintain require in the years ahead. We momentum on profitability, is now elements of the strategy. established a team to open our beginning to be felt. Our customer home credit business in Spain and websites are more user friendly and completed our acquisition of MCB internet-driven loans are up year-onFinance. All of this was achieved year by 8%. We have provided tablet within the context of increasing technology to 1,800 Development competition in our European markets Managers and the feedback is that and regulatory changes in Slovakia there is a significant increase in which resulted in lower-thanproductivity and job satisfaction. expected growth, particularly as we A key pillar of the strategy is ensuring progress through the fourth quarter. that we offer our customers more choice, in terms of the products they Our strategic direction unchanged want and the distribution channels Our Strategy for Growth is as relevant today as when we launched it almost three years ago and in the Progress for growth last twelve months we made significant progress in each of the “Our profit in 2014 was a core elements of the strategy. Our geographic expansion continues new record and we will continue to work the balance sheet harder for the benefit of our shareholders.” Gerard Ryan Chief Executive Officer 11 Strategic Report OUR STRATEGY through which they acquire them. Our focus is to enable growth by 1 2 changing our business from a largely single product, single distributionEXPANDING OUR FOOTPRINT IMPROVING CUSTOMER channel organisation to a provider of ENGAGEMENT consumer finance via multiple We intend to grow in our products, brands and distribution existing markets and new We will provide new products channels. To satisfy the requirements of customers who prefer to deal countries, both organically and more digital channels. online for their financial requirements, and through acquisitions. we launched our new digital business, hapiloans, in December. The acquisition of MCB Finance provides us with an experienced 3 4 management team, a proven digital channel and two new brands. We DEVELOPING A SALES CULTURE EFFECTIVE EXECUTION intend to develop our plans for the rollout of this business in the first half We will use marketing skills to We will invest in technology to of 2015. gain a better understanding provide a better service and Growth and competition of our customers. improve our efficiency. We delivered a record full year profit of £123.5 million before tax and exceptional items with strong underlying profit growth of £25.4 million (21.5%). We continued to increase customer numbers and credit issued but an increasingly competitive environment in our business, we introduced a prepaid exciting development which fits European markets resulted in card so that our loans were no well with our ambitions to appeal lower-than-expected growth, longer delivered in cash and we to broader segments of our target particularly as we progressed changed our customer services markets. We will also continue to through the fourth quarter. We have processes to comply with changes to work the balance sheet harder for put in place a number of actions to arrears collections. This is just one the benefit of our shareholders. reverse this recent slowdown and example of how our business needs expect to deliver higher levels of I would like to end my report by to adapt to ensure that we satisfy customer and credit issued growth in thanking Christopher for his regulators. 2015 by continuing to execute on the guidance, insights and support strategic initiatives launched in 2014. Regulators are trying to minimise the during the three years that we have risk of consumer over-indebtedness worked together. Under his Changing face of regulation and ensure that the customer has stewardship, IPF has developed into In financial services, effective sufficient information that can be a significantly larger and more regulation is an absolute necessity. easily understood about the contract profitable, robust and diversified Regulators in our European markets into which they are agreeing to enter. business, and for that he must take have become increasingly active, Our view is that this is a good thing a good deal of the credit. conducting more reviews and  ee page 20 S and we will continue to work closely introducing new regulations to for more on with regulators in each of our govern the provision of consumer Regulation markets to ensure that our customers finance. This more interventionist can make informed choices that stance can, in many cases, be work for them. attributed to the significant growth of Gerard Ryan payday lending and the negative Looking ahead Chief Executive Officer publicity this has generated. The changes required to deliver our strategy continue to be implemented Sometimes it is the speed with which and we are committed to reversing the new rules are implemented that the recent slowdown in growth in the can cause an issue and at other final weeks of 2014. The introduction times it is the new rule itself. In the of new products, distribution space of five weeks, three new rules channels and brands will create new were introduced in Slovakia. Despite opportunities and MCB Finance is an the upheaval this caused our 12 OVERVIEW International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 OUR STRATEGY AND KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Progressing our strategy Progress in 2014 operations in Madrid in the second Expanding our footprint contributed half of the year. Investment in Spain to 2% growth in customers and the in 2014 was £2.0 million. number of Group agents remained The acquisition of MCB Finance – a stable. fully online business – brings us four We continue to see significant growth new countries as well as greatly EXPANDING OUR 1 FOOTPRINT potential in Mexico and opened four branches in 2014, two of which were increasing our presence in Lithuania. in Mexico City where we now serve Future targets We intend to grow in our around 6,700 customers. At maturity, we are targeting three existing markets and We achieved national coverage in million customers in Mexico, 80,000 customers in Lithuania and 100,000 new countries, both Lithuania and opened nine locations customers in Bulgaria. We plan to in Bulgaria. Across both these markets organically and through we have around 19,000 customers. accelerate customer and credit issued growth during 2015. acquisitions. We announced that our next new We are targeting 400,000 home market will be Spain which, with a credit customers in Spain at maturity. mainland population of 44 million, We expect investment to be around represents another large growth £8 million in 2015 and are targeting opportunity. We appointed our core break-even in 2018. management team which set up KPIs 2,640 30,000 Customers (’000) Agents 2012 2,415 2012 28,500 2013 2,578 2013 30,000 2014 2,640 2014 30,000 Definition The total number of customers across The total number of agents across the Group. the Group. Rationale Customer numbers demonstrate our The number of agents determines scale and reach in our individual how many customers we can serve. markets. While growth of our We motivate and guide agents to customer base is critically important develop their customer portfolios and to our continued success, we will retain quality customers. reject potential new customers and not seek to retain existing customers who contravene our credit policies or have a poor repayment record. 13 Strategic Report Progress in 2014 Poland – our first digital loan offering Broadening our product portfolio is This was complemented by the key to attracting new customers and acquisition of MCB Finance in retaining existing customers. In 2014, February 2015 – a profitable and customer retention further improved experienced digital loans provider. and our customer service score Further information relating to our remained at a high level compared digital offering can be found on to other financial services providers. page 31. We extended our longer-term loan offers in Hungary and Romania, and Future target rolled out preferential pricing in We plan to increase penetration of Romania. We began delivering loans longer-term loans and preferential IMPROVING CUSTOMER 2 ENGAGEMENT on prepaid cards in Slovakia and Mexico, and launched our first pricing. We intend to roll out monthly home credit loans and introduce monthly home credit loans to better loans on prepaid cards in all our We will provide new quality customers in Poland. established European markets in 2015. We will also expand small products and more We are pleased with the business loans for self-employed performance of our insurance digital channels. offering. We have issued nearly 4,000 customers in Poland and Mexico, and roll out our insurance offer in policies in Hungary and more than Hungary. 100,000 customers in Mexico have taken Provident Plus life and medical We see good consumer demand for assistance insurance cover. our digital loans offering. We will integrate our hapiloans business into We established our digital business MCB Finance and commence the with the launch of hapiloans in rollout of this digital business into our existing markets. KPIs 58.4% 49.0 Customer retention (%) Customer service score 2012 55.8 2012 52.9 2013 57.4 2013 50.0 2014 58.4 2014 49.0 Definition The proportion of customers that are The score is a net promoter score being retained for their third or and is based on those customers subsequent loan. who make a clear statement that they would recommend our service to a colleague or friend. Rationale Our ability to retain customers is Excellent customer service drives central to achieving our financial improved and sustained revenue targets and growth ambitions and is growth through existing customers a key indicator of the quality of our and through them becoming customer service. We do not retain advocates of our brand and product. customers who have a poor It is also a key measure of our payment history as it can create a objective to treat customers fairly. continuing impairment risk and runs counter to our responsible lending commitments. 14 OVERVIEW International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 OUR STRATEGY AND KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS continued Progress in 2014 include coaching agents to grow We are developing a sales culture their business. In other markets, sales and investing in our people so they training programmes were delivered have the skill set to meet our growth to Development Managers to support plans. Revenue increased and their motivation of agents to improve employee and agent retention growth opportunities, customer DEVELOPING A SALES CULTURE 3 remained stable in 2014. Excluding the impact of FX, credit issued per retention and recommendation. We will use marketing customer is in line with 2013. Future targets Embedding a sales culture will be skills to gain a better We launched our Leading for Growth integrated into our T4G programme understanding of our programme to our top 150 leaders to drive forward the leadership who are responsible for driving customers. sustainable growth. Senior leaders behaviours required. Group-wide were also engaged in We will also develop the behaviours understanding tactical activities and capability of our agents to relating to sales culture. increase product advocacy, improve customer experience and ensure they All our markets created development are equipped to sell new products. programmes for employees and agents to improve growth opportunities and create a positive working environment. Our ProXXI initiative in Poland progressed to KPIs Employee Agent 81.1% 65.2% £392 Employee and agent retention (%) Credit issued per customer (£) £783.2M Revenue (£M) 2012 80.3 2012 61.1 2012 372 2012 651.7 2013 82.2 2013 421 2013 746.8 2013 67.6 2014 81.1 2014 392 2014 783.2 2014 65.2 Employee Agent Definition The proportion of employees and The value of money loaned to Revenue is income generated from agents who have been working with customers measured over the customer receivables. us for more than 12 months. previous 12 months. Rationale Experienced people help us achieve This is a key driver of profit per Most of our business costs are and sustain strong customer customer. Credit issued per customer relatively fixed. As revenues increase relationships and deliver a high should increase over time and is in line with customer numbers and quality of service, both of which are driven partly by good repayment receivables, developing markets central to achieving good customer behaviour. We adopt a ‘low and move into profitability, and profits and retention. Good retention also helps grow’ strategy and only issue more margins grow rapidly. reduce costs of recruitment and credit to a customer once their training, enabling more investment to creditworthiness is proven. be directed to people development. 15 Strategic Report Progress in 2014 made progress broadening our Our business is well managed. product offering, using credit bureaux Impairment as a percentage of and exploring broker channels. revenue is in our target range of 25% to 30%, credit exceptions remained Future targets stable and we further improved the We will Introduce ProXXI in Lithuania, EFFECTIVE EXECUTION 4 cost-income ratio. As part of T4G, we continued to Bulgaria and Spain in 2015. T4G will support top-line growth and We will invest in implement our ProXXI programme make the business more efficient. We technology to provide which aims to develop a growth expect to invest around £40 million in a better service and focussed, entrepreneurial and T4G capital expenditure between technology-enabled workforce. We 2014 and 2017. The income statement improve our efficiency. introduced tablet technology to impact of this investment in 2015 1,800 Development Managers in to 2017 is expected to be offset by Hungary, Poland, Romania and the other cost savings and benefits from Czech Republic with rollout the programme. We expect T4G will underway in Mexico and Slovakia. deliver an additional £20 million This has reduced paperwork and profit per annum from 2018. created time to develop agents and grow their businesses. We formed a Board committee to oversee the governance of T4G and KPIs 3.0% 28.1% 38.8% Credit exceptions (%) Impairment (%) Cost income (%) 2012 2.1 2012 27.0 2012 39.8 2013 2.3 2013 26.6 2013 39.5 2014 3.0 2014 28.1 2014 38.8 Definition Credit exceptions are recorded in The amount charged as a cost to the Direct expenses of running the those cases where lending has income statement as a result of business, excluding agents’ exceeded one or more credit customers defaulting on contractual commission as a percentage parameters defined in the Group loan payments stated as a of revenue. credit rules. percentage of revenue. A default is classified as the failure to make any weekly payment in full, with the exception of the first four weeks for a new customer in order to allow repayment patterns to be established. Rationale Our credit policies set out our basis Profitability is maximised by optimising The cost-income ratio is useful for for responsible lending. They also set the balance between growth and comparing performance across limits for lending activity which reflect credit quality. This is a good measure markets. The lower the ratio, the more our credit risk appetite. for comparing performance across efficient we are. Our medium-term markets and we aim to maintain this aim is to reduce the cost-income ratio between 25% and 30%. ratio to around 35%. 16 RESILIENT International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 17 Strategic Report 1 Resilient Our home credit business model is wellestablished and offers significant growth opportunities with strong profitability and cash generation. We remain focussed on introducing new products and channels that are valued by our existing customers and are attractive to a new generation of borrowers. In this section Our business model 18 Market overview 20 18 RESILIENT International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 OUR BUSINESS MODEL Our core home credit business model is well-established and How we create value offers continuous, sustainable growth OUR BUSINESS F UNC with good profitability TIO NS Marketi and cash generation. ng tomer Cus reness Loa FUN aw a n DIN re G Deb CUSTOMER J t/ Trea OUR OU est Eq R qu uit y sur Ca y pit NEY al t scoring Credi Credit CUSTOMER Home credit will remain at the core FOCUS of our business. We aim to grow and generate enhanced profit through en increasing our geographic reach, R ev expanding our existing customer e nc ue base, introducing new products and Fina ed channels, and giving good-quality ax u customers the opportunity to borrow /T Co iss den ds ll e c an more. We are also focussed on Divi m a ti o n s Lo achieving greater operational UE de VAL e efficiencies through expansion ervic and reducing costs. s nd Sales a FINANCE AND TREASURY: Strategy for Growth will generate sustainable profitable performance DELIVERING SUSTAINABLE which will, in turn, increase further PROFITABILITY value and returns for our shareholders and enable us to Our home credit model is cash and reinvest in the business. It will also capital generative and we maintain create value in the markets in which a strong balance sheet. We are we operate through employment, tax well-funded and the refinancing of and community support initiatives. our core Eurobond and bank funding in 2014 formed part of our strategy of attracting longer-term funding from diversified sources at lower cost. Successful delivery of our 19 Strategic Report Find out how we are delivering growth in Mexico See page 32 MARKETING: HOME CREDIT £100 repayments in their own home and value the fact that there are AND OUR CUSTOMERS no extra charges for missed or late We offer unsecured, short-term cash loans to people who want to borrow repayments with the home service option. The discipline of the weekly £2,000 small sums and repay weekly in agent visit also helps customers Typical loan size manageable and affordable repay regularly and reduce the risk amounts. Customers can repay by money transfer to a bank account of falling behind on their repayments. A typical customer is underserved 14 or through our optional home service delivered by our network of 30,000 agents. In Mexico, the business by mainstream lenders and may be taking a loan from a financial organisation for the first time. If they months model includes the home service Typical loan term have taken credit before they may for all customers. have used store credit or borrowed The total amount payable comprises from friends and family. They have the loan amount and the charge average to slightly below average for credit and other services, which incomes, are looking to borrow is generally fixed at the outset of the money for a specific purpose and loan. Customers like the convenience do not want to borrow more than of arranging loans and making they need. CREDIT: EFFECTIVE, 59% We are also introducing the use of credit bureaux to improve our RESPONSIBLE LENDING lending decisions. of our customers Responsible lending is at the core of We only lend to customers who can are female our business model. Agents are prove they have a regular, secure rewarded largely on the amount of income and can afford their money they collect rather than what repayments. Our ‘low and grow’ they lend, so it is not in their interest approach to lending ensures new to lend more than their customers customers start with a small loan. can afford to repay. Only when they have demonstrated Credit risk is based around the their ability and willingness to repay relationship between customers and will we offer a larger amount, if they their agent, supported by bespoke require it. application and behavioural scoring systems. SALES AND SERVICE: STRONG PERSONAL RELATIONSHIPS us from most other financial services providers and this is key to customer 82% retention and growth. It helps us of our agents are Understanding our customers and understand our customers’ female the strong personal relationships circumstances and allows agents to between our customers, agents and assess new loan opportunities for Development Managers is at the good quality, profitable customers. core of the business model. Agents Our Development Managers meet are responsible for developing and regularly with their agents to provide maintaining good relationships with support and guidance on growing their customers and growing their their agency. agency. The weekly, face-to-face contact with customers distinguishes 20 RESILIENT International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 MARKET OVERVIEW Understanding our changing markets MARKET OVERVIEW to reschedule their loan and default or penalty fees are not a revenue stream within our home Economic trends service business model; We have a good There was good economic growth in track record of our markets in 2014 and consumer • we do not employ continuous credit markets where we operated payment authority – our home evolving our are growing. GDP forecasts are service loan repayments are products and broadly positive for 2015, with growth collected by an agent at a expected to be similar to 2014 in pre-arranged time that is services to meet new most markets. We continue to monitor convenient for our customer; and regulatory developments in the Eurozone and • agents are paid largely on what requirements. events in the Ukraine to assess the they collect not what they sell, so potential impact that they may have responsible lending is built into our on the macroeconomic environment. business model. Consumer confidence was relatively stable during the year although we In all our European markets, have seen some reduction in some especially in Poland and the Czech of our markets during the latter part Republic, we are also competing of 2014. against growing numbers of other credit providers and banks. In Competition Hungary and Slovakia, there was We are seeing a continued increase increased media activity by banks in competition, particularly in our and this is likely to continue. In European markets. The payday contrast, the competitive lending sector continues to grow and environment in Mexico’s microwe see high-profile TV marketing by finance sector is largely unchanged. these operators in Poland, the Czech The rapid increase in mobile device Republic, Slovakia, Romania and usage is changing the way that Lithuania. Our business is different customers access information and is from payday lending in a number supporting growth in the digital loans of ways: arena where there is a mix of • we do not charge default fees on established and relatively new our home credit service – if we businesses offering remote digital make a poor credit decision we loans. pay the price, not our customer. Only a very small percentage of Regulation our revenue comprises default fees Regulators in our European markets from our money transfer product. have become increasingly active conducting more reviews and • we do not rollover loans – we are introducing new regulations to happy to offer further credit to govern the provision of consumer good customers with a proven finance. Regulatory changes are part track record of repayment. We do of our everyday operations and our not offer credit to customers who experienced market teams maintain need the money to pay off a loan constructive relationships and from us; dialogue with regulators and other • our business model is based on external stakeholders. We have a forbearance – if a customer misses good track record of evolving our a payment we will work with them products and services to meet new 21 Strategic Report GDP growth (%) Regulatory regulatory requirements and it is UOKiK is also reviewing the practices changes are inevitable that we may experience of a number of non-bank consumer Poland part of our some disruption when change credit providers in respect of the 2014 3.3 everyday occurs. We are currently addressing calculation of fees for loan products. 2015 operations and regulatory matters in Slovakia, Poland We continue to believe that these 3.4 Lithuania our experienced and Hungary. matters will not impact the teams maintain economics of our Polish business. 2014 3.0 constructive 2015 3.0 relationships SLOVAKIA Czech Rep. and dialogue HUNGARY A cap on ‘remuneration charges’ 2014 2.3 with regulators became effective on 1 June 2014. In January 2015, The National Bank 2015 2.5 and other In addition, a ban on the delivery of Hungary introduced a limit on the Slovakia external of loans in cash and arrears visits to proportion of an individual’s net 2014 2.4 stakeholders customers’ homes was introduced income that may be spent servicing 2015 which impacted our performance as consumer credit (50% to 60% 2.6 Hungary we evolved alternative practices and depending on income level). We processes that are convenient for our have adapted our product offering 2014 3.4 customers. We amended our product to be compliant with the new 2015 2.5 offer to comply with the remuneration regulations and we are monitoring Romania cap and launched a prepaid card the impact that this change will have 2014 2.8 to deliver loans to customers which on customer appetite for borrowing. 2015 3.0 has been well-received. Bulgaria 2014 1.5 POLAND 2015 1.2 Mexico We await parliamentary approval of the draft proposals published by the 2014 2.2 Ministry of Finance in Poland relating 2015 3.4 to caps on mandatory non-interest Spain charges for credit and default 2014 1.4 charges, and do not currently expect 2015 2.2 the legislation to become effective Source: Citigroup before Q1 2016. Our pricing of mandatory fees falls within the Consumer confidence (%) proposed cap. -5 We also continue to await a date for the court process to begin our -10 appeal against the findings of UOKiK, the Polish Office of Consumer -15 Protection, which in December 2013 stated that the way we calculate APR -20 amounts to a collective infringement of consumer interests and subjected -25 our Polish business to a PLN 12.4 million fine. Q4 13 Q1 14 Q2 14 Q3 14 Q4 14 Mexico CEE Weighted Sources: European Commission & Statistical Agency of Mexico 22 RESPONSIBLE International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 23 Strategic Report 2 Our home credit business is unique in that each customer is visited personally by one of our agents before every loan is granted. This valuable insight, combined with our robust credit management systems, means our loans are transparent, manageable and tailored to our customers’ specific circumstances. In this section Creating a sustainable business 24 Our customers and people 26 24 RESPONSIBLE International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 OUR SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY Creating a sustainable business Corporate sustainability is a core part of our ability to meet ambitious future growth targets. CUSTOMERS The relationship we have with our customers is fundamental to the sustainable success of our business. We know that to maintain an ETHICS ongoing relationship with our customers we need to treat them We believe it is important to fairly. Our business model is oriented Our Hungarian business won ensure that we are acting towards financial inclusion and we Excellence in Customer Service ethically at all times. We provide pride ourselves on helping to finance Award 2014 in both the personal a clear template to employees opportunities for customers who service and call centre categories. through our Code of Ethics and have limited access to credit place a great emphasis on elsewhere. communicating with, and Our product is tailored to the needs We take responsible lending seriously. training, employees through the of our customers; we provide Agent reward is based on use of real-life ethical dilemmas. transparent loans with clear repayments collected and the We are committed to human guidance at the outset on how face-to-face visits with their customers rights and make an annual much the customer will repay. We allow them to make informed communication on progress practise forbearance when a assessment on affordability through our membership of the customer may have temporary supported by credit scoring systems. United Nations Global Compact. difficulty in making a loan repayment 95% and customers who take our home service have the reassurance that they will not incur default charges. employees have completed ethics training PAGE TITLE 25 Strategic Report OUR PEOPLE We employ 8,260 people and safety and are certified against engage with a further 30,000 agents ISO18001 in our businesses in Poland, in order to deliver loans to our the Czech Republic, Slovakia, customers. We are committed to Hungary and Romania. Our attracting and retaining the best remaining businesses are planning people regardless of gender, age, assessments in 2015. religion, race, sexual orientation or disability. We know that each of our employees is vital to making IPF an ethical and sustainable business. We 22% female representation at Board level are focussed on building and in 2014 maintaining a positive culture which places an emphasis on responsible lending, our corporate values and making a difference in the lives of our customers. We manage health and OTHER STAKEHOLDERS 49 As part of running a sustainable business we listen to the views of our Customer service score stakeholders and integrate this 11,500 feedback into our business planning. We have a comprehensive programme of engagement customer views captured including stakeholder roundtables through YouGov research on COMMUNITY around the business as well as financial wellbeing and one-to-one engagement. Our Group inclusion Investing in our local communities roundtable was hosted by the gives us a great platform to engage Institute of Business Ethics in 2014. with employees, customers and local authorities. We place a strategic focus on promoting financial literacy as we believe it is important to support responsible lending through ENVIRONMENT financial education. We are committed to reducing our impact on the natural environment through responsible resource use. We £700,000 have initiatives throughout the invested in local communities in business aimed at saving money 2014, totalling £5 million since 2008 16,700 and streamlining processes through reducing usage in the areas that have the most significant environmental impacts: fuel for volunteering hours donated in our business travel, paper purchased local communities in 2014 and energy. IS014001 Robust Environmental Management System audited internally against ISO14001 -12.3% reduction in scope 1 and 2 carbon emissions per customer in 2014 meaning that we are on track to reach our three-year objective 26 RESPONSIBLE International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 OUR SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY continued Our The research also shows that the vast Our customers people majority of customers surveyed borrow responsibly and take their repayment obligations seriously. The fundamental question of affordability lies at the and people strategy heart of decision-making, which is well-considered. Our approach to home credit lending always requires face-to-face customer contact before making a lending decision and complements our customers’ prudent approach to borrowing. CUSTOMERS AND Key research highlights (%) We are committed to supporting the growth and development of our RESPONSIBLE LENDING people in order to fulfil our growth I think carefully before I borrow and transformation ambitions. We consider our customers and our 92 people to be the most important Our culture, vision and capabilities stakeholders for the sustainable I tend to use credit on impulse clearly define the behaviours and success of our business and, as such, environment that are needed to 17 take a proactive stance with both deliver our Strategy for Growth. We groups to ensure that they are I usually borrow as much are bringing our capabilities to life treated fairly and that we are as the lender will allow me through our Leading for Growth meeting their current and future 37 development programme. People needs. and Organisation Planning ensures I never borrow more than I know our people strategy reflects our We take responsible lending seriously. I can repay without difficulty Strategy for Growth so we are able It is in the interests of both our 82 to identify high potential individuals business and our customers to ensure they do not borrow more than Source: YouGov and to understand how we they can afford to repay. We utilise can enhance and support our face-to-face visits with our customers people further. to allow our agents to make informed CUSTOMERS – IDENTIFYING Our people strategy focusses on assessments on affordability. SUSTAINABLE OPPORTUNITIES creating a culture of high engagement, identifying and Our segmentation research, which nurturing talent and empowering FINANCIAL WELL-BEING involved 3,000 customers and people to be the best they can be; AND INCLUSION 6,000 other consumers, is helping from our senior leaders through to to define their needs so we can our operational teams of We conduct regular research to serve existing customers better and employees and agents. understand our customers; how identify how we can appeal to new they view their economic outlook, consumer segments. their financial holdings, their use of The results suggest that we would credit services and their standard of be better able to serve the needs living. In our latest research we and wants of a certain segment collected the opinions of 11,500 of consumers with a digital product. customers across the business. This led to the launch of hapiloans The majority of respondents say it in Poland. We are ensuring that would be difficult for them to we bring our ethical values, access credit via a mainstream including forbearance and a fair bank or lender; 52% say it would be and transparent pricing structure difficult or impossible and 23% say to this new business. they are not sure. We believe that In the medium term we believe that everyone has the right to access segmentation research will be useful credit if they have the ability and in supporting a number of areas disposition to meet their repayment including product development, obligations. We pride ourselves on people training and development providing access to credit for those and community investment. who are underserved elsewhere. 27 Strategic Report OUR THREE AREAS OF FOCUS: 1. Resourcing for the future • Bringing in new capabilities to resource our T4G programme and a new digital focus. • Achieving greater diversity to reflect our international business and our current and future customer base. • Building a robust and deep talent pipeline to support growth. • Ensuring there is dedicated resource in place for major initiatives. DIVERSITY HUMAN RIGHTS AND ETHICS 2. Development We are committed to employing We are committed to human rights Leading for Growth: A two-year a diverse workforce and are and publish an annual development programme that helps encouraging this diversity through Communication on Progress as part our leaders to understand and role our talent development programmes of our membership of the United model behavioural excellence to as well as through recruitment Nations Global Compact which can drive the sustainable growth of processes. Three out of four be found at www.ipfin.co.uk/ the organisation. participants on our Credit Graduate sustainability. Our values and Code Aspire: A two-year programme Programme are female and we have of Ethics provide a statement of our aimed at accelerating the 34% female representation on our principles in this area and these are progression of those identified as Aspire leadership development communicated to employees, built being in succession for key roles programme. Within our local into our training programmes and in the organisation. management boards we have are integrated into policies, processes 24% female representation and we and mechanisms. We are aware that We are developing a wider resource recruited a number of new female our human rights and ethics pool by introducing specific management board members considerations will evolve as the programmes such as the Credit in 2014. business grows and new products Graduate Programme and Finance Gender split 2014 Female Male are launched so we are establishing Future Leaders Programme. Ethics Working Groups in each of our Board 2 7 businesses on an ongoing basis, 3. Organisation design Senior reporting into the Reputation and We are maximising the benefits managers 79 200 Regulation Committee. We also and opportunities of our T4G All other provide employees with access to a and acquisition programmes by employees* 6,392 4,422 confidential whistle-blowing hotline to ensuring that future technology * includes agents in Hungary ensure that any concerns can be improvements are aligned to a escalated appropriately. new organisational design. 28 RELEVANT International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 29 Strategic Report 3 Relevant Our home credit business model is valued by our customers but as consumers increasingly adopt new technologies and interact with businesses via smart phones and tablets, we are modernising our business to meet changing customer demands and to make the most of future opportunities to build a long-term sustainable business. In this section T4G in action 30 Capturing digital opportunities 31 Mexico – fulfilling the promise 32 30 RELEVANT International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 T4G IN ACTION T4G in action Transformation for Growth (T4G) results indicate this instant decision Looking ahead to 2015 underpins the transformation of our option is appealing to customers who 2015 will be another important year core agent business. It is our strategic are opting for this solution with higher for our T4G programme with further response to customer/agent conversion of online applications to products and channels being rolled demand, regulatory change and leads for agents to progress. Our plan out across markets and benefits increasing competition to make the is to rollout this service to our other starting to come through. business more sustainable and European markets in 2015. The environment in which our provide incremental, profitable business operates will continue to growth. In 2014, we saw increased 2. Broadening the product range evolve but we are confident that momentum and progress made by We are offering more products to the changes that T4G is making our T4G teams as the core attract and retain customers from will deliver real benefits to all architecture for the programme was more consumer segments. We our stakeholders. transformed into key deliverables. launched monthly home credit loans in Poland, which for customers who are paid monthly, suits their lifestyle and financial rhythm. In Slovakia and Mexico we launched prepaid cards to deliver loans. We will launch both product offers in all our established European markets in 2015. We are also evolving our home credit offer to target specific segments of customers so widening its appeal to more people. In Poland and the 1. Becoming a genuine multiCzech Republic we introduced channel business products with specific health and Modernising our systems to become life cover benefits for our senior a multi-channel business will deliver customers. In Poland and Mexico “ “The tablet is a a more technology-enabled approach to serving customers we are testing a small business loan great help in my aimed at self-employed customers. through our agent network. everyday work and is To improve lending quality our credit 3. Modernising the service model also a great decision system, which uses credit Our ProXXI programme – Provident opportunity. It makes bureaux data, was fully implemented in the 21st century – has delivered in Poland and tested in Bulgaria. We tablet technology for Development my work faster, so I will extend this to the Czech Republic, Managers supported by behaviour have more time to Slovakia, Romania and Spain in 2015. and culture change. It provides our Credit bureaux are already integrated teams with data regarding customer support and develop in our credit decision-making in and agent performance, which was my colleagues. It’s Hungary, Mexico and Lithuania. previously only available on paper. great that all This has enabled them to spend more We launched a real-time service on time on coaching and performance customer data is our customer-facing website in Poland giving consumers an instant management of their agents and accessible any time.” reduced non value-add activities. decision in principle as to whether Tamás Orosz Nyíregyháza, they can take a loan with us ahead In Poland, ProXXI also won the 2014 Development Manager of a confirmatory agent visit. Early Project Excellence award. Hungary 31 CAPTURING DIGITAL OPPORTUNITIES Strategic Report Capturing digital MCB FINANCE MCB Finance, which was established opportunities in 2006, operates in five markets: Finland, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and Australia. The business is an experienced, The rapidly growing profitable and successful credit use of mobile devices operation with two brands – Credit24 has created opportunities and Sving. to reach new customers Our first corporate acquisition brings an online loan offering and credit who want to borrow line product together with new digitally and distribution and service channels. We will also benefit from the experienced communicate remotely. management team to accelerate the development of our digital lending business. To date, MCB Finance’s growth has been constrained by its capital structure but as part of our Group, it will benefit from the investment support and funding required to grow the Introducing a digital lending HAPILOANS business. Our plan is to integrate our proposition is one of our key strategic priorities to reach new customer We have created an attractive, online hapiloans business into MCB Finance segments and we have made two proposition for this consumer and commence plans for the rollout significant developments. We segment. Presented as a distinctive, of this digital business in our existing launched our first digital online loan contemporary brand, hapiloans is markets. offer, hapiloans, in Poland and we delivered direct to our customers’ acquired MCB Finance, a profitable bank accounts. New customers can digital consumer finance provider. borrow between 1500PLN and 7500PLN with loan terms over three The focus for our digital business is months to two years, and up to three on a new, separate segment of years for repeat customers. The key customers within our target audience features include: who have distinct needs. Compared to a typical home credit customer, • competitive pricing; these consumers are younger, single • fixed monthly repayments; and want to borrow online. • quick and simple; • rewards for good repayment behaviour; and • payment holidays. 32 RELEVANT International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 MEXICO – FULFILLING THE PROMISE Mexicofulfilling the promise “Personally I’m very excited about the progress we have made in the last couple of years, the business we have created and the future potential for Provident.” Robert Husband Country Manager, Mexico 33 Strategic Report WHY MEXICO? THE MARKET POTENTIAL We entered Mexico in 2003 – the first Mexico is a large country. market outside our core operations Geographically it is roughly the same in Europe. Today we are still asked size as Spain, the UK, France, Italy and the question: why do you have a Germany put together and it has a business in Mexico that is growing population of 112 million. geographically removed from your A large proportion of the population other international businesses? is unbanked and our target market 786,000 The answer is simple. In 2003 we identified a substantial market for equates to more than 60 million people. The opportunity for us Customers becomes even more apparent when short-term credit, built on the you consider that credit to the private foundations of a rapidly growing 2,650 economy and a large proportion of the population that wanted access sector as a percentage of Gross Domestic Product (GDP) is just 30%. Compared to Brazil where it stands at Employees to credit but who were underserved 70%, Chile 100% and the United by mainstream lenders. The situation 9,850 Kingdom at 165% – there is great today is no different, except that potential for our business in Mexico. after eleven years in Mexico, we are now fulfilling the promise of those One of the reasons why the Mexican Agents early years. economy has performed so well over recent years is because its people We have made excellent progress have a strong entrepreneurial spirit. towards our stated target of MXN This is something that we see in our $660 profit per customer in 2015. customers every day. The majority of Profit per customer in 2014 was our customers are women, middleMXN $477 and we now have 786,000 aged and with a limited credit history, customers. We are delighted with the which is similar to our other markets progress made over the last three in Europe. In Mexico, however, many years and excited by the future of our customers are self-employed potential of this market which, at and it is not unusual for our maturity, has the potential to reach customers to be taking out a loan three million customers and double so they can finance their own the Group’s profitability. businesses; buying the things they need to run their market stalls or local businesses selling everything Profit per customer (MXN$) from kitchenware to tortillas to fruit. It is this entrepreneurial spirit, this resilience, which has driven a 2012 283 strong demand for our loans since 2013 416 we launched. 2014 477 With respect to the competitive landscape, there are many credit Customer (’000) providers, but Provident is the only home credit business in Mexico. Compartamos Banco is our nearest 2012 683 competitor delivering group loans 2013 744 where the repayment liability is 2014 shared typically between up to 786 a dozen people. Other prominent Profit before tax (£M) lending businesses include Financiera Independencia, which offers more traditional branch-based 2012 9.2 lending, and Banco Azteca, which specialises in store credit for white 2013 14.5 goods. Pawn shops are also a 2014 16.5 popular choice for customers looking for credit. 34 RELEVANT International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 MEXICO – FULFILLING THE PROMISE continued DELIVERING ON OUR PROMISE 1. LARGER LOANS TO INCREASE To support our growth plans we REVENUE PER CUSTOMER focussed our efforts on adapting Since 2011 we have introduced our European business model to the European-based credit rules which Mexican culture and people as well offer our best customers higher-value as making operational improvements. loans over a longer term, driving up Alongside a raft of changes such as revenue per customer. Today nearly new recruitment and development all our branches operate with these programmes, the introduction of credit rules. We have also introduced credit bureaux and new incentive credit bureaux into our credit scoring programmes, we added an systems, which has filtered goodadditional branch management quality customers coming into the layer into the operational design business and allowed us to offer them which is unique to Mexico. This higher-value loans. These actions CASE STUDY The Branch provides our people with additional together with a focus on managing support, guidance and coaching impairment as a percentage of which was especially critical as the revenue, have resulted in credit sheer size of the country meant issued per customer increasing Matrix our managers were stretched 50% since 2001. geographically. We also changed our leadership style to make it more visible and more culturally aligned 2. DRIVE DOWN AGENT to Mexico. TURNOVER TO IMPROVE To help the Mexican business deliver When the current Mexico business CREDIT QUALITY its business goals, the team strategy was launched in 2011 we introduced a simple operational tool We have worked hard to decrease called the Branch Matrix. This is a had 662,000 customers and agent turnover so as to strengthen scorecard with five key measures that generated a profit per customer of customer relationships and enhance helps our management understand MXN $154 per annum. As we our sales and collections where they are, what ‘good’ looks like progress towards the delivery of MXN performance. We have devised new and how they can move from Bronze $660 profit per customer in 2015, recruitment tools, redesigned our through to a Platinum performance. there are three key drivers that will induction and training programmes The scorecard is aligned to customer help us realise our ambition. and recognised and empowered our profitability and reports on key top performers with segmented performance indicators such as commission studies. As a direct result agent retention, productivity and of these activities, agent turnover has collections performance. This decreased from 74.0% in 2011 to initiative has supported a tangible 41.1% in 2014. This is comparable with performance improvement and it will our European markets and we will continue to drive the business continue to build on this. forward. The Branch Matrix 100 80 60 40 20 0 2011 2014 Platinum Gold Silver Bronze 35 Strategic Report CASE STUDY Mrs Olga Ramos Hernandez turned “Provident seems to me What it to Provident because she needed a short-term loan to help resolve a a very good option. family emergency quickly. With the Payments are means to cash promptly supplied and with an affordable weekly repayment rate, affordable, loans are Olga trusts Provident to deliver. She delivered quickly and also likes the fact that she can the customer service be a always talk to her agent should the need arise and says the customer from my agent is the service is very friendly. Having had a best, very friendly.” Provident great first impression, Olga fully intends to maintain her relationship Olga Ramos Hernandez, with Provident as she makes plans for Customer her family’s future. Customer Agents visit customers in their home providing a convenient and personal service CASE STUDY ProXXI is our way of creating a more “Last Saturday was the Creating a empowered field workforce through technology, behavioural and first time I did not have organisational change. Fostering to come to the Branch coaching a coaching culture is important in Mexico and initial feedback from and the result was very pilot branches in Mexico suggests productive. I was able that its introduction is already making to go out into the field culture a positive contribution. In addition to reducing paperwork, ProXXi has freed early, visiting 14 up the time of our Development customers with an managers so they can focus more effort on developing their business agent. The ProXXI and supporting their agents. initiative has given us the ability to spend more time with our agents and customers, which is really important in our job.” Angélica Martinez, Development Manager 36 RELEVANT International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 MEXICO – FULFILLING THE PROMISE continued REGIONAL GEOGRAPHICAL FOOTPRINT SINCE INCEPTION We launched in Puebla in 43M 2003 and Puebla expanded into Guadalajara in 2005, 25M Monterrey in Guadalajara 2010 and Mexico City in 2013 Monterrey 5M Monterrey Guadalajara 9M Mexico City 82M Puebla Mexico City Total population TARGETING A CUSTOMER BASE OF 3 MILLION We redrew our regions 9M to provide a North platform to expand our business 14M significantly Bajio to reach North three million customers in the long term 12M Occidente 24M Occidente Bajio Mexico City Conurbation Centre 30M South East Mexico City Centre 11M South East 100M Total population 37 Strategic Report 3. INCREASE OUR CUSTOMER We recognise the role that product OUR PEOPLE innovation plays in capturing the full BASE potential of this exciting market. In Having the right people with the 2014 we introduced Provident Plus right skills at all levels across our The third growth driver is to service which offers family life insurance, organisation will be crucial to more customers so we can meet our medical assistance and discounts at realising our growth potential. We stated ambition of delivering three a network of pharmacies – giving our have widened our talent pipeline, million customers at maturity. We will customers additional reassurance put robust succession plans in place, do this by expanding our footprint, when taking out a loan. More than strengthened our leadership culture introducing new products, distribution 100,000 customers have already and introduced sustainable growthand service channels as well as taken advantage of this new product. oriented performance management. developing our people through Following a successful pilot in 2014, We have also recently been ProXXI and other transformation we will commence the rollout of our recognised with a Great Place to and development programmes. prepaid card as a new distribution Work 2014 award. Towards the end of 2013, we opened channel. We also plan to expand Our business is in great shape with our first branch in Mexico City and home credit loans tailored specifically a great team in place. As we move we are now in the process of to the needs of entrepreneurial small through 2015, our focus will be on building our penetration in order business owners. reaching our MXN $660 profit per to service a population in excess customer target and growing our of 20 million. In the long term, we business to deliver future growth. will expand our operations by expanding our branch network so we can service a population in excess of 100 million people. 38 PERFORMANCE International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 OPERATIONAL REVIEW Our Performance of additional new business We have implemented a number investment costs and £11.0 million of actions including customer from adverse FX movements. We also promotions and targeted credit made significant progress against all easing to reverse the recent slower four pillars of our strategy which will growth. This will be underpinned by We delivered a record drive future growth. geographic expansion, and new product and channel developments. full year profit with We delivered a 2% increase in We will also invest in targeted customer numbers to 2.6 million and underlying growth of credit issued growth of 5%. This level marketing campaigns, align incentives to support growth and 21.5%. of growth was lower than expected, improve the productivity of our particularly as we progressed agency force. through the fourth quarter. Our European markets faced a more Strong credit issued growth in challenging trading environment as 2013 and the first half of 2014 competition intensified in Poland and resulted in a 15% increase in the Czech Republic. Whilst we have average net receivables which, in adapted to the challenges faced, turn, generated revenue growth of this increased competition, together 13%. As expected we saw some with the regulatory changes in contraction of revenue yields and Slovakia, have impacted customer anticipate that this will continue in 2014 RESULTS number growth, certain elements 2015 as the proportion of customers of collections behaviour and the taking larger and longer-term loans We delivered a full year profit to growth in credit issued. Impairment and preferentially priced loans £123.5 million before tax and also increased in some of our increases. However, revenue is exceptional items with strong markets and we responded by expected to continue its strong underlying profit growth of £25.4 selectively tightening certain growth trend. million (21.5%) offset by £9.0 million credit settings. The Group results are set out below: Change at 2014 2013 Change Change CER £M £M £M % % Customer numbers (000s) 2,640 2,578 62 2.4 2.4 Credit issued 1,022.0 1,050.8 (28.8) (2.7) 4.7 Average net receivables 760.6 710.0 50.6 7.1 15.2 Revenue 783.2 746.8 36.4 4.9 12.7 Impairment (220.0) (198.6) (21.4) (10.8) (18.8) 563.2 548.2 15.0 2.7 10.5 Finance costs (45.3) (49.0) 3.7 7.6 0.4 Agents’ commission (90.8) (86.1) (4.7) (5.5) (13.4) Other costs (303.6) (295.0) (8.6) (2.9) (9.5) Profit before taxation and exceptional items 123.5 118.1 5.4 4.6 Exceptional items (23.3) 12.4 (35.7) Statutory profit before taxation 100.2 130.5 (30.3) 39 Strategic Report Credit quality is good. At 28.1%, increased by 13% to £90.8 million £0.7 million of unamortised Group impairment as a percentage broadly in line with growth of arrangement fees incurred following of revenue is in line with our 2014 the business. the refinancing of £100 million of half-year result and well within our bank facilities due to mature in target range of 25% to 30%. At the early 2015. half year, we implemented credit SEGMENTAL RESULTS tightening in the Czech Republic, The following table below Slovakia and Romania to reduce demonstrates our underlying OUTLOOK impairment which had increased performance in each of our markets Our immediate focus is now on above our target range. Whilst and highlights the impact of our generating higher levels of customer impairment is slightly above the investment in new businesses and and credit issued growth. We have range in Mexico, we are comfortable weaker FX rates against sterling. implemented a number of growth with this level. Weaker FX rates had a significant focussed actions and these will be We continued to manage costs impact on reported profit in 2014. underpinned by the progress we tightly and our cost-income ratio These currency headwinds have made in 2014 on expanding our improved year-on-year by a further continued into 2015 and current FX geographic footprint, launching new 0.7 percentage points to 38.8% after rates are weaker than the effective products and establishing our digital absorbing £5.5 million of further rates used to translate profits in 2014. business, all of which will support the development costs in our new Following the acquisition of MCB and delivery of higher levels of customer markets of Lithuania and Bulgaria and credit issued growth in 2015 and the launch of hapiloans, the Board is and £3.5 million of start-up costs for beyond. We have already seen the undertaking a review of the reporting Spain and hapiloans. The costearly signs of these actions bearing segments that it will use to assess the income ratio adjusted for the latter fruit. While there is a degree of Group’s performance going forward. two new investments improved to uncertainty in the macroeconomic 38.3%, a reduction of 1.2 percentage As the Group expands, we anticipate reporting by business line (Home outlook, GDP forecasts in our markets points on 2013. Central costs are supportive of growth and the included the MCB Finance Credit and Digital) and by geographic region, and we will market sectors that we operate in acquisition costs of £1.1 million. provide further detail in due course. continue to exhibit attractive growth We have materially lowered the cost opportunities. Overall, we believe that of funding through the Eurobond the business is well placed to make refinancing. Finance costs were in EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS good progress in 2015. line with 2013 with the benefit of the funding costs offset by higher The income statement includes an borrowings to fund receivables exceptional loss of £23.3 million. This growth and acquisitions. Agents’ comprised a £22.6 million premium commission costs, which are based incurred on the buyback of €190.2 largely on collections in order to million (£152.5 million) of existing promote responsible lending, 11.5% Eurobonds due 2015 and Segmental results 2014 Underlying New reported profit business Weaker 2013 profit movement costs FX rates reported £M £M £M £M profit £M Poland-Lithuania 71.0 16.4 (3.8) (3.9) 62.3 Czech-Slovakia 24.3 (4.7) – (3.5) 32.5 Hungary 24.0 6.3 – (1.7) 19.4 Romania-Bulgaria 4.9 5.4 (3.2) (0.4) 3.1 Mexico 16.5 3.5 – (1.5) 14.5 Spain (2.0) – (2.0) – – UK costs (15.2) (1.5) – – (13.7) Profit before taxation* 123.5 25.4 (9.0) (11.0) 118.1 *Before exceptional items 40 PERFORMANCE International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 OPERATIONAL REVIEW continued “We delivered good compared to 2013. We also benefited monthly home credit service, loans by £5.5 million from the sale of to self-employed customers and growth in receivables, non-performing receivables in the enhancing sales through brokers, a controlled costs tightly third quarter. growing sales channel for consumer lending in Poland. In Lithuania, we and achieved a strong We continued to manage costs now have full market infrastructure in profit performance.” tightly, whilst investing in Lithuania place and, using the lessons taken and hapiloans, and delivered a 0.7 from Poland relating to product and David Parkinson Reported profit before tax increased percentage point improvement in channel innovation, we plan to Country 14% to £71.0 million representing a the cost-income ratio to 32.7%. deliver continued growth in Manager strong underlying profit growth of In Lithuania, we achieved national customers and credit issued. £16.4 million, offset by a £3.8 million coverage and are now serving investment in growing our new approximately 7,000 customers. Lithuanian business and developing Nationwide marketing has been hapiloans. In addition, adverse implemented to accelerate customer FX movements of £3.9 million and credit issued growth in 2015. were absorbed. While continuing to invest in Following a strong first half Lithuania, other costs were managed performance, we faced more tightly. Including investment in challenging trading conditions as Lithuania and hapiloans, the levels of competition, particularly for year-on-year cost-income ratio for share of voice from payday lenders, Poland and Lithuania improved by continued to increase. These factors 0.7 percentage points to 32.7%. contributed to a slowdown in growth, particularly as we approached the Outlook Poland and Lithuania year end, and we delivered a 1% Looking ahead, the competitive increase in customers to 848,000 and environment is likely to remain credit issued growth of 3%. Average challenging but we plan to net receivables increased by 12% accelerate growth through generating revenue growth of 10%. increasing product choice and Credit quality in Poland and making it easier for customers to Lithuania is good and we delivered a access our products. This will be 1.2 percentage point improvement in achieved through a combination of annualised impairment as a new product offers and utilising new percentage of revenue to 27.3% distribution channels including a 2014 2013 Change Change Change at £M £M £M % CER % Customer numbers (000s) 848 841 7 0.8 0.8 Credit issued 372.6 380.4 (7.8) (2.1) 3.1 Average net receivables 299.4 282.6 16.8 5.9 11.5 Revenue 308.8 295.7 13.1 4.4 9.9 Impairment (84.2) (84.3) 0.1 0.1 (4.6) 224.6 211.4 13.2 6.2 12.0 Finance costs (18.7) (20.2) 1.5 7.4 2.1 Agents’ commission (33.8) (30.0) (3.8) (12.7) (18.2) Other costs (101.1) (98.9) (2.2) (2.2) (7.0) Profit before taxation 71.0 62.3 8.7 14.0 Poland – home credit 76.6 64.2 12.4 19.3 Poland – hapiloans (1.5) – – – Lithuania (4.1) (1.9) (2.2) (115.8) Profit before taxation 71.0 62.3 8.7 14.0 41 Strategic Report “Our business faced year-on-year to 360,000 and credit issued decreased by 7%. a challenging year This trading environment together in 2014 but we are with a collections performance that working to return the reflected the impact of the regulatory business to growth.” changes in Slovakia resulted in impairment as a percentage of Petr Sastinsky We delivered modest growth in the revenue slightly above our target Country first half of the year but difficult range in the third quarter. Our Manager trading conditions, regulatory programme of credit tightening changes and strong competition in Q4 2014 together with the impacted growth significantly implementation of incentives for field Czech Republic and Slovakia resulting in a reduction in customer managers and agents aligned to numbers and credit issued. This, in collections performance has resulted turn, led to reported profit before tax in impairment as a percentage of decreasing to £24.3 million after revenue stabilising at 30.7%, as absorbing a £3.5 million adverse anticipated, ahead of its expected impact from weaker FX rates. return to within our target range in 2015. In the Czech Republic, competition from other home credit operators, Outlook banks and the emergence of We have a new management team payday lenders intensified in the in place that is working to return the second half of the year whilst business to growth. We are demand for consumer credit responding to the challenging remained flat. In Slovakia, our team trading landscape and will seek were faced with a number of growth in 2015 through the regulatory changes, the disruptive introduction of new products, effects of which proved longer-lived investing in customer promotions, and more extensive than initially targeted marketing and improved anticipated. In addition, we lead management. Our growth implemented selected credit strategy is also being supported by tightening in both markets in Q4. As a continued strong motivation of the result of these constraints on growth, sales force and a focus on improving customer numbers contracted 6% portfolio quality. 2014 2013 Change Change Change at £M £M £M % CER % Customer numbers (000s) 360 381 (21) (5.5) (5.5) Credit issued 195.8 230.2 (34.4) (14.9) (6.9) Average net receivables 158.8 161.7 (2.9) (1.8) 7.7 Revenue 136.9 142.8 (5.9) (4.1) 5.1 Impairment (42.0) (33.8) (8.2) (24.3) (35.9) 94.9 109.0 (14.1) (12.9) (4.4) Finance costs (8.1) (9.5) 1.4 14.7 5.8 Agents’ commission (13.8) (15.4) 1.6 10.4 2.1 Other costs (48.7) (51.6) 2.9 5.6 (2.3) Profit before taxation 24.3 32.5 (8.2) (25.2) 42 PERFORMANCE International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 OPERATIONAL REVIEW continued “We delivered another We will continue our programme of controlled credit easing to capture strong trading profitable growth opportunities performance with a 24% in 2015. increase in profit before Costs have been tightly managed tax to £24.0 million.” and the cost-income ratio improved by a further 2.6 percentage points Botond Szirmak Underlying profit grew by £6.3 million to 34.8% in 2014. Country before the £1.7 million adverse Manager impact of FX rates. Outlook The consumer credit market in During the year we focussed on Hungary is growing and competition sustainable growth in Hungary where from banks is likely to continue. We credit quality is excellent. We have excellent brand awareness in continued to ease credit selectively this market and will invest in TV and and incentivise our field force for online marketing strategies to retain growth. Other highlights included the high consumer awareness levels and introduction of a 100-week product in attract customers. We will also Q1 2014 and the completion of our introduce new products and ProXXI programme roll-out. Together, channels, and rolled out our home these factors resulted in a 6% and personal accident insurance increase in customer numbers to a offer nationwide in January 2015. The record 326,000 which, in turn, drove new payment to income legislation credit issued growth of 10%. in Hungary is likely to have some Revenue growth was slower than impact on business volumes as the average net receivables growth due market advances to the change. We to increased sales of preferential have modified our product offering to pricing offering. be compliant with the new regulations and we are monitoring Our collections performance was the impact that this change will have good and impairment as a on customer appetite for borrowing. percentage of revenue is 20.4%. This is well below our target range of 25% to 30% and indicates the scope to grow our Hungarian business further. 2014 2013 Change Change Change at £M £M £M % CER % Customer numbers (000s) 326 307 19 6.2 6.2 Credit issued 138.7 138.5 0.2 0.1 9.7 Average net receivables 106.5 97.3 9.2 9.5 19.9 101.9 Hungary Revenue 97.6 4.3 4.4 14.2 Impairment (20.8) (18.4) (2.4) (13.0) (26.8) 81.1 79.2 1.9 2.4 11.4 Finance costs (6.7) (7.5) 0.8 10.7 2.9 Agents’ commission (14.9) (15.8) 0.9 5.7 (3.5) Other costs (35.5) (36.5) 1.0 2.7 (5.0) Profit before taxation 24.0 19.4 4.6 23.7 43 Strategic Report “Our business increased Our programme of selective credit tightening together with the impact profit before tax to of the non-performing debt sale £4.9 million including delivered an improvement in impairment as a percentage of £2.7 million generated revenue of 1.2 percentage points from a non-performing since the half year to 31.1%. We will continue to monitor credit settings Viktor Boczán debt sale.” and introduce credit bureaux to Country The underlying profit growth of £5.4 target improved credit quality and Manager million was offset by an additional expect to deliver impairment into our target range of 25% to 30% during £3.2 million investment in the the first half of 2015. development of Bulgaria and a £0.4 million adverse FX impact. In Bulgaria, we continued our geographic expansion in 2014 with Our investment to grow the branch the opening of nine locations and infrastructure in Romania in 2013 we now serve 12,000 customers. together with selective credit easing Investment in 2015 is expected to be and the roll-out of longer-term loans around £3.5 million. delivered strong growth in the first half of the year. While we were Our team managed costs very tightly pleased with the sales growth and, excluding the £3.2 million achieved, it also resulted in investment in Bulgaria, the Romanian Romania and Bulgaria impairment as a percentage of business achieved a significant 5.6 revenue rising above our target percentage point improvement in range of 25% to 30%. We the cost-income ratio to 40.3% implemented selective credit year-on-year. tightening in the second half of the year and this resulted in a softening Outlook of the rate of growth and taking the Customer growth remains at the year as a whole, customer numbers heart of our strategy and will be increased 5% to 320,000 and credit driven by enhanced acquisition issued grew by 8%. The strong channels and further developing the increase in credit issued in 2013 and sales capability of our field force. We the first half of 2014 contributed to will also accelerate growth in very strong growth in average net customers and credit issued in receivables of 23% and a 19% Bulgaria as the business becomes increase in revenue. well-established and reaches national coverage. 2014 2013 Change Change Change at £M £M £M % CER % Customer numbers (000s) 320 305 15 4.9 4.9 Credit issued 107.0 104.8 2.2 2.1 8.1 Average net receivables 70.4 60.8 9.6 15.8 22.9 Revenue 75.3 66.8 8.5 12.7 19.3 Impairment (23.4) (18.9) (4.5) (23.8) (30.7) 51.9 47.9 4.0 8.4 14.8 Finance costs (4.4) (4.8) 0.4 8.3 2.2 Agents’ commission (7.0) (6.8) (0.2) (2.9) (9.4) Other costs (35.6) (33.2) (2.4) (7.2) (12.7) Profit before taxation 4.9 3.1 1.8 58.1 Romania 10.5 5.6 4.9 87.5 Bulgaria (5.6) (2.5) (3.1) (124.0) Profit before taxation 4.9 3.1 1.8 58.1 44 PERFORMANCE International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 OPERATIONAL REVIEW continued “We delivered another contributed to very strong growth in Outlook average net receivables and revenue In 2015, our focus will be on growing good performance and of 28% and 22% respectively. our Mexico business to reach MXN continued on our path $660 profit per customer target. To reach more customers, we plan to to deliver MXN $660 expand further with three branch profit per customer openings, continue growth in Mexico Robert Husband in 2015.” City, and increase the size of our agency force. This will be supported Country Strong growth delivered an increase in by an evolving product suite which Manager profit per customer from MXN $416 in will deepen customer relationships 2013 to MXN $477. In those branches through our Provident Plus insurance which have been open for at least two offer, prepaid cards and a new years, we delivered a 30% increase in Impairment as a percentage of business loan proposition for profit per customer to MXN $543, revenue was slightly above our target self-employed customers. indicating the degree of operating range at 30.9%. We are comfortable leverage that we can obtain from with this level of impairment in Mexico maturing infrastructure. Reported profit given the mix of new and repeat increased 14% to £16.5 million and customers in this growing market. underlying profit grew by £3.5 million before absorbing £1.5 million as a In addition to investment in result of weaker FX rates. geographical expansion, our team in Mexico managed costs well which We increased customer numbers by resulted in a further 1.5 percentage 6% to 786,000 and credit issued by point improvement in the cost16% driven, in part, by further income ratio to 41.0%. Agents’ expansion of our geographic footprint. commission costs increased at a Substantially all our branches in faster rate than revenue reflecting our Mexico have now implemented our strategy of agent segmentation and new credit settings and this paying higher performance-based controlled credit easing together with commission levels to our best offering higher value loans quality agents. 2014 2013 Change Change Change at £M £M £M % CER % Customer numbers (000s) 786 744 42 5.6 5.6 Credit issued 207.8 196.9 10.9 5.5 15.7 Average net receivables 125.4 107.6 17.8 16.5 27.6 Revenue 160.3 143.9 16.4 11.4 21.9 Mexico Impairment (49.6) (43.2) (6.4) (14.8) (25.6) 110.7 100.7 10.0 9.9 20.3 Finance costs (7.2) (7.0) (0.2) (2.9) (12.5) Agents’ commission (21.3) (18.1) (3.2) (17.7) (28.3) Other costs (65.7) (61.1) (4.6) (7.5) (17.3) Profit before taxation 16.5 14.5 2.0 13.8 45 FINANCIAL REVIEW Strategic Report “A key success was refinancing our core Eurobond and securing a 50% reduction in the coupon.” Enhancing shareholder returns Adrian Gardner Chief Financial Officer Good progress made against it allows us to maintain our interest financial objectives cover ratio with higher levels of We delivered underlying profit growth borrowings. The change in capital of 21.5% in 2014 offset by a £9.0 structure has facilitated an million increase in investment in new improvement in shareholder returns businesses and the £11.0 million which has been delivered through impact of weaker FX rates. A key completing 90% of a £50 million success during the year was share buyback programme in the refinancing our core Eurobond year and increasing our target funding and securing a 50% dividend payout ratio from 25% to reduction in the coupon together 35%. As a first step in moving to this with renewing £100 million of bank new target, we are proposing a 29% facilities. This reduction in cost was increase in the full year dividend to the catalyst for reviewing the Group’s 12.0 pence per share, which capital structure and reducing our represents a payout ratio of 32% of target equity to receivables ratio in pre-exceptional post-tax earnings. two stages from 50% to 40% because Key financial measures 2014 2013 Returns Profit before tax (£M)1 123.5 118.1 Statutory profit before tax (£M) 100.2 130.5 Cash generated from operations (£M) 121.7 84.2 Adjusted earnings per share (pence)2 38.0 35.5 Statutory earnings per share (pence) 30.2 39.2 Dividends (pence) 12.0 9.3 Return on equity2 23.6% 22.9% Balance sheet and funding Debt facilities (£M) 650.0 575.8 Headroom on debt funding (£M) 171.7 175.3 Interest cover2 3.7 3.4 Gearing 1.3 1.0 Equity as a percentage of receivables 47.5% 50.2% 1 Before an exceptional loss of £23.3 million in 2014 and an exceptional gain of £12.4 million in 2013. 2 Presented before exceptional items in order to better present the underlying performance of the Group. 46 PERFORMANCE International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 FINANCIAL REVIEW continued 2014 results Cash generated from operations Returns We delivered a good trading Our business model is cash and Our 2014 Group result reflects a performance in 2014 with reported capital generative and the strong combination of our more established pre-tax profit increasing by £5.4 trading performance in 2014 markets in Europe and Mexico, our million (4.6%) to £123.5 million. generated operating cash flows of new markets of Lithuania and Underlying profit increased by £25.4 £121.7 million (2013: £84.2 million). Bulgaria, and start-up costs for Spain million offset by additional new and hapiloans. Our established These operating cash flows funded a business investment of £9.0 million markets have further opportunities £36.3 million increase in net and £11.0 million from weaker FX for growth but have a relatively receivables (2013: £143.1 million) rates. The effective FX rates in our mature margin structure and profile and left £121.7 million of internally markets were weaker in 2014 than in of returns. In 2014 these markets generated funding to support capital 2013 with the largest impacts being generated a pre-tax profit margin of investment, investor returns (including borne in Poland and the Czech 19.5% and return on equity of 29.5%. £45 million of share buybacks) and Republic, which reflects their As our new markets and start-up taxation. contribution to Group profit together businesses mature, we expect them with the weakening of the Polish zloty to have a similar margin structure and the Czech crown in comparison and generate similar returns. The to sterling. profit margin for the Group as a whole in 2014 was 15.8% and our The income statement includes an return on equity was 23.6%. exceptional loss of £23.3 million. This comprised £22.6 million incurred on 2014 2013 Cash generated from operations £M £M the buyback in April 2014 of €190.2 million (£152.5 million at 30 June Cash generated from operations before receivables 2014) of existing 11.5% Eurobonds growth 158.0 227.3 due 2015, and £0.7 million of Receivables growth (36.3) (143.1) unamortised arrangement fees Cash generated from operations 121.7 84.2 incurred following the successful refinancing of £100 million of bank facilities due to mature in early 2015. EPS1 Profit margin ROE2 The loss on the buyback arose Returns (p) (%) (%) because the existing Eurobonds were Established markets 46.6 19.5 29.5 bought back at a premium to par Central costs (4.6) – – value. Lithuania and Bulgaria (3.0) – – The taxation charge for the year on Spain and hapiloans (1.0) – – statutory pre-tax profit was £28.4 Group 38.0 15.8 23.6 million (2013: £34.9 million) which equates to an effective rate of 28.3%. 1 Before exceptional loss of £23.3 million The underlying tax charge on 2 For this purpose, equity has been calculated as 47.5% of receivables pre-exceptional profit was £33.3 million which represents an effective tax rate of 27.0%. The effective tax rate is expected to remain broadly at this level in 2015. The majority of the Group’s net assets are denominated in our operating currencies and, therefore, their sterling value fluctuates with changes in FX rates. In accordance with accounting standards, we have restated the opening foreign currency net assets at the year end exchange rate and this resulted in a £42.3 million foreign exchange movement which has been changed to the foreign exchange reserve. 47 Strategic Report Balance sheet and capital structure Covenant compliance We have a well-funded balance 2014 2013 sheet and strong cover ratios: Gearing* Max 3.75 1.3 1.0 • we are well capitalised with equity Interest cover Min 2 times 3.7 3.4 representing 47.5% of receivables, Net worth* Min £250 million 359.0 392.0 the equivalent of a bank’s Tier 1 Receivables: borrowings Min 1.1:1 1.6 2.0 ratio; * Adjusted for derivative financial instruments and pension liabilities according to covenant definitions. • gearing* has increased from 1.0 times to 1.3 times reflecting the refinancing of the core Eurobond; facilities due to mature in 2015. The We have now further reviewed our • we have a diversified debt funding new facilities mature in the second target capital ratio in the light of our structure, with a mix of bond and half of 2017. new lower cost, longer-term funding bank facilities and a balanced and our overall robust balance sheet We have a robust funding position maturity profile; and position and strong profitability; and with a lower-cost balanced debt we have concluded that it is • we have good cover against all of portfolio including a range of bonds appropriate to further reduce the our core funding covenants. across a number of currencies, target capital ratio to 40%. This means wholesale and retail, with varying that we need to retain a lower level Debt funding and capital structure maturities including significant of capital to fund our growth. We We have a key objective of making long-term funding (£335 million considered carrying out a further the balance sheet work harder, and 2020/21); and a range of bank programme of annual share we are making good progress facilities from a core group of banks buybacks but concluded that against this. The successful with a good strategic and removing additional liquidity from our refinancing initiatives in 2014 have geographic fit. Our business stock was not helpful. We have reduced financial risk and the cost of continues to be strongly cash and decided therefore that it is our external financing. This, in turn, capital generative and as we appropriate to increase the target allows us to lower our target equity to expand our business we expect to dividend pay-out ratio to receivables capital ratio and use a mix of funding sources, approximately 35% of post-tax increase our dividend pay-out ratio including retail and wholesale bond earnings, from the current level of thus enhancing shareholder returns, market funding, building on our 25%. Any actions to reduce the whilst ensuring sufficient capital for successful track record in accessing capital ratio will accommodate the future growth. those markets over the last two years. future capital needs of the business In H1 2014 we successfully refinanced With our interim results in July 2014, for growth. our core Eurobond by completing we announced a target capital ratio the issue of a new €300M 7-year of 45%, with a £50 million share Dividend Eurobond with a coupon of 5.75%, buyback to re-set the ratio over time. As a first step in moving to our new which is half the rate of the existing At December 2014 we had bought target pay-out ratio of 35% of 5-year 11.5% Eurobond issued in back about £45 million of shares, earnings, and subject to shareholder 2010; and also issued a new €40M and the capital ratio was 47.5%. approval, a final dividend of 7.8 4-year Eurobond with a coupon of pence per share will bring the full 4.25%. As part of this refinancing year dividend to 12.0 pence per process, we bought back about 85% share (2013: 9.3 pence per share), of our existing 11.5% Eurobonds due an increase of 29% for the year. The to mature in July 2015. In H2 2014 we full year dividend of 12.0 pence per renewed £100 million of bank share represents a total payment equivalent to approximately 32% of Maturity profile of debt facilities and headroom pre-exceptional post-tax earnings for the full year 2014. The dividend will be Less than One to five Six to seven one year years years Total paid on 8 May 2015 to shareholders £M £M £M £M on the register at the close of Short-term bank facilities 19.7 – – 19.7 business on 10 April 2015. The shares will be marked ex-dividend on 9 April Syndicated and bilateral term 2015. bank facilities 11.1 152.2 – 163.3 Bonds 71.2 61.2 334.6 467.0 650.0 Borrowings 478.3 Headroom 171.7 48 PERFORMANCE International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 FINANCIAL REVIEW continued Treasury risk management We operate a prudent, objective and The Group’s strategy is to have Despite the recent improvement in centrally controlled impairment long-term debt capital at competitive the condition of global financial provisioning system that has the cost for future growth. The Group markets, we think it is prudent to plan following key attributes: maintains good access to those on the basis that we could debt markets, and will use them as • impairment provisions are experience volatility in financial appropriate for the development of assessed on a weekly basis; markets within our planning horizon. the business. The Group’s committed Our Board-approved treasury policies • the trigger for an impairment funding through a combination of which address the principal financial provision is any missed payment or bonds and committed bank facilities, risks that our business faces, aim to portion of payment, even if the combined with its debt strategy and ensure that we are well funded and agent fails to visit a customer, with a successful track record of well hedged, even in difficult external the exception of the first four weeks accessing debt funding markets, is financial market conditions. Our for a new customer to allow sufficient to fund the planned growth policies require us to maintain a repayment patterns to be of our existing operations and new relatively high level of hedging for the established; markets for the foreseeable future. key currency and interest rate risks. Taking these factors into account, the • impairment charges are always Funds are borrowed in the same Board has a reasonable expectation calculated by reference to the currencies as our receivables, that the Group has adequate customer’s original contractual (directly or indirectly). We have fixed resources to continue in operation for repayment schedule, even when around 70% of our currency and the foreseeable future. For this reason an extended repayment schedule interest costs for 2015, and 30% for the Board has adopted the going has been agreed under our 2016. concern basis in preparing these forbearance procedures; Financial Statements. Our policy in respect of bank • customers are categorised into counterparty credit risk, is not to hold arrears stages by reference to their significant amounts of surplus cash. most recent 12 week repayment Our exposure to credit risk on cash or performance; via currency and derivative transactions is limited to single • provision percentages for each A-rated counterparties as a policy arrears stage have been derived minimum, except as expressly using statistical modelling of past Adrian Gardner approved by the Board. We believe customer performance that Chief Financial Officer that the combination of our estimates the amount and timing successful business model, which of cash flows; and was stress-tested during the 2008-9 • separate statistical models are financial crisis, and our strong used for each product in each financial profile combined with our country and these models are prudent funding and hedging reviewed on a regular basis to position, mean that we are well ensure that they reflect current placed to withstand external shocks performance. in financial markets. Going concern Receivables and prudent The Board has reviewed the budget provisioning for the year to 31 December 2015 At the end of 2014, receivables were and the forecasts for the four years to £760.5 million, which is £36.3 million 31 December 2019 which include (5%) higher than 2013 in constant projected profits, cash flows, currency terms and reflects the borrowings and headroom against growth in the business. The average facilities. period of receivables outstanding was 5.6 months (2013: 5.8 months) with 94.9% of year end receivables due within one year (2013: 94.2%). PERFORMANCE 49 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Strategic Report Effective management of risks, challenging external environment, the Board-approved levels of risk uncertainties and opportunities, as particularly from changing regulation appetite. The effectiveness of mentioned in our investment case on and competition. Internally, we have operating these processes is page 6, is critical to our business in embedded our operational monitored by the Audit and Risk order to deliver long-term governance framework, as illustrated Committee, details of which can be shareholder value and protect our on page 57, and improved our risk found on pages 64 to 67. The risks people, assets and reputation. In management process to ensure the facing the business by risk category 2014, we continued to face a business continues to operate within are: Risk category Definition Risks Description MARKET The risk that we cannot • Regulatory* • Compliance with laws identify, respond to, comply and regulations CONDITIONS with or take advantage of • Competition and • Adapting to competitive external market conditions. product proposition* environment • Funding* • Funding availability to meet business needs • Interest rate* • Market volatility • Currency* impacting performance and asset values • Counterparty* • Loss of banking partner • Taxation* • Changes to, or interpretation of, tax legislation • World economic • Adapting to economic environment* conditions STAKEHOLDER The risk that key • Reputation* • Reputational damage stakeholders take a • Customer Service • Maintenance of negative view of the customer service business either as a direct standards result of our actions or inability to effectively manage their perception of the Group. OPERATIONAL The risk of unacceptable • Credit* • Customers fail to repay losses as a result of • Safety* • Harm to our agents/ inadequacies or failures in people our internal core processes, • People* • Quantity/calibre of systems or people people behaviours. • Service disruption and • Recoverability and information security* security of systems and processes • Financial and • Failure of financial performance reporting reporting systems • Technology • Maintenance of effective technology • Business Operations • Effective operation of business model • Fraud • Theft or fraud loss BUSINESS The risk that our earnings • New market and • Growth of our footprint are impacted adversely by acquisition and operations DEVELOPMENT a sub-optimal business • Change Management* • Delivery of strategic strategy or the sub-optimal initiatives implementation of that • Brand • Strength of our customer strategy, both due to brand internal or external factors. * Risks currently considered as the key risks facing the Group by the Risk Advisory Group. 50 PERFORMANCE International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES continued Our risk management process is which require ongoing focus (noted summarised in the Audit and Risk with asterisks in the table on page Committee Report on page 64. As at 49). Nine of these are considered to the year end, the Risk Advisory Group be the principal risks and considered that there are 14 key risks uncertainties facing the Group. Risk Relevance Mitigation Commentary REGULATORY We must ensure we operate We have highly skilled and in compliance with all experienced legal and Lead Responsibility: We suffer losses or fail to applicable legal and public affairs teams at Chief Financial Officer optimise profitable growth regulatory requirements. Group level and in each of A number of legislative and due to a failure to operate our markets. regulatory changes We must keep up to speed in compliance with, or continue to be proposed with regulatory Expert third party advisors effectively anticipate and debated, particularly in developments to ensure we are used where necessary. changes in, all applicable Europe. can remain competitive laws and regulations, or an Strong relationships are and provide value for our The Group is currently external party interpreting maintained with regulators customers. subject to some challenges these in a different way. and other stakeholders. Changes in regulation or over its interpretation of Objective Co-ordinated legal and regulation. See page 20 for differences in interpretation We aim to ensure that public affairs teams, at a further details. can lead to challenge of effective arrangements are Group level and in each our products/practices. We continue to maintain in place to enable us to market, monitor political, comply with legal and legislative and regulatory constructive relationships regulatory obligations and developments. with regulators and opinion take assessed and fully formers. informed commercial risks. COMPETITION In an environment of Regular monitoring of increasing competition and competitors and their Lead Responsibility: AND PRODUCT broadening customer offerings in our markets. Chief Executive Officer PROPOSITION choice (including digital Competitor advertising and Competition continues to offerings), ensuring our increase as noted on page We suffer losses or fail to share of voice monitored. product meets customers’ 20. optimise profitable growth needs is critical to deliver Regular surveys of customer through not responding to growth. views on our product Our Strategy for Growth the competitive offerings. includes ongoing initiatives environment or failing to designed to improve ensure our proposition Product development product offerings, customer meets customer needs. committees established engagement and our across the Group to ability to respond quickly to Objective manage product change meet their needs. We aim to ensure we and introduce new understand competitive products. Process to diversify portfolio threats and deliver underway through customer focussed introduction of hapiloans products to drive growth. and acquisition of MCB Finance. REPUTATION Our reputation can have Group Reputation and an impact on both Regulation Committee. Lead Responsibility: We suffer financial or customer sentiment and Chief Executive Officer Clearly defined corporate reputational damage due the engagement of key Our businesses continue to values and ethical to our methods of stakeholders. achieve awards for ethical standards which are operation, ill-informed and effective operations. communicated throughout comment or malpractice. the organisation. In light of the regulatory Objective challenges being faced External monitoring of We aim to promote a (see page 20), we continue reputation. positive reputation that will to communicate our enable the Group to position to investors and achieve its strategic aims. other key stakeholders. 51 Strategic Report Key Risk environment improving Risk environment remains stable Risk environment worsening Risk Relevance Mitigation Commentary SAFETY A significant element of our Group and market loss business model involves our prevention committees and Lead Responsibility: The risk of personal agents and employees annual safety survey. Chief Commercial Officer accident or assault of our interacting with our We continued to make Bi-annual risk mapping for agents or employees. customers in their homes or progress in our safety each agency including travelling to numerous management systems Objective mitigation planning and locations daily. throughout 2014. We aim to maintain field safety training. adequate arrangements Their safety is paramount to Safety continues to be a Annual self-certification of that reduce the risks to be us and we strive to ensure significant area of focus for safety compliance by as low as is reasonably that our agents and the Group. managers. practicable. employees can carry out their work without risk of Quarterly branch safety harm. meetings. Role-specific training and competence matrix. Safety management systems based on internationally recognised standards. PEOPLE Our Strategy for Growth People and Organisational includes plans to expand Planning process operating Lead Responsibility: Our strategy is impacted our footprint both in existing throughout the Group. Chief Executive Officer due to not having sufficient and new markets. Group-wide personal Our succession and depth and quality of In order to achieve this development review development processes people or being unable to growth we must continue to process and continuous ensure plans to develop key retain key people and treat attract, retain and reward development through tools individuals are in place. them in accordance with the right people. such as 360 feedback and our values and ethical Employee and agent targeted leadership standards. retention was stable in 2014. programmes. Objective Our people strategy Periodic employee and We will have sufficient depth focusses on creating a agent engagement surveys of personnel to ensure we culture of high and improvement plans. can meet our growth engagement, identifying objectives. Group standard employee and nurturing talent and competency framework empowering people as aligned to Strategy for noted on pages 26 and 27. Growth. 52 PERFORMANCE International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES continued Risk Relevance Mitigation Commentary SERVICE DISRUPTION Globally we have 2.6 million Agreed standard operating customers and we record, procedures for handling, Lead Responsibility: AND INFORMATION update and maintain data transmitting and storing Chief Commercial Officer SECURITY for each of them on a information, supported by We have developed weekly basis. formal training management systems We suffer losses or fail to arrangements. The availability of this data, based on ISO standards. optimise profitable growth due to a failure of our and the continued Core head-office based We continue to enhance systems, suppliers or operation of our systems systems operate in a our systems and processes processes, or due to the loss and processes, are essential virtualised environment and to ensure customer and or theft of sensitive to the effective operation of are supported by service business data is as secure information. our business and the level agreements. as practicable and that security of our customer Objective Agreed and tested business any disruption to the information. business is minimised. We aim to maintain continuity plan for all adequate arrangements branches and head office Information security and controls that reduce functions. capability was further the threat of service Business Impact enhanced including disruption and the risk of Assessments performed at implementation of various data loss to as low as is least every two years. technical solutions and reasonably practicable. bolstering of the skills base Group and market level across the Group. governance committees that oversee our service disruption and information security arrangements. TAXATION In a backdrop of increasing Binding rulings or fiscal challenges for most clearances obtained from Lead Responsibility: We suffer additional economies, many authorities where Chief Financial Officer taxation or financial authorities are turning to appropriate. We continue to ensure our penalties associated with corporate taxpayers to interpretation of taxation External advisors used for all failure to comply with tax increase revenues, either legislation is defendable material tax transactions. legislation or adopting an via taxation reforms or through maintaining a interpretation of the law through changes to Qualified and experienced strong governance which cannot be sustained. interpretations of existing tax teams at Group level framework, ensuring each legislation. and in market. mature market and Group Objective We aim to generate employs tax professionals, shareholder value through and taking external advice effective management of where relevant. tax whilst acting as a good Tax audits are currently corporate citizen. being undertaken in Poland and Mexico. See page 113 for further information. 53 Strategic Report Key Risk environment improving Risk environment remains stable Risk environment worsening Risk Relevance Mitigation Commentary CHANGE Our global change Executive Director and programme, T4G, is key to Country Manager level Lead Responsibility: MANAGEMENT delivering our Strategy for prioritisation of key Chief Commercial Officer We suffer losses or fail to Growth. initiatives. Our change programme is optimise profitable growth Effective management of Standard project now in flight and we have due to a failure to manage the initiatives within this management methodology successfully delivered key change in an effective programme is essential. principles defined. initial technologies. manner. We are actively working with Governance structure in Objective place to oversee ongoing our IT partner to help us We aim to effectively change at Group and deliver a more technologymanage the design, market levels. enabled approach to delivery and benefits serving our customers. realisation of major global change initiatives and deliver according to requirements, budgets and timescales. WORLD ECONOMIC Changes in economic Treasury and Credit conditions have a direct Committees review Lead Responsibility: ENVIRONMENT impact on our customers’ economic indicators. Chief Financial Officer We suffer financial loss as a ability to make repayments. There were good Daily monitoring of result of a failure to identify economic, political and macroeconomic conditions and adapt to changing national news briefings. in our markets in 2014 but economic conditions forecasts moderated during adequately. Strong, long-term customer the year. GDP growth relationships inform us of forecasts for 2015 are Objective individual customer positive. We aim to have business circumstances. processes which allow us to Further detail on expected respond to changes in trends can be found on economic conditions and page 21. optimise business performance. Our 2014 Strategic Report, from page 1 to page 53, has been reviewed and approved by the Board on 25 February 2015. Gerard Ryan Chief Executive Officer 54 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 OUR BOARD AND COMMITTEES 1. Christopher Rodrigues CBE Chairman, age 65 N T Christopher joined the Board at the time of demerger in July 2007. Experience and qualifications: Christopher is an experienced public and private sector chair with extensive financial services experience. He was a non-executive 1 2 director of Ladbrokes plc, Chief Executive of Thomas Cook and Bradford and Bingley, board member of the FSA, President and Chief Executive of Visa International and Joint Deputy Chairman of Provident Financial plc. He graduated in Economics and Economic History, has an MBA, was appointed CBE in 2007 and was awarded an Honorary Doctorate in April 2013. 3 4 Other appointments: Christopher is Chairman of VisitBritain, Almeida Theatre Company Limited, The Windsor Leadership Trust, the British Bobsleigh & Skeleton Association Limited and Openwork Holdings Limited. He is on the Council and a Trustee of the National Trust and is an executive committee member of the World Tourism and Travel Council. 5 6 2. Gerard Ryan Chief Executive Officer, age 50 D E N Gerard joined the Board on 17 January 2012. Experience and qualifications: Gerard has over 25 years’ experience in the financial services sector and latterly spent four years with Citigroup where he was CEO for Citi’s consumer finance businesses in the One team Western Europe, Middle East and 7 8 Africa region. He was a director of Citi International plc, Egg plc and Committee membership key Morgan Stanley Smith Barney UK. A Audit and Risk Committee Earlier in his career Gerard was CFO D Disclosure Committee of Garanti Bank, Turkey and CEO of E Executive Committee GE Money Bank, Prague. He is a N Nomination Committee Fellow of the Institute of Chartered R Remuneration Committee Accountants in Ireland. T Transformation for Growth Committee 3. Adrian Gardner Chief Financial Officer, age 52 D E 9 Adrian joined the Board on 2 January 2014. Experience and qualifications: Adrian is a broad-based and experienced Chief Financial Officer and has been CFO of RSM Tenon Group plc, PA 55 Consulting Group Limited and 6. Tony Hales CBE 8. Nicholas Page ProStrakan Group plc and a Senior independent non-executive Independent non-executive director, Managing Director of Lazard LLC. He director, age 66 A N R age 62 A N R graduated in Engineering Science Tony joined the Board at the time of Nicholas joined the Board at the time and is a Fellow of the Institute of demerger in July 2007. of demerger in July 2007. Chartered Accountants in England Experience and qualifications: Tony Experience and qualifications: and Wales. has strong business expertise having Nicholas is an experienced Other appointments: Adrian is a been a chairman and non-executive chairman and non-executive director, non-executive director of Amdocs director in profit and non-profit with expertise in financial, insurance Limited and a member of the sectors. He was Chief Executive of and business services. He was Chief Advisory Council to Worcester Allied Domecq plc, Chairman of Operating Officer of Travelex plc, College, Oxford University. Workspace Group plc and NAAFI, Managing Director of Hambro and a non-executive director of Insurance Services plc, executive 4. David Broadbent Corporate Governance Provident Financial plc, Welsh Water director of Hambros Bank and Joint Chief Commercial Officer, plc, Aston Villa plc, HSBC Bank plc Deputy Chairman of Hambro Group age 46 D E T and Reliance Security Group plc. He Investments. He was a non-executive David joined the Board at the time of graduated in Chemistry. director of MoneyGram International demerger in July 2007. Other appointments: Tony is currently Limited, Collins Stewart Hawkpoint Experience and qualifications: David Chairman of Canal & River Trust, and plc, RSM Tenon Group plc and has over 20 years’ experience in the Greenwich Foundation, a Chairman of C.A.R.E. Europe 1 S.a.r.l. professional and financial services non-executive director of Capital & and C.A.R.E. Europe 2 S.a.r.l. He and has extensive expertise across Regional plc and a board member graduated in Philosophy, Politics and Europe and Latin America. He of The Services Sound and Vision Economics and is a Fellow of the previously held the role of Finance Corporation. He is also a director of Institute of Chartered Accountants in Director of the International Division Welsh National Opera Limited and England and Wales. of Provident Financial plc and IPF chairs Naafi Pension Fund Trustees. Other appointments: Nicholas is and earlier in his career David was a chair of Small World Financial Senior Manager with 7. Richard Moat Services and a member of the PricewaterhouseCoopers. He Independent non-executive director, Enterprise 100, part of the School of graduated in Classics, has an MBA age 60 A R T Entrepreneurship at London Business and is a chartered accountant. School. Richard joined the Board on 1 July 2012. 5. Dan O’Connor 9. Cathryn Riley Experience and qualifications: Independent non-executive director, Independent non-executive director, Richard has more than 20 years’ age 55 N age 52 R T international telecoms experience in Dan joined the Board on 2 January senior management roles. He was Cathryn joined the Board on 12 2015. Deputy Chief Executive and CFO of February 2014. Everything Everywhere Limited, Experience and qualifications: Experience and qualifications: Dan Managing Director of T-Mobile UK Cathryn has over 20 years’ has over 25 years’ experience in Limited and Chief Executive of experience in insurance and large international and financial Orange Romania SA, Orange financial services together with a services companies. He was Denmark A/S and Orange Thailand background in consultancy, airline Chairman of Allied Irish Banks plc Limited and Chair of the ACCA and mining sectors both in UK and from July 2009 to October 2010. In Accountants for Business Global international roles. She was Group addition, Dan spent 10 years as CEO Forum. He holds a Diploma in Chief Operations Officer of Aviva plc, of GE Consumer Finance Europe and Corporate Finance and Accounting chair of Aviva Healthcare UK Ltd, was Senior Vice President of General from London Business School, has a Aviva Global Services and Hill House Electric. During this time he was a Master’s (Honours) degree in Law Hammond, GM of Transformation at non-executive director of one of from St. Catharine’s College, BUPA and a principal consultant in Turkey’s largest banks, Garanti Bank. Cambridge and is a Fellow of the the financial services division at Dan is a fellow of the Institute of Association of Chartered Certified Coopers & Lybrand. She has an MA Chartered Accountants in Ireland Accountants. in Manpower Studies, completed and has a Master’s Degree in Other appointments: Richard is Chief CeDEP’s General Management Accounting. Executive Officer of Eircom Limited, Programme and was a graduate of Other appointments: Dan is a an advisory board member of Tiaxa, the Institute of Personnel/HR non-executive director of CRH plc, Inc Chile and Trustee of the Peter Management. Glanbia plc and Argentum Property Jones Foundation. Other appointments: Cathryn is a HoldCo Limited. non-executive director of The Equitable Life Assurance Society, ACE European Group Ltd and ACE Underwriting Agencies Ltd. 56 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Our entry into Spain is again indicative of our approach to good governance. Following extensive research, the Board announced in July 2014 its decision to establish an “We are driving our operation in Spain. A multi-national team was mobilised to set up the business forward using operation in Madrid. This drew on the the principles of good best expertise from around the Group. As a result, the team is governance that are building a business based from the already rooted deeply outset on our established standards of good governance and Groupwithin our existing wide best practice. business.” I hope that the insights I have given illustrate that, despite a challenging Christopher Rodrigues external environment and a Chairman significant programme of change and expansion, we are driving our Chairman’s introduction business forward using the principles of good governance that are already rooted deeply within our existing Dear Shareholder, customers the excellent service they business. These are explained more expect from an international, fully in the report which follows and Good governance is never more form a firm foundation for our future. customer-oriented organisation. important than during a time of change. Not only is it needed to Solid decision-making processes and ensure that oversight is properly careful oversight have been a core exercised within our existing core part of our existing operations for business, it is an essential premany years. They are at the heart of requisite to underpin the sound our new initiatives too. Taking existing decision-making needed to drive experience and embedding it into forward our new business initiatives our new projects from the outset Christopher Rodrigues and transformational change. simply reflects and builds on the way Chairman we operate. This is particularly true when these activities are taking place against a Take our T4G programme as an backdrop of increased competition example. This is without doubt our and regulatory scrutiny. In 2014, largest and most complex change competition in markets such as initiative to date. It permeates all Poland and the Czech Republic aspects of the organisation. increased, regulatory oversight Recognising the importance and across Europe intensified and at the complexity of the programme, the same time the pace of change Board set up a new sub-committee in within our organisation accelerated. 2014 to provide the appropriate level During the year we announced our of support and oversight. Chaired by entry into the Spanish market and Cathryn Riley, the Committee reports the introduction of our digital directly to the Board giving it the level proposition, hapiloans, in Poland. Our of assurance it requires, and bringing T4G programme gained significant to the T4G programme a wealth of momentum and, in February 2015, experience to help it deliver benefits we completed the acquisition of in both the short and long term. An MCB Finance, a business in the insight into the programme can be digital lending sphere, to drive found on page 30 and I would forward the expansion of our recommend that you take a look at footprint both geographically and this. technologically. At the same time we continued to manage and grow our existing business and deliver to our 57 OUR GOVERNANCE AND OVERSIGHT STRUCTURE Board Transformation Audit and Risk Disclosure Executive Nomination Remuneration for Growth Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Corporate Governance Responsible for setting and communicating the strategy and ensuring the financial plan supports this strategy Risk Advisory Responsible for ensuring the governance, risk and control framework is adequate to respond Group appropriately to key internal and external risk factors. Transformation Country Finance Reputation and Group Loss Steering Management Group Credit Leadership Regulation Prevention Group/Product Team and Committee Team Committee Committee Development Performance Calls Committee Financial Transformation/ Risk Control and Credit Regulation Strategy Management Reporting Implementation CEO CFO CEO CFO CCO Treasury and Information Operational Reputation Loss Prevention Funding Technology CFO CEO CEO CCO CEO Group Governance Committee Key Risk Area Executive Risk Owner 58 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 REPORT OF THE BOARD Achievements for 2014 “Effective governance • Strengthening of the Board remains our through the appointment of cornerstone, providing Adrian Gardner as Chief Financial Officer in January 2014 oversight to the Group’s and Cathryn Riley as existing businesses and independent non-executive director in February 2014. transformation • Recruitment of Dan O’Connor as programme.” Chairman-elect effective from 2 January 2015. • Approval of Eurobond refinancing. • Establishment of the Transformation for Growth Christopher Rodrigues Chief Commercial Officer. In 2014, the Committee. Executive Committee met frequently Chairman to process a wide range of matters, • Approval of entry into Spain with often of a technical nature. The an anticipated launch in the Disclosure Committee meets as second quarter of 2015. required to consider whether an • Approval of the launch of the announcement to the London and OVERVIEW Warsaw Stock Exchanges is required. Company’s digital lending proposition, hapiloans, which It comprises the Chief Executive Our Board in 2014 The Board leads and provides issued loans for the first time in strategic direction to the Company. Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the December 2014. Our strategy and business model Chief Commercial Officer and the can be found on pages 12 to 15 and Company Secretary and met seven • Approval and subsequent 18 to 19. There is a formal schedule of times in 2014. acquisition of MCB Finance. matters reserved specifically to the The governance framework extends Board for decision. An overview of to operational activities with decision2015 objectives these can be found on page 60. making and oversight responsibilities • Focus on growth through: delegated to a series of Group • monitoring progress of new Other matters are delegated governance committees, as shown in product developments specifically to six principal Board ‘Our governance and oversight including monthly home credit Committees. The Chairman of each structure’ on page 57. loans and small business loans; Committee briefs the Board at each • reviewing investment cases for meeting on the principal items that Board members new markets and potential were discussed, decisions made • Christopher Rodrigues – Chairman acquisition opportunities; and key issues. Their terms of • Dan O’Connor – Chairman-elect • continuing focus on reference are available on our (from 2 January 2015) development and leadership, website (www.ipfin.co.uk) and • Gerard Ryan including Board succession from the Company Secretary. • Adrian Gardner (from 2 January planning; and Read about the work of: 2014) • monitoring the integration of the Nomination Committee on • David Broadbent MCB Finance. pages 62 to 63 • Tony Hales • Build sustainability through: the Audit and Risk Committee on • Edyta Kurek (until 16 January 2015) • ensuring a continued focus on pages 64 to 67 • Richard Moat regulatory risk and the the Transformation for Growth • Nicholas Page management thereof; Committee on page 68 • Cathryn Riley (from 12 February • monitoring progress of the T4G the Remuneration Committee in the 2014) programme; and Directors’ Remuneration Report on • keeping abreast of pages 76 to 95 ACTIVITIES IN 2014 developments in the competitive environment. The day-to-day running of the Meetings business is delegated to the The Board held eight scheduled Executive Committee, which meetings in 2014, three ad hoc comprises the Chief Executive Officer, meetings and one strategy retreat. the Chief Financial Officer and the 59 Matters considered by the Board in 2014 January • Functional presentation: Product development. • Adrian Gardner’s Board committee membership approved. • Board diversity policy approved. • Standing agenda items.1 February • 2013 Group results, Annual Report and Financial Statements and 2014 AGM notice reviewed. • Final dividend recommendation agreed. • Update on Target Operating Model and T4G programme. • Business update: Romania and Bulgaria. • Refinancing of the existing €225M Eurobond programme approved in principle. • Cathryn Riley’s Board Committee membership approved. • Approval of the Audit and Risk Committee’s recommendation that the 2013 Annual Report and Financial Statements, taken as a whole, were fair, balanced and understandable and provided the information necessary for shareholders to assess performance, business model and strategy. Corporate Governance • Recommendation to re-appoint Deloitte as the auditor of the Company approved. • Standing agenda items.1 March2 • Euro Medium Term Note Programme update and Eurobond refinancing approved. April • Eurobond refinancing and the Company’s capital structure discussed. • Reduction in the target equity-to-receivables ratio from 50% to 45% by end of 2014 approved. • £50 million share buyback approved subject to approval of the appropriate resolution at the 2014 AGM. • New market update: Spanish business case reviewed and approved in principle. • T4G update: strategic business case approved in principle; establishment of Board Transformation for Growth Committee agreed. • Business update: Poland and Lithuania. • Q1 2014 Interim Management Statement reviewed and approved. • Advisory reports from proxy voting agencies reviewed. • The issue of Matching Awards under the international all-employee share scheme approved, subject to approval of the Have Your Share Plan at the Company’s 2014 AGM. • Standing agenda items.1 June • Board strategy retreat. • Mobilisation phase in Spain discussed. • Functional update: Credit. • New market and acquisitions update. • T4G update: product development release budget agreed. • Business update: Hungary. • Standing agenda items.1 July • Approval of refinancing of 2010 Eurobond; sign off delegated to Executive Committee. • New market and acquisitions update. • Functional update: Corporate affairs and presentation on the legal and regulatory landscape. • Group results for the first six months and the 2014 half year financial report reviewed. • Declaration of interim dividend approved. • Changes to the SAYE rules approved. • Issue of invitations to employees under the SAYE Scheme approved. • Standing agenda items.1 September • New market and acquisitions update. • Investor relations update. • Standing agenda items.1 October • Business update: Czech Republic/Slovakia. • Update on People and Organisation Planning. • Q3 2014 Interim Management Statement reviewed and approved. • Standing agenda items.1 November2 • Update regarding possible acquisition of MCB Finance. December2 • Approval of the acquisition of MCB Finance. December • Budget and strategy plans agreed. • Appointment of Dan O’Connor as a non-executive director and Chairman-elect approved. • Standing agenda items.1 1 Standing agenda items: Reports from Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Commercial Officer, Committee Chairmen and Company Secretary; a review of performance against KPIs; review of competition and regulation. 2 Ad hoc meeting. 60 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 REPORT OF THE BOARD continued MATTERS RESERVED FOR THE BOARD DECISION BY THE BOARD The Board’s key responsibilities are set Division of responsibilities of our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and out in a schedule of matters reserved Senior Independent Director to it for approval. These include: The Board has approved a statement of the division of responsibilities between the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer and the Senior • Group strategy and risk appetite; Independent Director. • approval of results; The role of our Chairman • approval of budgets and capital The Chairman is responsible for chairing Board meetings and monitoring expenditure; their effectiveness, and chairing the AGM and Nomination Committee. • approval of dividends; The role of our Chief Executive Officer • approval of major transactions; The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for developing and implementing • treasury policies; the strategy agreed by the Board and for all executive matters (apart from those reserved to the Board and the Board Committees) and delegates • approval and amendment of a accordingly. prospectus and approval and issuance of bonds and notes; The role of our Senior Independent Director • Board appointments and The Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders if they have appointments to Board concerns, which contact through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Committees; Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer has failed to address or for whom such contact is inappropriate. The Senior Independent Director will • health and safety and review the performance of the Chairman on an annual basis. In carrying environmental policy; out this review the Senior Independent Director will consult with other • corporate governance; Board members and consider the relationship between the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer. • annual review of the effectiveness of the Group’s system of internal Non-executive directors control; The independent non-executive directors have been appointed for a fixed • approval of directors’ conflicts of period of three years, subject to re-election by shareholders. The initial interest; and period may be extended for a further period. Their letters of appointment may be inspected at the Company’s registered office and are available • certain credit policies, particularly from the Company Secretary. Each of the non-executive directors has been in respect of repeat lending, formally determined by the Board to be independent for the purposes of provisioning, write-offs and material the UK Corporate Governance Code (the ‘Code’). changes to product structure and pricing. Executive directors Executive directors are responsible for managing the operations of the Meetings Group on a day-to-day basis, as well as their own specific areas of A series of scheduled meetings and responsibility. a strategy retreat are held each year. A detailed agenda and Board pack are made available electronically to Act 2006, the directors have adopted a matter for the Board. The Company each director a week before each a policy on conflicts of interest and Secretary is secretary to the Board meeting so he/she has sufficient time established a register of conflicts. The Committees (other than the to review them. Additional meetings directors consider that these Disclosure Committee of which the are convened if required and there is procedures have operated effectively Assistant Company Secretary is contact between meetings where in 2014 and up to 25 February 2015. Secretary). Any director may take necessary. The Chairman has held a independent professional advice at number of sessions with the nonCompany Secretary and the Company’s expense relating to executive directors without executive independent advice the performance of his/her duties. directors present, and the nonexecutive directors have met without All directors are able to consult with the Chairman. the Company Secretary, who also Training updates the Board on a regular basis The Company’s policy is to provide on developments relating to appropriate training to directors. Conflicts of interest governance. The appointment and Training takes into account each To take account of the Companies removal of the Company Secretary is individual’s qualifications and 61 experience and includes governance practice all other The Company has in place environmental, social and directors, except Christopher appropriate Directors’ and Officers’ governance training as appropriate. Rodrigues, will offer themselves for liability insurance. Training also covers generic and re-election again this year. Details of specific business topics and in 2014 the directors, including the reasons included presentations to the Board for proposing their election/reBUDGETARY PROCESS AND on subjects such as product election, are contained in the FINANCIAL REPORTING development, credit and corporate Chairman’s letter to shareholders affairs. The Board also visited the which will accompany the Notice of The Board approves a detailed business in Poland in July and AGM. budget each year (usually in received updates from the Polish December) for the year ahead. management team. Policy on Board appointments Actual performance against budget The Board has approved a policy on is monitored in detail regularly and In addition to regular executive reported monthly for review by the other directorships; any request for Corporate Governance director visits, individual nondirectors. The Board requires its an exception to this is considered on executive directors visited other subsidiaries to operate in its merits. An executive director will be markets during the year, including accordance with corporate policies. permitted to hold one non-executive Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Mexico, directorship (and to retain the fees The Financial Statements for the Poland and Romania. A from that appointment) provided Group are prepared by aggregating comprehensive, individually tailored that the Board considers this will not submissions from each statutory induction plan is prepared for new affect his/her executive entity. Prior to submission to the directors. responsibilities adversely. Adrian Group reporting team, each country Gardner, for example, is a nonsubmission is reviewed and approved Performance evaluation executive director of Amdocs Limited. by the Finance Director of the In 2014, the Board carried out an internal evaluation of its performance The Company’s policy is that the relevant country. When the with directors completing a Chairman and the non-executive submissions have been aggregated questionnaire, the results of which directors should have sufficient time and consolidation adjustments were collated in early 2015 by the to fulfil their duties, including chairing made to remove intercompany Company Secretary. Following a a Board Committee as appropriate. A transactions, the consolidated result review of the results, it was agreed to non-executive director should not is reviewed by the Group Head of focus more in 2015 on strategic hold more than four other material Finance and the Chief Financial issues and Board diversity, skills and non-executive directorships. If he/she Officer. The results are compared to succession planning. holds an executive role in another the budget and prior-year figures FTSE 350 company, he/she should and any significant variances are Under the Code, evaluation should clarified. Checklists are completed by not hold more than two other be facilitated externally at least every each statutory entity and by the material non-executive directorships. three years. Evaluation was last Group reporting team to confirm that facilitated externally in 2013 by all required controls, such as key Directors’ indemnities and insurance Andrew Jackson of Stanton Marris, reconciliations, have been performed The Company’s Articles of who has no other connection with and reviewed. Association permit it to indemnify the Company. Although the directors of the Company (or of any The Financial Statements, which are evaluation was not facilitated associated company) in agreed directly to the consolidation externally in 2014, the Company accordance with the Companies Act of the Group results, are prepared by remains in compliance with the 2006. However, no qualifying the Group reporting team and Code. indemnity provisions were in force in reviewed by the Group Head of 2014 or at any time up to 25 February Finance and the Chief Financial Election and re-election of directors 2015 other than under the Officer. The supporting notes to the Under the Company’s Articles of International Personal Finance plc Financial Statements are prepared Association, each director must offer Pension Scheme (‘the Pension by aggregating submission himself/herself for re-election every Scheme’). Under the deed templates from each market and three years. After nine years a establishing the Pension Scheme, the combining these with central director, other than an executive Company grants an indemnity to the information where applicable. The director, must offer himself/herself for trustee and the directors of the Financial Statements and all re-election annually. A director who is trustee. Two of these directors are supporting notes are reviewed and appointed initially by the Board is directors of subsidiaries of the approved by the Group Head of subject to election at the next AGM. Company. Finance and the Chief Financial Consequently, Dan O’Connor will stand for election in 2015. In Officer. These are signed by the Chief accordance with best corporate Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer. 62 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT of having at least two female directors on the Board by the end of 2014. However, as Edyta Kurek left the Board in early 2015, this number has “New members joining reduced. The Board intends to meet the Board in 2014 its diversity commitments in 2015. brought a wealth of experience to support ACTIVITIES IN 2014 the Group as it moves Meetings forward with its growth The Committee met four times during the year. and transformation programmes.” Board appointments In January 2014, having carried out a recruitment process in conjunction Christopher Rodrigues with MWM Consulting, the Chairman Committee recommended the appointment of Cathryn Riley to the Board as a non-executive director. Cathryn then joined the Board in February, following on from Adrian Committee members • reviewing the size, structure and Gardner taking up his position as Christopher Rodrigues – Chairman composition of the Board; and Chief Financial Officer in January. Tony Hales • succession planning. These new members joining the Edyta Kurek (until 16 January 2015) Board in 2014 brought a wealth of Dan O’Connor (from 28 January 2015) Composition experience to support the Group as Shaping the Board The Committee must have at least it moves forward with its growth and Nicholas Page three members, the majority being transformation programmes. Gerard Ryan independent non-executive directors. A sub-committee of the Nomination Members can also include the Committee, led by the Senior Chairman and the Chief Executive Independent Director, was also Achievements for 2014 Officer. Three members form a formed in 2014 to oversee the • Three new directors were quorum. recruitment of a future Chairman. recruited to the Board, broadening its expertise. Russell Reynolds were appointed to Boardroom diversity assist and this resulted in the • Succession planning for a new The Board diversity policy was appointment of Dan O’Connor on 2 Chairman completed. approved in January 2014. January 2015 as non-executive In reviewing Board composition, the director and Chairman-elect. 2015 objectives Committee considers the benefits of Christopher Rodrigues did not • Search for new non-executive all aspects of diversity, including participate in the selection and directors to be undertaken. differences in skills, regional and appointment process. • Board diversity commitments to industry experience, race and MWM Consulting and Russell be achieved once again. gender. Currently the Company Reynolds have no other connection considers candidates as nonwith the Company. executives from a wide pool OVERVIEW including those with little or no listed Board composition and succession company board experience and The Committee keeps under review Role reviews long lists of candidates, 50% the size, structure and composition of The Committee’s responsibilities of which it aims to ensure are the Board. As can be seen from the include: women. chart on page 63, 44 per cent of the • assisting the Board in selecting The Company only engages directors have been in place for six and appointing any new director executive search firms who have years or more. Whilst this brings a and recommending their signed up to the voluntary Code of wealth of experience, thoughts appointment to the Board; Conduct on gender diversity and inevitably turn to the introduction of best practice. At the end of 2014, two new non-executive directors in the Board members (22%) were women. future. As a result, the Committee The Committee therefore met its aim considered Board-level succession 63 planning throughout the year. Role Tenure of directors Further activities specifications and profiles were The tenure of all current directors is At the beginning of 2014, the agreed. Potential search consultants shown below. Committee also reviewed and were discussed to undertake a approved Board and Committee preliminary search for suitable Tenure of current directors meeting attendance for 2013 for non-executive director candidates, inclusion in the 2013 Annual Report including now a replacement for and Financial Statements. Edyta Kurek. 3 Attendance in 2014 is shown below. 4 Election and re-election of directors Directors are appointed to the Board following a robust selection process and on the Committee’s 1 recommendation. The performance 1 Corporate Governance of each Director is assessed on an annual basis as part of the Board 6 years and over evaluation process. In addition, a 3 to 5 years review of the independence of each 2 to 3 years non-executive director is undertaken Less than 2 years and consideration given to the attendance of each director at Board and Committee meetings. Based on these reviews the Board recommends the re-election of all directors who are standing for re-election at the 2015 AGM. Attendance at meetings of the Board and Board Committees Audit and Risk Nomination Remuneration Transformation Director Board Committee Committee Committee for Growth1 Christopher Rodrigues2 11 out of 11 3 out of 4 5 out of 5 David Broadbent 11 out of 11 5 out of 5 Adrian Gardner3 11 out of 11 Tony Hales4 10 out of 11 6 out of 6 4 out of 4 3 out of 3 Edyta Kurek5 10 out of 11 3 out of 4 3 out of 5 Richard Moat 11 out of 11 6 out of 6 3 out of 3 5 out of 5 Nicholas Page6 9 out of 11 6 out of 6 4 out of 4 3 out of 3 Cathryn Riley7 10 out of 10 2 out of 2 5 out of 5 Gerard Ryan 11 out of 11 4 out of 4 1 The Transformation for Growth Committee was created on 26 May 2014. 2 Christopher Rodrigues did not attend one Nomination Committee meeting as this related to the search for his successor. 3 Adrian Gardner joined the Board on 2 January 2014. 4 Tony Hales missed one ad hoc Board meeting (March) as he was on holiday and unable to dial in. He had, however, expressed support for the proposals under discussion by email in advance. 5 Edyta Kurek missed one Board meeting (October) due to a conflicting business appointment; one Nomination Committee meeting (February) due to travel complications; and two Transformation for Growth Committee meetings: due to her flight from Poland being cancelled (June); and due to other business commitments (December). Edyta Kurek stepped down from the Board on 16 January 2015 following a change in her role and new responsibilities in her executive capacity at Herbalife. 6 Nicholas Page was unable to dial in to two ad hoc Board meetings (March and November). 7 Cathryn Riley joined the Board on 12 February 2014 and was appointed to the Remuneration Committee on 20 February 2014. Christopher Rodrigues  ee page 76 for more details on the S Chairman membership and work of the Remuneration Committee 64 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REPORT OVERVIEW Membership Our Audit and Risk Committee comprises three non-executive “Our revised governance directors and is chaired by Nicholas and oversight structure Page, a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England was fully implemented and Wales, and who has relevant in 2014.” and recent experience for the purposes of the Code. Meetings related to risk are normally attended by all members of the Board. The external auditor, Deloitte LLP, and the Chief Financial Officer together with the Head of Compliance and Risk Nicholas Page are invited to attend all meetings. Chairman Periodically, senior management from across the Group are invited to present on specific aspects of the business. The Committee also meets from time Committee members to time with the external auditor, Nicholas Page – Chairman without an executive director or Tony Hales member of the Group’s senior Richard Moat management being present, to discuss the external audit process. The Head of Compliance and Risk Effective oversight reports directly to the Chairman of the Committee, which ensures his Achievements for 2014 2015 objectives independence from the • Implementation and embedding • Review effectiveness of new management and operation of the of Operational Governance market entry and business business. Framework. acquisition integration processes. Committee responsibilities • Introduction of Common • Monitoring effectiveness of The objective of the Committee is to Minimum Risk Control Standards management of the oversee the Group’s financial across all markets. transformation programme. reporting, internal controls and risk • Continued training on areas of • Continued development of the management procedures together business significance. assurance processes. with the work performed by the external auditor and internal audit • Areas reviewed: • Review organisational monitoring function. The main responsibilities are • information security; of the competitive environment. as follows: • business continuity; • Review the risks presented by • keep under review the • T4G controls and monitoring; organisational changes effectiveness of the Group’s system and stemming from the T4G of internal control, including • PROXXI implementation. programme. operational and compliance • Review systems for the prevention controls and risk management; and detection of fraud. • monitor the integrity of the • Review the approach to current Financial Statements of the and potential regulatory Company and the formal changes. announcements relating to the Company’s financial performance, reviewing significant financial reporting judgements contained in them; 65 • provide advice to the Board on • disclosures and presentation; and treatment of transactions is not whether the Annual Report and always certain and, therefore, • whether the Annual Report and Financial Statements, taken as a management is required to make Financial Statements are fair, whole, are fair, balanced and judgements, based on internal balanced and understandable. understandable and provide the expertise and external advice, on information necessary for In carrying this out, the Committee the methodology to be adopted shareholders to assess the Group’s considered the work and for providing for uncertain tax performance, business model and recommendations of management. positions. The external auditor strategy; In addition, the Committee received performed procedures to assess reports from the external auditor management’s judgements and • make recommendations to the setting out its view on the accounting reported its findings to the Board, for the Board to put to treatments and judgements Committee. shareholders in general meeting, in underpinning the Financial relation to the appointment, • Deferred tax accounting: The key Statements. The significant re-appointment and removal of the judgement in respect of the Corporate Governance judgements considered by the external auditor and to approve its Group’s deferred tax assets, which Committee were: terms of appointment; arise largely from timing differences • Impairment of receivables: The key between the accounting and tax • review and monitor the objectivity area of judgement in respect of treatments of revenue and and independence of the external impairment provisions made impairment transactions, is the auditor and the effectiveness of against customer receivables is the extent to which the timing the external audit process, taking predictive accuracy of statistical differences will reverse and a tax into consideration relevant UK models used to estimate future deduction will be obtained in professional and regulatory customer default rates and future periods. The external auditor requirements; expected future timing of cash performed procedures to assess • review and approve the internal flows in respect of each portfolio. At whether the recognition of the audit programme for the year and both the half year and full year deferred tax asset is appropriate monitor the effectiveness of the results the Committee considered and reported its findings to the internal audit function in the a paper prepared by Committee. delivery of the plan; and management summarising the • Regulation: The business is subject work performed to test the • keep under review the Group Risk to regulatory scrutiny in multiple continued predictive capacity of Register and consider the most jurisdictions and at times it is these statistical models and to important risks facing the Group appropriate to make provision for update them where appropriate. and their mitigation. potentially adverse rulings by these The external auditor performed regulatory authorities. The audit procedures on impairment Committee received a report from ACTIVITIES IN 2014 provisioning and reported its the Group Legal Director outlining findings to the Committee. the various regulatory and other Meetings Additionally, at its meeting in similar issues and management’s The Committee met six times during October, the Committee received approach. External audit discussed the year: twice to consider risk, three and considered an independent the matter with the Group Legal times to consider audit-related opinion from the Company’s Director, reviewed the external legal matters and once to consider both actuarial advisor in relation to advice and reported its findings to risk and audit-related matters. management’s approach to using the Committee. this modelling technique for new, Financial reporting longer-term products. Internal control and risk The Committee reviewed and • Revenue recognition: The management considered the following areas in judgement in respect of revenue Whilst the Board is responsible for the respect of financial reporting and the recognition is the methodology Group’s system of internal control, the preparation of the interim and used to calculate the effective review of its effectiveness is annual Financial Statements: interest rate. The external auditor delegated to the Committee. The performed procedures to assess Committee, with the Board in • the appropriateness of accounting management’s calculations and attendance, reviews and approves policies used; assumptions used to calculate the the Group Risk Register. The internal • compliance with external and effective interest rate and reported control environments in place to internal financial reporting its findings to the Committee. mitigate the impact of each risk are standards and policies; monitored by the Committee on a • Provision for uncertain tax positions: regular basis, as are the principal • significant judgements made by The Group operates in multiple actions being taken to improve these. management; jurisdictions where the taxation 66 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REPORT continued The Committee requests additional Internal audit Compliance and Risk, the Chairman presentations on key business areas The opinion on the Company’s of the Audit and Risk Committee and as necessary to supplement their internal control environment was management, including the items understanding of control provided by the Head of Compliance shown in the ‘Internal audit’ table environments in place. The areas and Risk. PwC continued to be used below. covered by these in 2014 are referred to support specific thematic reviews The Committee tracks the status of to in the ‘Training’ section on page where specialist technical issues raised in control reports closely. 67. The internal controls in relation to knowledge was required. During the year the volume and age the preparation of consolidated During 2014 a series of planned profile of outstanding control issues Financial Statements are outlined on internal audit reviews was has remained within our risk appetite. page 61. undertaken in both field operations Following the comprehensive review The Committee is supported in this and head office environments. These last year of our overall operational work by the Risk Advisory Group, were split between basic assurance governance and oversight structure, which comprises the Chairman, reviews, covering core controls across shown on page 57, the Internal Audit Chief Executive Officer, Chief the business as defined in the Group function has continued to monitor its Financial Officer, Chief Commercial Risk Register, and thematic reviews implementation and effectiveness Officer, Group Legal Director, Head of providing a deeper review of topics throughout 2014. Compliance and Risk, together with agreed between the Head of other members of the senior Internal audit leadership team. The Risk Advisory Basic assurance Thematic reviews Group meets four times a year. It reports to the Audit and Risk Branch level reviews Group Committee and considers the risk (covering one-third of branches) • Review of the alignment and assessments and risk registers • Management of administration, planning of field performance produced in each country, and operational, financial and loss reward structures. updates the Group Risk Register. It prevention control and legal • Review of competition monitoring also considers areas of specific risk compliance oversight processes. and response processes. and particular issues. • Review of the maturity of control Head office reviews processes within the new markets It is recognised that any system can • Oversight of branch performance (Lithuania and Bulgaria). provide only reasonable and not monitoring and management. • Review of the management of absolute assurance against material • Management of financial loss credit strategies and their intermisstatement or loss. detection and prevention controls. relationship with reward strategies. • Management of financial control The Committee provides oversight framework. T4G programme and direction over the internal audit • Management of the branch • Transformation programme plan to ensure the plan provides it administration and quality control governance and assurance with independent assurance over the processes. processes. integrity of internal controls and the • The existence and effectiveness of • Alignment of the transformation operational governance framework. the controls used to monitor and programme initiatives to the target In addition, our external auditor manage each of the Group key operating model. communicated to the Committee risks (see pages 49 to 53). any control deficiencies in the internal control environment observed as part of its audit procedures. During the year, Deloitte did not highlight any material control weaknesses. 67 External auditor effectiveness and practices are used to provide services Review of effectiveness of the independence where appropriate. During the year, the internal controls The Committee considered the non-audit services carried out by On behalf of the Board, the external auditor’s assessment of the Deloitte were as follows. Committee has reviewed the significant risks in the Group’s Non-audit services carried Fee effectiveness of the Group’s Financial Statements set out in its out by Deloitte in 2014 £000 framework of internal controls, audit plan and approved the scope Taxation compliance including financial, operational and of the external audit that addressed services 117 compliance controls and risk these risks. The Committee management systems during 2014. Other assurance services 28 considered these risks and the The process for identifying, evaluating associated work undertaken by the Total 145 and managing the significant risks external auditor when forming its faced by the Group was in place judgement on the Financial Audit tendering throughout 2014 and up to 25 Statements. The Company’s policy is to undertake February 2015. In addition, the Corporate Governance a formal tendering exercise of the Committee, where appropriate, The Committee monitored the audit contract at least once every ensures that necessary actions have effectiveness and conduct of the ten years. The last tender exercise been or are being taken to remedy external audit by reviewing: was carried out in March 2011 and significant failings or weaknesses • experience and capabilities of the resulted in the appointment of identified from the review of the auditor and the calibre of the audit Deloitte in May of that year. Deloitte effectiveness of internal control. firm; has now been external auditor for The Committee has also undertaken almost four years. At its February 2015 • the delivery of its audit work in a review of its own effectiveness meeting, the Committee accordance with the agreed plan; amongst its members, executive recommended the reappointment of and directors, management and external Deloitte to the Board and its advisers: and concluded as a result • the quality of its report and reappointment will be put to that it continues to be effective. communications to the shareholders at the 2015 AGM. Committee. Annual Report and Financial Training In order to confirm its independence, Statements The Committee undertook a the external auditor issued a formal The Committee reviewed and significant amount of training during statement of independence to the considered the Annual Report and 2014. This included presentations on Committee. In addition, the Financial Statements in line with key business areas such as: Committee ensured compliance with other information the Committee has the Group’s policy on the use of the • personal safety and the Group considered throughout the course of external auditor for non-audit work. approach to obtaining and the year. It concluded and The key requirements of this policy maintaining ISO compliance; recommended to the Board that the are: Annual Report and Financial • financial fraud and the approach Statements, taken as a whole, are fair, • the external auditor may not to the continued improvement in balanced and understandable and undertake certain prohibited prevention and detection provide the information necessary for services including internal audit, capabilities (with particular note to shareholders to assess the Group’s information technology, how this is being addressed under performance, business model and remuneration, recruitment, the transformation programme); strategy. valuation or general management • legal and regulatory risk and the consultancy; approach to managing the • the Head of Compliance and Risk specific issues faced by the Group; must approve all non-audit • taxation and the Group approach services; and to ensuring continued compliance • the Committee Chairman must with relevant legislation; and approve any individual non-audit Nicholas Page • information security and the Chairman service over a specific fee level. approach to addressing the ever The Committee believes that the increasing cyber-security risk. Group receives a particular benefit This training was complemented by a from certain non-audit services where visit to the Company’s business in a detailed knowledge of its operations Poland, which included visits to are important or where the auditor has branches and discussions with the very specific skills and experience. Polish management team. However, other large accountancy 68 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 TRANSFORMATION FOR GROWTH COMMITTEE REPORT interconnected work streams. It established a baseline roadmap to determine what would be delivered when. Progress against this roadmap “Transformation for was reviewed throughout the year Growth is a key part of and relevant expenditure approved. the Company’s strategy Programme work streams and underpins the The Committee has considered each transformation going of the programme work streams to ensure effective oversight of the on across the whole organisation’s transformation to a business.” genuine multi-channel business. This included work streams to broaden our product range and modernise our service model. A core element of the Committee’s Cathryn Riley oversight has been consideration of Chairman the risks, costs and benefits associated with the programme. To aid its understanding of each element, the Committee has Committee members • briefing the Board on progress and received presentations from the Cathryn Riley – Chairman making recommendations in Group’s IT Director, HR Director and David Broadbent relation to issues that need to be from representatives of the Group’s IT escalated to the Board for partner, HCL. Edyta Kurek (until 16 January 2015) consideration/approval; Richard Moat Organisation Design Christopher Rodrigues • providing assurance to the Board The Committee recognises that T4G that benefits are being delivered, Overseeing change is not simply about technology. costs are being controlled and T4G During the year, it has considered the Achievements for 2014 is effectively supported by programme’s Organisation Design • New global Credit Decision appropriate, reliable plans and work stream in detail. This aims to System (CDS) implemented and governance; and liberate the full potential of our monthly product launched in • authorising commitments within people and facilitate a significant Poland. financial limits delegated by the cultural change in order to deliver a • ProXXI programme rolled out in Board. more professional, world class sales four markets; commenced in fifth. and service function. Composition • Programme mobilised across all A quorum is three members, Communication and engagement markets. including a majority of independent With any large transformational non-executive directors. change programme communication 2015 objectives is key. The Committee has worked to • Market-wide CDS implementation. ensure that effective communication • New CRM system implementation ACTIVITIES IN 2014 processes are in place to ensure the in Mexico and Hungary. programme and its goals are Meetings understood and delivered by our The Committee met five times during teams. It ensured that the year. communication processes improved OVERVIEW throughout the year. Vision-centred oversight Role Having been established in May The Committee’s responsibilities 2014, the Committee aligned its include: activities to the T4G programme vision. Through a series of Cathryn Riley • supporting the T4G programme presentations, the Committee Chairman and executive management to reviewed the programme’s phased ensure it delivers quality outcomes T o learn more, take a look at ‘T4G approach and the complex at speed and within approved in action’ on page 30. interdependency of its budgets; CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 69 DIRECTORS’ REPORT INTRODUCTION The total consideration paid under • Changes to the Articles of the buyback programme, excluding Association must be approved by The Board is responsible for the costs, was £45,051,721. The average the shareholders in accordance long-term success of the business price paid per share was 518.67 with the legislation in force from and ensuring that it operates in the pence. A share buyback was chosen time to time. best interests of all its stakeholders. as the most flexible mechanism to • There are no restrictions on voting Good corporate governance is at return the required level of capital rights except as set out in the the heart of this. The Board has value to shareholders and to reduce Articles of Association (in ensured that the Company has the capital ratio to around 45%. In circumstances where the robust processes in place to ensure addition, this method was expected shareholder has not complied with that effective governance underpins to result in an increase in earnings a statutory notice or paid up what the work of the Group. per share. The ordinary shares can is due on the shares). be held in certificated or uncertificated form. • There are no restrictions on the COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK transfer (including requirements for Corporate Governance The full rights and obligations CORPORATE GOVERNANCE attached to the Company’s ordinary prior approval of any transfers) or limitations on the holding of CODE shares, in addition to those conferred ordinary shares subject to the fact on their holders by law, are set out in As a public company listed on the that the Board may refuse to the Company’s Articles of London Stock Exchange the register the transfer of: Association, a copy of which can be Company reports in accordance • a partly-paid share; viewed on the Company’s website or with the UK Corporate Governance • an uncertificated share in the obtained by writing to the Company Code. The latest version of the Code circumstances set out in the Secretary or from Companies House was published in September 2014 Uncertificated Securities in the UK. and is available on the FRC’s website: Regulations 2001; and www.frc.org.uk. A summary of those rights and • a certificated share if a duly obligations can be found below. executed transfer is not provided The Company also has a secondary together with any necessary listing on the Warsaw Stock • The holders of ordinary shares are document of authority. Exchange but considers reporting entitled to receive the Company’s in line with the Code as its primary Annual Report and Financial • There are no known arrangements obligation in terms of this Annual Statements, to attend and speak at under which financial rights are Report and Financial Statements. general meetings of the Company, held by a person other than the At the time of listing in Warsaw, the to appoint proxies and to exercise holder of the shares. Company issued a Statement on voting rights. Corporate Governance in relation to Authority to purchase shares • The directors are responsible for At the 2014 AGM the Company ‘The Code of Best Practice for WSE the management of the Company received shareholder authority to buy Listed Companies’ in Poland, a copy and may exercise all the powers of back up to 23,970,509 of its own of which can be found on our the Company, subject to the shares until the earlier of the website, and will do so again in 2015. provisions of the relevant statutes conclusion of the 2015 AGM and 30 The Board considers that throughout and the Company’s Articles of July 2015. Any ordinary shares so 2014 the Company applied the main Association. For example, the purchased could be cancelled or principles and complied with the Articles of Association contain held in treasury. This authority was provisions set out in the Code. specific provisions and restrictions exercised in 2014 to the extent regarding the Company’s powers described above. A further authority to borrow money; provisions for the Company to purchase its own SHARE CAPITAL relating to the appointment of shares will be sought at the 2015 directors, subject to subsequent AGM. Details of our share capital are shareholder approval; delegation shown in note 26 on page 133. On 31 of powers to a director or Authority to allot shares December 2014, there were committees; and, subject to As at 31 December 2014, the 239,705,096 ordinary shares of 10 certain exceptions, a director shall directors had authority to allot further pence each in issue. No shares were not vote on or be counted in a securities up to an aggregate issued during the year. 8,686,023 quorum in relation to any nominal amount of £7,990,000 and, ordinary shares, with a nominal value resolution of the Board in respect broadly, up to a further £7,990,000 for of £868,602 representing 3.62% of the of any contract in which he/she a rights issue. Further authorities will Company’s called up share capital, has an interest which he/she be sought at the forthcoming 2015 were bought back and transferred to knows is material. AGM. treasury during 2014, to be used primarily to satisfy share scheme exercises. None were cancelled. 70 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 DIRECTORS’ REPORT continued Interests in voting rights As at 31 December 2014, the Company had been notified, pursuant to the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the following notifiable voting rights in its issued share capital. % of issued Name Voting rights share capital1 Nature of holding Standard Life Investments Ltd 33,860,265 14.13 Direct/Indirect Franklin Templeton Investments Ltd 12,062,651 5.01 Indirect Marathon Asset Management LLP 12,841,168 5.01 Indirect FMR LLC 12,625,113 4.97 Indirect FIL Limited 12,711,680 4.94 Indirect Norges Bank 12,329,170 4.94 Direct Old Mutual Asset Managers (UK) Ltd 12,547,167 4.88 Direct/Indirect Schroders plc 12,287,572 4.77 Indirect BlackRock, Inc. 11,670,102 4.54 Indirect Investec Asset Management Ltd 8,995,482 3.50 Indirect Oppenheimer Funds Inc/Baring Asset Management Limited 7,769,836 3.02 Indirect Legal & General Group Plc 7,713,256 3.00 Direct 1 Based on the Company’s issued share capital at notification. The holdings set out in the table Company’s share incentive plans. On DIVIDENDS 31 December 2014, the trustees held above relate only to those institutions which have notified the Company of Details of the 2014 interim dividend 751,445 shares in the Company. The an interest in the issued share capital. declared by the Board and the trusts waive their dividend proposed final dividend for 2014 entitlement and abstain from voting Between 1 January and 20 February payable in 2015 can be found on the shares at general meetings. 2015, the Company did not receive page 134. Our new target dividend Shares to be acquired through the any further notifications. payout ratio is discussed on page 47. Company’s share plans rank pari passu with the shares in issue and Directors’ interests have no special rights. Details of directors’ interests are given SHARE INCENTIVES on page 92 of the Directors’ Remuneration Report and details of Employee Benefit Trust the award of nil-cost and other The Company operates two options can be found on pages 93 employee trusts with an independent to 94. No director has notified the trustee, Capita Trustees Limited, to Company of an interest in any other hold shares pending employees shares, transactions or arrangements becoming entitled to them under the which requires disclosure. Equity incentive schemes The Company currently operates four equity incentive schemes. Details of individual grants to directors made in 2014 are set out in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on page 88. The schemes are as follows: Scheme Abbreviated name Eligible participants The International Personal Finance plc Executive directors and senior Approved Company Share Option Plan CSOP managers The International Personal Finance plc Executive directors and senior Deferred Share Plan Deferred Share Plan managers The International Personal Finance plc Have Your Share Plan Have Your Share Plan Overseas employees The International Personal Finance plc Executive directors and senior Performance Share Plan Performance Share Plan managers The International Personal Finance plc Employee Savings-Related Share Option Scheme SAYE Scheme Executive directors and UK employees 71 Details of awards made in 2014 are as follows: Number of Exercise price Scheme Date of grant shares (if any) Normal exercise/vesting date CSOP 04 Mar 2014 65,758 526p 04 Mar 2017 – 03 Mar 20241 Deferred Share Plan 14 Mar 2014 471,001 – 14 Mar 2017 – 13 Mar 2024 Have Your Share Plan 2 June 2014 225,912 – 2 June 2017 Performance Share Plan 04 Mar 2014 1,107,157 – 04 Mar 2017 – 03 Mar 20241 Performance Share Plan 01 Aug 2014 10,121 – 01 Aug 2017 – 31 Jul 20241 SAYE Scheme 28 Aug 2014 134,566 439p 01 Nov 2017 – 30 Apr 20202 Details of outstanding awards are as follows: Awards Awards outstanding Awards exercised/ Corporate Governance at 31 Awards Awards outstanding at vested from 1 December lapsed in exercised/ 31 December Exercise price Normal exercise/ January to 20 Scheme 2013 2014 vested in 2014 2014 (if any) vesting date February 2015 23 Jul 2013 CSOP 481,829 (25,340) (189,978) 332,269 208p – 636p – 3 Mar 20241 (1,809) Deferred Share 24 Mar 2014 Plan 1,710,952 (22,527) (538,149) 1,621,277 – – 13 Mar 2024 – Have Your Share – (8,891) – 217,021 – 2 June 2017 – Performance 23 Jul 2013 Share Plan 4,964,136 (228,686) (1,171,802) 4,680,926 – – 3 Mar 20241 (37,845) 01 Oct 2012 SAYE Scheme 406,240 (22,929) (117,449) 400,428 112p – 509p – 30 Apr 20202 – 1 Half of the awards that vest are not released for a further year. 2 Exercise dates vary depending on whether the employee has chosen a three, five or seven year savings contract. INVESTOR ENGAGEMENT Financial Statements, circulars and ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING announcements made by the The executive directors meet with Company to the London Stock Shareholders are invited each year institutional shareholders on a Exchange and the Warsaw Stock to the AGM, which will be held at regular basis. The Chairman and Exchange are posted on the 10.30am on Thursday 30 April 2015 Senior Independent Director also Company’s website (www.ipfin.co.uk). at International Personal Finance plc, meet with shareholders from time to Number Three, Leeds City Office Park, Shareholders, whatever the size time. The Chairman is responsible for Meadow Lane, Leeds LS11 5BD. The of their shareholding, are able ensuring that appropriate channels notice of meeting, together with an to express their views via email of communication are established explanation of the items of business, or telephone with the Investor between the executive directors and will be contained in the Chairman’s Relations Manager. shareholders and for ensuring that letter to shareholders to be dated the views of shareholders are made The Company gives at least 20 18 March 2015. known to the entire Board. The Board working days’ notice of the AGM. Its is updated on investor relations. policy is that the Chairman of each of the Board Committees will be At the 2014 AGM a significant available to answer questions from proportion of shareholders voted shareholders and there is an against the resolution to approve opportunity for shareholders to the Annual Report on Remuneration. ask questions on each resolution Following this, Tony Hales, as proposed. Details of proxy votes Chairman of the Remuneration are made available to shareholders Committee, wrote to ten major and other interested parties by shareholders explaining the means of an announcement to the background to the policy and offering London Stock Exchange, the Warsaw a follow-up meeting/telephone Stock Exchange and on the meeting to discuss their concerns. Company’s website. The Board seeks to present the Company’s position and prospects clearly. The Annual Report and 72 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 DIRECTORS’ REPORT continued OTHER EXTERNAL Notes if there is a change of Certain Group companies have control of the Company and, entered into agreements with Fujitsu STAKEHOLDERS following such change of control, Services Limited, Mastek UK Limited, the Notes are downgraded; GTS Energis Sp. z o.o., Metro Net Community investment and S.A.P.I. and HCL Technologies Limited donations • its Polish Medium Term Note2 in relation to IT services provided to The total value of our community programme, which entitles any the Group. investment contribution across the holder of a Note to require the Group was £727,297 in 2014 (2013: issuer to redeem such holder’s The Group’s Hungarian subsidiary £766,722). Our employees also Notes if there is a change of operates its credit granting activities volunteered 16,720 hours in control of the Company and under licence from the National Bank Company time to local communities following such change of control of Hungary. The Group’s Romanian and a further 13,939 hours in their the Euro Medium Term Notes are subsidiary is monitored by the own time. We mobilised 4,139 of our then downgraded (or if no such National Bank of Romania (‘NBR’) in employees into effective community Notes are then outstanding, in its capacity as monitoring and activities, reflecting our direct impact certain other circumstances); and supervising authority. It is licensed by on the communities in which we the NBR and recorded in the General • provisions in the Company’s share operate. Registry of Non-Banking Financial incentive plans may cause awards Institutions. The Group’s Bulgarian granted to directors and No political donations were made. business is licensed as a nonemployees to vest on a takeover. banking financial institution by the 1 The Euro Medium Term Note programme was Supplier policy statement established in 2010. The following Notes (listed National Bank of Bulgaria. The The Company agrees terms and on the London Stock Exchange) have been Group’s business in Spain will be conditions for its business issued under the programme and are licenced by the National Bank of outstanding as at the date of this report: Euro transactions with suppliers and 34.8 million Notes issued in August 2010 with a Spain. The Group’s operation in payment is made in accordance five-year term and an 11.5% coupon; Czech Lithuania does not require a licence crown 100 million issued in July 2012 with a with these, subject to the terms and four-year term and a 9.0% coupon; Czech but is registered on the Public conditions being met by the supplier. crown 280 million issued in July 2012 with a Register of Consumer Credit three-year term and an 8.5% coupon; The Company acts as a holding Hungarian forint 4 billion issued in January Providers. MCB Finance’s businesses company and had no material trade 2013 with a five-year term and an 11.0% have an activities licence from the creditors at 31 December 2014. The coupon; sterling 101.5 million issued in May Financial Intelligence Unit (Estonia), a 2013 and November 2013 with a seven-year average number of days’ credit taken term and a 6.125% coupon; Romanian Lei 60.5 credit licence from the Consumer by the Group during the year was 19 million issued in October 2013 with a Rights Protection Centre (Latvia),is three-year term and an 8.1% coupon; Czech days (2013: 17 days). crown 250 million with a five-year term and a registered on the Public Register of 5.25% coupon; Euro 300.0 million issued in April Consumer Credit Providers 2014 with a seven-year term and a 5.75% Agreements on change of control coupon and Euro 40.0 million issued in May (Lithuania) and on the Creditor The Company does not have any 2014 with a four-year term and a 4.25% Register of the Regional State agreements with any director or coupon. Administrative Agency of Southern employee that would provide 2 Under the Polish Medium Term Note Finland (Finland), and holds an programme a subsidiary company, IPF compensation for loss of office or Investments Polska Sp. z o.o., issued 200 million Australian credit licence issued by employment resulting from a Polish zloty Notes which are listed on the the Australian Securities and Warsaw Stock Exchange; they mature on 30 takeover. June 2015 and the coupon is a floating rate of Investment Commission (Australia). six-month WIBOR plus a margin of 750 basis The Company is not party to any points. significant agreements that would WHISTLEBLOWING take effect, alter or terminate upon a Key contracts and other change of control following a arrangements We have a whistleblowing telephone takeover bid, apart from: This information is given pursuant to hotline service operating in all of our Section 417(5)(c) of the Companies markets. This allows employees to • its bank facility agreements, which Act 2006. The trading subsidiaries raise issues of concern in relation to provide for a negotiation period have entered into contracts with their dishonesty or malpractice on a following a change of control of agents, who are self-employed. The confidential basis. Reports are the Company and the ability of a exception to this is Hungary where received on any matters raised lender to cancel its commitment agents are employed for regulatory through these services and the and for outstanding amounts to reasons. Agent agreements govern Company monitors their use become due and payable; the relationship and the agents are throughout the Group. • its Euro Medium Term Note1 remunerated primarily for programme, which entitles any repayments collected. holder of a Note to require the Company to redeem such holder’s 73 REPORT ON ENVIRONMENTAL, During 2014 the Group continued to When setting incentives, the build on the success of our business Remuneration Committee takes SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE ethics programme with a focus on account of all implications, including (‘ESG’) MATTERS communications and training the need to avoid inadvertently around our Code of Ethics. We made motivating inappropriate behaviour. The Board takes account of the good progress against our target to significance of ESG matters to the The executive directors are given roll-out our ethics training to all Group regularly and has identified relevant objectives relating to ESG employees by 2015; 95% of and assessed the significance of ESG issues for the purposes of the annual employees had successfully risks to the Company’s short and bonus scheme. Details of the bonus completed the training at the long-term value as part of the risk scheme are set out in the bonus completion of the 2014 training management process. It recognises section of the statement of the process. This training ensures that that a proactive programme of Company’s policy on directors’ employees are fully aware of our reputation management through a remuneration in the Directors’ business ethics programme and Corporate Governance range of progressive, responsible Remuneration Report. ESG matters Code of Ethics and utilises real-life business initiatives adds to the are taken into account in the training ethical dilemmas to help them sustainable long-term value of the of directors. handle issues when they arise. From Company. Responsibility for this area 2015 we plan to conduct this training Full information on specific ESG rests with the Chief Executive Officer on an annual basis to ensure that matters, and how these are who sits on the Reputation and employee training on business ethics managed, can be found in the Regulation Committee, which sets remains up-to-date as the business Sustainability section of the guidance, provides direction and changes and moves into new Company’s website oversees policies and progress in markets. (www.ipfin.co.uk). ESG matters. The Group views the health and Key ESG issues that impact our safety of its employees, agents and Carbon reporting stakeholders are: business ethics; other people who may be affected We have reported on all of the public perception and ensuring that by its activities as a key strategic carbon emissions sources required work with communities is relevant; priority. The Group’s arrangements for under the Companies Act 2006 social and financial exclusion; health safety have been assessed (Strategic Report and Directors’ and safety; and attracting and independently against OHSAS 18001 Report) Regulations 2013. Our retaining skilled and well-motivated and certified as compliant in Poland, emissions data has been calculated people. the Czech Republic, Slovakia, in line with the Greenhouse Gas Hungary and Romania. We will be (GHG) Protocol Corporate Corporate affairs activity, health and Accounting and Reporting Standard, safety, people management and assessed in the remaining businesses during 2015. The framework is and we have used emissions factors business ethics issues were all from the UK Government’s discussed at Board meetings in 2014. overseen by the Group Loss Prevention Committee which reports Greenhouse Gas Conversion Factor The Board formally reviews a Repository. The emissions data covers sustainability report at least once a annually to the Board by means of a written report. Each subsidiary board our operations in the UK, Poland, the year. The Board has received Czech Republic, Hungary, Slovakia, adequate information to make an is responsible for the implementation of its own health and safety policy Mexico, Romania, Bulgaria and assessment against ESG risks. Lithuania. These sources fall within and health and safety is considered There is a range of appropriate regularly at Group Board meetings. our consolidated Financial corporate standards, policies and Statements. Where available data is governance structures covering all Community investment activity is incomplete we have extrapolated operations. focussed on the needs of the using appropriate estimations. communities we serve and we utilise The Group is an equal opportunities London Benchmarking Group In 2014 our GHG emissions for scope employer. It is the Group’s policy that methodology to measure this 1 and 2 decreased by 0.5% overall, no job applicant, member of staff or investment in terms of inputs, outputs which is very positive considering the agent will receive less favourable and impacts. Our environmental business is growing. As a growing treatment because of race, colour, management system is subject to business we find it more appropriate nationality, ethnic or other national internal audit against the to measure progress by normalising origin, gender, sexual orientation, requirements of ISO14001. this data against customer numbers. marital status, age, disability or When normalised against customer religion. The aim of this policy is to numbers our GHG emissions fell by ensure recruitment and progression 12.3% compared to 2013, presenting is based purely on merit. a very positive picture of the progress we are making with resource saving initiatives. 74 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 DIRECTORS’ REPORT continued We aim to reduce our environmental outcome of this is to deliver resource paper purchased. A full impact where possible and our T4G savings for the business. By streamenvironmental policy statement programme is instrumental in helping lining our existing processes we are can be found in the Sustainability us to achieve this. The programme achieving savings against our most section of the Company’s website focusses on processes, people and significant environmental aspects: (www.ipfin.co.uk). technology and one expected business travel by car; electricity; and Tonnes CO2e Carbon emissions sources Travel & utilities 2013 2014 % change Gas 624 918 47.0% Scope 1 Business travel by car 24,267 23,996 (1.1%) Scope 2 Purchased electricity 5,280 5,116 (3.1%) 30,171 30,030 (0.5%) Scope 1 & 2 CO2e emissions by customer 0.013 0.012 (12.3%) Total CO2 emissons 2014 The Board came to this view following Union and Article 4 of the (Tonnes CO2e) a rigorous review process throughout International Accounting Standard the production schedule. The (‘IAS’) Regulation and have also 918 statements are drafted by chosen to prepare the Parent 5,116 appropriate members of the Company Financial Statements reporting and leadership teams and under IFRSs as adopted by the co-ordinated by the Investor Relations European Union. Under company law Manager to ensure consistency. A the directors must not approve the series of planned reviews are Financial Statements unless they are undertaken by the reporting team, satisfied that they give a true and fair leadership team and directors. In view of the state of affairs of the 23,996 advance of final consideration by Company and of the profit or loss of Gas the Board, it is reviewed by the Audit the Company for that period. In and Risk Committee. preparing these Financial Business travel by car Statements, IAS 1 requires that Purchased electricity directors: RESPONSIBILITIES AND • properly select and apply DISCLOSURE UPDATE ON REGULATORY accounting policies; ISSUES Annual Report and Financial • present information, including Statements accounting policies, in a manner An update on the current regulatory The Company presents its own that provides relevant, reliable, issues can be found on pages 20 Annual Report and its Consolidated comparable and understandable and 21. Annual Report as a single Annual information; Report. • provide additional disclosures STATEMENT OF THE DIRECTORS when compliance with the specific Directors’ responsibilities in relation requirements in IFRSs are IN RESPECT OF THE ANNUAL to the Financial Statements insufficient to enable users to REPORT AND ACCOUNTS The directors are responsible for understand the impact of preparing the Annual Report and particular transactions, other As required by the Code, the Financial Statements in accordance events and conditions on the directors confirm that they consider with applicable law and regulations. entity’s financial position and that this Annual Report and Financial financial performance; and Statements, taken as a whole, is fair, Company law requires the directors balanced and understandable and to prepare Financial Statements for • make an assessment of the provides the information necessary each financial year. Under that law Company’s ability to continue as a for shareholders to assess the the directors are required to prepare going concern. Company’s performance, business the Group Financial Statements in accordance with International The directors are responsible for model and strategy. keeping adequate accounting Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRSs’) as adopted by the European records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s transactions and disclose with 75 reasonable accuracy at any time the c) the Annual Report and Financial financial position of the Company Statements, taken as a whole, is and enable them to ensure that the fair, balanced and Financial Statements comply with the understandable and provides the Companies Act 2006. They are also information necessary for responsible for safeguarding the shareholders to assess the assets of the Company and the Company’s performance, business Group and hence for taking model and strategy. reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other Disclosure of information to the irregularities. auditor In the case of each person who is a The directors are responsible for the director at the date of this report, it is maintenance and integrity of the confirmed that, so far as the director Corporate Governance corporate and financial information is aware, there is no relevant audit included on the Company’s website. information of which the Company’s Legislation in the UK governing the auditor is unaware; and he/she has preparation and dissemination of taken all the steps that ought to have Financial Statements may differ from been taken as a director in order to legislation in other jurisdictions. make himself/herself aware of any relevant audit information and to Responsibility statement establish that the Company’s auditor This statement is given pursuant to is aware of that information. Rule 4 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules. By order of the Board It is given by each of the directors, namely: Christopher Rodrigues, Chairman; Gerard Ryan, Chief Executive Officer; Adrian Gardner, Chief Financial Officer; David Broadbent, Chief Commercial Officer; Ben Murphy Dan O’Connor, Chairman-elect and Company Secretary non-executive director; Tony Hales, 25 February 2015 senior independent non-executive director; Richard Moat, non-executive director; Nicholas Page, nonexecutive director; and Cathryn Riley, non-executive director. To the best of each director’s knowledge: a) the Financial Statements, prepared in accordance with the IFRSs, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole; b) the Strategic Report contained in this report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face; and 76 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT balancing the interests of employees and long-term shareholders. The annual bonus for the executive directors is targeted 50/50 between “Our reward targets financial measures and personal incentivise the delivery objectives linked to achievement of the Group’s strategy. The maximum of our strategy over the possible outcome on the personal short and long term.” objectives is capped at the amount achieved under the financial measures element. Two-thirds of the total bonus amount is deferred for three years in Company shares. These shares are eligible for a matching award subject to performance conditions. Both the matching awards and the LTIP scheme are designed to motivate and reward Tony Hales longer-term performance and Chairman incentivise absolute shareholder value-creation through a mix of measures. Committee members Dear shareholder, At the 2014 AGM, we received strong Tony Hales – Chairman support from our shareholders for our I am pleased to introduce the first Directors’ Remuneration Policy Nicholas Page Directors’ Remuneration Report for under the new reporting regulations, Richard Moat the year ended 31 December 2014, with a 97.1% vote in favour. This Cathryn Riley which has been prepared by the followed an assurance published on Aligned to strategy Remuneration Committee and our website in relation to the use of approved by the Board. discretion in retention arrangements, which is intended to be binding Remuneration for 2014 throughout the duration of the policy. During 2014, our strategic priorities The Directors’ Remuneration Policy continued to evolve. We intend to included in this report is as approved create long-term shareholder value at the AGM, and is reproduced in full through sustainable profit growth. We for both ease of reference and in are expanding our geographic order to provide context for the footprint, adding new product decisions taken by the Committee channels and broadening our during the year, although it has been product portfolio to give more choice updated to reflect the latest data to our existing customers and to and also the assurance mentioned serve a wider range of consumer above. The approved policy includes segments. We are also modernising provisions for recovery of our home collected business model performance-related remuneration, through our T4G programme to as required by the 2014 Corporate create more sustainable and Governance Code. We do not incremental profitable growth intend to move a resolution to opportunities. approve any changes to the policy Our remuneration structure is at the 2015 AGM. intended to strike an appropriate We were also very pleased about the balance between fixed and variable high level of support for our new components, which provide a clear Group-wide, all-employee share link between pay and our key scheme at the AGM. Our perception strategic priorities. Executive director is that this has a powerful effect in and senior management rewards creating a sense of alignment and have a substantial performance ownership across the business and is related element, with targets also a contributor to some of awards incentivising the delivery of our received by the Company during the strategy over the short and long term, course of the year. 77 More disappointing was the In addition, we are delighted that At the AGM in April 2015: outcome of the vote on the 2013 Dan O’Connor joined the Board as • the Directors’ Remuneration Policy Annual Report on Remuneration, with non-executive director and will not be put to a binding only a 63.4% vote in favour, including Chairman-elect on 2 January 2015. shareholder vote having received votes cast at the proxy’s discretion. Dan’s initial fee is £55,000 p.a., the 97.1% approval at the 2014 AGM; Feedback from shareholders ‘standard’ fee payable to nonand suggested the dissent reflected two executive directors, but will be factors: the Chief Executive Officer’s increased to £200,000 p.a., the same • the Annual Report on 7.9% salary increase for 2014 and his as the current Chairman’s fee, Remuneration will be put to an exceptional PSP award of 150% of following Christopher Rodrigues’ advisory shareholder vote. salary in 2013. In light of this result, I retirement and Dan’s appointment We hope to receive your support at wrote to our top ten shareholders to as Chairman at the 2015 AGM. The the AGM. provide some additional context Chairman’s fee was last increased on around the remuneration decisions 1 October 2013 and is not intended Corporate Governance made by the Committee during 2013, to be reviewed before 2016. and offered an opportunity to discuss There will be no substantial changes further. We reiterated the in remuneration policy for 2015. All commitment to consult with major maximum opportunities will remain Tony Hales shareholders ahead of any future the same in 2015 as in 2014. Chairman awards of an exceptional nature under the LTIP. Remuneration disclosure Details of the remuneration decisions This report complies with the for 2014 are set out in the Annual requirements of the Large and Report on Remuneration starting on Medium-sized Companies and page 85 In summary, for the year Groups Regulations 2008 as ended 31 December 2014, profit amended in 2013, the provisions of before tax and exceptional items was the UK Corporate Governance Code £123.5 million. In addition, the Group (September 2014) and the Listing made good progress against its Rules. strategic objectives including launching a new digital lending Consistent with last year, the report is channel and introducing new in two sections: products. This resulted in a total 74.2% • the Directors’ Remuneration Policy of the Chief Executive’s maximum (pages 78 to 85). This section bonus (74.2% of salary), 52.2% of the contains details of the Chief Financial Officer’s maximum remuneration policy that received bonus (52.2% of salary) and 74.2% of shareholder approval at the 2014 the Chief Commercial Officer’s AGM, held on 30 April 2014; and maximum bonus (74.2% of salary) paying out for 2014, with one-third • the Annual Report on delivered in cash and two-thirds Remuneration (pages 85 to 95). deferred in Company shares (as per This section sets out details of how the approved policy). our remuneration policy was implemented for the year ended Key decisions for 2015 31 December 2014 and how we The Committee has increased the intend for the policy to apply for base salary of two of the executive the year ended 31 December directors by 1% with effect from 1 April 2015. 2015 which is in line with the anticipated award to UK employees. 78 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT continued DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION POLICY Remuneration policy table The table below sets out the remuneration policy that received shareholder approval and became effective on 30 April 2014. The report below is as disclosed in the 2013 Directors’ Remuneration Report except for a number of minor clarifications as follows: • references to financial years have been updated as appropriate; • pay-for-performance scenario charts have been updated to reflect 2015 salaries and a more appropriate long-term incentive vesting level for ‘on target’ performance; • the section on Directors’ service agreements has been updated with details of current directors’ service contracts and engagement letters; and • the scope for making ad hoc awards has been clarified, as per the assurance published in April 2014 (available on the ‘AGM’ section of the Company’s website). Summary of remuneration policy for executive directors How the element supports our strategic objectives Operation of the element Base salary To attract and retain talent Base salary is paid in 12 equal monthly instalments during the year. capable of delivering the Salaries are normally reviewed annually and any changes are effective generally from 1 April in the financial Group’s strategy. year. Rewards executives for the Salary levels are set taking into account role, experience, responsibility and performance, both of the performance of their role. individual and the Company, and also taking into account market conditions and the salaries for comparable roles in similar companies. Pension To provide retirement The Company operates a stakeholder scheme; at the discretion of the Committee, this may be paid as a funding. cash allowance. The Company has closed its defined benefit scheme to new members. David Broadbent is a deferred member. Benefits To provide marketThe Company pays the cost of providing the benefits on a monthly, annual or one-off basis. competitive benefits that All benefits are non-pensionable. support the executive directors to undertake their role. Annual bonus To motivate and reward Measures and targets are set annually and pay-out levels are determined by the Remuneration Committee sustainable profit growth after the year end based on performance against those targets. and the achievement of The Remuneration Committee may, in exceptional circumstances, amend the bonus pay-out should this specific personal objectives not, in the view of the Committee, reflect overall business performance or individual contribution. linked to the Company’s Two-thirds of the total bonus amount is deferred for three years in Company shares. The remaining third is strategy. paid in cash. Payments are made around three months after the end of the financial year end to which An element of compulsory they relate. deferral to provide a link to Deferred shares normally vest after three years and may be adjusted to reflect the impact of any variation of the creation of sustainable share capital, in accordance with the plan rules. long-term value creation. On the vesting of awards, executive directors receive an amount (in cash or shares) equal to the dividends paid or payable between the date of grant and the vesting of the award on the number of shares which have vested. There are provisions for clawback in the event of a restatement or material misjudgement of performance. 79 Executive directors The remuneration of executive directors is determined by the Remuneration Committee, taking into account Group performance, individual performance and competitive market practice as well as the pay and conditions of the Group’s employees and the importance attached to the retention and attraction of high-calibre individuals. The total annual remuneration of executive directors comprises base salary, a cash bonus and deferred bonus shares, shares granted under long-term incentive plans, pension provisions and other benefits. Corporate Governance Performance metrics used, weighting and time period Maximum potential value and payment at threshold applicable Normally salary increases take into account increases awarded across the Group None, although overall performance of the and are normally in line with increases awarded to UK employees. individual is considered by the Committee when By exception, higher awards may be made at the Committee’s discretion to reflect setting and reviewing salaries annually. individual circumstances. For example: • changes to role which increase scope and/or responsibility; • development and performance in the role; and • responding to competitive market pressures. There is no prescribed maximum increase. Company contribution is 20% of base salary. None. The standard benefit package includes: None. • life assurance of 4x salary; • car allowance; • long-term disability cover; • private medical cover for executive director and immediate family; and • annual medical. Additional benefits may also be provided in certain circumstances which may include relocation expenses, housing allowance and school fees. Other benefits may be offered if considered appropriate and reasonable by the Committee. Maximum opportunity: 100% of base salary. Performance is measured over the financial year. On target opportunity: 80% of base salary. Performance is assessed using the following Threshold opportunity: 20% of base salary. criteria: 50% is based on achievement of financial measures; and 50% is based on achievement of personal objectives linked to achievement of the Company strategy. The award for achievement of personal objectives is conditional upon achievement of the financial measures (i.e. the maximum achievable on the personal objectives cannot exceed the amount achieved under the financial measures element). 80 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT continued How the element supports our Operation of the element strategic objectives Deferred Share Plan (‘DSP’) Share Matching Scheme To strengthen the link to the Deferred bonus share awards are eligible to receive matching shares on a one-for-one basis. creation of sustainable The Remuneration Committee has discretion to decide whether and to what extent targets have been met, long-term value creation and if an exceptional event occurs that causes the Committee to consider that the targets are no longer provided under the appropriate, the Committee may adjust them. deferred element of the Awards may also be adjusted in the event of a variation of capital, in accordance with the plan rules. annual bonus. On the vesting of awards, executive directors receive an amount (in cash or shares) equal to the dividends paid or payable between the date of grant and the vesting of the award on the number of shares which have vested. The DSP has provision for clawback in the event of restatement of the Company’s Financial Statements or a material misjudgement of performance. Long-term Incentive Plans (‘LTIP’) Performance Share Plan (‘PSP’) and Approved Company Share Option Plan (HMRC approved) (‘CSOP’) To motivate and reward Annual grant of awards, part of which are under the CSOP, generally made as nil-cost options over a longer-term performance, specific number of shares. and support shareholder The Remuneration Committee has discretion to decide whether and to what extent targets have been met, alignment through and if an exceptional event occurs that causes the Committee to consider that the targets are no longer incentivising absolute appropriate, the Committee may adjust them. shareholder value-creation. Awards may also be adjusted in the event of a variation of capital, in accordance with the plan rules. On vesting, 50% of shares that vest are available for exercise immediately and 50% are available 12 months later. On exercise of a nil-cost option following the first anniversary of the end of the vesting period, executive directors receive an amount in cash equal to the dividends paid or payable in the 12 month period following vesting of the award on the number of shares which have vested. The PSP has provisions for clawback in the event of restatement of the Company’s Financial Statements or a material misjudgement of performance. All-Employee Share Plan (‘SAYE’) To provide an opportunity UK-based executive directors are entitled to participate in a UK tax approved all-employee plan, The for executive directors to International Personal Finance plc Employee Savings-Related Share Option Scheme, under which they invest voluntarily in the make monthly savings over a period of three or five years linked to the grant of an option over Company Company. shares with an option price which can be at a discount of up to 20% of the market value of shares on grant. Options may be adjusted to reflect the impact of any variation of share capital. Shareholding requirement To support shareholder Executive directors are expected to acquire a beneficial shareholding over time. alignment by encouraging Shares which have vested unconditionally under the Company’s equity schemes will be taken into account our directors to align with with effect from the date of vesting (but not before). shareholders. 50% of all share awards vesting under any of the Company’s equity incentive schemes (net of exercise costs, income tax and social security contributions) must be retained until the shareholding requirement is met. Executive directors serving as non-executive directors To encourage selfWith the consent of the Board, executive directors may hold one non-executive directorship in an individual development and allow for capacity and will retain any fees earned. the introduction of external insight and practice. Provisions of previous policy that will continue to apply – LTIP Awards made in 2011 and 2012 To motivate and reward The outstanding awards under the LTIP will continue to form part of the remuneration policy until vesting. longer-term performance, and support shareholder alignment through incentivising absolute shareholder value-creation. 81 Maximum potential value and payment at threshold Performance metrics used, weighting and time period applicable Vesting is dependent on service and performance conditions. Matching shares vest on the same basis as for Maximum opportunity: one-for-one match on awarded shares (two-thirds of bonus the PSP and CSOP. earned). This is equivalent to up to 67% of salary for executive directors. 25% of the award vests at threshold performance. Corporate Governance In normal circumstances, annual award levels for executive directors are 125% of base Service and performance conditions must be salary at the time of grant. met over a three-year period. The rules of the plan permit annual individual grants of up to 150% of base salary. Performance is assessed against three The Committee retains the discretion to make awards up to the individual limit under independently measured metrics which are the plan and would expect to consult with significant investors if awards were to be weighted equally: made routinely above normal levels, as the Committee did prior to increasing award 1/3 absolute TSR performance; levels for 2013. 1/3 cumulative EPS growth; and Vesting is dependent on service and performance conditions. 1/3 growth in revenue less impairment. 25% of the award vests at threshold performance. The targets are set by the Committee. Details of the targets for awards granted in 2014 are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration. Targets for future years will be set out in the Directors’ Annual Remuneration Report of the relevant year. A six-month averaging period is used for calculating TSR. Participation limits are those set by the UK tax authorities from time to time. Currently None. this is £500 per month. The current shareholding requirement for executive directors is 200% of base salary. Absolute TSR growth measure only, subject to the Committee being satisfied that the Company’s absolute TSR performance is a fair reflection of the performance. 82 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT continued Non-executive directors The Board reviews non-executive directors’ fees periodically in the light of fees payable in comparable companies and the importance attached to the retention and attraction of high-calibre individuals as non-executive directors. Non-executive directors receive no other benefits and take no part in any discussion or decision concerning their own fees. The Remuneration Committee (under the chairmanship of the Senior Independent Director) reviews the Chairman’s fees. Fees were last increased on 1 October 2013 for the Chairman and 1 January 2014 for the non-executive directors. Summary of remuneration policy for non-executive directors Element Purpose Operation Fees To attract and retain a Fees are paid on a per annum basis and are not varied for the number of high-calibre Chairman and days worked. non-executive directors by The level of the Chairman’s fee is reviewed periodically by the Committee offering market competitive (in the absence of the Chairman) and the executive directors. fees. The Chairman and executive directors review non-executive directors’ fees periodically in the light of fees payable in comparable companies or to reflect changes in scope of role and/or responsibility. As approved at the 2014 AGM, the maximum annual aggregate fee level for all non-executive directors allowed by the Company’s Articles of Association is £650,000. The Senior Independent Director and chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee are paid an additional fee to reflect their extra responsibilities. Any non-executive director who performs services which, in the opinion of the Board, go beyond the ordinary duties of a director may be paid such additional remuneration as the Board may authorise. Fees are paid on a quarterly basis. Shareholding To support shareholder Non-executive directors are expected to acquire a beneficial requirement alignment by encouraging shareholding equivalent to 100% of their director’s fee within three years of our directors to align with appointment. shareholders. Notes to the policy table Performance measures and targets The Committee selects annual bonus performance conditions that are central to the achievement of the Company’s key strategic initiatives for the year and reflect both financial and non-financial objectives. To balance this, the performance conditions for the LTIP are linked to long-term value creation: TSR aligns with the Company’s focus on shareholder value creation; EPS provides strong line-of-sight for executives and supports the Company’s long-term strategy. Revenue less impairment supports the Company’s focus on sustainable growth. The performance targets are determined annually by the Committee and are set typically at a level that is stretching and achievable, taking into account the Company’s strategic priorities and the economic environment in which the Company operates. Targets are normally set with reference to a range of data points, including the budget, broker forecasts, historical performance, and incentive performance ranges at the Company’s comparators, where disclosed. The Board is of the opinion that the performance measures and targets for the annual bonus are commercially sensitive in respect of the Company and that it would be detrimental to the interests of the Company to disclose them during the financial year. This is particularly so because the majority of the Company’s competitors are unlisted. 83 Total remuneration opportunity The tables below set out an illustration of the remuneration policy for 2015 in line with the remuneration policy above and include base salary, pension, benefits and incentives. The tables provide an illustration of the proportion of total remuneration made up of each component of the remuneration policy and the value of each component. Benefits are calculated as per the single figure of remuneration. Three scenarios have been illustrated for each executive director: ‘Fixed’, ‘On target’ and ‘Maximum’. CEO CCO CFO Fixed £0.6M Fixed £0.4M Fixed £0.4M On target £1.3M On target £0.8M On target £0.8M Maximum £2.1M Maximum £1.4M Maximum £1.3M Corporate Governance 0 0.5 1 1.5 2 2.5 0 0.3 0.6 0.9 1.2 1.5 0 0.3 0.6 0.9 1.2 1.5 Base salary Benefits Pension Annual bonus Matching shares LTIP The charts are indicative, as share price movement and dividend accrual have been excluded. Assumptions made for each scenario are as follows: • Fixed: fixed remuneration only (i.e. latest known salary, benefits and pension). • On target: fixed remuneration plus on target annual bonus (80%) plus threshold PSP/DSP matching shares vesting (assumes deferral of two-thirds of target bonus into DSP). The vesting assumption for the PSP and DSP has been changed from last year’s assumption from midpoint vesting (62.5% of maximum) to threshold vesting (25% of maximum) in order to align better with market practice. • Maximum: fixed remuneration plus full payout of all incentives (i.e. 100% of salary in annual bonus, 125% of salary in PSP and 67% of salary in DSP matching shares). Approach to recruitment remuneration The Committee’s approach to recruitment remuneration is to pay no more than is necessary to attract appropriate candidates to the role. Starting salary will be set in accordance with the approved remuneration policy, based on a combination of market information, internal relativities and individual experience. Thereafter, salary progression will depend on the initial agreed base salary and the normal review process. The maximum level and structure of ongoing variable remuneration will be in accordance with the approved remuneration policy detailed above, i.e. at an aggregate maximum of up to 317% of salary (100% annual bonus, 150% PSP shares and 67% matching shares under the DSP). This limit does not include the value of any buyout arrangements. For external appointments, it may be necessary to ‘buyout’ an individual’s awards from a previous employer. The Company may offer additional cash and/or share-based elements when it considers these to be in the best interest of the Company. In doing so, the Committee would ensure that any such payments have a fair value no higher than that of the awards forgone, and reflect the delivery mechanism (i.e. cash, shares and/or options), time horizons and expected value (i.e. likelihood of meeting any existing performance criteria). Replacement share awards, if used, will be granted using existing share plans. Wherever possible, any new arrangements will be tied into the achievement of Group targets in either/both the annual performance bonus and long-term incentives. As shares under the normal long-term incentive scheme will not be released for up to three years, some cash-based interim long-term arrangement may be provided, but the level will not be more than would otherwise have been paid. This may be used as part of the buyout of existing arrangements. For internal appointments, any variable pay elements awarded in respect of the prior role may be allowed to pay out according to the terms of the scheme, adjusted as relevant to take account of the new appointment. In addition, any other ongoing remuneration obligations existing prior to appointment may continue. 84 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT continued In accordance with the policy approved at the 2014 AGM, the Committee also reserves discretion, in exceptional circumstances, to make additional ad hoc incentives in order to respond to the potential loss of executive talent. Such discretion would be used only in genuinely exceptional circumstances, and any such awards would comprise an additional award under the PSP. See the assurance dated 17 April 2014 published on the ‘AGM’ section of the Company’s website in this regard. Further, the Committee would ensure that the aggregate value of all PSP awards made during any one year, including any additional award made in reliance on this discretion, would not exceed 150% of salary, in line with the disclosed maximum in the policy table. Directors’ service agreements and letters of appointment The Company has historically appointed executive directors on 12 month rolling contracts. Accordingly, Gerard Ryan and David Broadbent have service contracts terminable on this basis. In 2014, the Company changed its policy in relation to service agreements for newly appointed executive directors so that they are terminable upon six months’ notice. Adrian Gardner was the first to be appointed on this basis. All non-executive directors are appointed for three years, subject to re-election by shareholders. The initial three-year period may be extended. The Company can terminate the appointment on three months’ notice. The Company’s Articles of Association require that all directors retire from office if they have not retired at either of the preceding two AGMs. In any event, at the 2015 AGM, all directors will be standing for re-election in compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code. Service agreements are available for inspection at the Company’s registered office. Service agreements and letters of appointment are not reissued when base salaries or fees are changed. Pension arrangements for all of the executive directors have also been amended, as described in the policy table, without reissuing their service agreements. Summary details of dates of directors’ service agreements and letters of appointment are included below. Executive director Date of service agreement Gerard Ryan January 2012 Adrian Gardner January 2014 David Broadbent July 2007 Non-executive director1 Date of current letter of appointment Christopher Rodrigues January 2010 Richard Moat June 2012 Tony Hales May 2013 Nicholas Page May 2013 Cathryn Riley February 2014 Dan O’Connor January 2015 1 Edyta Kurek resigned from the Board on 16 January 2015 Loss of office payments The Company’s policy is to limit severance payments on termination to pre-established contractual arrangements. In the event that the employment of an executive director is terminated, any compensation payable will be determined having regard to the terms of the service contract between the Company and the employee, as well as the rules of any incentive plans. Under normal circumstances, good leavers who do not serve notice are eligible to receive termination payments in lieu of notice based on base salary and contractual benefits. The Company normally expects executive directors to mitigate their loss upon departure. In any specific case that may arise, the Committee will consider carefully any compensatory payments having regard to performance, age, service, health or other circumstances that may be relevant. In the event an executive director leaves for reasons of death, injury, disability, change of control of the Company, or any other reason which the Committee in its absolute discretion permits, any outstanding DSP matching shares and PSP awards will normally vest at the end of the performance period and be pro-rated for time. Performance conditions would apply. However, the Committee has the discretion to allow the award to vest on cessation of employment (on a pro-rata basis) if, in the Committee’s view, the performance conditions are met at that point on a pro-rata basis. The Committee may vest the award on any other basis if it believes there are exceptional circumstances which warrant that. For example, it can be in the interest of the Company for the Board to proactively organise succession and 85 manage an executive director’s departure. When determining the treatment of outstanding awards in those cases, the Committee will take into account the executive director’s level of performance and contribution to the transition. For all other leavers, outstanding PSP awards and DSP matching shares will lapse. The Committee retains discretion to alter these provisions (as permitted by the relevant plan rules) on a case-by-case basis following a review of circumstances and to ensure fairness for both shareholders and participants. Differences in remuneration policy for all employees All employees of the Group are entitled to base salary and benefits appropriate to the market in which they are employed. The maximum opportunity available is based on the seniority and responsibility of the role. LTIP awards are only available to senior management and directors. Consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Company In making remuneration decisions, the Committee also considers the general increases in base salaries taking place Corporate Governance within the Group. While the Company does not consult directly with employees as part of the process of reviewing executive pay, the Committee does receive and take account of employee engagement results as part of their overall assessment of executive director performance. Consideration of shareholder views When determining remuneration, the Committee also takes into account the guidelines of investor bodies and shareholder views. The Committee considers these to be of great importance. The Committee continues to be mindful of shareholder views when determining ongoing remuneration strategy and commits to undergoing shareholder consultation in advance of any significant changes to remuneration policy. ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION Single figure for total remuneration (audited information) The following table sets out the single figure for total remuneration for directors for the financial years ended 31 December 2013 and 2014. Salary/fees Benefits Bonus1 LTIP2 Pension Total £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 Director 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 Executive directors Gerard Ryan 491 460 25 25 364 460 – – 89 92 969 1,037 Adrian Gardner 319 – 23 – 167 – – – 56 – 565 – David Broadbent 326 317 23 23 242 317 530 7423 63 62 1,184 1,461 Non-executive directors Christopher Rodrigues 200 178 – – – – – – – – 200 178 Tony Hales 75 70 – – – – – – – – 75 70 Nicholas Page 70 65 – – – – – – – – 70 65 Edyta Kurek 55 50 – – – – – – – – 55 50 Richard Moat 55 50 – – – – – – – – 55 50 Cathryn Riley4 55 – – – – – – – – – 55 – 1 Bonus payable in respect of the financial year including any deferred element at face value at date of award. Further information about how the level of 2014 award was determined is provided in the additional disclosures section below. 2 The 2014 LTIP value is based on the PSP award that vested in July 2014. Further information about the level of vesting is provided in the additional disclosures section below. 3 This is a corrected amount compared to the £394,000 stated in the 2013 Annual Report and Financial Statements, which was the market price, less option costs, of the PSP and CSOP awards that vested and became exercisable in 2013. The corrected amount shows the market price of the total number of awards at vesting. 4 Cathryn Riley was appointed to the Board on 12 February 2014. In addition to her base fee, she is paid a fee of £10,000 per annum for chairing the Transformation for Growth Committee. 86 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT continued Additional disclosures for single figure for total remuneration table Base salary As reported last year, the Chief Executive Officer’s base salary was increased by 7.9% to £500,000 from 1 April 2014. The scale of this increase was determined on the basis of the Chief Executive Officer’s development and strong performance in his role since appointment in April 2012. During the salary review exercise, the Remuneration Committee noted that the salary was still below market median for a FTSE 250 Chief Executive Officer. Further information is given in the Shareholder context section on page 94. The Chief Commercial Officer’s base salary was increased by 3% to £328,879, which was in line with the increase to UK employees. The Chief Financial Officer’s base salary was not increased from his starting salary of £319,000. As reported on page 91, the base salaries of the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Commercial Officer will increase by 1% with effect from 1 April 2015, whilst the Chief Financial Officer’s base salary will remain unchanged. Benefits The benefits provided to the executive directors included: private healthcare, life assurance, annual medical, long-term disability cover and a cash allowance in lieu of a company car. None of the executive directors received total taxable benefits exceeding 8% of salary in 2014, and it is not anticipated that the cost of benefits provided will exceed this level materially over the remaining term of the remuneration policy. Determination of 2014 annual bonus The maximum award for the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Commercial Officer in 2014 was 100% of salary (80% of salary for on target performance and 20% of salary for threshold performance). During 2014, a balanced scorecard approach was used for the annual bonus whereby 50% of the bonus was calculated on pre-tax profit and, subject always to a minimum profit threshold, the remaining 50% calculated against stretching personal performance objectives. The award for achievement of personal performance objectives is conditional upon achievement of the pre-tax profit element (i.e. the maximum achievable on the personal performance objectives cannot exceed the amount achieved under the pre-tax profit element). Pre-tax profit objectives Pre-tax profit targets were set taking into account the Company’s operating budget, external forecasts for the sector and analysts’ profit forecasts. Targets were designed to be stretching in order to drive desired behaviours and increase motivation and focus. The pre-tax profit targets were: threshold – £114.2 million; on target – £122.9 million; and maximum – £127.5 million. Personal objectives Each director had individual objectives for 2014, together accounting for a maximum of 50% of the total bonus. These objectives reflected key areas of focus for the business and those relevant to each director’s business area to ensure the strategic success of the Company. The table below includes examples of some of these personal objectives. Director Examples of personal objectives 2014 Gerard Ryan Launch of a digital lending business; reduction in funding costs through refinancing of the Eurobond; roll-out of new products, including prepaid cards and insurance; successful management of regulatory challenges. Adrian Gardner Support in connection with new market entry and acquisition; support and delivery of T4G releases and monitoring of financial outcomes; customer profitability analysis; ensuring the Company has access to sufficient funding to enable it to execute its strategy. David Broadbent Entry into at least one new market; successful completion of at least one acquisition; development of a remote (digital) lending channel; development and management of the Company’s change programme. Over the period, profit before tax and exceptional items was £123.5 million, which gave rise to payment under the profit before tax measure of between target and maximum. The Committee also reviewed the performance of the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Commercial Officer against their agreed personal objectives for 2014. 87 After consideration, the Committee awarded bonuses to the executive directors in the amounts shown below for the year ended 31 December 2014: Cash and DSP Financial Individual shares award objectives objectives Total value of – as a – achievement – achievement DSP – face value 2014 annual percentage of as a percentage as a percentage Cash bonus of shares due to bonus maximum bonus of base salary of base salary £000 vest in 2018 £000 available Gerard Ryan 41.2% 33% 121 243 364 74.2% Adrian Gardner 41.2% 11% 56 111 167 52.2% David Broadbent 41.2% 33% 81 161 242 74.2% The Committee did not apply any discretion in relation to the bonus awards. The bonus was payable one-third in cash, and two-thirds in deferred shares which will vest at the end of a three-year period, subject to the executive director not Corporate Governance being dismissed for misconduct. There are also provisions for clawback, with respect to both the cash and deferred elements of the bonus, to be applied for up to three years following release in the event of a restatement of the Company’s Financial Statements or material misjudgement of performance. Pension The Company has two pension schemes, the International Personal Finance plc Pension Scheme (‘the Pension Scheme’) and the International Personal Finance Stakeholder Pension Scheme (‘the Stakeholder Scheme’). New employees are eligible to join the Stakeholder Scheme. The rate of Company pension contribution for any executive director is 20% of base salary. At the discretion of the Remuneration Committee, this may be paid as a cash allowance. The Company’s contributions in respect of Gerard Ryan during 2014 amounted to £89,080, of which £23,175 was paid into personal pension arrangements and £65,905 was paid as a cash allowance. The Company’s contributions in respect of Adrian Gardner during 2014 amounted to £56,063, all of which was paid as a cash allowance. David Broadbent was a member of the final salary section of the Pension Scheme until 1 April 2006 when he began to accrue benefits as a member of the cash balance section. He ceased to be a member of the cash balance section on 31 July 2008 and became a deferred member of the Pension Scheme. The Company’s contributions in respect of David Broadbent during 2014 amounted to £62,533, of which £42,500 was paid into pension arrangements and £20,033 was paid as a cash allowance. Details of David Broadbent’s entitlements under both sections of the Pension Scheme are as follows: Final salary £ Accrued pension at 31 December 2014 14,807 Accrued pension at 31 December 2013 14,418 Increase in accrued pension during the year (net of inflation) – Director’s contributions in 2014 – Cash balance £ Accrued cash balance lump sum at 31 December 2014 105,561 Accrued cash balance lump sum at 31 December 2013 102,786 Increase in cash balance lump sum during the year (net of inflation) – Director’s contributions in 2014 – David Broadbent was age 46 at the end of the year. He became a deferred member of the pension scheme on 1 August 2008. Notes: 1 The cash balance entitlement has been calculated in line with our current understanding of David Broadbent’s accrued benefits. 2 The change in accrued pension and accrued cash balance lump sum, net of inflation, during the year reflects that the relevant inflation benefit revaluation for the year uses CPI over the year to September 2013, which was 2.7%. 3 Normal retirement age is 65 for David Broadbent. Early retirement can be taken from age 55 and the accrued final salary pension will then be reduced to take account of its early payment. 4 As David Broadbent did not accrue any benefits within the Scheme during the year to 31 December 2014, the value of his Scheme benefits under the disclosure requirements for large and medium-sized quoted companies is zero. 88 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT continued Share options Awards vesting during 2014 The LTIP amount included in the 2014 single total figure of remuneration relates to the PSP nil-cost option award granted in 2011. Vesting was dependent on absolute TSR performance over three years from the date of grant ending on 28 July 2014. The performance achieved against the performance targets is shown below. Performance condition Threshold Maximum Achieved Absolute TSR growth 30% TSR over 3 years 60% TSR over 3 years 75% TSR 33% vests 100% vests 100% vested Based upon absolute TSR of 75%, 100% of the award vested when tested on 29 July 2014. The Committee was satisfied that the TSR growth was a fair reflection of performance. 50% of the vested award was released after the end of the performance period, with 50% deferred for an additional 12 months. As disclosed in the Directors’ Remuneration Policy, executive directors are expected to acquire a beneficial shareholding over time equivalent to a minimum of 200% of salary. 50% of all share awards vesting under any of the Company’s equity incentive schemes (net of exercise costs, income tax and social security contributions) must be retained until the requirement is met. Executive directors’ current holdings against the guideline are disclosed on page 92. Awards granted during 2014 Awards were made in the financial year ending 31 December 2014 under the LTIP (PSP/CSOP), DSP and the SAYE Scheme. Detail of these awards is provided below. LTIP In line with policy, executive directors were granted LTIP awards, structured as PSP and CSOP options, in March 2014. The resulting number of LTIP shares and associated performance conditions are set out below: Number of PSP Number End of nil-cost of CSOP Face value3 Percentage of performance Threshold Weighting Performance options1 options2 £ base salary period vesting (of award) conditions4 25% 1/3 Absolute TSR Cumulative EPS 25% 1/3 growth 31 December Growth in revenue Gerard Ryan 110,252 – 579,374 125% 2016 25% 1/3 less impairment 25% 1/3 Absolute TSR Cumulative EPS 25% 1/3 growth 31 December Growth in revenue Adrian Gardner 74,111 5,708 398,747 125% 2016 25% 1/3 less impairment 25% 1/3 Absolute TSR Cumulative EPS 25% 1/3 growth 31 December Growth in revenue David Broadbent 75,067 2,854 399,124 125% 2016 25% 1/3 less impairment 1 The awards are nil-cost options to acquire shares for £nil consideration. 2 The awards are options to acquire shares for their market value at the date of grant, being 526p per share. 3 Valued using the share price at the date of grant (4 March 2014) being 526p per share. For information, for the CSOP options, the fair value was calculated to be £9,294 for £30,000 of options and £4,647 for £15,000 of options (being 31.0% of the grant date face value) at the date of grant using the Black Scholes model. 89 Performance conditions For awards granted during 2014, the awards will vest as follows, with straight-line vesting between the points: Growth in Cumulative revenue less Absolute TSR EPS growth impairment Weighting 1/3 1/3 1/3 Vested at threshold 25% 25% 25% Threshold 30% over 3 years 6% p.a. 5% p.a. Stretch (100% vesting) 60% over 3 years 15% p.a. 12% p.a. DSP In 2014, two-thirds of the annual bonus earned in respect of 2013 (i.e. 67% of salary) was deferred in shares and attracted performance-based matching shares on a one-for-one basis. There are no further performance conditions Corporate Governance attached to the vesting of the deferred shares. The matching awards will vest only to the extent that the performance conditions are satisfied, being the same three measures as set out in the LTIP section above. The following table sets out details of awards of nil-cost options made during the year under the DSP: Amount vesting Threshold Maximum Face value performance performance End of performance Date of award £ (% of face value) (% of face value) period Gerard Ryan 14 March 2014 Deferred: 306,750 Matching: 306,750 25% 100% 31 December 2016 David Broadbent 14 March 2014 Deferred: 211,317 Matching: 211,317 25% 100% 31 December 2016 The face value was calculated using the share price the day before the day of grant of 528p. SAYE As noted in the remuneration policy, UK-based executive directors are entitled to participate in the Company’s approved all-employee plan. During the course of the year, both Adrian Gardner and David Broadbent were granted options. Loss of office payments (audited information) No payments for loss of office were made to any directors during 2014. Payments to past directors (audited information) No payments to any past directors were made during 2014. Recruitment of new executive director Adrian Gardner joined the Board as Chief Financial Officer on 2 January 2014. He joined on a salary of £319,000 p.a., a maximum bonus opportunity of 100% of salary, eligibility for a PSP award of 125% of base salary and a defined contribution pension of 20% of salary (which he elected to receive as a cash allowance). The remuneration is fully in line with the stated remuneration policy. Recruitment of new non-executive director Cathryn Riley joined the Board as a non-executive director on 12 February 2014. She joined on a fee of £55,000 p.a.. In addition, the Committee approved payment of an additional fee of £10,000 p.a. in recognition of her chairmanship of the Transformation for Growth Committee with effect from 1 May 2014. The fee will continue to be paid until such time as Cathryn’s chairmanship of the committee ends and/or the committee is disbanded. 90 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT continued Percentage change in Chief Executive Officer’s remuneration The table below shows how the percentage change in the Chief Executive Officer’s salary, benefits and bonus between 2013 and 2014 compared with the percentage change in the average of each of those components of pay for a group of employees. The Committee has selected the UK senior management population plus the country boards (around 98 people) for this comparison, due to the structure of the remuneration package. Chief Executive All employees To 31 December 2014 Percentage change Percentage change £’000 (2014 vs 2013) (2014 vs 2013) Salary 491 6.7% 3.8% Benefits 25 0.04% 0.3% Bonus 364 (20.9%) (19.1%) Performance graph and table The graph below compares the TSR of the Company with the companies comprising the FTSE 250 Index for the six-year period ended 31 December 2014. This index was chosen for comparison because the Company is a member of this index and has been for almost all of the time since its shares were listed on 16 July 2007. Total Shareholder Return vs FTSE 250 500 400 300 200 100 0 31 Dec 2008 31 Dec 2009 31 Dec 2010 31 Dec 2011 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 14 International Personal Finance FTSE 250 The table below shows the corresponding Chief Executive Officer remuneration, as well as the annual variable element award rates and long-term vesting rates against maxima over the same period. Annual bonus CEO single figure payout LTIP vesting of remuneration (as % maximum (as % of maximum £’000 opportunity) opportunity) 2014 Gerard Ryan 969 74.2% – 2013 Gerard Ryan 1,037 100% – 2012 Gerard Ryan 889 80% – John Harnett 718 – – 2011 John Harnett 943 67% – 2010 John Harnett 952 80% – 2009 John Harnett 603 – – Notes: Gerard Ryan was appointed Chief Executive Officer on 1 April 2012. John Harnett resigned on 31 March 2012. 91 Relative spend on pay The table below shows the expenditure and percentage change in overall spend on employee remuneration and dividend plus share buybacks: Percentage £million unless otherwise stated 2014 2013 change Overall expenditure on pay 167.5 164.7 1.7%1 Dividend paid in the year 27.9 21.9 27.4% Share buyback 45.4 60.0 (24.3%) 1 The percentage increase at constant exchange rates is 6.5%. STATEMENT OF IMPLEMENTATION OF DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION POLICY IN THE FOLLOWING FINANCIAL YEAR Corporate Governance Effective from 1 April 2015, the base salary for the Chief Executive Officer will be £505,000 and the Chief Commercial Officer £332,168. The increases of 1% applied to the base salaries are in line with the anticipated award to UK employees. The base salary for the Chief Financial Officer will remain unchanged at £319,000, reflecting the fact that he is still relatively new and developing in his role. Pension and benefits are in line with benefits stated in the policy table. There was no change in the maximum opportunity under our annual bonus plan. The performance measures remain 50% profit before tax and 50% on personal objectives, unchanged from 2014. Targets are not disclosed on a forwardlooking basis because they are considered by the Board to be commercially sensitive, in particular resulting from the fact that the majority of the Company’s competitors are unlisted. It is expected that the LTIP awards granted to the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Commercial Officer during 2012 will vest in 2015. There was no change in the normal and maximum PSP opportunity for executive directors and awards of up to 125% of base salary are expected to be made in 2015. DSP matching awards in respect of the deferred element of the annual bonus are also expected to be made. As in 2014, performance will be assessed against three equally weighted, independently measured metrics: one-third absolute TSR; one-third EPS growth; and one-third growth in revenue less impairment. Targets have been reviewed and will remain the same for awards made in 2015: Growth in Cumulative revenue less Absolute TSR EPS growth impairment Weighting 1/3 1/3 1/3 Vested at threshold 25% 25% 25% Threshold 30% over 3 years 6% p.a. 5% p.a. Stretch (100% vesting) 60% over 3 years 15% p.a. 12% p.a. Dan O’Connor joined the Board as a non-executive director and Chairman-elect on 2 January 2015. Dan’s initial fee level is £55,000 p.a., in line with the ‘standard’ fee payable to non-executive directors. His fee will increase to £200,000 p.a., the current Chairman’s fee, following Christopher Rodrigues’s retirement and Dan’s appointment as Chairman at the 2015 AGM. Other directorships The Company will normally permit an executive director to hold one non-executive directorship and to retain the fee from that appointment, subject to the prior approval of the Board. Adrian Gardner was a non-executive director of Amdocs Limited during the 2014 financial year and was permitted to retain the fee received from this position. 92 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT continued Directors’ shareholdings and share interests (audited information) The interests of each person who was a director of the Company as at 31 December 2014 (together with interests held by his or her connected persons) were: Shares held Options held Vested but Unvested Unvested not yet and subject and Unvested and exercisable Vested and Current to subject to subject to and subject exercisable, Shareholding shareholding Owned performance deferral continued to continued but not yet required (% salary/ Requirement outright conditions1 only employment employment exercised (% salary) fee)1 met Executive Directors Gerard Ryan 300,000 614,929 112,771 7,777 – – 200 275 Yes Adrian Gardner 15,000 79,819 – 6,902 – – 200 21 Yes2 David Broadbent 145,758 381,087 134,954 6,902 48,317 – 200 267 Yes NonExecutive Directors Christopher Rodrigues 218,562 – – – – – 100 491 Yes Tony Hales 50,000 – – – – – 100 300 Yes Edyta Kurek3 3,879 – – – – – 100 32 No Richard Moat 15,000 – – – – – 100 123 Yes Nicholas Page 50,674 – – – – – 100 325 Yes Cathryn Riley 14,795 – – – – – 100 121 Yes 1 Based on a share price of 449.6 pence being the closing price on 31 December 2014. 2 Executive directors are expected to acquire a beneficial shareholding over time with 50% of all share awards vesting to be retained until the requirement is met. 3 Edyta Kurek resigned from the Board on 16 January 2015 In addition, the following director had interests in Euro Medium Term Notes as follows: Euro Notes as Euro Notes as at 31 at 31 December December Director 2014 2013 Nicholas Page €400,000 There were no changes to these interests between 31 December 2014 and 25 February 2015. 93 Executive directors’ interests in the company share options Awards Awards held at 31 held at 31 December Awarded Exercised December Performance Starting Exercise Date of award 2013 in 2014 in 2014 2014 condition period TSR (p) price (p) Exercise period Gerard Ryan PSP 2 Mar 2012 270,445 – – 270,445 2 Mar 2012 193 – 2 Mar 2015 – 1 Mar 2015 – 1 Mar 2022 1 Aug 2013 109,316 – – 109,316 1 Aug 2013 487 – 1 Aug 2016 – 31 Jul 2016 – 31 Jul 2023 4 Mar 2014 110,252 110,252 4 Mar 2014 564 – 4 Mar 2017 – 31 Dec 2016 – 3 Mar 2024 CSOP 2 Mar 2012 12,145 – – 12,145 2 Mar 2012 193 247 2 Mar 2015 Corporate Governance – 1 Mar 2015 – 1 Mar 2022 DSP 8 Apr 2013 109,350 – 109,350 – – – 8 Apr 2016 – 7 Apr 2023 14 Mar 2014 – 116,192 – 116,192 – – – 14 Mar 2017 – 13 Mar 2024 SAYE 29 Mar 2012 7,777 – – 7,777 – – 198 1 Jun 2019 – 30 Nov 2019 Total 509,033 226,444 – 735,477 Adrian Gardner PSP 4 Mar 2014 – 74,111 – 74,111 4 Mar 2014 564 – 4 Mar 2017 – 31 Dec 2016 – 3 Mar 2024 CSOP 4 Mar 2014 – 5,708 – 5,708 4 Mar 2014 564 525 4 Mar 2017 – 31 Dec 2016 – 3 Mar 2024 SAYE 28 Mar 2014 – 6,902 – 6,902 – – 439 1 Nov 2019 – 31 Mar 2020 Total – 86,721 – 86,721 94 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT continued Date of award Awards Awarded Exercised Awards Performance Starting Exercise Exercise period held at 31 in 2014 in 2014 held at 31 condition period TSR (p) price (p) December December 2013 2014 David Broadbent PSP 23 Jul 2010 58,368 – 58,368 0 23 Jul 2010 221 – 23 Jul 2013 – 22 Jul 2013 – 22 Jul 2020 29 Jul 2011 96,633 – 48,316 48,317 29 Jul 2011 357 – 29 Jul 2014 – 28 Jul 2014 – 28 Jul 2021 8 Aug 2012 105, 457 – – 105,457 8 Aug 2012 244 – 8 Aug 2015 – 7 Aug 2015 – 7 Aug 2022 1 Aug 2013 62,755 – – 62,755 1 Aug 2013 487 – 1 Aug 2016 – 31 Jul 2016 – 31 Jul 2023 4 Mar 2014 – 75,067 – 75,067 4 Mar 2014 564 – 4 Mar 2017 – 31 Dec 2016 – 3 Mar 2024 CSOP 23 Jul 2010 7,208 – 7,208 0 23 Jul 2010 221 208 23 Jul 2013 – 22 Jul 2013 – 22 Jul 2020 4 Mar 2014 – 2,854 – 2,854 4 Mar 2014 564 525 4 Mar 2017 – 31 Dec 2016 – 3 Mar 2024 DSP 24 Mar 2011 42,504 – 42,504 0 – – – 24 Mar 2014 – 23 Mar 2021 27 Mar 2012 111,312 – – 111,312 – – – 27 Mar 2015 – 26 Mar 2022 8 Apr 2013 78,552 – – 78,552 – – – 8 Apr 2016 – 7 Apr 2023 14 Mar 2014 – 80,044 – 80,044 – – – 14 Mar 2017 – 13 Mar 2024 SAYE 28 Mar 2014 – 6,902 – 6,902 – – 439 1 Nov 2019 – 31 Mar 2020 Total 562,789 164,867 156,396 571,260 The mid-market closing price of the Company’s shares on 31 December 2014 was 449.6 pence and the range during 2014 was 427.5 pence to 631.5 pence. The aggregate gains of directors arising from the exercise of options granted under the PSP, CSOP and DSP in the year totalled £808,472. Shareholder context At the 2014 AGM, The 2013 Annual Report on Remuneration received a 63.4% vote in favour, including votes cast at the proxy’s discretion. Feedback from shareholders suggested the dissent reflected two factors: the Chief Executive Officer’s 7.9% salary increase for 2014 and his exceptional PSP award of 150% of salary in 2013. In light of this result, the Company wrote to its top ten shareholders following the AGM to provide some additional context around the remuneration decisions made by the Committee during 2013, and offered an opportunity to discuss further. The Company reiterated its commitment to consulting with major shareholders ahead of any future awards of an exceptional nature under the LTIP. The Company received strong support from its shareholders at the 2014 AGM for its first Directors’ Remuneration Policy under the new reporting regulations, with a 97.1% vote in favour. The table below summarises voting outcomes at the 2014 AGM (% of total votes cast). For Against Withheld Directors’ Remuneration Policy 97.1% 2.9% 0.2% Annual Report on Remuneration 63.4% 36.6% 3.2% 95 Consideration by the directors of matters relating to directors’ remuneration The following directors were members of the Remuneration Committee when matters relating to the directors’ remuneration for the year were being discussed and are considered to be independent: • Tony Hales (Chairman) • Richard Moat • Nicholas Page • Cathryn Riley (from 20 February 2014) The Committee received assistance from Helen Thornton (Group Director of Human Resources), Tim Pearson (former Group Head of Reward) and Ben Murphy (Company Secretary) and other members of management, who may attend meetings by invitation, except when matters relating to their own remuneration are being discussed. The main activities of the Committee during the year were: Corporate Governance • assessed performance of executive directors and determined annual bonuses for 2014; • established the executive directors’ bonus arrangements for 2015; • set bonus targets for the executive directors for 2015; • reviewed remuneration benchmarking and set base salaries for executive directors; • approved share awards for 2014; • approved the director fee for Cathryn Riley and for the incoming Chairman-elect, Dan O’Connor; • engaged with shareholders following the significant vote against the 2013 annual Remuneration Report at the 2014 AGM; and • considered remuneration market trends and corporate governance developments. Advisor to the Committee Kepler Associates (‘Kepler’) was appointed by the Committee as its independent remuneration advisor in 2007, and its appointment was confirmed following a competitive selection process in 2010. During the year, Kepler provided independent advice on remuneration matters including incentive design, current market practice, target setting and monitoring of total shareholder return. The fees paid to Kepler in respect of advice to the Committee in 2014 (based on time and materials) totalled £21,670 (excl. VAT). Kepler also provided advice to management in connection with TSR performance updates and CSOP valuations. The fees paid in this respect during 2014 were £2,900 (excl VAT). Kepler is a founding member and signatory to the Code of Conduct for Remuneration Consultants, details of which can be found at www.remunerationconsultantsgroup.com. The Committee is satisfied that the advice it has received has been objective and independent and that Kepler does not have any connections with the Company that may impair its independence. Approved by the Board on 25 February 2015. Ben Murphy Company Secretary 25 February 2015 96 96 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S AUDITOR’S REPORT REPORT International Personal International Personal Finance Annual Finance plc plc Annual Report and Financial Report and Financial Statements Statements 2014 2014 the members to the members of InternationalPersonal of International PersonalFinance Financeplc plc Opinion on Financial Statements of International Personal Finance plc Going concern In our opinion: As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors’ statement within the Financial Review on page 48 that the Group is a  the Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the state of the going concern. We confirm that: Group’s and of the Parent Company’s affairs as at 31 December 2014 and of the Group’s profit for the year then ended;  we have concluded that the directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the Financial Statements is  the Group Financial Statements have been properly prepared in appropriate; and accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union;  we have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt on the Group’s ability to continue as a going  the Parent Company Financial Statements have been properly concern. prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the However, because not all future events or conditions can be Companies Act 2006; and predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern.  the Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those The Financial Statements comprise the consolidated income that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of statement, statements of comprehensive income, balance sheets, resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement statements of changes in equity, cash flow statements, accounting team. policies and the related notes 1 to 31. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Parent Company Financial Statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Impairment of receivables Determining impairment provisions against customer receivables is We tested the operating effectiveness of controls over the provisioning judgemental, requiring an estimate to be made of the likely loss within process, including using IT specialists within the audit team to test the the lending portfolios. key IT controls over the systems in which the source customer receivable data is maintained. We also tested the extraction of source We have identified the key risk as being the estimation of future data from the core lending systems to identify whether the data was customer default rates for customers in arrears, and hence expected accurate and complete. future cash flows for each portfolio. In particular, there is a risk that the We also evaluated the appropriateness of management’s key management information used to make this judgement is either assumptions used in the impairment calculations for customer incomplete or inaccurate, that the debt receivables are incorrectly receivables, including the estimation of customer default rates and categorised in terms of their arrears status, or that the cash expected future cash flows for each portfolio. This involved assessing forecasting curves used do not appropriately predict actual future management’s tests of historical forecasting accuracy, and recash flows. performing a sample of these tests using independent extracts of customer receivable collections data. We also challenged the appropriateness of historical data used to predict future collections performance by reference to internal and external factors affecting the business. In addition, we recalculated a sample of portfolio carrying values in accordance with the approved impairment provisioning policy, tested the accuracy of the arrears status of loan receivables, and assessed the implications of the above work on the accuracy and predictive nature of the cash forecasting curves. 97 97 Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Revenue recognition and calculation of the effective interest rate The recognition of revenue on loans using an effective interest rate We tested the operating effectiveness of controls in relation to method requires significant judgement by management to determine revenue recognition, and the mechanical accuracy of the models key assumptions, in particular the expected life of each loan and used to calculate the effective interest rates. This involved the related cash flows. recalculation of a sample of product and cohort effective interest These cash flows include interest charges, home collection charges, rates based upon an extract of source data from the core lending and early settlement rebates. We have identified the key risks to be system. We also tested the completeness and accuracy of cash flow the appropriateness of management judgements used in the information included within the models. effective interest rate calculation, in particular the average lives used, In addition we assessed the appropriateness of management’s key and the accuracy and completeness of source data used in the assumptions used to calculate the effective interest rate by reference calculation. to the impact of recently observable early redemption behaviour on the expected lives of loan receivables. This focused on challenging average lives used in the calculation through comparing these against historical customer behaviour, and by performing analytical procedures to assess the sensitivity of changing the average lives. Deferred tax accounting The recognition and measurement of deferred tax assets is Utilising tax specialists within the audit team we tested the recognition judgemental as it is partly reliant upon the underlying profit forecasts and measurement of the deferred tax asset. This involved confirming of the Group. the nature of the timing differences giving rise to the assets and that the profit forecasts used to justify the recognition of the assets were consistent with the Board-approved underlying profit forecasts of the Group, and challenging the basis of these forecasts. Provisions for uncertain tax positions and regulatory matters As a result of enhanced supervisory powers for the local regulators We considered the completeness of any taxation or regulatory and taxation authorities, and an increased focus upon product provisions required by reference to internal and publically available design and matters relating to the fair treatment of customers, there is external information, and challenged the appropriateness of an increased risk in relation to the completeness of provisions against management’s key assumptions. taxation or regulatory exposures in the various jurisdictions in which This work included considering recent regulatory and tax authority the Group operates. announcements, reviewing the Group’s complaints logs, reviewing Financial Statements In particular, significant judgement is required in relation to the level of correspondence with local regulators and tax authorities to identify provisions required against taxation exposures, and whether any any potential areas where provisions could arise, and reviewing any provisions are required for customer remediation. ongoing court cases. In addition, we reviewed the key regulatory and taxation risks identified by management, met with the Group legal department and relevant management across the Group to evaluate any identified exposures, and reviewed relevant Board minutes to assess the completeness of relevant provisions in place. This work involved the utilisation of taxation and regulatory expertise within the audit teams in the various countries in which the Group operates. Last year our report included a risk which is not included in our report Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the this year: hedge accounting, which we do not deem significant in the context of our audit of the Financial Statements as a whole, and not to current year on the basis of the materiality and complexity of the express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures. Our opinion arrangements entered into. on the Financial Statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the individual matters. significant issues considered by the Audit and Risk Committee discussed on page 49. 98 98 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S AUDITOR’S REPORTREPORT International Personal International Personal Finance Annual Finance plc plc Annual Report and Financial Financial Statements Statements 2014 continued Report and 2014 Our application of materiality Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the Financial In our opinion: Statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a  the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced. been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in 2006; and evaluating the results of our work.  the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ We determined materiality for the Group to be £6.3 million (2013: £5.0 Report for the financial year for which the Financial Statements are million), which is 5% (2013: 5%) of normalised pre-tax profit, and 1.7% prepared is consistent with the Financial Statements. (2013: 1.5%) of equity. Pre-tax profit has been normalised by adjusting for the £23.3 million exceptional loss relating to the refinancing of the Eurobond and bank facilities. Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records We agreed with the Audit and Risk Committee that we would report to Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in the Committee all audit differences in excess of £0.1 million (2013: £0.1 our opinion: million), as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds. We also report to the Audit  we have not received all the information and explanations we and Risk Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when require for our audit; or assessing the overall presentation of the Financial Statements.  adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been An overview of the scope of our audit received from branches not visited by us; or Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and  the Parent Company Financial Statements are not in agreement assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level. Based with the accounting records and returns. on that assessment, we focused our Group audit scope primarily on We have nothing to report in respect of these matters. the audit work at six locations, all of which were subject to a full audit. Together with the Group functions, which were also subject to a full Directors’ remuneration audit, these six locations represent the principal business units within Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our the Group’s reportable segments and account for 99.2% of the opinion certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration have not been Group’s net assets, 99.7% of the Group’s revenue, 100.0% of the profit made or the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited before tax generated by the Group’s individual components and is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns. We have 88.0% of the losses before tax. They were also selected to provide an nothing to report arising from these matters. appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of Corporate Governance Statement material misstatement identified above. Our audit work at the six Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the locations was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Company’s individual entity which were lower than Group materiality and ranged compliance with ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance from £0.4 million to £2.9 million (2013: £0.5 million to £3.5 million). Code. We have nothing to report arising from our review. At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there Under International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland), we are were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual financial information of the remaining components not subject to Report is: audit.  materially inconsistent with the information in the audited Financial The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned Statements; or visits that has been designed so that the Senior Statutory Auditor visits each of the locations where the Group audit scope was focused at  apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent least once every three years and the most significant of them at least with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of once every two years. In years when we do not visit a significant performing our audit; or component we will include the component audit partner and team in  otherwise misleading. our team briefing, discuss their risk assessment, and review documentation of the findings from their work. In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors’ statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit and Risk Committee which we consider should have been disclosed. We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements. 99 99 Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Financial Statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors. We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 (UK and Ireland). Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied. Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews. This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed. Scope of the audit of the Financial Statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the Financial Statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the Financial Statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s and the Parent Company’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors; and the overall presentation of the Financial Statements. In addition, we read Financial Statements all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited Financial Statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report. Stephen Williams FCA (Senior Statutory Auditor) for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor Leeds, United Kingdom 25 February 2015 100 100 CONSOLIDATED CONSOLIDATED INCOME INCOME STATEMENT STATEMENT International Personal International Personal Finance Annual Finance plc plc Annual Report and Financial Report and Financial Statements Statements 2014 2014 for for the ended31 yearended the year 31December December 2014 2013 Group Notes £M £M Revenue 1 783.2 746.8 Impairment 1 (220.0) (198.6) Revenue less impairment 563.2 548.2 Finance costs 2 (45.3) (49.0) Other operating costs (120.0) (112.5) Administrative expenses (274.4) (268.6) Total costs (439.7) (430.1) Profit before taxation and exceptional items 1 123.5 118.1 Exceptional items 10 (23.3) 12.4 Profit before taxation 1 100.2 130.5 Tax income – UK 2.5 1.2 Tax expense – overseas (30.9) (36.1) Total tax expense 5 (28.4) (34.9) Profit after taxation attributable to owners of the Company 71.8 95.6 The profit for the period is from continuing operations. 2014 2013 Group Notes pence pence Earnings per share – statutory Basic 6 30.2 39.2 Diluted 6 29.4 38.1 2014 2013 Group Notes pence pence Earnings per share – adjusted for exceptional items Basic 6 38.0 35.5 STATEMENTS STATEMENTS OF OF COMPREHENSIVE COMPREHENSIVE INCOME INCOME for for the ended31 yearended the year 31December December Group Company 2014 2013 2014 2013 Notes £M £M £M £M Profit after taxation attributable to owners of the Company 71.8 95.6 281.9 34.5 Other comprehensive (expense)/income Items that may subsequently be reclassified to income statement Exchange losses on foreign currency translations (42.3) (3.9) – – Net fair value gains/(losses) – cash flow hedges 1.1 (0.5) 0.5 (0.5) Tax (charge)/credit on items that may be reclassified 5 (0.2) 0.3 (0.1) 0.1 Items that will not subsequently be reclassified to income statement Actuarial (losses)/gains on retirement benefit obligation (1.5) 1.9 (0.3) 0.5 Tax credit/(charge) on items that will not be reclassified 5 0.3 (0.4) 0.1 (0.1) Other comprehensive (expense)/income net of taxation (42.6) (2.6) 0.2 – Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to owners of the Company 29.2 93.0 282.1 34.5 The accounting policies and notes 1 to 31 are an integral part of these Financial Statements. BALANCESHEETS BALANCE SHEETS 101 101 as at as at 31 31 December December Group Company 2014 2013 2014 2013 Notes £M £M £M £M Assets Non-current assets Intangible assets 11 10.1 1.8 – – Investment in subsidiaries 12 – – 672.1 669.1 Property, plant and equipment 13 28.2 28.8 0.2 0.3 Deferred tax assets 14 73.7 65.2 1.6 1.8 112.0 95.8 673.9 671.2 Current assets Amounts receivable from customers: – due within one year 723.9 739.1 – – – due in more than one year 36.6 45.7 – – 15 760.5 784.8 – – Derivative financial instruments 21 5.8 6.5 0.9 – Cash and cash equivalents 16 68.8 24.6 34.4 – Other receivables 17 14.1 14.4 480.4 376.4 Current tax assets 1.6 1.3 6.4 8.7 850.8 831.6 522.1 385.1 Total assets 962.8 927.4 1,196.0 1,056.3 Liabilities Current liabilities Borrowings 19 (73.7) (14.4) (34.8) (6.2) Derivative financial instruments 21 (2.7) (3.7) – (0.4) Trade and other payables 18 (95.3) (102.8) (91.2) (265.9) Current tax liabilities (22.9) (25.6) – – (194.6) (146.5) (126.0) (272.5) Financial Statements Non-current liabilities Retirement benefit obligation 24 (2.0) (0.9) (0.4) (0.2) Borrowings 19 (404.6) (386.1) (391.4) (326.1) (406.6) (387.0) (391.8) (326.3) Total liabilities (601.2) (533.5) (517.8) (598.8) Net assets 361.6 393.9 678.2 457.5 Equity attributable to owners of the Company Called-up share capital 26 24.0 24.0 24.0 24.0 Other reserve (22.5) (22.5) 226.3 226.3 Foreign exchange reserve (32.5) 9.8 – – Hedging reserve 0.4 (0.5) – (0.4) Own shares (43.1) (3.0) (43.1) (3.0) Capital redemption reserve 1.7 1.7 1.7 1.7 Retained earnings 433.6 384.4 469.3 208.9 Total equity 361.6 393.9 678.2 457.5 The accounting policies and notes 1 to 31 are an integral part of these Financial Statements. The Financial Statements comprising the consolidated income statement, statements of comprehensive income, balance sheets, statements of changes in equity, cash flow statements, accounting policies and notes 1 to 31 were approved by the Board on 25 February 2015 and were signed on its behalf by: Gerard Ryan Adrian Gardner Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer 102 102 STATEMENTS OF STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY CHANGES IN EQUITY International International Personal Annual Finance plc Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Report and Financial Statements Statements 2014 2014 Called-up Foreign Capital share Other exchange Hedging redemption Retained Total capital reserve reserve reserve Own shares reserve earnings equity Group – Attributable to owners of the Company £M £M £M £M £M £M £M £M At 1 January 2013 24.9 (22.5) 13.7 (0.3) (4.5) 0.8 363.7 375.8 Comprehensive income Profit after taxation for the year – – – – – – 95.6 95.6 Other comprehensive (expense)/income Exchange losses on foreign currency translation – – (3.9) – – – – (3.9) Net fair value losses – cash flow hedges – – – (0.5) – – – (0.5) Actuarial gains on retirement benefit obligation – – – – – – 1.9 1.9 Tax credit/(charge) on other comprehensive income – – – 0.3 – – (0.4) (0.1) Total other comprehensive (expense)/income – – (3.9) (0.2) – – 1.5 (2.6) Total comprehensive (expense)/income for the year – – (3.9) (0.2) – – 97.1 93.0 Transactions with owners Share-based payment adjustment to reserves – – – – – – 5.2 5.2 Deferred tax on share-based payment transactions – – – – – – 0.3 0.3 Own shares acquired (0.9) – – – – 0.9 (60.0) (60.0) Shares granted from employee trust – – – – 1.5 – (1.5) – Dividends paid to Company shareholders – – – – – – (20.4) (20.4) At 31 December 2013 24.0 (22.5) 9.8 (0.5) (3.0) 1.7 384.4 393.9 At 1 January 2014 24.0 (22.5) 9.8 (0.5) (3.0) 1.7 384.4 393.9 Comprehensive income Profit after taxation for the year – – – – – – 71.8 71.8 Other comprehensive (expense)/income Exchange losses on foreign currency translation – – (42.3) – – – – (42.3) Net fair value gains – cash flow hedges – – – 1.1 – – – 1.1 Actuarial losses on retirement benefit obligation – – – – – – (1.5) (1.5) Tax (charge)/credit on other comprehensive income – – – (0.2) – – 0.3 0.1 Total other comprehensive (expense)/income – – (42.3) 0.9 – – (1.2) (42.6) Total comprehensive (expense)/income for the year – – (42.3) 0.9 – – 70.6 29.2 Transactions with owners Share-based payment adjustment to reserves – – – – – – 7.5 7.5 Deferred tax on share-based payment transactions – – – – – – (0.7) (0.7) Own shares acquired – – – – (45.1) – (0.3) (45.4) Shares granted from treasury and employee trust – – – – 5.0 – (5.0) – Dividends paid to Company shareholders – – – – – – (22.9) (22.9) At 31 December 2014 24.0 (22.5) (32.5) 0.4 (43.1) 1.7 433.6 361.6 103 103 Called-up Capital share Other Hedging redemption Retained Total capital reserve reserve Own shares reserve earnings equity Company – Attributable to owners of the Company £M £M £M £M £M £M £M At 1 January 2013 24.9 226.3 – (4.5) 0.8 250.4 497.9 Comprehensive income Profit after taxation for the year – – – – – 34.5 34.5 Other comprehensive (expense)/ income Net fair value losses – cash flow hedges – – (0.5) – – – (0.5) Actuarial gains on retirement benefit obligation – – – – – 0.5 0.5 Tax credit/(charge) on other comprehensive income – – 0.1 – – (0.1) – Total other comprehensive (expense)/income – – (0.4) – – 0.4 – Total comprehensive (expense)/income for the year – – (0.4) – – 34.9 34.5 Transactions with owners Share-based payment adjustment to reserves – – – – – 5.2 5.2 Deferred tax on share-based payment transactions – – – – – 0.3 0.3 Own shares acquired (0.9) – – – 0.9 (60.0) (60.0) Shares granted from employee trust – – – 1.5 – (1.5) – Dividends paid to Company shareholders – – – – – (20.4) (20.4) At 31 December 2013 24.0 226.3 (0.4) (3.0) 1.7 208.9 457.5 At 1 January 2014 24.0 226.3 (0.4) (3.0) 1.7 208.9 457.5 Comprehensive income Profit after taxation for the year – – – – – 281.9 281.9 Other comprehensive income/(expense) Net fair value gains – cash flow hedges – – 0.5 – – – 0.5 Actuarial losses on retirement benefit obligation – – – – – (0.3) (0.3) Tax (charge)/credit on other comprehensive income – – (0.1) – – 0.1 – Financial Statements Total other comprehensive income/(expense) – – 0.4 – – (0.2) 0.2 Total comprehensive income for the year – – 0.4 – – 281.7 282.1 Transactions with owners Share-based payment adjustment to reserves – – – – – 7.5 7.5 Deferred tax on share-based payment transactions – – – – – (0.6) (0.6) Own shares acquired – – – (45.1) – (0.3) (45.4) Shares granted from treasury and employee trust – – – 5.0 – (5.0) – Dividends paid to Company shareholders – – – – – (22.9) (22.9) At 31 December 2014 24.0 226.3 – (43.1) 1.7 469.3 678.2 The other reserve represents the difference between the nominal value of the shares issued when the Company became listed on 16 July 2007 and the fair value of the subsidiary companies acquired in exchange for this share capital. The Company has elected to take the exemption under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to present the Parent Company income statement. The profit after taxation of the Parent Company for the period was £281.9 million (2013: £34.5 million). The accounting policies and notes 1 to 31 are an integral part of these Financial Statements. 104 104 CASH CASHFLOWFLOWSTATEMENTS STATEMENTS InternationalPersonal International PersonalFinance Annual Financeplc plc AnnualReport Reportand andFinancial FinancialStatements Statements2014 2014 for forthe theyear yearended ended3131December December Group Company 2014 2013 2014 2013 Notes £M £M £M £M Cash flows from operating activities Cash generated from/(used in) operating activities 27 121.7 84.2 (291.1) (87.8) Finance costs paid (43.0) (47.0) (39.8) (45.2) Finance income received – – 32.9 29.4 Income tax (paid)/received (44.8) (38.5) 5.9 4.0 Net cash generated from/(used in) operating activities 33.9 (1.3) (292.1) (99.6) Cash flows from investing activities Purchases of property, plant and equipment 13 (11.6) (13.9) – – Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 0.3 0.6 – – Purchases of intangible assets 11 (9.3) – – – Dividends received from subsidiaries – – 300.0 56.4 Net cash (used in)/generated from investing activities (20.6) (13.3) 300.0 56.4 Net cash generated from/(used in) operating and investing activities 13.3 (14.6) 7.9 (43.2) Cash flows from financing activities Proceeds from borrowings 289.3 142.4 264.2 134.9 Repayment of borrowings (190.1) (47.4) (170.3) (12.0) Dividends paid to Company shareholders 7 (22.9) (20.4) (22.9) (20.4) Acquisition of own shares (45.4) (60.0) (45.4) (60.0) Cash received on share options exercised 0.9 0.7 0.9 0.7 Net cash generated from financing activities 31.8 15.3 26.5 43.2 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 45.1 0.7 34.4 – Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 24.6 24.2 – – Exchange losses on cash and cash equivalents (0.9) (0.3) – – Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 16 68.8 24.6 34.4 – Cash and cash equivalents at end of year comprise: Cash at bank and in hand 16 68.8 24.6 34.4 – The accounting policies and notes 1 to 31 are an integral part of these Financial Statements. ACCOUNTINGPOLICIES ACCOUNTING POLICIES 105 105 Basis of preparation The Consolidated Group and Parent Company Financial Statements of International Personal Finance plc and its subsidiaries (‘IPF’ or the ‘Group’) have been prepared in accordance with European Union endorsed International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRSs’), International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (‘IFRIC’) interpretations and the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS. The following new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations are mandatory for the first time for the financial year beginning 1 January 2014 but do not have any impact on the Group:  Annual improvements to IFRSs: 2011-2013 cycle;  Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27 ‘Investment entities’;  IAS 19 (amendment) ‘Defined benefit plans: employee contributions’;  IAS 32 (amendment) ‘Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities’;  IAS 36 (amendment) ‘Recoverable amount disclosures for non-financial assets’;  IAS 39 (amendment) ‘Novation of derivatives and continuation of hedge accounting’; and  IFRIC 21 ‘Levies’. The following standards, interpretations and amendments to existing standards are not yet effective and have not been early adopted by the Group:  IFRS 9 ‘Financial instruments’. This standard replaces IAS 39, ‘Financial instruments: recognition and measurement’. IFRS 9 introduces new requirements for classifying and measuring financial assets and will affect the Group’s accounting for its financial assets. The mandatory implementation date for this standard is 1 January 2018 however it has not yet been endorsed by the European Union. The Group is in the process of assessing IFRS 9’s full impact;  Amendments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28 ‘Sale or contribution of assets between an investor and its associate or joint venture’;  IFRS 11 (amendment) ‘Accounting for acquisitions of interests in joint operations’;  IFRS 14 ‘Regulatory deferral accounts’;  IFRS 15 ‘Revenue from contracts with customers’;  Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38 ‘Clarification of acceptable methods of depreciation and amortisation’; Financial Statements  Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 41 ‘Agriculture: bearer plants’;  IAS 27 ‘Equity method in separate Financial Statements; and  Annual improvements to IFRSs: 2012-2014 cycle. Accounting convention The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of derivative financial instruments at fair value. The principal accounting policies, which have been applied consistently, are set out in the following paragraphs. Going concern The directors have, at the time of approving the Financial Statements, a reasonable expectation that the Group and Company have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in the Financial Statements. Further detail is contained in the directors’ statement on page 48. Consolidation These Consolidated Financial Statements include the financial results of all companies which are controlled by the Group. Control exists where the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of the entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities. All companies are 100% owned by IPF Group companies. A list of the principal subsidiaries in the Group is included in note 12. 106 106 ACCOUNTING POLICIES International International Personal Annual Finance plc Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Financial Statements Statements 2014 continued Report and 2014 Finance costs Finance costs comprise the interest on external borrowings which are recognised on an effective interest rate (‘EIR’) basis, and gains or losses on derivative contracts taken to the income statement. Segment reporting The Group’s operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision maker. The chief operating decision maker, who is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of operating segments, has been identified as the Board. This information is geographical. A geographical segment is a component of the Group that operates within a particular economic environment and that is subject to risks and returns that are different from those of components operating in other economic environments. Revenue Revenue, which excludes value added tax and intra-Group transactions, comprises revenue earned on amounts receivable from customers. Revenue on customer receivables is calculated using an EIR. The EIR is calculated using estimated cash flows, being contractual payments adjusted for the impact of customers paying early but excluding the anticipated impact of customers paying late or not paying at all. Directly attributable issue costs are also taken into account in calculating the EIR. Interest income continues to be accrued on impaired receivables using the original EIR applied to the loan’s carrying value. The accounting for amounts receivable from customers is considered further below. Leases The leases entered into by the Group are solely operating leases. Costs in respect of operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Leases are classified as operating leases whenever the terms of the lease do not transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the Group. Other operating costs Other operating costs include agents’ commission, marketing costs and foreign exchange gains and losses. All other costs are included in administrative expenses. Share-based payments The cost of providing share-based payments to employees is charged to the income statement over the vesting period of the award. The corresponding credit is made to retained earnings. The cost is based on the fair value of awards granted, which is determined using both a Monte Carlo simulation and Black-Scholes option pricing model. At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimate of the number of equity instruments expected to vest as a result of the effect of non market-based vesting conditions. The impact of the revision of the original estimates, if any, is recognised in the income statement such that the cumulative expense reflects the revised estimate, with a corresponding adjustment to equity reserves. In the Parent Company Financial Statements, in accordance with IFRIC 11 ‘IFRS 2 Group and treasury share transactions’, the fair value of providing share-based payments to employees of subsidiary companies is treated as an increase in the investment in subsidiaries. Exceptional items The Group classifies as exceptional those significant items that are one-off in nature and do not reflect the underlying performance of the Group. 107 107 Financial instruments Amounts receivable from customers All customer receivables are recognised initially at the amount loaned to the customer plus directly attributable incremental issue costs. After initial recognition, customer receivables are measured subsequently at amortised cost. Amortised cost is the amount of the customer receivable at initial recognition less customer repayments, plus revenue earned calculated using the EIR, less any deduction for impairment. Customer receivables are classified as loans and receivables in accordance with IAS 39 ‘Financial instruments: recognition and measurement’. All customer receivables are assessed for impairment each week. Customer accounts that are in arrears are deemed to have demonstrated evidence of impairment and are subject to an impairment review. Impairment is calculated using actuarial models which use historical payment performance to generate the estimated amount and timing of future cash flows from each arrears stage. These estimated future cash flows are discounted to a present value using the original EIR and this figure is compared with the balance sheet value. Impairment charges in respect of customer receivables are charged to the income statement. Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and in hand. Cash also includes those balances held by agents for operational purposes. Bank overdrafts are presented in current liabilities to the extent that there is no right of offset with cash balances. Derivative financial instruments The Group uses derivative financial instruments, principally interest rate swaps, currency swaps and forward currency contracts, to manage the interest rate and currency risks arising from the Group’s underlying business operations. No transactions of a speculative nature are undertaken. All derivative financial instruments are assessed against the hedge accounting criteria set out in IAS 39. The majority of the Group’s derivatives are cash flow hedges of highly probable forecast transactions and meet the hedge accounting requirements of IAS 39. Derivatives are recognised initially at the fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are remeasured subsequently at each reporting date at their fair value. Where derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting, movements in their fair value are recognised immediately within the income statement. For derivatives that are designated as cash flow hedges and where the hedge accounting criteria are met, the effective portion of changes in the fair value is recognised in other comprehensive income. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement as part of finance costs. Amounts accumulated in equity are recognised in the income statement when the income or expense on the hedged item is recognised in the income statement. The Group discontinues hedge accounting when: Financial Statements  it is evident from testing that a derivative is not, or has ceased to be, highly effective as a hedge;  the derivative expires, or is sold, terminated or exercised; or  the underlying hedged item matures or is sold or repaid. Borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, being their issue proceeds net of any transaction costs incurred. Borrowings are stated subsequently at amortised cost; any difference between proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the expected life of the borrowings using the EIR. Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date. Trade payables Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, it is probable that the Group will be required to settle that obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. The amount recognised as a provision is the best estimate of the consideration required to settle the present obligation at the balance sheet date, taking into account the risks and uncertainties surrounding the obligation. Where a provision is measured using the cash flows estimated to settle the present obligation, its carrying amount is the present value of those cash flows. 108 108 ACCOUNTING POLICIES International International Personal Annual Finance plc Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Financial Statements Statements 2014 continued Report and 2014 Intangible assets Intangible assets comprise computer software. Computer software is capitalised as an intangible asset on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire or develop the specific software and bring it into use. All intangible assets are internally generated. Computer software is amortised (within administrative expenses) on a straight-line basis over its estimated useful economic life which is generally estimated to be five years. The residual values and economic lives are reviewed by management at each balance sheet date. Investments in subsidiaries Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost, where cost is equal to the fair value of the consideration used to acquire the asset. Investments are tested for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the investment carrying value exceeds the higher of the asset’s value in use or its fair value less costs to sell. Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is shown at cost less subsequent depreciation and impairment. Cost represents invoiced cost plus any other costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition of the items. Repair and maintenance costs are expensed as incurred. Depreciation is calculated to write down assets to their estimated realisable value over their useful economic lives. The following are the principal bases used: Category Depreciation rate Method Fixtures and fittings 10% Straight-line Equipment (including computer hardware) 20% to 33.3% Straight-line Motor vehicles 25% Reducing balance The residual value and useful economic life of all assets are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date. All items of property, plant and equipment are tested for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is recognised through the income statement for the amount by which the asset’s carrying value exceeds the higher of the asset’s value in use or its fair value less costs to sell. Share capital IPF plc has only ordinary share capital. These shares, with a nominal value of 10 pence per share, are classified as equity. Shares held in treasury and by employee trust The net amount paid to acquire shares is held in a separate reserve and shown as a reduction in equity. Foreign currency translation Items included in the Financial Statements of each of the Group’s subsidiaries are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the subsidiary operates (‘the functional currency’). The Group’s financial information is presented in sterling. Transactions that are not denominated in a subsidiary’s functional currency are recorded at the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into the relevant functional currency at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. Differences arising on translation are charged or credited to the income statement, except when deferred in other comprehensive income as qualifying cash flow hedges. The income statements of the Group’s subsidiaries (none of which has the currency of a hyperinflationary economy) that have a functional currency different from sterling are translated into sterling at the average exchange rate and the balance sheets are translated at the exchange rates ruling at each balance sheet date. Upon consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign subsidiaries, and of borrowings and other currency instruments designated as hedges of such investments, are taken to other comprehensive income. 109 109 Taxation The tax expense represents the sum of current and deferred tax. Current tax is calculated based on taxable profit for the year using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date. Taxable profit differs from profit before taxation as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible. Deferred tax is determined using tax rates (and laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled. Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the Financial Statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method. Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the future. Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised. Employee benefits Defined benefit pension scheme The charge or credit in the income statement in respect of the defined benefit pension scheme comprises the actuarially assessed current service cost of working employees together with the interest charge on pension liabilities offset by the expected return on pension scheme assets. All charges or credits are allocated to administrative expenses. The asset or obligation recognised in the balance sheet in respect of the defined benefit pension scheme is the fair value of the scheme’s assets less the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date. The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method. The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension liability. Cumulative actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are recognised immediately in other comprehensive income. Past service costs are recognised immediately in the income statement unless the changes to the pension scheme are conditional on the Financial Statements employees remaining in service for a specified period of time (‘the vesting period’). In this case, the past service costs are amortised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period. The Parent Company share of the defined benefit retirement obligation is based on the proportion of total Group contributions made by the Parent Company. Defined contribution schemes Contributions to defined contribution pension schemes are charged to the income statement on an accruals basis. 110 110 ACCOUNTING POLICIES International International Personal Annual Finance plc Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Financial Statements Statements 2014 continued Report and 2014 Key assumptions and estimates In applying the accounting policies set out above, the Group makes significant estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as follows: Revenue recognition The judgement in respect of revenue recognition is the methodology used to calculate the EIR. In order to determine the EIR applicable to loans an estimate must be made of the expected life of each loan and hence the cash flows relating thereto. These estimates are based on historical data and are reviewed regularly. Amounts receivable from customers The Group reviews its portfolio of customer loans and receivables for impairment every week. The Group makes judgements to determine whether there is objective evidence which indicates that there has been an adverse effect on expected future cash flows. For the purposes of assessing the impairment of customer loans and receivables, customers are categorised into arrears stages as this is considered to be the most reliable predictor of future payment performance. The level of impairment is calculated using actuarial models which use historical payment performance to generate the estimated amount and timing of future cash flows from each arrears stage of each product. The impairment models are reviewed regularly to take account of the current economic environment and recent customer payment performance. However, on the basis that the payment performance of customers could be different from the assumptions used in estimating future cash flows, an adjustment to the carrying value of amounts receivable from customers may be required. To the extent that the net present value of estimated cash flows differs by +/– 5%, it is estimated that amounts receivable from customers would be £38.0 million higher/lower (2013: £39.2 million). IAS 39 requires that all of the cash flows directly associated with financial instruments held at amortised cost must be recognised in the income statement using the effective interest rate method. When this approach is applied to a customer loan portfolio, judgements must be made to estimate the average life of that portfolio. These judgements are applied, taking into account factors including the terms of the particular products and historical repayment data. These estimates are considered and updated as required in each reporting period to reflect the customer loan portfolio’s expected performance. Tax The Group is subject to tax in a number of international jurisdictions as well as the UK. In some cases, due to the unusual features of home credit, the tax treatment of certain items cannot be determined with certainty until the operation has been subject to a tax audit. In some instances, this can be a number years after the item has first been reflected in the Financial Statements. The Group recognises liabilities for anticipated tax audit and enquiry issues based on an assessment of whether it is probable that a liability will crystallise. If the outcome of such audits is that the final liability is different to the amount estimated originally, such differences will be recognised in the period in which the audit or enquiry is determined. Any differences may necessitate a material adjustment to the level of tax balances held in the balance sheet. THE NOTESTOTO NOTES FINANCIAL THE STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 111 111 1. Segment analysis Geographical segments Revenue Impairment Profit before taxation 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 Group £M £M £M £M £M £M Poland-Lithuania 308.8 295.7 84.2 84.3 71.0 62.3 Czech-Slovakia 136.9 142.8 42.0 33.8 24.3 32.5 Hungary 101.9 97.6 20.8 18.4 24.0 19.4 Mexico 160.3 143.9 49.6 43.2 16.5 14.5 Romania-Bulgaria 75.3 66.8 23.4 18.9 4.9 3.1 Spain – – – – (2.0) – UK costs* – – – – (15.2) (13.7) Total – pre-exceptional items 783.2 746.8 220.0 198.6 123.5 118.1 Exceptional items – – – – (23.3) 12.4 Total 783.2 746.8 220.0 198.6 100.2 130.5 * Although UK costs are not classified as a separate segment in accordance with IFRS 8 ‘Operating segments’, they are shown separately above in order to provide a reconciliation to profit before taxation. Segment assets Segment liabilities 2014 2013 2014 2013 Group £M £M £M £M Poland-Lithuania 322.0 339.9 135.9 102.7 Czech-Slovakia 176.0 190.0 121.7 120.6 Hungary 120.0 127.2 56.5 58.9 Mexico 183.3 160.9 134.7 110.2 Romania-Bulgaria 72.8 73.0 40.7 40.3 Spain 1.1 – 1.7 – UK 87.6 36.4 110.0 100.8 Total 962.8 927.4 601.2 533.5 Financial Statements Capital expenditure Depreciation 2014 2013 2014 2013 Group £M £M £M £M Poland-Lithuania 2.9 1.5 1.4 1.4 Czech-Slovakia 1.4 0.9 1.2 1.2 Hungary 1.2 2.6 1.6 1.5 Mexico 3.1 1.2 1.1 1.0 Romania-Bulgaria 0.6 0.8 0.7 0.7 Spain 0.2 – – – UK 2.2 6.9 4.3 3.8 Total 11.6 13.9 10.3 9.6 All revenue comprises amounts earned on amounts receivable from customers. The Group is domiciled in the UK and no revenue is generated in the UK. Total revenue from external customers is £783.2 million (2013: £746.8 million) and the breakdown by geographical area is disclosed above. The total of non-current assets other than financial instruments and deferred tax assets located in the UK is £21.7 million (2013: £15.7 million), and the total of non-current assets located in other countries is £16.6 million (2013: £14.9 million). There is no single external customer from which significant revenue is generated. Expenditure on intangible assets of £9.3 million (2013: £nil) and amortisation of £1.0 million (2013: £1.1 million) all relates to the UK. The segments shown above are the segments for which management information is presented to the Board which is deemed to be the Group’s chief operating decision maker. The Board considers the business from a geographic perspective. Following the acquisition of MCB Finance and the launch of hapiloans, the Board is undertaking a review of the operating segments that it will use to assess the Group’s performance going forward. As the Group expands, we anticipate reporting by business line (Home Credit and Digital) and by geographic region, and we will provide further detail in due course. 112 112 NOTES TO NOTES TOTHE FINANCIALSTATEMENTS THEFINANCIAL STATEMENTS International International Personal Annual Finance plc Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Financial Statements Statements 2014 continued Report and 2014 2. Finance costs 2014 2013 Group £M £M Interest payable on borrowings 45.3 49.0 3. Profit before taxation Profit before taxation is stated after charging: 2014 2013 Group £M £M Depreciation of property, plant and equipment (note 13) 10.3 9.6 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.1 3.1 Amortisation of intangible assets (note 11) 1.0 1.1 Operating lease rentals: – property 10.0 11.9 – equipment 8.9 9.6 Employee costs (note 9) 167.5 164.7 4. Auditor’s remuneration During the year, the Group incurred the following costs in respect of services provided by the Group auditor: 2014 2013 Group £M £M Fees payable to the Company auditor for the audit of the Parent Company and Consolidated Financial Statements 0.1 0.1 Fees payable to the Company auditor and its associates for other services: – audit of Company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.4 0.3 – other assurance services 0.1 – Further details on auditor remuneration can be found in the Audit and Risk Committee Report on page 67. 5. Tax expense 2014 2013 Group £M £M Total current tax 43.6 44.2 Total deferred tax (note 14) (15.2) (9.3) Tax expense 28.4 34.9 2014 2013 Group £M £M Tax (credit)/charge on other comprehensive income Deferred tax charge on net fair value gains – cash flow hedges 0.1 – Deferred tax (credit)/charge on actuarial losses/gains on retirement benefit obligation (0.3) 0.4 Current tax charge/(credit) on net fair value gains/losses – cash flow hedges 0.1 (0.3) (0.1) 0.1 113 113 5. Tax expense continued The rate of tax expense on the profit before taxation for the year ended 31 December 2014 is higher than (2013: higher than) the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 21.49% (2013: 23.25%). The differences are explained as follows: 2014 2013 Group £M £M Profit before taxation 100.2 130.5 Profit before taxation multiplied by the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 21.49% (2013: 23.25%) 21.5 30.3 Effects of: – adjustment in respect of prior years 2.2 0.7 – adjustment in respect of foreign tax rates 2.7 1.2 – expenses not deductible for tax purposes 1.9 1.9 – impact of rate change on deferred tax asset 0.1 0.8 Total tax expense 28.4 34.9 Currently we have tax audits ongoing in Poland and Mexico. While such proceedings are by their nature uncertain, we do not at this stage, expect them to have a material impact on the tax charge when they are concluded. 6. Earnings per share Basic earnings per share (‘EPS’) from continuing operations is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to shareholders of £71.8 million (2013: £95.6 million) by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the period of 237.6 million (2013: 244.0 million) which has been adjusted to exclude the weighted average number of shares held in treasury and by the employee trust. For diluted EPS, the weighted average number of IPF plc ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary share options relating to employees of the Group. The weighted average number of shares used in the basic and diluted EPS calculations can be reconciled as follows: 2014 2013 Group M M Used in basic EPS calculation 237.6 244.0 Dilutive effect of awards 6.8 7.1 Used in diluted EPS calculation 244.4 251.1 Financial Statements Basic and diluted EPS are presented below: 2014 2013 Group pence pence Basic EPS 30.2 39.2 Dilutive effect of awards (0.8) (1.1) Diluted EPS 29.4 38.1 The adjusted earnings per share, of 38.0 pence (2013: 35.5 pence), shown in the financial highlights of this report has been presented before exceptional items, in order to better present the underlying performance of the Group. 7. Dividends 2014 2013 Group and Company £M £M Interim dividend of 4.2 pence per share (2013: interim dividend of 3.8 pence per share) 9.8 9.4 Final 2013 dividend of 5.5 pence per share (2013: final 2012 dividend of 4.5 pence per share) 13.1 11.0 22.9 20.4 The directors are recommending a final dividend in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2014 of 7.8 pence per share which will amount to a full year dividend payment of £27.9 million. If approved by the shareholders at the annual general meeting (‘AGM’), this dividend will be paid on 8 May 2015 to shareholders who are on the register of members at 10 April 2015. This dividend is not reflected as a liability in the balance sheet as at 31 December 2014 as it is subject to shareholder approval. 114 114 NOTES TO NOTES TOTHE FINANCIALSTATEMENTS THEFINANCIAL STATEMENTS International International Personal Annual Finance plc Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Financial Statements Statements 2014 continued Report and 2014 8. Remuneration of key management personnel The key management personnel (as defined by IAS 24 ‘Related party disclosures’) of the Group are deemed to be the executive and nonexecutive directors of IPF and the members of the Senior Management Group. 2014 2013 £M £M Short-term employee benefits 4.6 5.7 Post-employment benefits 0.2 0.3 Share-based payments 2.4 1.2 Total 7.2 7.2 Short-term employee benefits comprise salary/fees, bonus and benefits earned in the year. Post-employment benefits represent the sum of (i) the increase in the transfer value of the accrued pension benefits (less contributions); (ii) Group contributions into personal pension arrangements; and (iii) contributions into the Group’s stakeholder scheme. For gains arising on executive directors’ share options see page 88. Disclosures in respect of the Group’s directors are included in the Directors’ Remuneration Report. 9. Employee information The average number of persons employed by the Group (including directors) was as follows: 2014 2013 Group Number Number Full-time* 7,109 6,505 Part-time** 3,382 3,336 10,491 9,841 * Includes 197 agents in Hungary (2013: 167). ** Includes 2,625 agents in Hungary (2013: 2,718). Agents are self-employed other than in Hungary where they are required by legislation to be employed. The average number of employees by category was as follows: 2014 2013 Group Number Number Operations 6,201 6,038 Administration 1,129 1,086 Head office and security 3,161 2,717 10,491 9,841 Group employment costs for all employees (including directors) were as follows: 2014 2013 Group £M £M Gross wages and salaries 133.4 131.4 Social security costs 28.2 29.1 Pension charge – defined contribution schemes (note 24) 1.0 1.1 Share-based payment charge (note 25) 4.9 3.1 Total 167.5 164.7 115 115 10. Exceptional items 2014 2013 Group £M £M Exceptional (charge)/gain (23.3) 12.4 Tax credit/(charge) 4.9 (3.0) Post-tax exceptional (charge)/gain (18.4) 9.4 Profit before taxation includes an exceptional loss of £23.3 million. This comprised £22.6 million incurred on the buyback of €190.2 million (£152.5 million at 30 June 2014) of existing 11.5% Eurobonds due 2015, and £0.7M of unamortised arrangement fees incurred following the refinancing of £100 million of bank facilities due to mature in early 2015. (2013: Profit before taxation comprised £15.9 million profit on the sale of impaired receivables originating from loans issued in Poland and a write down in the carrying value of IT assets of £3.5 million. The impairment of IT assets arose from a review of future technology platforms needed to support our growth strategy, which identified assets that were no longer compatible with that vision). 11. Intangible assets 2014 2013 Group £M £M Net book value At 1 January 1.8 3.2 Additions 9.3 – Disposals – (0.3) Amortisation (1.0) (1.1) At 31 December 10.1 1.8 Analysed as: – cost 35.7 26.4 – amortisation (25.6) (24.6) At 31 December 10.1 1.8 Intangible assets comprise computer software. Financial Statements The Company has no intangible assets. 12. Investment in subsidiaries 2014 2013 Company £M £M Investment in subsidiaries 663.6 663.6 Share-based payment adjustment 8.5 5.5 672.1 669.1 IPF plc acquired the international businesses of the Provident Financial plc Group on 16 July 2007 by issuing one IPF plc share to the shareholders of Provident Financial plc for each Provident Financial plc share held by them. The fair value of the consideration issued in exchange for the investment in these international businesses was £663.6 million and this amount was therefore capitalised as a cost of investment. £8.5 million (2013: £5.5 million) has been added to the cost of investment representing the fair value of the share-based payment awards over IPF plc shares made to employees of subsidiary companies of IPF plc. The corresponding credit has been taken to reserves. 116 116 NOTES TO NOTES TOTHE FINANCIALSTATEMENTS THEFINANCIAL STATEMENTS International International Personal Annual Finance plc Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Financial Statements Statements 2014 continued Report and 2014 12. Investment in subsidiaries continued The principal subsidiary companies of IPF plc, which are 100% owned by the Group, are detailed below: Subsidiary company Country of incorporation and operation Principal activity IPF Holdings Limited England Holding company International Personal Finance Investments Limited England Holding company IPF International Limited England Provision of services IPF Financing Limited England Provision of services Provident Polska S.A. Poland Home credit IPF Investments Polska Sp. z o.o. Poland Provision of services Provident Financial s.r.o. Czech Republic Home credit Provident Financial s.r.o. Slovakia Home credit Provident Financial Zrt. Hungary Home credit Provident Mexico S.A. de C.V. Mexico Home credit Provident Financial Romania IFN S.A. Romania Home credit Provident Financial Bulgaria OOD Bulgaria Home credit International Personal Finance Spain S.A. Spain Home credit The subsidiaries shown above are those which principally affect the figures shown in the Financial Statements. A full list of subsidiaries will be annexed to the next annual return of the Company to be filed with the Registrar of Companies. The trading operation of Lithuania is carried out through a branch of Provident Polska S.A. and consequently there is no separate subsidiary company for these operations. 13. Property, plant and equipment Equipment and vehicles, fixtures and fittings: Group Company 2014 2013 2014 2013 £M £M £M £M Cost At 1 January 84.6 80.3 0.9 0.9 Exchange adjustments (4.6) (0.6) – – Additions 11.6 13.9 – – Disposals (6.0) (9.0) – – At 31 December 85.6 84.6 0.9 0.9 Depreciation At 1 January 55.8 52.0 0.6 0.4 Exchange adjustments (3.1) (0.5) – – Charge to the income statement 10.3 9.6 0.1 0.2 Disposals (5.6) (5.3) – – At 31 December 57.4 55.8 0.7 0.6 Net book value at 31 December 28.2 28.8 0.2 0.3 117 117 14. Deferred tax Deferred tax is calculated in full on temporary differences under the balance sheet liability method using the appropriate tax rate for the jurisdiction in which the temporary difference arises. The movement in the deferred tax balance during the year can be analysed as follows: Group Company 2014 2013 2014 2013 £M £M £M £M At 1 January 65.2 57.1 1.8 1.9 Exchange adjustments (6.2) (1.1) – – Tax credit/(charge) to the income statement 15.2 9.3 0.3 (0.3) Tax credit/(charge) on other comprehensive income 0.2 (0.4) 0.1 (0.1) Tax (charge)/credit on items taken directly to equity (0.7) 0.3 (0.6) 0.3 At 31 December 73.7 65.2 1.6 1.8 An analysis of the deferred tax balance is set out below: Group Company Retirement Other Retirement Other benefit temporary benefit temporary Losses obligations differences Total obligations differences Total £M £M £M £M £M £M £M At 1 January 2013 12.1 0.7 44.3 57.1 0.1 1.8 1.9 Exchange adjustments – – (1.1) (1.1) – – – Tax credit/(charge) to the income statement 1.1 (0.1) 8.3 9.3 – (0.3) (0.3) Tax charge on other comprehensive income – (0.4) – (0.4) (0.1) – (0.1) Tax credit on items taken directly to equity – – 0.3 0.3 – 0.3 0.3 At 31 December 2013 13.2 0.2 51.8 65.2 – 1.8 1.8 At 1 January 2014 13.2 0.2 51.8 65.2 – 1.8 1.8 Exchange adjustments (1.2) – (5.0) (6.2) – – – Tax (charge)/credit to the income statement (3.4) (0.1) 18.7 15.2 – 0.3 0.3 Financial Statements Tax credit/(charge) on other comprehensive income – 0.3 (0.1) 0.2 0.1 – 0.1 Tax charge on items taken directly to equity – – (0.7) (0.7) – (0.6) (0.6) At 31 December 2014 8.6 0.4 64.7 73.7 0.1 1.5 1.6 Deferred tax assets have been recognised in respect of tax losses and other temporary timing differences (principally relating to recognition of revenue and impairment) to the extent that it is probable that these assets will be utilised against future taxable profits. Deferred tax has not been provided on unremitted earnings of the Group’s overseas subsidiaries as it is considered that any future distribution will fall within the UK’s dividend exemption, and hence no exposure to UK tax is expected to arise. 15. Amounts receivable from customers 2014 2013 Group £M £M Amounts receivable from customers comprise: – amounts due within one year 723.9 739.1 – amounts due in more than one year 36.6 45.7 760.5 784.8 118 118 NOTES TO NOTES TOTHE FINANCIALSTATEMENTS THEFINANCIAL STATEMENTS International International Personal Annual Finance plc Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Financial Statements Statements 2014 continued Report and 2014 15. Amounts receivable from customers continued All lending is in the local currency of the country in which the loan is issued. The currency profile of amounts receivable from customers is as follows: 2014 2013 Group £M £M Polish zloty 293.3 310.0 Czech crown 100.3 114.4 Euro 51.9 55.6 Hungarian forint 109.5 112.5 Mexican peso 132.5 122.5 Romanian leu 68.4 69.0 Lithuanian litas 2.3 0.4 Bulgarian lev 2.3 0.4 760.5 784.8 Amounts receivable from customers are held at amortised cost and are equal to the expected future cash flows receivable discounted at the average EIR of 121% (2013: 126%). All amounts receivable from customers are at fixed interest rates. The average period to maturity of the amounts receivable from customers is 5.6 months (2013: 5.8 months). The Group has one class of loan receivable and no collateral is held in respect of any customer receivables. The Group does not use an impairment provision account for recording impairment losses and, therefore, no analysis of gross customer receivables less provision for impairment is presented. Revenue recognised on amounts receivable from customers which have been impaired was £458.6 million (2013: £421.7 million). Management monitor credit quality using two key metrics: impairment as a percentage of revenue and gross cash loss (‘GCL’) development. Commentary on impairment as a percentage of revenue is set out in the operational review at both Group and market level. GCL represents the expected total value of contractual cash flows that will not be collected and will ultimately be written off for any loan or group of loans. Until collections on any group of receivables are complete, the GCL forecast is a composite of actual and expected cash flows. This represents a leading edge measure of credit quality with forecasts based on the actual performance of previous lending. At 31 December 2014 our preliminary GCL forecast for 2015 was 13.2%. The outturn for 2013 lending as at 31 December 2014 was 14.3%. The Company has no amounts receivable from customers. 16. Cash and cash equivalents Group Company 2014 2013 2014 2013 £M £M £M £M Cash at bank and in hand 68.8 24.6 34.4 – The currency profile of cash and cash equivalents is as follows: Group Company 2014 2013 2014 2013 £M £M £M £M Sterling 26.6 – 26.6 – Polish zloty 9.1 8.0 – – Czech crown 4.4 4.1 0.1 – Euro 14.7 1.5 7.7 – Hungarian forint 2.6 3.3 – – Mexican peso 6.1 4.3 – – Romanian leu 3.7 2.6 – – Lithuanian litas 0.7 0.3 – – Bulgarian lev 0.9 0.5 – – Total 68.8 24.6 34.4 – 119 119 17. Other receivables Group Company 2014 2013 2014 2013 £M £M £M £M Other receivables 3.0 2.8 – – Prepayments 11.1 11.6 0.9 0.9 Amounts due from Group undertakings – – 479.5 375.5 Total 14.1 14.4 480.4 376.4 No balance within other receivables is impaired. Amounts due from Group undertakings are unsecured and due for repayment in less than one year. 18. Trade and other payables Group Company 2014 2013 2014 2013 £M £M £M £M Trade payables 7.7 4.6 0.1 0.1 Other payables including taxation and social security 29.9 24.7 0.2 – Accruals 57.7 73.5 20.5 19.4 Amounts due to Group undertakings – – 70.4 246.4 Total 95.3 102.8 91.2 265.9 Amounts due to Group undertakings are unsecured and due for repayment in less than one year. 19. Borrowing facilities and borrowings The Group and Company’s borrowings are as follows: Group Company 2014 2013 2014 2013 £M £M £M £M Borrowings Financial Statements Bank borrowings 15.9 29.4 – 0.7 Bonds 462.4 371.1 426.2 331.6 Total 478.3 400.5 426.2 332.3 The Group’s external bonds comprise the following: Maturity 2014 Bond Coupon % date £M €300 million EMTN 5.750 2021 233.1 £101.5 million retail bond 6.125 2020 101.5 Polish zloty 200.0 million PMTN Six month WIBOR plus 750 basis points 2015 36.3 €40 million EMTN 4.250 2018 31.1 €34.8 million EMTN 11.500 2015 27.0 Romanian lei 60.5 million EMTN 8.100 2016 10.5 Hungarian forint 4.0 billion EMTN 11.000 2018 9.8 Czech crown 280.0 million EMTN 8.500 2015 7.9 Czech crown 250.0 million EMTN 5.250 2018 7.0 Czech crown 100.0 million EMTN 9.000 2016 2.8 467.0 Less: unamortised arrangement fees (4.6) 462.4 The Polish zloty 200 million (£36.3 million) bonds are floating rate bonds, although derivative contracts have been used to fix borrowing costs up to March 2015. All of the external bank borrowings of the Group are at floating rates. 120 120 NOTES TO NOTES TOTHE FINANCIALSTATEMENTS THEFINANCIAL STATEMENTS International International Personal Annual Finance plc Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Financial Statements Statements 2014 continued Report and 2014 19. Borrowing facilities and borrowings continued The maturity of the Group and Company’s external bond and external bank borrowings is as follows: Group Company 2014 2013 2014 2013 £M £M £M £M Borrowings Repayable: – in less than one year 73.7 14.4 34.8 6.2 – between one and two years 14.1 247.5 13.3 193.1 – between two and five years 59.5 38.3 47.1 32.7 – greater than five years 331.0 100.3 331.0 100.3 Total 478.3 400.5 426.2 332.3 The average period to maturity of the Group’s external bonds and committed external borrowing facilities is 4.1 years (2013: 2.5 years). The currency exposure on external borrowings is as follows: Group Company 2014 2013 2014 2013 £M £M £M £M Sterling 100.4 101.0 100.4 101.0 Polish zloty 37.6 46.5 – – Czech crown 17.5 23.3 17.5 18.7 Euro 289.8 186.9 288.3 185.1 Hungarian forint 12.7 17.9 9.5 10.8 Mexican peso 9.8 8.2 – – Romanian leu 10.5 16.7 10.5 16.7 Total 478.3 400.5 426.2 332.3 The maturity of the Group and Company’s external bond and external bank facilities is as follows: Group Company 2014 2013 2014 2013 £M £M £M £M Bond and bank facilities available Repayable: – on demand 14.0 14.0 5.0 5.0 – in less than one year 88.0 31.3 34.9 5.5 – between one and two years 42.1 361.3 13.3 255.9 – between two and five years 171.4 67.7 75.7 33.1 – greater than five years 334.6 101.5 334.6 101.5 Total 650.1 575.8 463.5 401.0 The undrawn external bank facilities at 31 December were as follows: Group Company 2014 2013 2014 2013 £M £M £M £M Expiring within one year 28.3 30.9 5.1 4.3 Expiring between one and two years 28.0 113.8 – 62.8 Expiring in more than two years 115.5 30.6 32.2 1.6 Total 171.8 175.3 37.3 68.7 121 121 20. Risks arising from financial instruments Risk management Treasury related risks The Board approves treasury policies and the treasury function manages the day-to-day operations. The Board delegates certain responsibilities to the Treasury Committee. The Treasury Committee is empowered to take decisions within that delegated authority. Treasury activities and compliance with the treasury policies are reported to the Board on a regular basis and are subject to periodic independent reviews and audits, both internal and external. Treasury policies are designed to manage the main financial risks faced by the Group in relation to funding and liquidity risk; interest rate risk; currency risk; and counterparty risk. This is to ensure that the Group is properly funded; that interest rate and currency risk is managed within set limits; and that financial counterparties are of appropriate credit quality. Policies also set out the specific instruments that can be used for risk management. The treasury function enters into derivative transactions, principally interest rate swaps, currency swaps and forward currency contracts. The purpose of these transactions is to manage the interest rate and currency risks arising from the Group’s underlying business operations. No transactions of a speculative nature are undertaken and written options may only be used when matched by purchased options. Liquidity risk The Group is subject to the risk that it will not have sufficient borrowing facilities to fund its existing business and its future plans for growth. The short-term nature of the Group’s business means that the majority of amounts receivable from customers are receivable within 12 months with an average period to maturity of less than six months. The risk of not having sufficient liquid resources is therefore low. The treasury policy adopted by the Group serves to reduce this risk further by setting a specific policy parameter that there are sufficient committed debt facilities to cover forecast borrowings plus operational headroom plus appropriate stress-testing for the next 18 months on a rolling basis. Further, the aim is to ensure that there is a balanced refinancing profile with phased maturity dates; that there is diversification of debt funding sources; that there is no over-reliance on a single or small group of lenders; and that debt facilities and hedging capacity are sufficient for the currency requirements of each country. At 31 December 2014, the Group’s bonds and committed borrowing facilities had an average period to maturity of 4.1 years (2013: 2.5 years). As shown in note 19, total undrawn facilities as at 31 December 2014 were £171.8 million (2013: £175.3 million). A maturity analysis of gross borrowings included in the balance sheet is presented in note 19. A maturity analysis of bonds, bank borrowings and overdrafts outstanding at the balance sheet date by non-discounted contractual cash flow, including expected interest payments, is shown below: Group Company 2014 2013 2014 2013 £M £M £M £M Financial Statements Not later than six months 53.1 29.3 13.4 20.9 Later than six months and not later than one year 48.5 21.8 47.0 16.3 Later than one year and not later than two years 38.2 275.1 36.4 217.4 Later than two years and not later than five years 122.8 62.2 109.8 56.1 Later than five years 353.6 109.9 353.6 109.9 616.2 498.3 560.2 420.6 The analysis above includes the contractual cash flow for borrowings and the total amount of interest payable over the life of the loan. Where borrowings are subject to a floating interest rate, an estimate of interest payable is taken. The rate is derived from interest rate yield curves at the balance sheet date. The following analysis shows the gross non-discounted contractual cash flows in respect of foreign currency contract derivative assets and liabilities, and interest rate swap derivative liabilities which are all designated as cash flow hedges: 2014 2013 Outflow Inflow Outflow Inflow Group £M £M £M £M Not later than one month 105.5 105.0 45.3 45.4 Later than one month and not later than six months 104.2 103.9 114.1 115.2 Later than six months and not later than one year 94.6 95.2 78.0 77.9 Later than one year and not later than two years 60.1 59.3 36.6 34.9 Later than two years and not later than five years 15.9 15.9 18.3 16.9 380.3 379.3 292.3 290.3 122 122 NOTES TO NOTES TOTHE FINANCIALSTATEMENTS THEFINANCIAL STATEMENTS International International Personal Annual Finance plc Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Financial Statements Statements 2014 continued Report and 2014 20. Risks arising from financial instruments continued 2014 2013 Outflow Inflow Outflow Inflow Company £M £M £M £M Not later than one month 0.3 0.3 0.7 0.7 Later than one month and not later than six months 2.1 1.9 2.2 2.0 Later than six months and not later than one year 1.6 1.3 4.0 3.7 Later than one year and not later than two years 1.4 1.0 1.5 0.9 Later than two years and not later than five years 15.8 15.9 18.3 16.9 21.2 20.4 26.7 24.2 When the amount payable or receivable is not fixed, the amount disclosed has been determined with reference to the projected interest rates as illustrated by the interest rate yield curves existing at the balance sheet date. A maturity analysis of the Group’s receivables and borrowing facilities as at 31 December is presented below: Percentage Borrowing Percentage Receivables of total facilities of total Group £M % £M % 2013 Less than one year 739.1 94.2 45.3 7.9 Later than one year 45.7 5.8 530.5 92.1 784.8 100.0 575.8 100.0 2014 Less than one year 723.9 95.2 102.0 15.7 Later than one year 36.6 4.8 548.1 84.3 760.5 100.0 650.1 100.0 This demonstrates the short-term nature of the amounts receivable from customers which contrasts with the longer-term nature of the Group’s committed funding facilities. Amounts receivable from customers Risk management policies in respect of amounts receivable from customers are discussed in the credit risk section within this note. Interest rate risk The Group has an exposure to interest rate risk arising on changes in interest rates in each of its countries of operation and, therefore, seeks to limit this net exposure. This is achieved by the use of techniques to fix interest costs, including fixed rate funding, (predominantly longer-term bond funding); forward currency contracts used for non-functional currency funding; bank borrowing loan draw-down periods; and interest rate hedging instruments. These techniques are used to hedge the interest costs on a proportion of borrowings over a certain period of time, up to seven years, although most hedging is for up to two years. Interest costs are a relatively low proportion of the Group’s revenue (5.8% in 2014; 6.6% in 2013) and therefore the risk of a material impact on profitability arising from a change in interest rates is low. If interest rates across all markets increased by 200 basis points this would have the following impact: 2014 2013 Group £M £M Increase in fair value of derivatives taken to equity 0.3 0.7 Reduction in profit before taxation 0.2 0.4 This sensitivity analysis is based on the following assumptions:  the change in the market interest rate occurs in all countries where the Group has borrowings and/or derivative financial instruments;  where financial liabilities are subject to fixed interest rates or have their interest rate fixed by hedging instruments it is assumed that there is no impact from a change in interest rates; and  changes in market interest rate affect the fair value of derivative financial instruments. Currency risk The Group is subject to three types of currency risk: net asset exposure; cash flow exposure; and income statement exposure. 123 123 20. Risks arising from financial instruments continued Net asset exposure The majority of the Group’s net assets are denominated in currencies other than sterling. The balance sheet is reported in sterling and this means that there is a risk that a fluctuation in foreign exchange rates will have a material impact on the net assets of the Group. The impact in 2014 is a decrease in net assets of £42.3 million (2013: decrease of £3.9 million). The Group aims to minimise the value of net assets denominated in each foreign currency by funding overseas receivables with borrowings in local currency, where possible. Cash flow exposure The Group is subject to currency risk in respect of future cash flows which are denominated in foreign currency. The policy of the Group is to hedge a large proportion of this currency risk in respect of cash flows which are expected to arise in the following 12 months. Where forward foreign exchange contracts have been entered into, they are designated as cash flow hedges on specific future transactions. Income statement exposure As with net assets, the majority of the Group’s profit is denominated in currencies other than sterling but translated into sterling for reporting purposes. The result for the period is translated into sterling at the average exchange rate. A risk therefore arises that a fluctuation in the exchange rates in the countries in which the Group operates will have a material impact on the consolidated result for the period. The following sensitivity analysis demonstrates the impact on equity of a 5% strengthening or weakening of sterling against all exchange rates for the countries in which the Group operates: 2014 2013 Group £M £M Change in reserves 6.0 5.8 Change in profit before taxation 8.0 7.7 This sensitivity analysis is based on the following assumptions:  there is a 5% strengthening/weakening of sterling against all currencies in which the Group operates (Polish zloty, Lithuanian litas, Czech crown, euro, Hungarian forint, Mexican peso, Romanian leu and Bulgarian lev); and  there is no impact on retained earnings or equity arising from those items which are naturally hedged (where the currency asset is exactly equal to the currency liability). Counterparty risk The Group is subject to counterparty risk in respect of the cash and cash equivalents held on deposit with banks; and foreign currency and derivative financial instruments. Financial Statements The Group only deposits cash, and only undertakes currency and derivative transactions, generally with highly rated banks and sets strict limits in respect of the amount of exposure to any one institution. Institutions with lower credit ratings can only be used with Board approval. No collateral or credit enhancements are held in respect of any financial assets. The maximum exposure to counterparty risk is as follows: 2014 2013 Group £M £M Cash and cash equivalents 68.8 24.6 Derivative financial assets 5.8 6.5 Total 74.6 31.1 The table above represents a worst case scenario of the counterparty risk that the Group is exposed to at the year end. An analysis of the cash and cash equivalents by geographical segment is presented in note 16. Cash and cash equivalents and derivative financial instruments are neither past due nor impaired. Credit quality of these assets is good and the cash and cash equivalents are spread over a number of banks, each of which meets the criteria set out in our treasury policies, to ensure the risk of loss is minimised. 124 124 NOTES TO NOTES TOTHE FINANCIALSTATEMENTS THEFINANCIAL STATEMENTS International International Personal Annual Finance plc Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Financial Statements Statements 2014 continued Report and 2014 20. Risks arising from financial instruments continued Credit risk The Group is subject to credit risk in respect of amounts receivable from customers. Amounts receivable from customers The Group lends small amounts over short-term periods to a large and diverse group of customers across the countries in which it operates. Nevertheless, the Group is subject to a risk of material unexpected credit losses in respect of amounts receivable from customers. This risk is minimised by the use of credit scoring techniques which are designed to ensure the Group lends only to those customers who we believe can afford the repayments. The amount loaned to each customer and the repayment period agreed are dependent upon the risk category the customer is assigned to as part of the credit scoring process. The level of expected future losses is generated on a weekly basis by geographical segment. These outputs are reviewed by management to ensure that appropriate action can be taken if results differ from management expectations. 2014 2013 Group £M £M Amounts receivable from customers 760.5 784.8 The table above represents the maximum exposure to credit risk of the Group at the year end. An analysis of the amounts receivable from customers by geographical segment is presented in note 15. Amounts receivable from customers are stated at amortised cost and calculated in accordance with the Group’s accounting policies. Those amounts receivable from customers that are neither past due nor impaired represent loans where no customer payments have been missed and there is, therefore, no evidence to suggest that the credit quality is anything other than adequate. Amounts receivable from customers include £6.2 million that is past due but not impaired (2013: £7.2 million). This is in relation to the first four weeks of loans for new customers, and allows a repayment pattern to be established. An analysis of the amounts receivable from customers that are individually determined to be impaired is set out by geographical segment below: Not impaired Impaired 2014 2013 2014 2013 Group £M £M £M £M Poland-Lithuania 74.5 88.7 221.1 221.7 Czech-Slovakia 43.3 53.1 108.9 116.9 Hungary 38.3 40.3 71.2 72.2 Mexico 33.1 36.0 99.4 86.5 Romania-Bulgaria 21.9 26.0 48.8 43.4 211.1 244.1 549.4 540.7 This analysis includes all loans that have been subject to impairment. The impairment charge is based on the average expected loss for each arrears stage of customer receivables and this average expected loss is applied to the entire arrears stage. This results in a significant proportion of the amounts receivable from customers attracting an impairment charge. For each market the amount by which an asset is impaired depends on the type of product, the recent payment performance and the number of weeks since the loan was issued. There will, therefore, be a large amount of receivables which are classed as impaired but where the carrying value is still a large proportion of the contractual amount recoverable. Annualised impairment as a percentage of revenue for each geographical segment is shown below: 2014 2013 Group % % Poland-Lithuania 27.3 28.5 Czech-Slovakia 30.7 23.7 Hungary 20.4 18.9 Mexico 30.9 30.0 Romania-Bulgaria 31.1 28.3 The carrying value of amounts receivable from customers that would have been impaired had their terms not been renegotiated is £nil (2013: £nil). 125 125 20. Risks arising from financial instruments continued Capital risk The Group is subject to the risk that its capital structure will not be sufficient to support the growth of the business. The Group is not required to hold regulatory capital. The Group aims to maintain appropriate capital to ensure that it has a strong balance sheet but at the same time is providing a good return on equity to its shareholders. The Group’s long-term aim is to ensure that the capital structure results in an optimal ratio of debt and equity finance. Capital is monitored by considering the ratio of equity to receivables and the gearing ratio. The equity of the Group and these ratios are shown below: 2014 2013 Group £M £M Receivables 760.5 784.8 Borrowings (478.3) (400.5) Other net assets 79.4 9.6 Equity 361.6 393.9 Equity as % of receivables 47.5% 50.2% Gearing 1.3 1.0 Equity as a percentage of receivables was above the Group’s internally-set target. Gearing, which is equal to borrowings divided by equity, at a ratio of 1.3 times (2013: 1.0 times), is well within covenant limits of 3.75 times. 21. Derivative financial instruments Fair value estimation IFRS 7 requires disclosure of fair value measurements of derivative financial instruments by level of the following fair value measurement hierarchy:  quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (level 1);  inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (that is, as prices) or indirectly (that is, derived from prices) (level 2); and  inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (that is, unobservable inputs) (level 3). Financial Statements Where fair values are disclosed for financial assets and liabilities not carried at fair value, all such assets are classed as level 1, with the exception of disclosures relating to amounts receivable from customers which are classed as level 3. Details of the significant assumptions in relation to amounts receivable from customers are included in note 23 along with the fair value of other Group assets and liabilities. All of the Group’s financial instruments fall into hierarchy level 2. The Group’s derivative assets and liabilities that were measured at fair value at 31 December are as follows: 2014 2013 Group £M £M Assets Foreign currency contracts 5.8 6.5 Total 5.8 6.5 2014 2013 Group £M £M Liabilities Interest rate swaps – 0.5 Foreign currency contracts 2.7 3.2 Total 2.7 3.7 126 126 NOTES TO NOTES TOTHE FINANCIALSTATEMENTS THEFINANCIAL STATEMENTS International International Personal Annual Finance plc Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Financial Statements Statements 2014 continued Report and 2014 21. Derivative financial instruments continued 2014 2013 Company £M £M Assets Foreign currency contracts 0.9 – Total 0.9 – 2014 2013 Company £M £M Liabilities Foreign currency contracts – 0.4 Total – 0.4 The fair value of derivative financial instruments has been calculated by discounting expected future cash flows using interest rate yield curves and forward foreign exchange rates prevailing at 31 December. Cash flow hedges The Group uses foreign currency contracts (‘cash flow hedges’) to hedge those foreign currency cash flows that are highly probable to occur within 12 months of the balance sheet date and interest rate swaps (‘cash flow hedges’) to hedge those interest cash flows that are expected to occur within two years of the balance sheet date. The effect on the income statement will also be within these periods. An amount of £1.1 million has been credited to equity for the Group in the period in respect of cash flow hedges (2013: £0.5 million charged to equity), Company: £0.5 million credit (2013: £0.5 million charge). Foreign currency contracts The total notional amount of outstanding foreign currency contracts that the Group is committed to at 31 December 2014 is £373.8 million (2013: £281.9 million). These comprise:  foreign currency contracts to buy or sell operational currencies against the euro for a total notional amount of £242.4 million (2013: £205.4 million). These contracts have various maturity dates up to December 2016 (2013: June 2015). These contracts have been designated and are effective as cash flow hedges under IAS 39 and, accordingly, the fair value thereof has been deferred in equity;  foreign currency contracts to buy or sell various currencies for a total notional amount of £0.3 million (2013: £0.4 million). These contracts have various maturity dates up to October 2015 (2013: November 2014). These contracts have been designated and are effective as cash flow hedges under IAS 39 and, accordingly, the fair value thereof has been deferred in equity; and  foreign currency contracts to buy or sell sterling for a total notional amount of £131.1 million (2013: £76.1 million). These contracts have various maturity dates up to November 2018 (2013: November 2018). These contracts have been designated and are effective as cash flow hedges under IAS 39 and, accordingly, the fair value thereof has been deferred in equity. The total notional amount of outstanding foreign currency contracts that the Company is committed to at 31 December 2014 is £15.7 million (2013: £19.4 million). These comprise:  foreign currency contracts to buy or sell operational currencies against the euro for a total notional amount of £2.6 million (2013: £3.2 million). All of these contracts are held with external providers to buy and sell currency and have equal and offsetting contracts with other Group companies to buy and sell the same amounts of currency. This leaves the Company with no residual risk and ensures the relevant subsidiary company has an effective foreign currency contract in its books;  foreign currency contracts to buy or sell various currencies for a total notional amount of £nil (2013: £2.3 million). All of these contracts are held with external providers to buy and sell currency and have equal and offsetting contracts with other Group companies to buy and sell the same amounts of currency. This leaves the Company with no residual risk and ensures the relevant subsidiary company has an effective foreign currency contract in its books; and  foreign currency contracts to buy or sell sterling for a total notional amount of £13.1 million (2013: £13.9 million). These contracts have various maturity dates up to November 2018 (2013: November 2018). These contracts have been designated and are effective as cash flow hedges under IAS 39 and, accordingly, the fair value thereof has been deferred in equity. Interest rate swaps The total notional principal of outstanding interest rate swaps that the Group is committed to is £45.4 million (2013: £57.0 million). In 2014, these interest rate swaps cover a proportion of current borrowings relating to the floating rate Polish bond and a proportion of floating rate bank borrowings. 127 127 21. Derivative financial instruments continued Interest rate swaps in place at the balance sheet date are designated, and are effective under IAS 39, as cash flow hedges, and the fair value thereof has been deferred in equity within the hedging reserve. A charge of £nil million (2013: £0.1 million) has been made to the income statement in the year representing the movement in the fair value of the ineffective portion of the interest rate swaps and the income statement charge relating to the closure of interest rate swaps. The weighted average interest rate and period to maturity of the Group interest rate swaps were as follows: 2014 2013 Weighted Weighted Weighted Range of average Weighted Range of average average interest period to average interest period to interest rate rates maturity interest rate rates maturity Group % % Years % % Years Polish zloty 1.8 1.6 2.5 1.4 4.1 2.5 5.0 0.6 Mexican peso – – – 5.0 5.0 1.2 The Company did not hold any interest rate swaps at 31 December 2014 (31 December 2013: £nil). 22. Analysis of financial assets and financial liabilities Financial assets An analysis of Group financial assets is presented below: 2014 2013 Derivatives Derivatives Loans and used for Loans and used for receivables hedging Total receivables hedging Total Group £M £M £M £M £M £M Amounts receivable from customers 760.5 – 760.5 784.8 – 784.8 Derivative financial instruments – 5.8 5.8 – 6.5 6.5 Cash and cash equivalents 68.8 – 68.8 24.6 – 24.6 Other receivables 14.1 – 14.1 14.4 – 14.4 Current tax assets 1.6 – 1.6 1.3 – 1.3 845.0 5.8 850.8 825.1 6.5 831.6 Financial Statements Financial liabilities An analysis of Group financial liabilities is presented below: 2014 2013 Financial Financial liabilities at Derivatives liabilities at Derivatives amortised used for amortised used for cost hedging Total cost hedging Total Group £M £M £M £M £M £M Bonds 462.4 – 462.4 371.1 – 371.1 Bank borrowings 15.9 – 15.9 29.4 – 29.4 Derivative financial instruments – 2.7 2.7 – 3.7 3.7 Trade and other payables 95.3 – 95.3 102.8 – 102.8 Current tax liabilities 22.9 – 22.9 25.6 – 25.6 596.5 2.7 599.2 528.9 3.7 532.6 128 128 NOTES TO NOTES TOTHE FINANCIALSTATEMENTS THEFINANCIAL STATEMENTS International International Personal Annual Finance plc Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Financial Statements Statements 2014 continued Report and 2014 23. Fair values of financial assets and liabilities The fair value and carrying value of the financial assets and liabilities of the Group are set out below: 2014 2013 Carrying Carrying Fair value value Fair value value Group £M £M £M £M Financial assets Amounts receivable from customers 1,078.3 760.5 1,079.7 784.8 Derivative financial instruments 5.8 5.8 6.5 6.5 Cash and cash equivalents 68.8 68.8 24.6 24.6 Other receivables 14.1 14.1 14.4 14.4 Current tax assets 1.6 1.6 1.3 1.3 1,168.6 850.8 1,126.5 831.6 Financial liabilities Bonds 452.1 462.4 401.9 371.1 Bank borrowings 15.9 15.9 29.4 29.4 Derivative financial instruments 2.7 2.7 3.7 3.7 Trade and other payables 95.3 95.3 102.8 102.8 Current tax liabilities 22.9 22.9 25.6 25.6 588.9 599.2 563.4 532.6 The fair value of amounts receivable from customers has been derived by discounting expected future cash flows (as used to calculate the carrying value of amounts due from customers), net of agent collection costs, at the Group’s weighted average cost of capital. The fair value of the bonds has been calculated by reference to their market value. The carrying value of bank borrowings is deemed to be a good approximation of their fair value. Bank borrowings can be repaid within six months if the Group decides not to roll over for further periods up to the contractual repayment date. The impact of discounting would therefore, be negligible. Derivative financial instruments are held at fair value which is equal to the expected future cash flows arising as a result of the derivative transaction. For other financial assets and liabilities, which are all short-term in nature, the carrying value is a reasonable approximation of their fair value. 24. Retirement benefit obligations Pension schemes – defined benefit With effect from 1 March 2010, the Group’s defined benefit pension scheme was closed to further accrual of defined benefit obligations, with all members being offered the opportunity to join a money purchase scheme. Scheme assets are stated at fair value as at 31 December 2014. The major assumptions used by the actuary were: 2014 2013 Group and Company % % Price inflation (‘CPI’) 2.2 2.6 Rate of increase to pensions in payment 3.0 3.3 Discount rate 3.7 4.6 The expected return on scheme assets is determined by considering the expected returns available on the assets underlying the current investment policy. Expected yields on fixed interest investments are based on gross redemption yields as at the balance sheet date. Expected returns on equity investments reflect long-term real rates of return experienced in the respective markets. 129 129 24. Retirement benefit obligations continued The mortality assumptions are based on standard tables which allow for future mortality improvements. Different assumptions are used for different groups of members. Most members have not yet retired. On average, we expect a male retiring in the future at age 65 to live for a further 27 years. On average, we expect a female retiring in the future at age 65 to live for a further 28 years. If life expectancies had been assumed to be one year greater for all members, the defined benefit obligation would increase by approximately £1.2 million. If the discount rate was 250 basis points higher/(lower), the defined benefit obligation would decrease by £2.4 million/(increase by £2.6 million). If the price inflation rate was 250 basis points higher/(lower), the defined benefit obligation would increase by £1.4 million/(decrease by £1.4 million). The sensitivity analysis presented above may not be representative of the actual change in the defined benefit obligation as it is unlikely that the change in assumptions would occur in isolation of one another as some of the assumptions may be correlated. The amounts recognised in the balance sheet are as follows: Group Company 2014 2013 2014 2013 £M £M £M £M Equities 19.5 18.2 4.3 4.0 Bonds 9.2 8.2 2.0 1.8 Index-linked gilts 8.1 6.7 1.8 1.5 Other 0.1 0.1 – – Total fair value of scheme assets 36.9 33.2 8.1 7.3 Present value of funded defined benefit obligations (38.9) (34.1) (8.5) (7.5) Net obligation recognised in the balance sheet (2.0) (0.9) (0.4) (0.2) The amounts recognised in the income statement are as follows: Group Company 2014 2013 2014 2013 £M £M £M £M Interest cost 1.5 1.5 0.3 0.3 Expected return on scheme assets (1.5) (1.4) (0.3) (0.2) Financial Statements Net cost recognised in the income statement – 0.1 – 0.1 The net cost is included within administrative expenses. Movements in the fair value of scheme assets were as follows: Group Company 2014 2013 2014 2013 £M £M £M £M Fair value of scheme assets at 1 January 33.2 30.0 7.3 6.7 Expected return on scheme assets 1.5 1.3 0.3 0.2 Actuarial gains on scheme assets 2.2 2.1 0.5 0.5 Contributions by the Group 0.4 0.5 0.1 0.1 Net benefits paid out (0.4) (0.7) (0.1) (0.2) Fair value of scheme assets at 31 December 36.9 33.2 8.1 7.3 130 130 NOTES TO TOTHE NOTES THEFINANCIAL FINANCIALSTATEMENTS STATEMENTS International International Personal Annual Finance plc Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Financial Statements Statements 2014 continued Report and 2014 24. Retirement benefit obligations continued Movements in the present value of the defined benefit obligation were as follows: Group Company 2014 2013 2014 2013 £M £M £M £M Defined benefit obligation at 1 January (34.1) (33.2) (7.5) (7.3) Interest cost (1.5) (1.4) (0.3) (0.3) Actuarial losses on scheme liabilities (3.7) (0.2) (0.8) – Net benefits paid out 0.4 0.7 0.1 0.1 Defined benefit obligation at 31 December (38.9) (34.1) (8.5) (7.5) The actual return on scheme assets compared to the expected return is as follows: Group Company 2014 2013 2014 2013 £M £M £M £M Expected return on scheme assets 1.5 1.3 0.3 0.2 Actuarial gains on scheme assets 2.2 2.1 0.5 0.5 Actual return on scheme assets 3.7 3.4 0.8 0.7 Actuarial gains and losses have been recognised through the statement of comprehensive income (‘SOCI’) in the period in which they occur. An analysis of the amounts recognised in the SOCI is as follows: Group Company 2014 2013 2014 2013 £M £M £M £M Actuarial gains on scheme assets 2.2 2.1 0.5 0.5 Actuarial losses on scheme liabilities (3.7) (0.2) (0.8) – Total (loss)/gain recognised in the SOCI in the year (1.5) 1.9 (0.3) 0.5 Cumulative amount of losses recognised in the SOCI (16.2) (14.7) (3.5) (3.2) The history of experience adjustments is as follows: Group 2014 2013 2012* 2011* 2010* Experience gains/(losses) on scheme assets: – amount (£M) 2.2 2.1 1.8 (1.2) 1.6 – percentage of scheme assets (%) 6.0 6.3 6.0 (3.7) 4.6 Experience losses on scheme liabilities: – amount (£M) (1.2) – – (1.3) – – percentage of scheme liabilities (%) (3.1) – – (3.6) – *As required under IAS 19 131 131 24. Retirement benefit obligations continued Company 2014 2013 2012* 2011* 2010* Experience gains/(losses) on scheme assets: – amount (£M) 0.5 0.5 0.4 (0.3) 0.3 – percentage of scheme assets (%) 6.2 6.8 6.0 (4.2) 3.9 Experience losses on scheme liabilities: – amount (£M) (0.3) – – (0.3) – – percentage of scheme liabilities (%) (3.5) – – (3.8) – *As required under IAS 19 Pension schemes – defined contribution The defined benefit pension scheme is no longer open to further accrual. All eligible UK employees are invited to join stakeholder pension schemes into which the Group contributes between 8% and 20% of members’ pensionable earnings, provided the employee contributes a minimum of 5%. The assets of the scheme are held separately from those of the Group. The pension charge in the income statement represents contributions payable by the Group in respect of the scheme and amounted to £1.0 million for the year ended 31 December 2014 (2013: £1.1 million). £nil contributions were payable to the scheme at the year end (2013: £nil). In addition, an amount of £0.1 million (2013: £0.1 million) has been charged to the income statement in respect of contributions into personal pension arrangements for certain directors and employees. 25. Share-based payments The Group currently operates five categories of share schemes: The International Personal Finance plc Performance Share Plan (‘the Performance Share Plan’); The International Personal Finance plc Approved Company Share Option Plan (‘the CSOP’); The International Personal Finance plc Employee Savings-Related Share Option Scheme (‘the SAYE scheme’); The International Personal Finance plc Deferred Share Plan (‘the Deferred Share Plan’); and the International Personal Finance plc Have Your Share plan (‘the HYS plan’). A number of awards have been granted under these schemes during the period under review. All options granted under both the Performance Share Plans and CSOPs are subject to a total shareholder return (‘TSR’) performance target and certain schemes granted in the Performance Share Plan and CSOP also include earnings per share (‘EPS’) growth; net revenue growth; customer numbers growth; and agent turnover performance targets. The income statement charge in respect of the Performance Share Plan and the CSOP has been calculated using both a Monte Carlo simulation (for TSR) and Black-Scholes model (for the other non-market related conditions) as these schemes include performance targets. There are no performance conditions associated with the HYS plan; if an employee purchases a Financial Statements number of shares (subject to a maximum), the Company grants a nil cost option over four times the number of shares initially purchased. The only criterion associated with this option is that the employee must remain in employment for three years following the initial grant date. The income statement charge in respect of this scheme is calculated using the share price at the date of grant. The income statement charge in respect of the SAYE scheme is calculated using a Monte Carlo simulation model, however, no TSR targets are assigned. The Deferred Share Plan comprises of deferred awards with matching awards. There are no additional performance criteria attached to the deferred awards, therefore, the income statement charge is calculated using the actual share price at the date the award is granted. The matching awards are subject to the same criteria as the Performance Share Plan. The total income statement charge in respect of these sharebased payments is £4.9 million (2013: £3.1 million). 132 132 NOTES TO NOTES TOTHE FINANCIALSTATEMENTS THEFINANCIAL STATEMENTS International International Personal Annual Finance plc Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Financial Statements Statements 2014 continued Report and 2014 25. Share-based payments continued The fair value per award granted and the assumptions used in the calculation of the share-based payment charge are as follows: Deferred Performance Group and Company SAYE schemes CSOPs Share Plans Share Plans HYS plans Grant date 2014 2014 2014 2014 2014 Share price at award date 5.12 5.41 5.20 5.41-5.50 6.09 Base price for TSR n/a 5.64 5.58 5.54-5.64 n/a Exercise price 4.39 5.26 n/a nil n/a Vesting period (years) 3 and 5 3–4 3 3–4 3 Expected volatility 46.0% 50.2% 50.2% 46.0–50.2% n/a Award life (years) Up to 5 3 3 3 3 Expected life (years) Up to 5 3 3 3 3 Risk-free rate 2.37% 2.70% 2.66% 2.55-2.70% n/a Expected dividends expressed as a dividend yield 1.82% 1.54% 1.6% 1.54–1.69% n/a Deferred portion n/a 50.0% n/a 50.0% n/a TSR threshold n/a 30.0% 30.0% 30.0% n/a TSR maximum target n/a 60.0% 60.0% 60.0% n/a EPS threshold n/a n/a and 6.0% n/a n/a and 6.0% n/a EPS maximum target n/a n/a and 15.0% n/a n/a and 15.0% n/a Net revenue threshold n/a n/a and 5.0% n/a n/a and 5.0% n/a Net revenue maximum target n/a n/a and 12.0% n/a n/a and 12.0% n/a Customer numbers threshold n/a n/a and 10.0% n/a n/a and 10.0% n/a Customer numbers target n/a n/a and 25.0% n/a n/a and 25.0% n/a Agent turnover threshold n/a n/a and 50.0% n/a n/a and 50.0% n/a Agent turnover target n/a n/a and 40.0% n/a n/a and 40.0% n/a Fair value per award (£) 2.50 1.58–2.00 2.52–4.96 2.66–5.23 n/a No exercise price is payable in respect of awards made under the Performance Share Plan or the Deferred Share Plan. The risk-free rate of return is the yield on zero coupon UK government bonds with a remaining term equal to the expected life of the award. Further detail in respect of the Performance Share Plans, CSOPs, Deferred Share Plans, SAYEs and HYS plans is given in the Directors’ Remuneration Report. The movements in awards during the year for the Group are outlined in the table below: SAYE schemes CSOPs Deferred Share Plans Performance Share Plans HYS plans Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted average average average average average exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise Group Number price Number price Number price Number price Number price Outstanding at 1 January 2013 486,748 1.78 705,541 2.42 1,240,360 – 5,406,411 – – – Granted 68,842 4.42 52,074 5.18 492,731 – 970,911 – – – Expired/lapsed (74,629) 2.17 (92,276) 2.54 (22,139) – (775,038) – – – Exercised (74,721) 1.58 (183,510) 2.13 – – (638,148) – – – Outstanding at 31 December 2013 406,240 2.19 481,829 2.80 1,710,952 – 4,964,136 – – – Outstanding at 1 January 2014 406,240 2.19 481,829 2.80 1,710,952 – 4,964,136 – – – Granted 134,566 4.39 65,758 5.26 471,001 – 1,117,278 – 225,912 – Expired/lapsed (22,929) 3.68 (25,340) 3.69 (22,527) – (228,686) – (8,891) – Exercised (117,449) 1.30 (189,978) 2.26 (538,149) – (1,171,802) – – – Outstanding at 31 December 2014 400,428 3.10 332,269 3.57 1,621,277 – 4,680,926 – 217,021 – The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for the share options exercised during the year was £5.29. 133 133 25. Share-based payments continued The movements in awards during the year for the Company are outlined in the table below: SAYE schemes CSOPs Deferred Share Plans Performance Share Plans Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted average average average average exercise exercise exercise exercise Company Number price Number price Number price Number price Outstanding at 1 January 2013 295,010 1.79 409,062 2.27 700,212 – 2,602,545 – Granted 40,192 4.42 34,716 5.18 324,750 – 425,902 – Transferred (18,555) 1.79 (35,250) 2.27 (29,895) – (247,186) – Expired/lapsed (26,016) 2.31 (1,602) 2.13 – – (90,152) – Exercised (47,699) 1.67 (141,168) 2.13 – – (394,002) – Outstanding at 31 December 2013 242,932 2.15 265,758 2.70 995,067 – 2,297,107 – Outstanding at 1 January 2014 242,932 2.15 265,758 2.70 995,067 – 2,297,107 – Granted 89,189 4.39 52,798 5.26 317,351 – 520,588 – Transferred – – – – 6,735 – 31,520 – Expired/lapsed (13,338) 3.11 (6,787) 3.11 (11,762) – (65,140) – Exercised (73,654) 2.17 (113,181) 2.17 (264,282) – (625,028) – Outstanding at 31 December 2014 245,129 3.16 198,588 3.58 1,043,109 – 2,159,047 – The Company does not have any awards under the HYS plan. The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for the share options exercised during the year was £5.33. 26. Share capital 2014 2013 Company £M £M At 1 January 24.0 24.9 Own shares acquired – (0.9) Financial Statements At 31 December 24.0 24.0 Share capital consists of 239,705,096 fully paid up shares (2013: 239,705,096 fully paid up shares) at a nominal value of 10 pence. During 2013 the Company acquired £0.9 million of the issued share capital as part of its £60 million share buyback programme to optimise the amount of equity capital on the balance sheet and enhance shareholder returns. All of the 9,719,991 shares acquired were cancelled. The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carry no right to fixed income. The own share reserve represents the cost of shares in IPF purchased from the market, which can be used to satisfy options under the Group’s share options schemes (see note 25). The number of ordinary shares held in treasury and by the employee trust at 31 December 2014 was 8,874,019 (2013: 2,248,187). 134 134 NOTES TO NOTES TOTHE FINANCIALSTATEMENTS THEFINANCIAL STATEMENTS International International Personal Annual Finance plc Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Financial Statements Statements 2014 continued Report and 2014 27. Reconciliation of profit after taxation to cash generated from operating activities Group Company 2014 2013 2014 2013 £M £M £M £M Profit after taxation 71.8 95.6 281.9 34.5 Adjusted for: – tax charge/(credit) 28.4 34.9 (4.0) (6.0) – finance costs 45.3 49.0 42.3 42.7 – finance income – – (33.0) (29.3) – dividends received from subsidiaries – – (300.0) (56.4) – share-based payment charge (note 25) 4.9 3.1 1.9 2.5 – defined benefit pension charge (note 24) – 0.1 – – – depreciation of property, plant and equipment (note 13) 10.3 9.6 0.1 0.2 – loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment (note 3) 0.1 3.1 – – – amortisation of intangible assets (note 11) 1.0 1.1 – – – loss on disposal of intangible assets – 0.3 – – Changes in operating assets and liabilities: – amounts receivable from customers (36.3) (143.1) – – – other receivables (1.9) 0.9 (103.9) (104.3) – trade and other payables (2.2) 35.2 (175.5) 28.3 – retirement benefit obligation (0.4) (0.5) (0.1) 0.1 – derivative financial instruments 0.7 (5.1) (0.8) (0.1) Cash generated from/(used in) operating activities 121.7 84.2 (291.1) (87.8) 28. Commitments At the balance sheet date, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due as follows: 2014 2013 Group £M £M In less than one year 12.9 16.0 In more than one year but not later than five years 28.0 23.2 In more than five years 7.8 0.4 48.7 39.6 Other commitments are as follows: 2014 2013 Group £M £M Capital expenditure commitments contracted with third parties but not provided for at 31 December 7.1 3.6 The Company has no commitments as at 31 December 2014 (2013: £nil). 29. Post balance sheet events On 6 February 2015 the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of MCB Finance Group plc (‘MCB’), a profitable digital consumer finance provider established in 2006, for a cash consideration of £23.8 million. The acquisition supports IPF’s digital strategy and brings expertise, technical platforms and four new geographies to our portfolio as well as increasing our presence in Lithuania. MCB provides an online loan offering and credit line product together with new distribution and service channels. We will also benefit from the experienced management who can help accelerate the development of our digital lending business. Our plan is to integrate the digital hapiloans business into MCB and commence plans for the rollout of this digital business into our existing markets. MCB will also benefit from our investment support and funding to further grow the business which we expect to be earnings accretive in 2015. 135 135 29. Post balance sheet events continued Acquisition-related costs, included in administrative expenses in the Group consolidated income statement, amounted to £1.1 million. The allocation of the consideration is subject to a full purchase price allocation exercise, which due to the timing of the acquisition has not yet been completed as at 25 February 2015 and, therefore, the initial accounting for the business combination is incomplete. As a result, the Group is unable to disclose the following information regarding the acquisition: • the gross contractual amount, fair value amount, or estimated contractual cash flows not expected to be collected from the receivables acquired; • the amounts recognised as at the acquisition date for each major class of assets and liabilities acquired/assumed; • the existence of or the values relating to any contingent liabilities recognised upon acquisition; and • the amount of goodwill acquired and the amount of goodwill that is expected to be deductible for tax purposes. This information will be detailed within the Financial Statements for the year ending 31 December 2015. 30. Contingent liabilities The Group’s Polish business received a notice from the Polish Office of Consumer Protection and Competition (‘UOKiK’) in December 2013 stating that the way it calculates APRs amounts to a collective infringement of consumer interests and issued a fine of PLN 12.4 million (£2.4 million). UOKiK believes that the fee for the optional home service and an associated additional preparatory fee should be included in the total cost of credit and, therefore, the APR figure. On the basis of legal advice received, the Group believes that it is calculating the total cost of credit and APR correctly and has appealed against the decision. Consequently the Group has not made a provision in the Financial Statements for the cost of the fine because it does not believe it constitutes a probable cash outflow from the Group. The Company has a contingent liability for guarantees given in respect of the borrowings of certain other Group companies to a maximum of £214.3 million (2013: £235.3 million). At 31 December 2014, the fixed and floating rate borrowings under these facilities amounted to £52.1 million (2013: £68.7 million). The directors do not expect any loss to arise. These guarantees are defined as financial guarantees under IAS 39 and their fair value at 31 December 2014 was £nil (2013: £nil). 31. Related party transactions IPF plc has various transactions with other companies in the Group. Details of these transactions along with any balances outstanding are shown below: 2014 2013 Financial Statements Recharge Interest Outstanding Recharge Interest Outstanding of costs charge balance of costs charge balance Company £M £M £M £M £M £M Poland-Lithuania – – – – – – Czech-Slovakia – – – – – – Hungary – – – – – – Mexico – 11.4 0.4 – 7.2 0.1 Romania-Bulgaria – – – – – – Other UK companies 7.8 10.2 98.7 3.8 9.4 77.1 7.8 21.6 99.1 3.8 16.6 77.2 The Group’s only related party transactions are remuneration of key management personnel as disclosed in note 8. 136 136 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION INFORMATION International International Personal Annual Finance plc Personal Finance plc Annual Report Report and Financial Statements and Financial Statements 2014 2014 Financial Calendar for 2015 25 February Announcement of 2014 final results 9 April Ex-dividend date for final dividend 10 April Record date for final dividend 30 April AGM/Announcement of Q1 Interim Management Statement 8 May Payment of 2014 final dividend 29 July Announcement of 2015 half yearly report 3 September Ex-dividend date for interim dividend 4 September Record date for interim dividend 2 October Payment of 2015 interim dividend 21 October Announcement of Q3 Interim Management Statement Dividends and Dividend History Interim Final Total dividend dividend dividend Year Payment date (p) Payment date (p) (p) 2007 19 October 2007 1.90 23 May 2008 2.85 4.75 2008 3 October 2008 2.30 22 May 2009 3.40 5.70 2009 2 October 2009 2.30 21 May 2010 3.40 5.70 2010 8 October 2010 2.53 20 May 2011 3.74 6.27 2011 7 October 2011 3.00 1 June 2012 4.10 7.10 2012 5 October 2012 3.23 3 May 2013 4.51 7.74 2013 4 October 2013 3.80 9 May 2014 5.50 9.30 2014 3 October 2014 4.20 8 May 2015 7.801 12.002 1 Subject to shareholder approval on 30 April 2015. 2 Includes final dividend, subject to shareholder approval on 30 April 2015. Payment of dividends Shareholder information online and electronic communications We can pay dividends directly into a shareholder’s bank account. This For online information such as share price and capital gains tax ensures secure delivery and means that cleared funds are received on information please visit the Company’s website at www.ipfin.co.uk. the payment date. For shareholders resident outside the UK we offer Shareholders are able to access their personal shareholding dividend payments via Capita’s International Payment Service to a information by visiting the website www.myipfshares.com. This also number of countries which are paid in local currency. To receive more gives shareholders the ability to elect to receive shareholder information or to change your preferred dividend payment method documents electronically which will save on printing and distribution please contact the Company’s Registrar, Capita Asset Services. costs, and create environmental benefits. To register, shareholders will Registrar need their investor code (which is printed on correspondence All administrative enquiries relating to shareholdings including received from Capita). This service will require a user ID and password transfers, dividend payments/reinvestments, lost share certificates. to be provided on registration. duplicate accounts and amending personal details should be ShareGift addressed to the Company’s Registrar whose details are below. If a shareholder has a shareholding which it is not economic to sell, Capita Asset Services he/she may wish to donate the shares to ShareGift, a registered charity The Registry (no. 1052686) which can amalgamate small holdings in order to sell the 34 Beckenham Road shares and pass the proceeds on to other charities. More information is Beckenham available at www.sharegift.org or telephone 020 7930 3737. Kent BR3 4TU Company Registered office: 0871 664 0300 (Calls cost 10 pence per minute plus network extras) International Personal Finance plc + 44 (0)20 8639 3367 (from outside the UK charged at the local Number Three standard rate) Lines are open 8.30am to 5.30pm Monday to Friday Leeds City Office Park excluding Bank Holidays. Meadow Lane, Leeds West Yorkshire LS11 5BD www.capitaassetservices.com Telephone +44 (0)113 285 6700 Email Website enquiries@ipfin.co.uk www.ipfin.co.uk Company number 6018973 Registered in England and Wales Production of this report This report is printed by an EMAS-certified Carbon Neutral® company, whose Environmental Management System is certified to ISO 14001. 100 per cent of the inks used are vegetable-based, 95 per cent of press chemicals are recycled for further use and, on average, 99 per cent of waste associated with this production will be recycled. The papers used are FSC® certified. The pulp for each is bleached using an Elemental Chlorine Free (ECF) process. Designed by Black Sun Plc. International Personal Finance plc Number Three Leeds City Office Park Meadow Lane Leeds LS11 5BD Telephone: +44 (0)113 285 6700 Email: enquiries@ipfin.co.uk Website: www.ipfin.co.uk Company number 6018973
