2015global citizenship report content INTRODUCTION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 Statement of Support from CEO . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 WHAT WE DO . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 Help Families Find Their Way to New Homes, New Communities, and New Experiences . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 CARTUS CULTURE . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 Making the UN Global Compact Principles Our Own . . . . . . . . . . . . 6 OUR PEOPLE . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8 We Respect Those We Work With and For . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9 Diversity and Inclusion Make Us a Better Company . . . . . . . . . . . . 11 Recognizing People Who Do Great Things . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13 ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15 We Are Recognized for Doing the Right Thing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16 Stringent Data Security Protocols Protect Those We Work For . . . . . . . 17 CARING FOR OUR COMMUNITIES . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18 Cartus Cares for People Where We Live and Work . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19 ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24 Our Employees Take the Extra Step to “Go Green” . . . . . . . . . . . . 25 SUSTAINABLE PROCUREMENT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28 Ensuring Compliance, Security, and Value . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29 Promoting Supplier Diversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31 2 | GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP | CARTUS introduction Statement of Support from CEO To Cartus Stakeholders: For the last 60 years, Cartus has helped families settle in to new homes, new communities, and new experiences. As we mark this milestone in Cartus’ history, our promise to provide “trusted guidance” applies not only to supporting our clients and their relocating employees but also how we give back to our communities around the world. When you operate in more than 185 countries, measuring success becomes more than just an accounting exercise: it relies on an understanding of—and sensitivity toward—the many cultures and environments we work with and within. As such, we actively support the ten principles of the UN Global Compact by continuing our efforts in the key areas of concern (Human Rights, Labor, Environment, Anti-corruption). Over the last year, we have made exciting strides in these areas with new initiatives and practices, all described in the Global Citizenship Report that follows. Highlights of our progress include: • Remaining focused on worldwide compliance in the environmental and human rights circles, evidenced by continued efforts in every aspect of our business—including our new Environmental Policy and continued emphasis on supplier compliance. • Working to protect our clients by maintaining stringent controls to ensure data integrity and protection, including policies and procedures for protection of private information, SSAE 16 and ISAE 3402 compliance, and Safe Harbor self-certification. • A record-breaking year in terms of charitable contributions as Cartus employees around the world raised more than US$400,000 through various events and volunteered hundreds of hours of time to their chosen causes and communities. • And, as always, being guided by the concept of what’s right: a focus on ethical behavior that unifies our practices and interactions. For the fourth straight year, our parent company—and by extension, Cartus—was named one of the World’s Most Ethical companies. We work diligently to earn this designation every day. A lot has changed over the last six decades, but one thing that hasn’t is our commitment to social responsibility and global citizenship. Once again, I encourage you to read the report and witness the spirit of giving represented by Cartus and the people who make up our company. On a sunny Friday afternoon in Danbury, CT, Cartus employees lined up to buy a chance Kevin Kelleher to pour a bucket of ice water over CEO Kevin President and CEO Kelleher’s head for the ALS Ice Bucket Challenge. CARTUS | GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP | 3 what we do Help Families Find Their Way to New Homes, New Communities, and New Experiences Our expertise began 60 years ago, when Cartus first • Our services cover every aspect of the relocation offered U.S. domestic homefinding assistance. Since process—from selling a home and shipping then, we have grown to become the most trusted guide household goods to settling into new communities in the global relocation industry. around the world. We provide logistical support • Cartus is the industry leader in mobility support to as well as international assignment compensation organizations worldwide. With nearly 2,900 Cartus services, intercultural and language training, employees—more than 800 based in EMEA and consulting services, real estate assistance programs, APAC—and 18 offices worldwide, our clients trusted and talent management and retention. us to assist more than 171,000 employees and their • Cartus is part of Realogy Holdings Corp (NYSE: families into and out of nearly 150 countries in 2014. RLGY), a global leader in real estate franchising and provider of real estate brokerage, relocation, and settlement services. The “Alliance for Workplace Excellence” For the fourteenth consecutive Cartus APAC won the Relocation honored Cartus with four awards during year, Cartus was recognized by Management Company of the Year Award its 2015 celebration of excellence in the Training magazine as one of the Top (over 10,000 moves) from the Forum for workplace. Cartus was the only relocation 125 companies. Expatriate Management for the third company to be named, and one of just year in a row. This award recognizes 10 companies to be recognized in all the strategic partnership we have with four categories: Workplace Excellence our clients that enables us to transform Seal of Approval, Health & Wellness Seal mobility services and drive greater of Approval, EcoLeadership Award, and business growth. Diversity Champion Award. 4 | GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP | CARTUS cartus culture CARTUS | GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP | 5 cartus culture Making the the UN Global Compact Principles Our Own The Cartus culture drives everything we do—both Values We exist to collectively as an organization and individually as Service: We are defined by our service. members of the Cartus family. As part of that culture, provide trusted Financial Responsibility: We manage all resources as if our focus on global citizenship reflects our commitment guidance. to the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. they were our own. Specifically, this commitment shows not only in how Respect: We respect others and treat people well. we provide service to our clients and their relocating Collaboration: We are better when we work together. employees, but also in what our company and employees give back to our communities and our planet. Ethical Behavior: We do the right thing. As a business participant in the UN Global Compact, Mission Cartus has made a commitment to integrate the ten We come to work every day to help our customers and principles into our strategic planning and day-to-day clients succeed, fulfilling the needs and earning the trust operations. The following Communication on Progress of those whose lives we touch. (COP) details our efforts to fulfill this mission. Vision We will provide trusted guidance by sharing and leveraging our vast body of knowledge and experience to create superior solutions, build relationships, and bring more value to all our stakeholders. We will work together each day to achieve excellence in all we do, fostering trust and confirming our leadership position in the markets we serve. 6 | GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP | CARTUS cartus culture Making the the UN Global Compact Principles Our Own (CONTINUED) UN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLE CARTUS EFFORTS Human Rights Because Cartus is a service-based business, the services we offer are only as Our service is good as our people. Our mission is to provide trusted guidance so our clients Principle 1: Support and respect the protection of and customers succeed—that is our focus. As part of this mission, we follow only as good as internationally proclaimed human rights. the UN Global Compact human rights principles according to the nature of Principle 2: Ensure that the company is not complicit our business. our people. in human rights abuses. Labor We are an extremely diverse global organization, including age, gender, religion, heritage, family, interests, experiences, and style. This diversity helps everyone— Principle 3: Uphold the freedom of association and the from employees to suppliers worldwide—expand their understanding of the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. world, and these differences foster richly varying perspectives. Principle 4: Work to eliminate all forms of forced or compulsory labor. Principle 5: Work to effectively abolish child labor. Principle 6: Eliminate discrimination with respect to employment and occupation. Environment As a corporate citizen of planet Earth, we are committed to reducing the environmental impact of our company and continually look at multiple ways to Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary reduce our carbon footprint and to educate our employees on conservation approach to environmental challenges. activities. Through these efforts, we show our commitment to the environmental Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater principles of the UN Global Compact. environmental responsibility. Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-corruption We know that how we carry ourselves and treat others affects how our stakeholders Principle 10: Work against corruption in all forms, ultimately view our company. In support of this goal, we maintain a Compliance including extortion and bribery. and Ethics program that includes specific anti-corruption policies and procedures; key components include our Code of Ethics and Key Policies, the two cornerstone documents of our corporate culture. The result: our parent company has been named one of the World’s Most Ethical Companies for four straight years. CARTUS | GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP | 7 our people 8 | GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP | CARTUS our people We Respect Those We Work With and For At Cartus, we respect others and treat people well. We and learn about wellness opportunities available to show respect to everyone we interact with, internally and them. Realogy’s wellness program, called iThrive, externally, earning both their confidence and their trust frequently communicates useful information on topics in return. Being both global and diverse, we are attuned ranging from fitness and nutrition to mental health to the nuances of culture and diversity. We foster and and fiscal responsibility. sustain an environment that is inclusive and supportive; • Our Danbury headquarters completed a major we consider this essential to both the excellence of our overhaul of its onsite security system and process, work and to the company we strive to be. We create including reducing the number of entrances to the opportunities for our employees to get involved, build building and installing new proximity-sensor turnstiles satisfying careers, balance life and work, and grow to eliminate “tail-gating” and confirm whether an personally and professionally. employee is inside or outside the building in the event of an emergency. Comprehensive Health and Safety Program • Our Facilities and Security teams implemented a Highlights of the ways in which we continued to revamped training schedule for all designated Floor encourage and support the overall health and safety Wardens, who are responsible for organizing and of Cartus employees this past year include: directing employees in the event of an emergency. • Our offices around the world held wellness fairs, • Cartus was awarded a Singapore HEALTH Gold Award health screenings, and information sessions as part of for excellence in a workplace program to promote healthy living. For workplace health example, on National Wear Red Day®—the first Friday programs, presented of each February—Cartus employees around the by the Health world brought attention to women’s battle with heart Promotion Board. disease by donning crimson-, scarlet-, and ruby-hued shirts to show support for the cause. • In 2014, the onsite Wellness Center in our Danbury headquarters—staffed by a physician assistant and • Our Crisis Management team updated the company’s nurse practitioner—supported nearly 3,500 visits. Pandemic and Infectious Disease plan to reflect Since it opened 12 years ago, Cartus employees have further changes in direction from the World Health made more than 48,000 visits to the center. By doing Organization. so, they have saved hundreds of thousands of dollars • Through our parent company, Realogy, we provide in co-pays and health insurance fees. access to a wellness portal where employees can review their health statistics, manage their healthcare, CARTUS | GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP | 9 our people The Geneva team begins a day of cultural celebration with a scrumptious breakfast. 2015 Danbury Wellness Fair: 30 wellness exhibits + 650 employees who stopped by = 100% success. Staff in Hong Kong celebrated Lunar New Year by inviting a Swindon shows its true colors on National Wear Red Day®. lion dance troupe to spread luck throughout the office. 10 | GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP | CARTUS our people Diversity and Inclusion Make Us a Better Company (CONTINUED) At Cartus, understanding and accepting cultural diversity Through the Diversity Council and its associated resource remain key to our core value of Respect. We embrace groups, we create an inclusive environment in our offices Collectively, diversity because it resonates with our value to respect and learn more about one another. Diversity events our employees and welcome differences. Our sensitivity to each other and have included: to our customers’ unique and individual needs not only • Diversity & Inclusion Week, featuring dozens of unique speak more than makes us a better service provider, but also makes us a events across the globe, such as employees learning 50 languages richer, more vibrant company. folk and country dances from around the world and International Food Day, which saw employees bring in worldwide. In our hiring and advancement practices, Cartus continues to disregard race, color, religion, national origin, dishes from different cultures to share with coworkers. citizenship, age, sex, gender, sexual orientation, sexual • A “Get Involved” Fair for employees to find out about preference, veteran status, marital status, disability, or any all the groups, clubs, and organizations available. other characteristic protected under applicable laws and • A Veterans Wall of Honor created in three of our regulations. We make reasonable accommodations for offices for the second straight year. More than qualified disabled employees and applicants. 150 Cartus employees from our offices worldwide We are particularly proud of our gender diversity. submitted photos and stories of their loved ones for the walls. 66% 61% • “What Would You Do?” Lunch & Learn exploring Managers Vice President reactions and observations to the controversial scenes and Above and Above acted out in the hidden-camera reality show of the same name. • Regular communications and events celebrating 72% 28% various heritage/identity months, including Black Cartus Global Staff History Month, Gay Pride Month, and Hispanic Heritage Month. The Cartus Global Diversity and Inclusion Council, • A monthly photo contest featuring Cartus employees executive sponsored by President Kevin Kelleher, has at work, at play, and at special celebrations, or coordinated inclusion activities across our company. reflecting Cartus’ global footprint with local festivals, iconic features, or landscapes. The winning images will be featured in the 2016 Diversity Calendar. CARTUS | GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP | 11 our people APAC employees enjoy delectable delights on International Food Day. Our Veterans Walls attracted a great deal of well-deserved As part of the Diversity celebration in Lisle, IL, Charles Coulon Director of Customer Finance, Beth Schaedel, has attention while on display. showed his colleagues some Scottish dance moves while been chosen as the 2014 winner of the Cartus Diversity attired in his formal Scottish Country Dancing ensemble. and Inclusion Award for her ongoing support of Cartus diversity initiatives. 12 | GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP | CARTUS our people Recognizing People Who Do Great Things (CONTINUED) As part of our core value of Respect, Cartus creates were held in all offices by our various departments to say opportunities for our employees to get involved, build thanks to our most important asset—our people. Our most satisfying careers, balance life and work, and grow important asset personally and professionally. We extend this internal Cartus is also proud to recognize the winners of the 2014 culture of respect to all those whom we touch every day BRAVO! President’s Awards, which recognize exceptional is our people. because respect is essential to every healthy relationship. achievement and consistent demonstration of one or more of Cartus’ company values. Evidence of the value we place on our employees includes the exceptional benefits Cartus provides, Team including: • Cartus Broker Services • Paid parental leave—a benefit expanded to support U.S. employees in 2014 Individual • Adoption assistance • Gold: Bill Tully—Director, Account Management • Domestic partner benefits • Silver: Veronica Dinkins—Director, Account Management • Flexible work options such as telecommuting and flex-time • Bronze: Justin Arcadipane—Director, Client Services More than 60 percent of Cartus employees take These winners truly exemplify the Cartus culture. advantage of flexible work scheduling—whether in the form of shifted business hours, work-from-home opportunities, or a reduced or compressed work week. 62% 21% Additionally, we are proud of the career opportunities of employees of our workforce we provide. In 2014, Cartus promoted or offered new have flexible was promoted work schedules or offered positions to 619 employees—21 percent of our workforce. new positions In March 2015, our offices and employees around the world celebrated BRAVO! Day—a global event and opportunity to say thank you for everyone’s contribution to great service, collaboration, respect, financial responsibility, and ethical behavior. Special celebrations CARTUS | GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP | 13 our people BRAVO! President’s Gold Award winner, Bill Tully. Bill worked tirelessly this past year in support of his clients and Cartus business initiatives. BRAVO! Day recognizes those who come to work every day to help Cartus’ customers and clients succeed by providing trusted guidance through actions that demonstrate the company’s five core values. Pictured here are employees in Cartus’ Singapore; Folsom, CA; and Swindon, UK, offices. 14 | GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP | CARTUS ethics and compliance CARTUS | GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP | 15 ethics and compliance We Are Recognized for Doing the Right Thing Being ethical and compliant in everything we do— Our company’s efforts to continue doing the right 100% of “doing the right thing”—is a core Cartus value. This value mandates ethical behavior in all our business dealings. thing include: • Maintaining the 24/7 Ethics Hotline, where employees our employees We conduct ourselves and our business with the utmost can raise concerns or ask questions about ethical integrity. We comply with our internal and external issues. The Code of Ethics Line is accessible in 200 complete code commitments, and we make the ethical choice whenever languages, either by phone or by Web. of ethics training challenges present themselves. Our culture of integrity as a company is absolute and non-negotiable. • Annual required Compliance and Ethics training for every year. all Cartus employees, including: As part of the Realogy – – Code of Ethics and Key Policies value circle, we are – – Information Management and Security proud to be named to – – RESPA & Global Anti-Bribery Ethisphere® Institute’s • Regular distribution of a series of lighthearted-yet“World’s Most Ethical serious “Ethical Moments” videos by The Second Companies” (WME) list City Communications to enliven existing ethics and for the fourth consecutive compliance education and training programs. year. The WME designation recognizes companies that • Maintaining a collection of Manager Toolkits with the truly go beyond making Ethical Leadership courses provided for employees statements about doing who have one or more direct reports. business ethically and translate those words into action. Click above to view this celebratory video highlighting Realogy’s designation as one of 2015 World’s Most Ethical Companies. 16 | GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP | CARTUS ethics and compliance Stringent Data Security Protocols Protect Those We Work For (CONTINUED) The security for all of our systems remained a key focus Additionally, penetration tests are used to determine for us in 2014 as we: security weaknesses of a computer system, network, In 2014, Cartus • Launched a new information security awareness or Web application to find vulnerabilities that an systems blocked program to help employees avoid falling victim attacker could exploit. They can also be used to test an to phishing. Each month, all employees are organization’s security policy compliance, its employees’ more than 34 immersed in simulated phishing scenarios in order security awareness, and the organization’s ability to million spam to provide training and raise awareness around the identify and respond to security incidents. In 2014, sophistication and dangers of phishing. Cartus was subject to penetration testing by multiple messages and independent third-party resources to verify compliance. • Were subject to regular reviews by our clients, over 2,600 external auditors, and other professional oversight Corporate Compliance & Ethics Week viruses. They organizations. Corporate Compliance & Ethics Week is celebrated the • Successfully completed one full Disaster Recovery also encrypted first full week of November every year as a means to Exercise as well as participated in two Realogy highlight the importance of ethics and compliance in 5.1 million Disaster Recovery Exercises. our workplace. messages. • Ensured seamless service and business delivery in the face of 30 major weather-related events globally through our Business Continuity plans. • Received annual SSAE 16 and ISAE 3402 certification covering key controls over our domestic and international relocation accounting services. • Protected data by implementing encryption strategies for data backups and data at rest. CARTUS | GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP | 17 caring for our communities 18 | GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP | CARTUS caring for our communities Cartus Cares for People Where We Live and Work In 2014, Cartus employees around the world raised more than US$400,000 through charitable events in support of the United Way, Community Health Charities, American Cancer Society, Junior Achievement, March of Dimes, Red Cross, British Heart Foundation, Children in Need, Dementia UK, Singapore Cancer Society, Children’s Aid Society of Singapore, and many other charities supported by our employees. Our people also donated hundreds of hours of time to their chosen causes and donated food, clothing, and other goods to where they were needed. • 120 volunteers participated in the United Way’s annual Day of Action, volunteering more than 800 hours dedicated to projects in the community around our corporate headquarters in Danbury, CT. Cartus kicks off its annual Charitable Giving Campaign with its signature event, the Walk ‘n’ Roll, which raised over US$29,000 last year. • The Walk ‘n’ Roll—Danbury’s signature kickoff event for Cartus’ annual Charitable Giving Campaign— raised US$29,293 in a single day. • The Cartus Cares Committee in APAC organized a “Lots of Socks Day,” with staff in Singapore, China, and Hong Kong wearing their most vibrant and colorful socks in support of World Down Syndrome Day. • The Swindon and London offices held a charity day in aid of Comic Relief, a UK-based organization that helps those in poverty in the UK and Africa. • Irving, TX, employees demonstrated the spirit of service and respect with their donation of 18 baskets of supplies for clients of The Bridge, which assists homeless and mentally ill people in Dallas. The London office gets pretty in pink for Breast Cancer Awareness. CARTUS | GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP | 19 caring for our communities Cartus Cares for People Where We Live and Work (CONTINUED) • Cartus Danbury’s Women’s Advisory Council • Our Hong Kong Cartus Cares committee crafted gift Our employees sponsored a “Reinvent the Dress” drive to donate boxes filled with educational and hygiene items to be prom dresses, shoes, and jewelry to assist young distributed to underprivileged children in Asia. “give back” in women in obtaining promwear and accessories. • Cartus volunteers collected old, broken, and even countless ways. • The iThrive Committee collected 331 pounds new crayons donated by schools and individuals, of donated Halloween candy to send to our which they donate to SCARCE (School & Community troops overseas. Assistance for Recycling and Composting Education), • Volunteers from Cartus’ Singapore office spent which then sorts and melts them down to make super a fun-filled day playing and sharing experiences crayons for use by children with special needs. with children suffering from Duchenne Muscular • The team from Lisle, IL, and some of their children Dystrophy. volunteered to hand-pack 38,616 meals specifically • Cartus was named for the fifth straight year to The formulated for malnourished children in Nicaragua Governor’s Prevention Partnership 2015 Corporate for the charity Feed My Starving Children. Mentoring Honor Roll, which recognizes our • The Amsterdam office raised funds for “Dress for leadership in mentoring through our alliance with Success,” an organization that provides donated local non-profit, Danbury Schools and Business suitable, smart clothes to job seekers with limited Collaborative (DSABC). This year also saw the budgets so they can dress appropriately for induction of Jim Moretti into the Corporate an interview. Mentoring Hall of Fame for his leadership serving • The London and Swindon offices in the UK joined as DSABC’s Cartus liaison for the past 20 years. together to raise funds for Sport Relief via “The BIG • Team members in our Lisle, IL, office made 20 fleece Cycle event” (stationary bike-riding), Zumba classes, blankets for DuPage Hospice. and a costume contest to help homeless British youths. • The Swindon office hosted their annual coffee morning, with employees bringing in homemade cakes to raise money for the Macmillan Cancer Support charity, which provides practical, medical, and financial support for better cancer care. 20 | GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP | CARTUS caring for our communities in the americas Cartus recognized the winner of the annual Cartus Cares Global Citizenship Award in 2014: Patty Ginochio, Director, Account Management. As director of the Bodega Bay (California) Community Emergency Response Team (CERT)—a non-profit disaster preparedness group—Patty not only participates in emergency medical and safety response training for local citizens but also managed a major fundraising effort to enable the purchase of a new ambulance. Our Lisle office presented a check to their colleague, Joe Kettner, The Cartus Irving (TX) office helped to Cartus employees unite to lend a hand in United Way’s annual in support of the organization created to honor his late son, Carter: bridge the donation gap for The Bridge. Day of Action. Cancer Kiss My Cooley. CARTUS | GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP | 21 caring for our communities in emea Cartus heroes unite to support UK Children In Need. The theme of Cartus UK’s Comic Relief fundraiser was “Make Your Face Funny for Money,” and our colleagues certainly did just that. The London and Swindon offices join together to raise funds Swindon’s Dean Hunt puts the “Sport” back into “UK Sport Relief” via The BIG Cycle Event. to help homeless British youths. 22 | GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP | CARTUS caring for our communities in apac Volunteers from Cartus’ Singapore office spent a fun-filled day playing and sharing experiences with children suffering from Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy. Cartus APAC knocks its socks ON in support of World The APAC Cartus Cares committee organized a tour of Singapore’s new National Cartus Singapore volunteered at KidzFEST–Korea, Down Syndrome Day. Stadium for the Thye Hua Kwan Moral Society, a non-profit voluntary welfare managed by the Singapore Children’s Society. organization providing community-based services. Twenty-eight children participated in activities. CARTUS | GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP | 23 environmental stewardship 24 | GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP | CARTUS environmental stewardship Our Employees Take the Extra Step to “Go Green” At Cartus, we are committed to staying abreast of the • The Cartus Conservation Committee sponsors the ever-growing environmental needs of our industry and annual Danbury Earth Day Fair, which provides our We continually our clients, and pursuing and maintaining high corporate employees with environmental and conservation look for ways environmental standards. Therefore, we are constantly products and services for both home and office. developing and implementing new policies and This year’s fair had 600-plus attendees. to decrease our procedures as we see the need. • Where Cartus has control over the building, we environmental In 2015, we published the Cartus Environmental continually look to make improvements with the impact. Policy to demonstrate our commitment to promoting environment in mind. For example, we are replacing environmental protection, preventing pollution, our HVAC equipment in Danbury with much more supporting sustainable development, and energy-efficient units, including boilers and rooftop minimizing waste. units. In Swindon, we are replacing our diesel CARTUS POLICY generator tank with a double-layer tank to further In addition, our Conservation Committee has been in ensure there will be no chance of leakage. THE CARTUS ENVIRONMENTAL place for a dozen years, looking for ways to decrease our • Cartus currently has two printer and toner recycle POLICY environmental impact as a company and educate our programs, one for multifunction printers that are employees on conservation activities. We participate in being recycled by the manufacturer and another that the Carbon Disclosure project and continually look to donates any small desktop printer cartridges to a reduce our footprint in all areas. We are also working school recycling program. to establish additional baseline measures (e.g., travel miles, domestic and international air travel) to set more • The Cartus purchasing program enables Click above to read our meaningful goals. employees to purchase office supplies made new Environmental Policy. from recycled materials. • In 2014, the Connecticut Department of Energy and Environmental Protection (DEEP) recognized Cartus for our efforts to protect the environment and natural resources. Cartus was one of just 16 Connecticut businesses and individuals to receive the award. The award underscored our positive environmental impact, some of which is credited to the Cartus rideshare program that has hundreds of registered riders, with the majority using rideshare on a weekly basis. CARTUS | GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP | 25 environmental stewardship Our Employees Take the Extra Step to “Go Green” (CONTINUED) Other ongoing conservation efforts include: Carpooling—Because Our Environment is Riding In 2014, 360 on YOU • Window blinds are systematically closed during days employees were of extreme temperatures. In 2014, the Cartus Conservation Committee sponsored our actively involved • Non-essential lighting throughout the facility is second annual International Transit Day. Cartus employees turned off during days of extreme temperatures. all over the world joined together to make a positive in carpooling, impact on the environment by sharing a ride, walking, • Computer monitors enter sleep mode after 10 taking a train or a bus, or riding a bike to work—and in an effort that minutes of non-usage. Each monitor only consumes some cases, using roller skates, skateboards, and tricycles. the same amount of electricity as a 75W light bulb. reduced CO2 • Computers, printers, and photocopiers are The goal of this event was to decrease (and track) emissions by programmed to switch to power-save mode when our company’s carbon footprint in an effort to raise nearly 396 tons. they have been idle for a specified period of time. environmental awareness. • All computer monitors are turned off at the end of Cartus also hosted multiple transit-related lunch and the business day. learn sessions promoting its ridesharing initiatives, called • Overhead lighting is turned off each day at 11:00 p.m. “Find your Perfect Ride,” in its Danbury headquarters. • Motion-sensing faucets and toilets have been installed in most of our bathrooms. Our global recycling efforts in 2014 resulted in these accomplishments: • Cartus’ office supply recycling program saves the company an estimated US$25,000 annually. • We recycled approximately 30 tons of commingled waste—material that will not end up in landfills. • Our employees recycled 806 pounds of lamps, batteries, and other office items. • Use of Shred-it® bins resulted in an estimated 1,759 Hundreds of Cartus employees worldwide participated in our second annual trees saved. International Transit Day, saving approximately 237 gallons of gas and reducing emissions by approximately 2.3 tons. Click above to view the video. 26 | GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP | CARTUS environmental stewardship Cartus employees literally go green over the plant and herb selection at the Cartus Conservation Committee’s 2015 Earth Day Fair in Danbury, attended by more than 600 employees. Cartus Amsterdam puts the pedal to the pavement Conservation Committee members chip in to pick up during one of Swindon employees show their class by saving gas. in the most bicycle-friendly capital city in the world. Cartus’ regularly scheduled street clean-up initiatives. CARTUS | GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP | 27 sustainable procurement sustainable procurement Ensuring Compliance, Security, and Value Our commitment to global sustainability extends to We strongly encourage our supplier partners to develop managing the suppliers we use to serve our clients and and implement innovative solutions to sustainability We hold our their employees. Cartus has maintained ISO 9001:2008 challenges in the services they provide our clients. Over suppliers to certification for 10 years, and we manage a network the last year, some of these solutions included: of suppliers around the globe who provide support • A property management partner’s new app, which the highest to clients and assignees in more than 185 countries in eliminates the requirement for a field agent to print standards. every key phase of the relocation experience, including out a six-page walkthrough form. destination support, home finding, temporary housing, and household goods shipment. Our networks are • A renewed focus on environmental initiatives by our experienced and monitored by 95 regionally based van line partners, many of whom have implemented Cartus Supply Chain staff, facilitating accurate, proximate specific truck-idling mandates and invested in monitoring and support. auxiliary power units to save fuel and significantly reduce air pollution. One of our van line partners is • Cartus holds every member of our supply chain to the investing in the research and development of solar same standards we apply to our efforts. Each network panels for moving trucks to reduce engine run-time supplier signs a contract agreeing to full compliance and fuel consumption. with all laws and regulations. • Our global network suppliers undergo mandatory annual ethics and compliance training. • Cartus has invested in a risk management system called Compliance 360, which allows Cartus to easily document, monitor, and report on inherent risk factors associated with managing third-party vendors. The system tracks hundreds of data points that provide a view into the global compliance of each and every network member. We ensure that our network consists of reputable vendors that have passed the highest level of scrutiny in the industry. CARTUS | GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP | 29 sustainable procurement Flags displayed for each country represented at the 2014 Cartus Global Network conference. Cartus Broker Network members gather at our annual conference to receive training, attend Mike Brannan presents Cartus’ Global Citizenship Award to The Arpin Group, Inc., of Rhode workshops, and share best practices. Island. This award is given annually to a Cartus supplier who is committed to making an impact on the health, welfare, and safety of others. 30 | GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP | CARTUS sustainable procurement Promoting Supplier Diversity (CONTINUED) Cartus is dedicated to promoting supplier diversity and In 2014: building it into our corporate culture. Since establishing • Cartus disbursed US$43.9 million to small, minority-, We are a a formal department in 1983, Cartus has become a and women-owned businesses. Over the past five recognized leader in this area and the recipient of recognized years, we have disbursed more than US$225 million. numerous awards. Our supplier diversity team conducts leader in supplier outreach, monitoring, and measurement on behalf of • Tom Davis—Cartus’ Vice President of External numerous clients. Supplier Diversity—was elected chairperson of the diversity. Greater New England Minority Supplier Development To achieve these goals, the department focuses on Council’s (GNEMSDC) board of directors. developing and maintaining bidder lists of small, • Cartus President and CEO, Kevin Kelleher, was again minority-, and women-owned a keynote speaker at the GNEMSDC Advanced business enterprises (S/M/ Leadership Program. WBEs) from all possible sources, while also ensuring the inclusion of S/M/WBEs in all solicitations for products or services which they are capable of providing. To ensure an equitable distribution of business, we periodically rotate potential subcontractors on bidder lists and require the bid proposal review board to document its reasons for not selecting low bids submitted by S/M/WBEs. Cartus Vice President of External Supplier Diversity, Tom Davis, presents the GNEMSDC’s Supplier of the Year award. CARTUS | GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP | 31 Trusted Guidance – For Every Move You Make ®. Cartus guides our clients through thousands of unique and complex programs. Ideally equipped to lead you, Cartus is ready to help—whatever, whenever, wherever your relocation program is moving. To learn more, please email trustedguidance@cartus.com or visit our citizenship page on www.cartus.com www.cartus.com | trustedguidance@cartus.com | connect with us © 2015 Cartus Corporation. All rights reserved. Cartus and the Cartus logo are registered trademarks of Cartus Corporation.
