EPHRAIM STRONGTOWER LIMITED 70D ALLEN AVENUE IKEJA, LAGOS. NIGERIA. TEL: +234-703-165-4175 Email: estrongtower@yahoo.com RC 474369 UN GLOBAL COMPACT PARTICIPANT ID: 19682 YEAR: JULY 8, 2014 – JULY 8, 2015. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS This is the second Communication on Progress (COP) for Ephraim Strongtower Limited (RC 474369 and UN Global Compact Participant ID: 19682). Submission of this report is part of our obligation as a United Nations Global Compact Participant. The Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact: At Ephraim Strongtower Limited, we are committed to align our operations and strategies within our spheres of influence with the ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti – corruption. HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. LABOUR Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. ANTI – CORRUPTION Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms including extortion and bribery. STATEMENT OF EXPRESSION OF CONTINUED SUPPORT FOR THE TEN PRINCIPLES The period covered by our Communication on Progress is between July 8, 2014 and July 8, 2015. Ephraim Strongtower Limited and its management even to the highest – level governance body have supported and will continue to support the ten universally accepted principles of the UN Global Compact with respect to human rights, labour, environment and anti – corruption by taking the following steps: We have made the ten principles of the UN Global Compact part of our day – to – day business strategies and operations within our spheres of influence. Our commitment to responsible business is incorporated in our business agenda through our Purpose and Vision. We have incorporated the UN Global Compact and its ten principles in our Organizational decision making. We will continue to support the UN goals and issues including the Millennium Development Goals and the proposed Sustainable Development Goals. We will continue to do our best to create awareness about UN Global Compact and its ten principles amongst our stakeholders, clients, customers, partners and the general public at large. We have and shall continue to work against corruption in all its forms especially in Africa where corruption is endemic. We hereby reaffirm our commitment to the UN Global Compact and its principles. This statement and commitment is endorsed by the management of Ephraim Strongtower Limited and the Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Funmi Ajibawo (CEO & Contact Person) TEL: +234-703-165-4175 Email: estrongtower@yahoo.com The Communication on Progress (COP) would be shared with all stakeholders including employees, customers and at all public presentation of the company. It would be made accessible to all interested parties on company website when fully developed and operational. HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Ephraim Strongtower Limited is seriously committed to the international declaration on respect and protection of human rights. Assessment, Policy and Goals: The company policy regarding respect of human rights is clearly stated in the employee handbook. We have strongly advised relevant stakeholders, clients, suppliers and business partners in all our business activities to comply with the UN Global Compact principles and international declaration on human rights. The company has raised its standard on human rights policy comparatively. Implementation: The management of Ephraim Strongtower Limited has taken the implementation of human rights policy seriously by: advancing human rights across our operations with our suppliers creating awareness among staff members conducting trainings to update members of staff their rights A system has been effectively put in place to address staff grievances. Suggestion boxes to maintain privacy. Effective monitoring and evaluation mechanisms of human rights integration. We constantly liaise with stakeholders to make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses and we would not hesitate to terminate our relationship with them. Measurement of Outcomes: The implementation of the policy has increased our employees’ morale and has motivated them positively. It has translated to increase employee performance. An incident has encouraged a victimized member of staff to get counselling and the violator was reported to the appropriate law enforcement agency. A team of senior management staff will continue to monitor, review and improve on the implementation strategy of the human rights policy of the company. LABOUR Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. At Ephraim Strongtower Limited, our commitment is very strong in respect of upholding all the relevant international labour laws and declarations concerning discrimination, child labour, and freedom of association, working hours and employee grievance. Our approach is to specifically treat our employees and business partners with fairness, dignity and integrity. Assessment, Policy and Goals: The company has a Social Accountability Policy Document signed by the Chief Executive Officer and made available to all staff members and relevant stakeholders. Ephraim Strongtower Limited accepts the rights of all employees to belong or not to belong to a recognized Trade Union of the employees’ choice. Implementation: We will not engage in, or support discrimination in hiring, compensate, accessing training, promotions or termination of employment based on race, national origin, religion, disability, gender or sexual orientation. Ephraim Strongtower Limited will comply with the applicable laws and industry standards on working hours; and we are regularly in consultation with all stakeholders, clients, suppliers about their employees not being subjected to forced labour, working exhausting hours, workers should not be treated badly and not exploited. Child Labour: Ephraim Strongtower Limited will prevent the use of child labour and forced labour. Health and Safety: We are committed to providing a safe and healthy working environment for our employees in accordance with the Health and Safety at work Act 1974. Measurement of Outcomes: We have been getting positive result amongst our staff from the feedback and questionnaire report on the changes put in place through suggestion boxes. A documented grievance procedure is detailed in the company employee handbook. We have also put in place awareness training on labour rights and civic policy. We have been receiving positive cooperation from our suppliers and stakeholders since we advised them that we would not hesitate to terminate our relationship with them if in the event we discover they are in non-compliance with the national labour laws and regulations with respect to child employment. A copy of the company’s Social Accountability Policy is included in the Communication on Progress (COP). ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Ephraim Strongtower Limited has a company policy on environment. As a major supplier and service provider, we are committed to the protection of health and environment and determined to minimize any adverse impacts as a result of its activities. Assessment, Policy and Goals: Ephraim Strongtower Limited is committed to promoting awareness by informing and motivating all our staff and encourage them to play an active role in adhering to the company policy on environment. We are constantly consulting with all relevant stakeholders, suppliers and vendors about the company’s environmental policy and commitment. The company’s purchasing policy is to favour manufacturers and contractors that adopt best environmental practices. Implementation: The company will continue to work with local community by initiating environmental issues and encourage reporting on environmental issues of public interest. Waste Management is a major problem in Nigeria: Improper disposal of hazardous and non-hazardous waste. Lack of safe management of waste. Lack of recycle centers. Continuous usage of non-recyclable raw materials by manufacturers. However, Ephraim Strongtower Limited will continue to promote, develop, and implement waste prevention, reduction, re-use and recycling in a systematic and cost effective manner. We will use appropriately regulated waste management contractors. We are also committed to support more eco-efficient products, public policy to tackle Climate change and reduction of gas flaring. Measurement of Outcomes: Ephraim Strongtower Limited will continue to work with all relevant stakeholders, manufacturers, clients and vendors towards achieving our environmental policy aims. We have put in place awareness training on environmental issues and efficient energy usage. We will set specific improvement targets, monitor progress and communicate results internally. The copy of our Environmental Policy is included in the Communication on Progress (COP). ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. At Ephraim Strongtower Limited even to the highest-level governance body, we are committed to the UN Global Compact principle on anticorruption. As a specialist major supplier and service provider, it has not been easy sustaining the policy. But we have consulted and will continue to dialogue with all relevant stakeholders, clients and vendors about our policy of zero-tolerance for corruption and the UN Global Compact anticorruption principle. Assessment, Policy and Goals: The company policy regarding anti-corruption is clearly detailed in the employee handbook. We have advised all stakeholders, business partners and vendors to support and adhere to the UN Global Compact anti-corruption principle. Nigeria as a case study: Corruption is endemic in Nigeria in the public and private sectors. Bribery and extortion is deep – rooted everywhere. Obvious effects are lack of developmental policies and projects. Lack of transparency and accountability. It has negatively impacted the economy. As a result, the standard of living of an average Nigerian is very low despite being one of the largest oil producing country in the world. Implementation: The company recognizes the vulnerability of our employees due to the nature of our business activities. Therefore, we are constantly organizing in-service training to create awareness and sensitize our members of staff about the company policy regarding anti-corruption. The company policy regarding anti-corruption is clearly written in the employee handbook. We have zero-tolerance for corruption in all our dealings. We will continue to dialogue with all stakeholders and vendors about the company policy regarding anti-corruption and that we would investigate and report incidents to the appropriate law enforcement agencies. We have put in place a reporting system to handle complaints and suggestion boxes. Measurements and Outcomes: The company has a system of intervention in place under the supervision of the Audit department. The company also retained external Auditors for checks and balances. We have improved on the internal system by plugging leakages thus translating to increase productivity and profit. The company has also set a special team of senior management staff that will continue to monitor, review and improve the system to achieve the company’s goal regarding anti-corruption and the UN Global Compact principle. GC SCOPE: TAKING ACTION IN SUPPORT OF BROADER UN GOALS AND ISSUES As a Participant of the UN Global Compact and a Responsible Business Organization, we are committed to upholding its Principles across our business operations by taking actions in support of advancing broader UN Goals and lssues. CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY, GOVERNANCE AND LEADERSHIP At Ephraim Strongtower Limited, we are ready to align our business strategies to the implementation of the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). We believe and subscribes to Corporate Sustainability, Governance and Leadership by our approach through our board’s adoption, oversight and stakeholders engagement. The COP describes the commitment of our CEO and the Leadership of the company to the Principles of the UN Global Compact and advancing broader UN Goals and lssues. The Communication on Progress (COP) would be shared with all stakeholders including employees, consumers, clients, vendors and at all public presentation of the company. Also, it would be made easily accessible to all interested parties on company website when fully developed and operational. For: Ephraim Strongtower Limited Mr Funmi Ajibawo. CEO & Contact Person. Ephraim Strongtower Limited’s Environmental Policy Ephraim Strongtower Limited is a major supplier and service provider. We are committed to delivering quality products and services. As a specialist, we are committed to the protection of health and environment and determined to minimize any adverse impacts as a result of its activities. Ephraim Strongtower Limited is committed to addressing the following issues: Promote awareness We will inform and motivate all our staff and encourage them to play an active role in Ephraim Strongtower Limited’s commitment to its environmental policy. Environment and the Community We will continue to work with the local community by initiating environmental initiatives on-site and encouraging local environmental initiatives and reporting on environmental issues of public interest Continuous Improvement We will set specific improvement targets, monitor progress and communicate results internally. Property Management We are always improving our buildings. We will construct, refurbish and manage our buildings in a manner that will reduce the associated environmental impacts and be sympathetic with the external surroundings. By addressing the issue of energy efficiency in our buildings, we will contribute to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions in line with national and international agreements. Procurement We will use Ephraim Strongtower Limited’s purchasing policy to favour manufacturers and contractors that adopt best environmental practices. Waste Management We will continue to promote, develop and implement waste prevention, reduction, reuse and recycling on-site in a systematic and cost effective manner. We will use appropriately regulated waste management contractors to ensure safe management of hazardous and non-hazardous waste sent off-site in accordance with best environmental practice. We will work with our manufacturers and customers towards achieving our environmental policy aims. For any issues related to Environmental Policy linked to this business, please contact: Mrs. Folashade Familola Director of Administration.
