2015 Sustainability Report This is the thirteenth Sustainability Report of 2014 Highlights CSV Highlights Sustainability Performance Hyundai Motor Company encompassing the 10 Highlights of Hyundai Major issues on creating the shared Product Responsibility · Eco-friendliness · sustainability performance of the company in 2014 value in the economic, social and Suppliers · Employees · Society environmental values The Road to Sustainability Content 004 Message from the CEO About This Report 006 Company Overview This is the thirteenth Sustainability Report of Hyundai Motor Company (“Hyundai”) encompassing the sustainability performance of the company. 2014 Highlights Reporting Scope The reporting period is for calendar year 2014; however, the report also includes some data and information from outside 008 10 Major Highlights that reporting period. This report covers all domestic operations (Hyundai headquarters, domestic sales offices, service centers, 01. Hyundai sees global sales of 4.96 million distribution centers, training centers, manufacturing plants and vehicles in 2014 R&D centers), overseas operations (overseas manufacturing 02. The new Genesis recognized for ‘the Best plants, sales offices, regional headquarters, overseas offices, Safety Performance’ overseas R&D centers), and other related companies (import companies, auto financing firms and advertising firms). 03. Porter delivers prosperity to small business owners Reporting Framework 04. Hyundai ranked top for quality in America This report has been produced in line with the Global Reporting and China Initiative (GRI) G4 Core guidelines announced in May 2013. The materiality of the information contained herein was tested 05. Hyundai Green Zone China converts desert in accordance with the same guidelines, and key issues were into grassland identified accordingly. Performance indicators covering the last three years, from 2012 to 2014, are disclosed to show trends in 06. Locally-oriented global strategy pays off performance; these indicators can be found on pages 108 to 114. in India and Brazil 07. Social contributions recognized worldwide Assurance An independent assurance service provider, LRQA, verified this 08. Fuel cell hydrogen-powered electric engine report to ensure the reliability of the data on climate change. The recognized for its excellence assurances provided by LRQA are in the Third Party Assurance 09. Global technology leads to a WRC victory Statement on page 119. 10. Hyundai Motor Studio: a cultural and Others artistic space seen through the prism of The organization’s online channels were reorganized in June the automobile 2014, to provide stakeholders with the right communication tools. Homepage www.hyundai.co.kr Blog http://blog.hyundai.co.kr Facebook www.facebook.com/hyundaimotorgroup Interactive PDF Youtube This report has been published as an interactive PDF, allowing readers to move quickly and easily to pages in the report, and including shortwww.youtube.com/user/HyundaiLive cuts to related web pages. Content Previous Next Chapter Instagram Page Chapter https://instagram.com/hyundai_company Reference Page Related Link CSV Highlights Sustainability Reference Page Performance Related Link 020 CSV Policy Our System 022 Creating shared value for the future by applying Hyundai’s 044 Sustainability Management System cutting-edge technology to bobsleigh 050 Corporate Governance 052 Creating and Sharing Economic Value 056 Sustainability Management Materiality Analysis Our Value 058 Product Responsibility Global Highlight _ China & Asia (p.067) 068 Eco-friendliness Global Highlight _ Czech Republic (p.081) 027 Developing self-driving vehicles with perfect safety and the best technology 082 Suppliers Global Highlight _ Korea (p.087) 088 Employees Global Highlight _ Brazil (p.097) 098 Society Global Highlight _ India (p.107) 108 Facts & Figures 034 2020 strategy for eco-friendly vehicles to bring about Appendices energy sharing through clean mobility 116 GRI Index 119 Third Party Assurance Statement 120 Sonata History 122 Sustainability Report Publication History 123 Contact Information Message from the CEO We constantly set our sights higher and create shared value for all by enriching the quality of people’s lives through pursuit of premier mobility. 004 Hyundai Motor Company 2015 Sustainability Report In 2014, a year marked by a global economic downturn, In addition, Hyundai has established its ‘2020 strategy for ecoHyundai Motor Company (“Hyundai”) sold 4.96 million vehicles friendly vehicles’ as part of its contribution to the creation of worldwide, 4.9% more than in the year before. We believe sustainable society. Through continuous R&D over the past the increase is a direct result of producing more diverse eco20 years, we have created diverse eco-friendly systems and friendly cars and introducing more models adapted to local succeeded in producing parts crucial to clean mobility. We have market characteristics, which has raised our brand recognition. proved our eco-friendly vehicle technology with the launch In addition to anticipating the demands of global markets and of Tucson FCEV, the world’s first fuel cell electric vehicle consumers, our efforts to enhance the brand value of Hyundai successfully mass-produced. We plan to apply this innovative will continue toward the goal of being the world’s best in technology across our line-up, including electric and hybrid product quality. vehicles. We also plan to improve the fuel efficiency of our conventional internal combustion vehicles by 25% by 2020. The future automobile that Hyundai pursues is more than superior mobility; it is a “lifetime partner” that delivers the How these resolves will shape our future competitiveness mobility of the highest possible efficiency and thus makes depends on how we attract and nurture superior human life more worthwhile and rewarding. In addition to automobile resources. We will therefore expand R&D investments, business, we will do our utmost to communicate with our increase cutting-edge research facilities, secure more stakeholders and address such social issues as natural talented engineers and strengthen our industry-academia resources, environmental protection, and traffic safety. Based collaborations. on these goals, we direct all of our business activities toward creating shared value. Corporate citizenship has a prominent role in creating shared value. Based on our philosophy of win-win, we have In product development, we have spared neither efforts nor established three key strategies of growing with our suppliers, resources to make Hyundai vehicles safer for both drivers and forging stronger ties. We are also active in supporting and pedestrians. The new Genesis, launched in 2014, has become cooperating with various global communities in the areas the world’s first to achieve perfect scores in all categories of of technology, education, arts and culture, in the hope of the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety (IIHS) crash test, creating the future value. known for its highest standards in the world. Inspired by such a hard-won feat, we will firmly fix our R&D focus on being the With our new thinking and new action, we will strive to world’s best in automotive safety. We are also working hard create environmental and social values based on economic to lead the development of autonomous driving technology, performances, and share them with our customers. We look one of the most talked-about topics in the automotive world, forward to your continued encouragement. as the technology is sure to raise auto safety to a whole new Thank you. level. To play a leading role in popularizing the next generation of smart cars, we are undertaking R&D with a focus on mass production. In fact, some of our latest models are already equipped with an advanced driver assistance system (ADAS), a technology that can bring fully self-driving vehicles closer to reality. Choong Ho Kim CEO, Hyundai Motor Company Message from the CEO 005 Company Overview Hyundai Motor Company: the vanguard of growth in the Korean automobile industry Hyundai has established itself as a global brand, driven by its belief that new thinking creates new value. We will never cease to innovate and venture in new directions, and thus grow with our customers and communities as a lifetime partner. Total Asset Company Profile KRW 61,343 billion Company Name Hyundai Motor Company Chairman/CEO Mong Koo Chung Sales Headquarters 12 Heolleung-ro (Yangjae-dong), KRW 41,691 billion No. of Employees Seocho-gu, Seoul, Korea 109,748 persons Production Capacity Shareholders’ equity KRW 45,662 billion 4,955,536 units * As of the end of 2014 Global Network Asia Pacific Europe Americas ☐  1 Hyundai Motor Company HQ (HMC) 18 Hyundai Motor Europe Technical ☐  34 Hyundai California Design & ☐  ☐ Namyang 2 Technology Research Center GmbH Research Center Center ☐  19 Hyundai Motor Europe Design ☐  35 Hyundai America Technical Center ☐  3 Hyundai Motor China R&D Center Center Inc. (HATCI) ☐  4 Hyundai Motor Japan R&D Center 20 Hyundai Motor Manufacturing Czech ☐  36 Hyundai Motor Manufacturing ☐  ☐  5 Hyundai Motor India Engineering (HMMC) Alabama (HMMA) Pvt. Ltd. (HMIE) ☐  21 Hyundai Assan Otomotiv Sanayi ☐  37 Hyundai Motor Manufacturing Brazil ☐  6 Hyundai Motor Ulsan plant (HAOS) (HMB) ☐  7 Hyundai Motor Asan plant 22 Hyundai Motor Manufacturing ☐  38 Hyundai Motor America (HMA) ☐  Russia (HMMR) ☐ 39 Hyundai Auto Canada (HAC) ☐  8 Hyundai Motor Jeonju plant ☐  23 Hyundai Motor Europe GmbH (HME) ☐ 40 Hyundai Motor Brazil (HMB) ☐  9 Beijing Hyundai Motor Co., Ltd. (BHMC) ☐  24 Hyundai Motor Deutshland GmbH ☐  41 Hyundai Motor de Mexico (HMM)* (HMD) ☐  42 Central & South America ☐  10 Sichuan Hyundai Co., Ltd. (CHMC) ☐  25 Hyundai Motor United Kingdom. Ltd. Regional HQ ☐ 11 Hyundai Motor India (HMI) (HMUK) ☐ 12 Hyundai Motor Japan (HMJ) ☐  26 Hyundai Motor Norway AS (HMN) ☐  13 Hyundai Motor Company Australia ☐  27 Hyundai Motor Poland (HMP) (HMCA) ☐  28 Hyundai Motor Company Italy (HMCI) ☐ 14 Asia & Pacific Regional HQ ☐  29 Hyundai Motor France (HMF) ☐  15 CV Asia & Pacific Regional HQ (commercial vehicle) ☐  30 Hyundai Motor Espana, S.L. (HMES) ☐ 16 Africa & Middle East Regional HQ ☐  31 Hyundai Motor Commonwealth Independent States (HMCIS) ☐  17 CV Africa & Middle East Regional HQ ☐  32 CIS & Central Europe Regional HQ (commercial vehicle) ☐  33 CV CIS & Central Europe Regional * HQ (commercial vehicle) Newly established in 2014 006 Hyundai Motor Company 2015 Sustainability Report 928,438 709,505 540,202 471,711 Best-selling models (Unit: Vehicle sold globally) Avante Accent Tucson Sonata * As of the end of 2014 Company Overview 007 2014 Highlights Hyundai believes that today’s new thinking brings about new possibilities for a better tomorrow. When others talk about impossibility, we think of boundless possibilities. This is what has made us one of the world’s leading global carmakers, with world-class manufacturing capability and the best in quality. Despite uncertain global economic conditions in 2014, Hyundai has continued to grow through the spirit of challenge. As a lifetime partner, we have stood alongside customers throughout the world, providing value and a vision of new possibilities for the automobile. Based on these dedicated efforts, we were able to open a new chapter in the global automobile market. 008 Hyundai Motor Company 2015 Sustainability Report 01 Hyundai sees global sales of 4.96 million vehicles in 2014 In 2014, Hyundai recorded domestic sales of 685,191 units and overseas sales of 4,278,265 units; total sales of 4,963,456 units reflected an increase of 4.9% over the previous year, boosted by the launch of new cars, strong sales promotions and focused marketing initiatives. We aim to increase sales to 5.05 million units in 2015 – 690,000 units in the domestic market and 4,360,000 units overseas. Although the market situation is challenging, due to continued slowing growth in emerging markets, volatility in exchange rates and fierce competition, Hyundai will continue to build foundations for future growth by responding quickly and flexibly to change. page 52~53 2014 Highlights 009 02 The new Genesis recognized for ‘the Best Safety Performance’ The new Genesis has been designed to be the world’s safest car, and to protect drivers in any emergency. This was confirmed by the results of the crash test conducted in the U.S. in 2014 by the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety (IIHS), one of the strictest safety tests in the world; the new Genesis became the first vehicle to achieve perfect scores in all 29 areas of the test, and has officially earned the IIHS Top Safety Pick+ award. After being recognized in this way for its cutting-edge safety technology, Hyundai will continue to be more committed to the protection and safety of its customers. page 61 010 Hyundai Motor Company 2015 Sustainability Report 03 Porter delivers prosperity to small business owners Porter is a truck manufactured by Hyundai, and it is very popular with small business owners. We therefore strive to support small business owners, for example by maintaining the price competitiveness of the Porter, even absorbing price increases in raw materials or parts whenever possible. In addition, Hyundai has increased production capacity to minimize the average waiting time for delivery which used to take three months. Hyundai also focuses on the “Visiting Before Service” so that we support the livelihoods of small business owners who may depend greatly on their Porter. In addition, we undertake outreach campaigns, including ”Gift Car” and “Moving the World Together” programs through which we donate Porters to the needy, helping them to start a business. Hyundai is committed to providing small business owners with hope and support through the Porter. page 104 2014 Highlights 011 Genesis Avante (Export model name: Elantra) 04 Hyundai ranked top for quality in America and China Hyundai received the highest ratings in various tests conducted by the renowned global market research firm, J.D. Power. In the U.S., the company topped the 2014 Initial Quality Study (IQS) and the 2014 Automotive Performance Execution and Layout (APEAL) Study among a group of 20 brands. In the IQS, Hyundai’s Genesis, Accent, and Avante (locally named Elantra) all ranked first in their respective segments. With its wins in the APEAL, Hyundai became the first brand to top both studies in the same year. In China, Hyundai received the highest results ever in the 2014 Sales Satisfaction Index (SSI) in China, earning top place among 43 carmakers. In addition, the company was second in the 2014 Vehicle Dependability Study (VDS) of cars sold in China, up 10 positions from last year. page 63, 66 012 Hyundai Motor Company 2015 Sustainability Report 05 Hyundai Green Zone China converts desert into grassland The Asian region is losing about 3,500㎢ of green land to desertification annually, especially in Mongolia and China. Hyundai has therefore undertaken the “Hyundai Green Zone China” project since 2008, to transform desert into grassland in Chakanor. During the first phase of the project, from 2008 to 2012, Hyundai provided CNY 6 million of financial support to plant local native plants that are resistant to alkaline soil conditions, helping to change desert into grasslands in the Chakanor West Lake area. 50 million ㎡ of desert, or about 60% of the West Lake area, was successfully converted into grassland. Following on these successes, the company plans to complete the second phase of the project by 2017. page 79, 102 The scene of the grassland changed from desert by the ‘Hyundai Green Zone China’ 2014 Highlights 013 Official Partner of the 2014 FIFA World Cup Brazil™ page 65 Social contribution campaign for the traffic safety in India page 107 06 Locally-oriented global strategy pays off in India and Brazil Hyundai always takes into account the preferences of local customers, right from the initial stages of a vehicle’s development. This helped the new i20 (locally named the Elite i20) to win the Indian Car of the Year (ICOTY) 2015 award, evaluated and presented by a jury consisting of Indian automotive journalists. The ICOTY, the most coveted award in the Indian automobile industry, plays a significant role in new vehicle purchases. The HB20S, available exclusively in Brazil, won the Best Car 2014 award in the compact car sector. Launched in 2012, the HB20S was Hyundai’s first locally-manufactured model in Brazil. Beginning with its victory in the 2013 Brazilian Car of the Year awards, it has now won ten Car of the Year awards in Brazil, including this latest success. 014 Hyundai Motor Company 2015 Sustainability Report 07 Social contributions recognized worldwide Hyundai carries out social contribution activities worldwide under the slogan of “Moving the World Together”. In 2014, Hyundai received an award from the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy at the ‘Most Loved Company Awards’ for our CSR activities supporting education, children, and the environment in Russia. The company’s program to prevent desertification in China was recognized through the KoreaChina CSV Management Award. In addition, Hyundai won the first CSV Porter Prize, organized by the Institute for Industrial Policy Studies and awarded by Michael E. Porter, who created the concept of CSV, for the establishment of the Hyundai-KOICA Dream Center in Ghana. page 104~105 http://csr.hyundai.com 2014 Highlights 015 08 Fuel cell hydrogen-powered electric engine recognized for its excellence The Hyundai Tucson Fuel Cell’s powertrain was chosen as one of the 2015 Ward’s 10 Best Engines by WardsAuto, one of the best-known automobile journals in the U.S. It was the first time a fuel cell powertrain had ever received this coveted honor. WardsAuto stated that “The Hyundai Tucson fuel cell electric vehicle deserves to be recognized as a great engineering achievement and a giant leap for zero-emissions vehicles”. page 39 016 Hyundai Motor Company 2015 Sustainability Report 09 Hyundai’s global technology leads to a WRC victory Hyundai won the German round of the World Rally Championship (WRC), one of the most popular championships in motor racing. This was not only our first victory since we began our participation in the WRC two years ago, but it was also the first win for a Korean carmaker in an international motor sports championship. The WRC uses mass production-based high performance cars. Hyundai raced the i20 WRC, a modified and tuned model of i20, in the championship. The i20 WRC was developed by the racing team at Hyundai’s Namyang Technology Research Center and Hyundai Motorsport in Germany, with over 100 engineers participating. Hyundai plans to apply the technology learned from rallying and the prestige earned from the championship to the improvement of its mass-produced vehicles. page 65 2014 Highlights 017 10 Hyundai Motor Studio: a cultural and artistic space seen through the prism of the automobile How can we talk about cars as a living space? The Hyundai Motor Studio is a brand experience space built with unique exterior designs and infrastructure to communicate with customers in a more creative, experimental way. The Hyundai Motor Studio Seoul opened in May 2014 and has so far welcomed more than 100,000 visitors. In January 2015, we opened the Hyundai Motor Studio Moscow in Russia. Hyundai has a manufacturing plant in Russia where a model exclusive to the local market, the Solaris, is sold. With a car gallery, a brand collection zone, a library, a café and an event zone, the Hyundai Motor Studio Moscow promotes our brand performance and technology, and contributes to better communications with local consumers. http://motorstudio.hyundai.com 018 Hyundai Motor Company 2015 Sustainability Report Hyundai Motor Studio Seoul 2014 Highlights 019 CSV Policy Hyundai Motor Company pursues management activities that focus on Creating Shared Value (CSV), to seek both company success and social growth. Our CSV activities create both economic and social value because we believe that when those values work together, they can be a driver to change the world for the better. CSV is a similar concept to Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), but with a greater focus on business. CSV looks to strengthen corporate competiveness and also creates value for the company itself, and customers and local communities as well. We will create social value based on our Our goal is to be the most loved company, business performance, and share it with our rather than just being a company that customers so that we can grow with them. sells more automobiles. Chairman Mong Koo Chung Vice Chairman Eui Sun Chung From the CEO Message in the During his speech at the 2015 Detroit Auto Show 2014 Sustainability Report of Hyundai Motor Company 020 Hyundai Motor Company 2015 Sustainability Report CSV Policy Lifetime partner in automobiles and beyond Provide new space to make a better life by creating the best in mobility through customer-centered, eco-friendly, innovative technology and comprehensive services Partner for a lifetime Partner for everyday life Partner for happiness Provide products and Provide the best customer Provide maximum comfort, services to support experience in the convenience and pleasure customers at every stage automotive industry by extending the concept of their lives of an automobile to a space for living CSV Perspectives Economic Value Social Value Build a leading position in the automotive Create value for our customers and wider industry by providing services for society and fulfill our responsibilities customers’ everyday lives as their life-long partner CSV Highlights 021 CSV Highlight I Ma de by Customized bobsleigh made by Hyundai HYUNDaI A ‘race of possibilities’ begins when the outstanding technological skills of Hyundai meet the passion of the Korean national bobsleigh team. Hyundai is producing the first Korean bobsleigh to be used by the national team at the 2018 Pyeongchang Winter Olympics, and is fully supporting the team’s new possibilities. 022 Hyundai Motor Company 2015 Sustainability Report “We’ve made a concept model of bobsleigh to minimize air resistance based on our technology and the experience gained in developing cars. The final model was selected after hundreds of applied simulations.” Senior Research Engineer Suk Joon Kim Advanced Product Planning Team “ Nothing would feel better than winning a medal at the Pyeongchang Olympics with bobsleigh made with Korean technology.” Coach Sik Kim (Left), Athlete Yun Jong Won (Right) Korean National Bobsleigh Team CSV Highlights 023 The ‘Concept Bobsleigh’ is bobsleigh that will be used by the Korean national team at the 2018 Pyeongchang Winter Olympics. This CSV activity will encourage company growth through the development of new technology to produce future-oriented, high-performance cars. Length: 3,135mm, Width: 855mm, Height: 700mm A signing ceremony with the Korean national team in September 2014 024 Hyundai Motor Company 2015 Sustainability Report CSV perspectives for producing bobsleigh Hyundai Value Social Value • Improving relevant technological • Contributing to the advancement of skills winter sports • Appling automobile development • Promoting bobsleigh games technology Creating shared value for the future by applying Hyundai’s cutting-edge technology to bobsleigh Creating shared value by producing bobsleigh The team has never had decent bobsleigh. They had for the Korean national team to borrow bobsleigh from other countries in their first couple of games, and purchased used bobsleigh ‘Concept Bobsleigh’ is a concept model of bobsleigh from the Netherlands and Latvia in 2012. However, to be used by the Korean national team at the 2018 bobsleigh tailored to the physiques of Western Pyeongchang Winter Olympics. Hyundai signed bobsledders were not right for the Korean team, and an agreement with the national bobsleigh team in this was one of the main causes of their frequent September 2014 to produce bobsleigh for the team. injuries. It is currently in the process of development at the Namyang Technology Research Center. Hyundai’s The margin of victory in bobsleigh can be as little as cutting-edge technology will produce high-speed 0.01 seconds. Track conditions, the physical condition bobsleigh with maximum stability. We will continue of players and the quality of bobsleigh can all make to support the team so that it can achieve the best a vital 0.01 second difference. Despite having no possible results. arena or customized bobsleigh, the Korean national bobsleigh team reached the last four of the men’s bobsleigh at the Vancouver Olympics 2010, placed third at the America’s Cup in 2012, and won the first gold medals for the eighth and ninth competition at the 2013 America’s Cup. CSV Highlights 025 In October 2014, Hyundai offered the national team performed by the Vehicle Thermo-Fluid CAE Team its first customized bobsleigh, and the team used using a supercomputer. 3D scanning technology will it in the World Cup series. Yong Lee, who, as head customize bobsleigh to the individual body shapes coach, led the team to fifth place in the International of the team members. Bobsleigh and Skeleton Federation (FIBT) 2015 World Cup series, said that one of the factors that The ‘Concept Bobsleigh’ for the Korean national contributed to their success was the expertise in bobsleigh team at the 2018 Pyeongchang Winter equipment management provided by Hyundai. Olympics was introduced at the Seoul Motor Show, Korea’s largest auto show. It is designed with We hope that the production of bobsleigh for the curved sides for optimized airflow, and the design national team will help the bobsledders improve their also incorporates distinctive Hyundai motifs ― for performance, and increase support for bobsleigh and example, the frontal end wings feature the Hyundai other winter sports in Korea. logo. In addition, the black front and rear bumpers and front end are designed to be unique and eyecatching. Starting with the Concept Bobsleigh, Hyundai will continue to develop bobsleigh, and plans to launch racing bobsleigh in October 2015. This will help the national team to lift its performance from the 2015/16 season onwards. Hyundai supports the Developing technology for automobiles of Korean national team’s the future by creating shared value What shared values come from the production of race of possibilities bobsleigh based on Hyundai’s technology? Hyundai’s production of bobsleigh demonstrates the company’s high levels of technological capability and automotive manufacturing competencies. In addi t ion, i t is an ini t iat i ve t hat enhances Putting “New Thinking, New Possibility” into the prestige of Hyundai, one of the top global practice by applying automobile technologies to carmakers. The company’s developments in this bobsleigh field will not end with the production of bobsleigh, but will be connec ted to the development of Hyundai is developing high-per formance new technology that can produce future-oriented, high b ob s leigh. A s p ar t of t h e ef for t s , w e ha v e performance cars. Hyundai’s CSV opens boundless conducted several tests with Korea’s national possibilities for technological advancement. bobsleigh team that recently finished the 2015 World Cup series. It is essential to tailor our bobsleigh for the body shapes of the Korean athletes. Hyundai has t herefore applied technologie s such as aerodynamic analysis using a super computer, wind tunnel testing, and the application of composite materials. Weight should be reduced using carbon technology, and air resistance should be minimized, which then need to be optimized to the players. An aerodynamically optimal bobsleigh shape is being developed through wind tunnel testing by the Aerodynamic Development Team at the Namyang Technology Research Center, with data simulations 026 Hyundai Motor Company 2015 Sustainability Report CSV Highlight II TOWARD Self-driving cars — perfect safety through innovation ZERO ACCIDENT Technological innovation at Hyundai is focused on ‘people’. Hyundai continually innovates to provide people with more convenient and safer mobility. Self-driving cars with ‘perfect safety’ are the future of automobiles, and a target for Hyundai’s technological innovation. CSV Highlights 027 “The Empty Car Convoy” video showcases Hyundai’s autonomous driving technology, making it possible for cars to be driven without human intervention, but still able to stop instantly in emergency situations. “ I devote myself to research in developing cars with the aim of caring for the family. The framework of our research is based on self-driving cars that are capable of self-parking. We also emphasize the family – what if a couple who both have jobs cannot pick their kid up after school because of busy work schedules? It would be so nice to have a ‘helper car’ in that situation. I think the truly ‘self-driving car’ will reflect the driver’s love for his or her family and desire to protect them and get them to their destination safely. This is the future for mobility that I’m working on.” Senior Research Engineer Eui Yun Chung ADAS Recognition Development Team 028 Hyundai Motor Company 2015 Sustainability Report CSV perspectives for developing self-driving vehicles Hyundai Value Social Value • Enhancing technological • Efficient use of driving time competitiveness alongside partners • Enhancing welfare of the • Securing next generation growth disadvantaged such as the visually Autonomous Driving Process drivers impaired • Leading the global market with • Reducing fuel costs by easing technology prowess traffic jams Recognition • Ensuring performance, safety, and • Reducing casualties and relevant eco-friendliness of future mobility costs by preventing traffic accidents Route search Digital map V2X Communication with other vehicles or infrastructure ADAS sensor Camera, radar, etc. Assessing driving conditions and determining driving strategy Changing lanes, passing, turning, parking, etc. Judgement Creating driving routes Target paths, speeds, primary targets, etc. Recognizing fixed structures and route search Roads, lanes, crosswalks, tunnels, highways, etc. Recognizing moving structures and objects Vehicles, pedestrians, traffic lights, accident vehicles, etc. Vehicle control Steering angles/torques, acceleration, deceleration Control Developing self-driving vehicles with perfect safety and the best technology technology prowess Improving quality of life by developing traffic flows in real time, thereby drastically reducing self-driving cars traffic jams and accidents. Fuel efficiency would be improved by avoiding unnecessary driving, which can Faster and safer cars have become an integral part help preserve the environment. It will also help people of our lives. The era of self-driving cars, where with limited mobility, and even the visually impaired vehicles autonomously recognize driving conditions will be able to use a car. Self-driving cars will make and drive to the destination without driver input, is time spent in a car more efficient, and thus they will right around the corner. Cars will be started remotely, contribute to improving people’s quality of life. recognize traffic lights and pedestrians, and quickly identify obstacles to change lanes. They have been made feasible through Hyundai’s Advanced Driver Not a fantasy film. It’s for real — Assistance System (ADAS). scenes of Hyundai’s self-driving cars The development of self-driving cars by Hyundai has Since the development in 2010 of its first autonomous begun to innovate technology and, more importantly, self-driving car, the Tucson ix, Hyundai has pushed to meet an important social demand. A self-driving ahead with further development of self-driving cars. car operated by intelligent systems could analyze The company currently applies ADAS, the basis for CSV Highlights 029 Hyundai has tested self-driving cars since 2010. its autonomous driving technologies, to major massand is equivalent to the human eye. The ‘judgement’ produced cars. In 2014, this technology was applied technology is similar to the human brain ― it processes to the new Genesis, to showcase its partial autonomy traffic lights and determines the movement of the feature, and then filmed in a video entitled “The vehicle using a controller. The ‘control’ technology, Empty Car Convoy”, which went viral on the Internet. equivalent to a human’s blood vessels, muscles and It attracted 2,570,000 hits within ten days and became nerves, directly controls acceleration, deceleration, and a worldwide sensation. changes in direction. Hyundai is developing self-driving cars which still Simulating the human body — where we are allow the driver to intervene. This means that drivers in the development of self-driving cars can enjoy driving their vehicles while ensuring their safety in emergency situations. We plan to expand ADAS similar to the human body our autonomous driving capabilities, especially in ADAS is an essential technology for self-driving cars. It electric and control technology, and work together is based on three types of technology ― recognition, with Korean auto-parts manufacturers to play a judgement, and control. The ‘recognition’ technology leading role in popularizing the next generation smart detects the surroundings using a sensor or camera, cars. The Smart Parking Assist System (SPAS) is a smart technology that helps drivers to park easily. The Blind Spot Detection (BSD) system detects other vehicles and obstacles in blind spots and gives a warning to the driver. The Forward Collision Warning System (FCWS) gives a warning signal to the driver when a potential collision is detected. 030 Hyundai Motor Company 2015 Sustainability Report Q & A Talk about self-driving vehicles, the future of automobile technology Everything about autonomous driving cars Tech & Talk Q&A with Hyundai engineers at the 2015 Seoul Motor Show Question 1 Answer When will autonomous driving Autonomous driving technology is rooted in ADAS. Technologies, such as autonomous emergency braking, lane keeping assist, and parking assist technology be commercialized? system, have been applied to Hyundai’s vehicles. This shows that some autonomous driving technology has already been commercialized. The commercialization of a completely autonomous driving system that does not require a driver may rely more on laws and changes in the social system than any technical difficulties. Answer Question 2 An authoritative interpretation of relevant laws is needed before autonomous Is it legal to drive a self-driving vehicle driving technology can be fully commercialized. It is possible, from a technical on the road? Can I sit in the back standpoint, to sit in the back seat, but legal and social expectations need to seat? What happens if there is an be managed first. For example, autonomous driving can only really be fully commercialized if there is a system in place to enable the driver to drive the obstacle while driving autonomously? vehicle in an emergency. Self-driving cars handle obstacles in the same way a driver does. They detect the location and movement of obstacles using a camera or sensor, equivalent to the human eye. Based on what they ‘see’, the car could then either decelerate or change directions by controlling its brakes, accelerator, and steering. Question 3 Answer How advanced is Hyundai’s autonomous Carmakers, including Hyundai, are working on creating self-driving technology not unmanned vehicles. Our direction of development is different from driving technology compared to that of that of IT companies ― for instance, IT companies develop systems using other companies? sensors or IT technology, whereas we aim to apply our new technology in mass production. We therefore focus on developing technology to be used in sensors and vehicle systems that can be fully commercialized, and must also ensure their reliability and durability. It is thus quite hard to make a straight comparison. Question 4 Answer What about the risk of mechanical ADAS monitors the status of all vehicle control systems, including brakes, steering, engine function, and every other system. If there is a mechanical malfunctions? Would the driver be malfunction, there is a warning light so that the driver is aware of the situation able to take action immediately? and can take over the driving. The same applies to sensors that recognize the It is scary to imagine being in a car’s surroundings. The more automated the system is, the more sensors are used to ensure multiple verifications of the information, and this ensures the self-driving car. I saw the Genesis reliability of the recognition technology. Furthermore, we have focused not only commercial where the car stops by on the functional features of ADAS, but also on its ability to respond to different itself ― will it actually do so without scenarios, including weather and road conditions. Reliability and safety are the top priorities when it comes to the development of self-driving vehicles. the driver’s input? CSV Highlights 031 ADAS A to Z Everything to know about ADAS Entering expressway ❶1 Entering expressway ❺5 Following a vehicle ahead 1 ❷2 High-speed driving ❻6 Recognizing falling objects from a vehicle ahead and pulling over HDA Highway Driving Assist ASCC Hyundai vehicles from 2015 will have an HDA Advanced Smart Cruise Control system that integrates a lane-keeping assistance 9 Cruise control has advanced from a system that system, advanced smart cruise control, and simply maintains a steady cruising speed to a Recognizing parking navigation features to enhance driver ability to smart system that follows the vehicle ahead, and space and parking respond to driving conditions on the highway. It then onto the ASCC system that maintains a safe can automatically maintain a set distance from distance from the vehicle ahead, brakes when the the vehicle ahead, help the car stay in the correct vehicle ahead stops, and resumes driving without lane, and work with the navigation system to the need for the driver to operate the pedals. This control driving speed by recognizing speed limits system also includes a function that automatically and speed limit zones. accelerates to the preset speed when stopping and then resuming driving. ❸3 Recognizing and pulling over for FCWS ❼7 Driving through a foggy area designated passengers Forward Collision Warning System ❹4 R  ecognizing intersection condition VSM and passing A vehicle equipped with a Lane Departure Warning System (LDWS) that recognizes dangerous Vehicle Stability Management TJA situations ahead and gives drivers a warning has a windshield-mounted camera. An FCWS uses the Cars can lose traction when braking on wet and slippery roads, icy roads, or on sharply winding Traffic Jam Assist signals sent from the camera used by an LDWS roads. VSM enables the vehicle to maintain A TJA is being developed, to supplement the HDA, to detect lanes and vehicles ahead and helps maximum stability and safety when driving in such taking account of complex urban traffic with a drivers avoid accidents by setting off alarms and conditions. The VSM system detects surroundings target date of 2020. The TJA will operate during vibrating the steering wheel. using a speed sensor, a yaw-rate sensor, a lateral low-speed driving, and will help drivers to stay acceleration sensor, and a steering angle sensor, in the correct lane and maintain a safe distance AEB to understand driving conditions. This proactive from other vehicles even on complex, busy urban safety technology maintains stability by using a Autonomous Emergency Braking vehicle dynamic control device and an electronic roads. More importantly, the system will provide a partially autonomous driving function by using This system is triggered and applies the brakes steering device. a camera and radar to recognize surrounding in emergency situations if the driver does not vehicles and objects in situations where lanes are respond in time. An AEB system automatically not recognizable. monitors the proximity of vehicles ahead and detects potential collisions, and then responds by applying the brakes to avoid the collision and protect the driver. 030 Hyundai Motor Company 2015 Sustainability Report Recognizing and pulling over for designated passengers 3 High-speed driving 2 Following a vehicle ahead R  ecognizing intersection condition 5 and passing 4 Recognizing falling objects from a vehicle ahead and pulling over 6 Driving through a foggy area 7 8 Recognizing traffic signs and driving accordingly Examples of ADAS ❽8 Recognizing traffic signs and ❾9 Recognizing parking space and parking driving accordingly SPAS LKAS HAC Smart Parking Assist System Lane Keeping Assist System Hill Start Assist Control An SPAS senses surrounding obstacles using An LKAS scans the road ahead using a If stopped on a hill, a vehicle can potentially roll exterior sensors, and then automatically controls windshield-mounted camera to recognize lanes backwards as it resumes driving. To prevent this, the steering wheel to help the driver park ― and ensure a vehicle to stay in its correct lane drivers are sometimes required to press hard all the driver has to do is control the brakes by if it begins to move out of lane without using a on the gas pedal. The HSC system prevents the following a voice command. This is an upgraded turn signal. This is a more advanced and proactive vehicle from rolling back by automatically applying version of Hyundai’s existing PAS that sounds version of the LDWS that just warns the driver the brakes for about three seconds when the car an alert when parking or reversing ― in addition, with warning lights and alerts. resumes driving after being stopped on a hill. SPAS assists parallel parking, un-parking, and perpendicular parking. BSD Blind Spot Detection It can be hard to see cars approaching from the right rear corner of the vehicle, and this can cause accidents. A BSD system detects vehicles and obstacles in the blind spots and gives the driver a warning. Two radar sensors mounted in the rear bumper sense approaching vehicles, measure their speed and location, and warn the driver with a visual alert installed in the side mirror. CSV Highlight III 034 Hyundai Motor Company 2015 Sustainability Report Expanding Bringing about a future of clean mobility H2orizons Hyundai is focusing on the development of eco-friendly vehicles through advanced technology and innovative ideas. It is our responsibility to protect and preserve the environment for future generations. Hyundai is committed to creating a clean, healthy, and environmentally friendly society. CSV Highlights 035 EV Electric Vehicles Increasing total mileage on one charge Improving battery charging time Increase the current average of 148km on Promote research on one charge (Korean standard) to 200km or more next generation batteries FCEV Hydrogen Fuel Cell Electric Vehicles Building a reputation as a leading carmaker Improving price competitiveness for mass production Expand the market with Succeed in producing auto-parts and developing next generation models technology to enhance price competitiveness PHEV Plug-in Hybrid Electric Vehicles Developing an exclusive PHEV Expanding PHEV line-up Optimize a plug-in hybrid from design Create demands for new eco-friendly cars by and engineering stage expanding from Sonata to semi mid-size cars HEV Eco-friendly Product Line-ups and Development Plan Hybrid Electric Vehicles Developing HEV with top fuel efficiency Expanding HEV line-up Apply an exclusive engine and transmission to Apply a hybrid system, limited to provide the best-in-class fuel efficiency passenger cars, to compact cars and SUVs 2020 strategy for Hyundai’s strategy for eco-friendly vehicles ‘2020.22.2’ eco-friendly vehicles The future we dare to imagine can come about through innovative technology. Dreams will become something we experience. However, carbon dioxide to bring about energy sharing emissions increase as consumption increases, and this leads to air pollution. This is why it is imperative through clean mobility to develop eco-friendly cars for the sake of future generations. The eco-friendly car market is expected to grow by more than 20% per annum, to some 6.4 million units by 2020, three times larger than as of now. Hyundai has ensured the reliability of eco-friendly cars through 20 years of continual research and development. In 2014, we launched the ‘2020.22.2’ project, a strategy for eco-friendly cars. This is our vision of becoming the world’s second largest eco036 Hyundai Motor Company 2015 Sustainability Report CSV perspectives for pursuing clean mobility Hyundai Value Social Value • Expanding eco-friendly models • Popularizing eco-friendly cars • Leading a “hydrogen society” • Building a “hydrogen eco-system” • Supporting an eco-friendly society • Reducing carbon dioxide emissions ‘2020.22.2’ is our goal of developing 22 eco cars (12 hybrids, six plug-in hybrids, two electric vehicles, and two hydrogen FCEVs) by 2020, to become the world’s second largest eco-friendly carmaker. The Grandeur Hybrid automatically switches to EV mode ― using battery and motor power only ― when limited torque is needed. The Sonata Hybrid is the best-selling eco-friendly vehicle in Korea. The Sonata Plug-in Hybrid, launched in 2015, can travel over 44km in EV mode. CSV Highlights 037 friendly carmaker, with 22 models by 2020. We are environmentally friendly because they emit only planning to develop 12 hybrids, six plug-in hybrids, water. Hyundai will develop more FCEVs, to play a two electric vehicles, and two hydrogen fuel cell leading role in the shift from a “carbon economy” to electric vehicles (FCEV), and to offer a full line-up of a “hydrogen economy”. eco-friendly vehicles, from compact cars to SUVs. Leading the hydrogen society The present and the future of Hyundai’s A h y d r o g e n s o c i e t y , i n w h ic h e co -fr i e n d ly eco-friendly cars hydrogen energy will be used to drive vehicles and Hyundai aims to popularize eco-friendly cars through generate power without emitting carbon dioxide or technological innovation; we plan to create demand exhaust gas, is fast becoming a reality. Hydrogen is by radically improving all core components, including produced from clean energy sources such as water, motors, inverters, and batteries. We are committed and when used as fuel for vehicles, it produces no to addressing fuel efficiency improvements through harmful emissions. It can also be delivered either as research and development. Hydrogen FCEVs are a liquid or as a gas. 38 million tons Some 38 million tons of hydrogen is produced worldwide and 1.3 million tons of hydrogen in Korea (100,000 tons enewable energy and r of hydrogen can run 500,000 hydrogen FCEVs) New N 1.3 uc lea Solar photovoltaic/ rp ow ls Hydraulic/Wind e ue Biomass Fo Solar thermal r ssil f Nuclear power Natural gas generation million tons Coal Elect roa Nuclear thermal energy na lys is Supply Hydrogen society hydrogen Transformation into hydrogen energy Consumption Fuel cells Turbine FCEVs Synthesis gas production process rt po ns Hydrogen engines Combined Tra generation Residential Others Commercial try us Ind Buil ding *Source: Science and Technology 038 Hyundai Motor Company 2015 Sustainability Report The Tucson FCEV ix showcases our world-leading hydrogen technology. Its powertrain was the first fuel cell powertrain to be selected as one of the 2015 Ward’s 10 Best Engines by WardsAuto, proving its technology prowess. Opening the era of hydrogen energy Energy paradigm shift from fossil fuels to hydrogen energy CSV Highlights 039 Hyundai aims to mass-produce its FCEV concept car ‘Intrado’ in 2018. Hyundai is preparing for the hydrogen society following the hydrogen fuel cell technology roadmap. Hydrogen Fuel Cell Technology Roadmap • Verifying fuel cell technology • Ensuring vehicle safety • 350 atmospheric pressure/-10℃ cold start • D eveloping production technology and building supply chains • 700 atmospheric pressure/-20℃ cold start Past Present [80kW Stack] [100kW Stack] [100kW Stack] Graphite bipolar plate Metal bipolar plate Fuel cell system Production of stack and driving device modules 040 Hyundai Motor Company 2015 Sustainability Report Global Sales of Tucson ix35 FCEV Hyundai’s FCEV, driving the global market Hyundai began the world’s first mass production of a hydrogen FCEV, the Tucson ix35, in 2013, and it is now available in 15 countries. Its driving performance and eco-friendly technology were recognized during a successful road tour of Europe in 2012, which helped it to enter the European market. It was Canada Europe launched in the U.S. and Korea in 2014. Hyundai has U.S. taken a leading role in the hydrogen FCEV market, Korea and has sought to build its infrastructure in major economies and advance into new markets. We will continue to take the lead in popularizing eco-friendly cars, including by improving the price competitiveness of our FCEVs. Australia Creating a hydrogen ecosystem The U.S., Japan, and some European countries have policies in place to reduce carbon emissions, and are establishing systems to expand the hydrogen FCEV market. In the U.S., the number of hydrogen FCEVs and the amount of related infrastructure are expected to increase thanks to laws that support the purchase of eco-friendly cars and initiatives to promote hydrogen FCEVs. In the state of California in particular, a Bill that supports the purchase of low-carbon vehicles has been passed, and state money is now being put into the development of hydrogen stations. In Europe, there are many associations that represent the hydrogen industry. In Japan, government-led projects are developing the infrastructure that will help to build a hydrogen society. In Korea, the Korea Hydrogen Industry Association was established by the private sector in January 2014, with the participation of Hyundai. • Improving productivity There are 13 hydrogen refueling stations in • Increasing mileage, -30℃ cold start Korea, including in Seoul, Incheon, Hwaseong, • Building mass production infrastructure Ulsan, and Jeju. Although they are few in number compared to gasoline, diesel, natural gas, and electric vehicle charging stations, it only takes 3-5 minutes to refuel a hydrogen FCEV. A single hydrogen refueling station can serve 400 to 1,000 vehicles per day, depending on capacity. The more Future infrastructure that is built for hydrogen refueling stations, the more convenient it is to refuel a hydrogen FCEV. Structure of next-generation bipolar plate Fuel cell system Common use of auto parts for both HEVs and EVs Achieving the same power density of an internal combustion CSV Highlights 041 This section introduces the sustainability management of Hyundai, and reviews its results. We report our achievements in 2014 by categorizing them into product responsibility, eco-friendliness, suppliers, employees and society. These results reflect our philosophy and principles, and commitment to our ultimate goal of creating a happy society for all of our stakeholders through technological innovation. 042 Hyundai Motor Company 2015 Sustainability Report Our System Sustainability Management System 044 Corporate Governance 050 Creating and Sharing Economic Value 052 Sustainability Management Materiality Analysis 056 Our Value Product Responsibility 058 Global Highlight _ China & Asia 067 Eco-friendliness 068 Global Highlight _ Czech Republic 081 Suppliers 082 Global Highlight _ Korea 087 Employees 088 Global Highlight _ Brazil 097 Society 098 Global Highlight _ India 107 Facts & Figures 108 Sustainability Performance 043 Sustainability Management System We strive to contribute to the growth of society as a whole through clear goals and directions set for a sustainable future. Management Philosophy and Vision in new areas; and the ‘respect for mankind’ represents our commitment to improve living conditions for everyone. With this philosophy in place, Hyundai will continue to grow as a In 2011, Hyundai redefined its management philosophy respected company which makes a positive contribution to to define its shared value and to further strengthen its humanity. sustainability management. We are seeking ‘new thinking, new possibilities’ by embracing the spirit of challenge. Vision 2020 ‘Vision 2020’ represents the Hyundai Motor Group’s goals Management Philosophy for sustainable growth and a future that Hyundai pursues. The spirit and values that have driven Hyundai Motor Automobiles have gone beyond merely being a means of Group are defined by three key phrases: ‘unlimited sense transportation; they help people to have a better quality of of responsibility’, ‘realization of possibilities’, and ‘respect life. The philosophy and will of Hyundai are reflected in the for mankind’. Based on these, we have established a Vision 2020 which is designed to embrace the changes in philosophy to ‘realize the dreams of mankind by creating what an automobile means. By pursuing this vision, Hyundai a new future through ingenious thinking and continuously challenging new frontiers’. ‘Unlimited sense of responsibility’ signifies the pursuit of Vision and Three Major Strategic Directions sustainable growth while maintaining responsibility towards all of our stakeholders; the ‘realization of possibilities’ signifies the pioneering spirit that has motivated us to invest Vision Lifetime partner in automobiles and beyond Providing new space to make a better life by creating Pursuing sustainable growth with a sense of responsibility towards employees, suppliers, and the best in mobility through customer-centered, eco-friendly, Unlimited sense of their families innovative technology and comprehensive services responsibility Pursuing the highest quality, to be responsible for the safety and happiness of customers Three Major Strategic Directions DNA that strives for unlimited growth and Providing the best Finding new growth Optimizing global advancement customer experience opportunities operation Realization of Entrepreneurship that enables us to break out of possibilities our comfort zone and to take risks – Service innovation – Launching strategic, – Realizing “smart scale” across all customer regional vehicles, – Creating synergy Creating real value by turning small possibilities contact points and improving sales between overseas into real achievements channels – Ensuring perfect quality business sites – Improving brand value – Expanding and – Social contributions and strengthening the globality Improving living conditions by providing products – Developing humanmaterials and parts and services of the highest quality to the greatest centered technology industries number of people for the future Respect for – Developing ecomankind Being proactive in tackling environmental issues friendly cars, green technology, and new Contributing to the global community by sharing materials our success 044 Hyundai Motor Company 2015 Sustainability Report O ur S y st e m O ur V a lu e Sustainability Management System Corporate Governance Creating and Sharing Economic Value Sustainability Management Materiality Analysis has set out to become not just a carmaker, but a company Core Values that creates more value and shares in the daily lives of our We have selected five core values to practice our new customers as a lifetime partner. management philosophy and to realize our vision ― Hyundai provides a range of automobiles that are a customer, challenge, collaboration, people, and globality. ‘partner for lifetime’, tailored to the needs of customers These core values were created by identifying the unique from childhood to senior years. They are also a ‘partner characteristics embedded in the mind-set of our staff that for happiness’, a space for living, working, and resting that have contributed to our success, and then adding to that a provides exceptional comfort and pleasure. As a ‘partner set of values that will act as guidelines for everyone at the for everyday life’, we will ensure the best customer company. The core values will guide not only our business experience from the moment a customer chooses our brand operations but also the decision-making and daily work by providing a complete range of the services associated lives of our staff. They will also help to develop a strong with automobiles, from finance to product experience, IT sense of community among our staff, and provide a basis services, and used car sales. for sustainable growth. Partner for lifetime We provide brands, products, and services that cater for our customers from childhood to senior years. We envision our future being one in which we We promote a customer-driven corporate culture by providing the best are the automobile of choice for our customers at all stages quality and impeccable service with all of our efforts aimed at satisfying of their lives. our customers. Partner for everyday life We understand service innovation is needed to provide greater value to customers. We therefore provide services at all stages of the We refuse to be complacent, embrace every opportunity for greater ownership process, from selection to purchase, possession, challenge, and are confident in achieving our goals with unwavering and repurchase, to ensure the best customer experience. passion and ingenuity. Partner for happiness Our automobiles have gone beyond a means of transportation, and are now a symbol of We create synergy through a sense of “togetherness” that is fostered by comfort and pleasure. With Hyundai, cars will become more mutual communication and cooperation within the company and with our versatile and provide innovative services to make driving business partners. faster, safer, more comfortable and more enjoyable. We will stay close to our customers, and offer them more ecofriendly and advanced IT technologies. We believe that the future of our organization lies in the hearts and capabilities of individual members and will help them develop their potential by creating a corporate culture that respects talent. We respect the diversity of cultures and customs, aspire to be the world’s best at what we do, and strive to become a respected global corporate citizen. Sustainability Performance 045 Socially Responsible Management Ethical Management As a global corporate citizen, we recognize our impact on In business, ethical responsibility is as important as legal society. We therefore take on the responsibilities that come or economic responsibility. Hyundai takes a leading role in with that, and undertake many projects in environmental promoting ethical management by establishing transparent management, trust-based management and social management at the heart of its corporate culture. contributions, supported by the CSR Committee established in 2008. Ethical Management System In 2001, we established the Ethics Charter, the Employee 2020 Mid-to Long-term CSR Strategy Code of Conduct, and our Guidelines for Ethical Business Our mid-to long-term corporate social responsibility Conduct, to set clear guidelines for all employees in the (CSR) goal is to become ‘a sustainable value provider’. We practice of ethical management. Furthermore, all relevant have therefore given ourselves seven core tasks: growing documents are made available online for effective with partners; providing pleasant mobility; becoming a communication and for on-demand reference. In 2013, trustworthy partner; practicing transparent management; the Ethical Management website was completely revised giving customers assurance; becoming the most soughtto make it more accessible for stakeholders as well as after employer; and taking the lead in responding to climate employees, so that the information on the site can be change. Hyundai will continue to share its commitment to used in ethical business conduct. In 2012, we adopted a these tasks with all its stakeholders, to create and share voluntary fair trade compliance program (CP) to enhance sustainable value. fairness and transparency in trading with suppliers. In Mid-to Long-term CSR Strategy Structure Sustainable value provider A company that creates and shares sustainable value with all stakeholders Balanced sharing Stakeholders Key stakeholders of Hyundai Motor Group The most Growing Providing Trustworthy Transparent Company with Taking the lead desirable together pleasant mobility partner management assurance in climate employer change Local Global Shareholders/ responses Customers Suppliers Employees communities communities Investors Creating and sharing sustainable Partnership Future value value with stakeholders 046 Hyundai Motor Company 2015 Sustainability Report O ur S y st e m O ur V a lu e Sustainability Management System Corporate Governance Creating and Sharing Economic Value Sustainability Management Materiality Analysis addition, we joined the UN Global Compact in 2008 to Cyber Audit Office declare our commitment to ethical management. As Hyundai operates the Cyber Audit Office to collect part of this commitment, we have established an Ethics information on unethical business practices such as bribery Committee composed exclusively of outside directors and corruption. All reports need to be made under real from the main board of directors (BOD). names, but are then handled through investigations that do not disclose the name of the person reporting the incident. Ethics Charter Typical cases reported to the Office include: unfair trade Hyundai’s Ethical The purpose of the Ethics Charter of Hyundai is to help practices related to personal connections such as school Management Website employees make ethically correct decisions in business alumni or hometown friends; a request for or acceptance http://audit.hyundai.com operations. It also applies to the suppliers of the company. of bribes and unjustified gifts; abuse of authority; a More information on the Ethics Charter is available on request for special consideration; and other actions that the company website. violate ethical business conduct. Reports can be made via the internet, phone, fax, or written letter, and results are notified to the informant. The identity of the informant is strictly protected under the policy on secret assurance, Ethical Management Implementation identity protection assurance, and responsibility reduction. 2001 Established the Ethics Charter and Employee Code of Conduct 2002 Implemented a CP 2003 Declared ethical and transparent management initiatives Compliance Management Issued the first Sustainability Report 2004 Reorganized the Cyber Audit Office Hyundai is committed to complying with all applicable 2005 Published guidelines on ethical business conduct laws and regulations. We have expanded the scope of our compliance program to include suppliers, which has 2006 Announced win-win collaboration initiatives increased awareness of compliance issues and helped to Provided an ethics management program to new managers fulfill our social responsibilities. 2007 Established the Ethics Committee under the BOD 2008 Joined UN Global Compact Purpose Signed Korea’s largest fair trade agreement Declared Hyundai CSR management initiatives The purpose of our compliance management is to mitigate 2009 Received ‘AA’ rating for CP from the Fair Trade Commission legal risks by removing unpredictable factors in operations, Established the Hyundai Social Responsibility Charter improving competitiveness, and embracing fair trade 2010 Signed fair trade agreements with subcontracting practices in our corporate culture. As a result of these suppliers ― 2nd phase efforts, no sanctions or penalties for violations of laws or Announced win-win growth initiatives regulations were imposed on the company in 2014. 2011 Adopted IFRS accounting standards Signed fair trade agreement with subcontracting suppliers ― 3rd phase Implementation 2012 CEO declares voluntary CP practices Hyundai has established a roadmap for well-structured Provided CP training at company level regulatory compliance activities. In 2014, we developed 2013 Established ethical standards to strengthen ethical and distributed a compliance guide covering the key legal management system in China risks inherent in our business that were identified at the Added regulations on accepting gifts or treats beginning of the program. We have provided compliance Began operations of the Cyber Audit Office training, and also built a base for our ethical management 2014 Reinforced CP training at company level by providing online educational programs, developing computer systems for compliance and undertaking Sustainability Performance 047 voluntary inspection, all in an effort to solidify our First, we must remember that voluntary fair trade compliance compliance activities. In 2015, Hyundai will focus on global is an essential requirement of our business operations. compliance at its overseas subsidiaries, as well as online Second, we must preemptively assess fair trade regulations compliance training and voluntary inspections. and requirements in our jobs. Third, we must consult with relevant staff when we Fair Trade Voluntary Compliance become aware of potential non-compliance with fair trade Hyundai does more than just protects against legal risks; regulations. we also seek a win-win approach for the automotive industry by promoting a culture of fair trading. In 2014, the CEO publicly pledged to promote voluntary fair trade compliance. We are therefore creating a corporate culture Risk Management of voluntary compliance, providing training on fair trading practices to new executives and employees, and to staff at Hyundai has established a comprehensive risk management relevant departments. The Voluntary Fair Trade Compliance system at company level to take preemptive action against risk Code of Conduct handbook has been fully revised and and create a competitive advantage as a source of opportunity. shared with all employees. We continue to provide training at all relevant departments, and have increased compliance Preemptive Risk Management monitoring. Our staff are obliged to uphold the following code of conduct on fair trade compliance: We regularly monitor potential risks factors at home and abroad to take preemptive action while analyzing a variety of scenarios and measures. Furthermore, we assess the Roadmap for Compliance result of our actions and take additional measures for effective risk management. Goal To prevent legal risks from becoming a reality In 2014, in order to respond quickly to tightened product safety and recall regulations in the U.S., we improved the Strengthening employees’ competence in compliance, and raising awareness of its importance recall process to the extent that it was cut from 3-4 months Identifying and managing legal risks to just five days. This has helped the company to improve Adoption • Establishing compliance support group reliability, as well as avoiding the risk of regulatory penalties. • Establishing standards for compliance control and implementing guidelines • Establishing implementation plans – Annual plans 2012 Systemized Risk Management • Identifying key legal risks ~ 2013 In order to respond effectively to the growing number of internal and external risk, we have set levels of risk and Maturity • Developing process standards regarding compliance – Compliance guidelines management standards, taking into account the significance, • Strengthening employees’ competence in compliance urgency, and effects of each risk. We have designated staff – Compliance training • Providing effective measures for support responsible for each risk, and have updated risk manuals to – Computer system to support compliance strengthen our risk management system at company level. • Regular compliance inspections – Voluntary inspections, assessment of 2013 To ensure expertise in risk management, we also work with effectiveness of compliance activities ~ 2014 outside research firms and a network of risk management Expansion • Designating compliance personnel professionals. • Building a global compliance support system – Expanding the compliance support group: comprehensive management of domestic and overseas compliance systems Risk Management Process – Organizing a compliance support system for operations overseas Identifying In-depth Maximizing Resolving – Promoting awareness of the 2015~ the presence analysis of business importance of global compliance uncertainties of risks core risks opportunities 048 Hyundai Motor Company 2015 Sustainability Report O ur S y st e m O ur V a lu e Sustainability Management System Corporate Governance Creating and Sharing Economic Value Sustainability Management Materiality Analysis Risk Structure Macro environment Social factors Natural factors Nation Economy Domestic Society Crisis/Disaster Climate/Ecology politics Industrial environment Governmental Labor unions Civil society Technology/ New entrants Customers Competitors partners Alternatives Policy-related Governance Organization Brand Communication Sustainability Value-creation Production/ Logistics/ Marketing/ R&D Purchase activities Quality Sales Customer service Strategy Operation Support HR/ Environmental Compliance IT/Security Finances activities Labor affairs Safety Business-related Business portfolio Partnership Business plan Risk Prevention Stakeholder Key Issues Communication Channels Hyundai understands that if a business is exposed to risk, its tangible and intangible assets can be significantly Sustainable mobility Motor show and new car launching Excellent quality ceremony, test driving, sports damaged, and more resources required to recover the Enhancement of vehicle safety sponsorship, customer service, customer damage. We therefore strive to prevent key risk factors Customers Customer satisfaction satisfaction survey, car club, website, improvement online communication, reports (financial from happening in the first place. report, sustainability report, social contribution white paper) Employee satisfaction Labor-management committee, improvement occupational safety committee, internal Stakeholder Communication Employees Fostering outstanding employees Human rights protection publication, newsletter, grievance counseling center, website, reports Health and safety Companies grow through relationships. Hyundai creates Win-win growth Dealer seminar, dealer conference, dealer relationships built on trust with its stakeholders, including Suppliers/ Fair trades related events, dealership conference, customers, employees, shareholders, suppliers and society, Dealers Long-term partnership seminar and training, supplier satisfaction survey, web portal for purchase, reports so that the company can share its growth with them. Improvement of the corporate Annual general meeting, company value briefing, website Stakeholder Issues Shareholders/ Shareholder interests protection Investors Stable growth To earn the trust of stakeholders, a company must respect Transparent information disclosure them and maintain the highest standards of ethics and transparency. Hyundai has shared the value of business Invigoration of local economy Social contributions, communication with based on trust with its stakeholders, and continues to Jon creation local communities near worksite, youth Society Social contribution activities support program, website, report strengthen the ethics and transparency of its business operations. Sustainability Performance 049 Corporate Governance Hyundai’s corporate governance, supervised by the board of directors with expertise and experiences, will enable us to explore new possibilities. BOD Structure directors. All outside directors of Hyundai must first be nominated by the Committee and then approved by more than half of the Board members at the annual The Board of Directors (BOD) of Hyundai is the top general meeting (AGM). decision-making body of the company, and is comprised of four executive directors and five outside directors, in Corporate Governance & Communication Committee line with relevant regulations. The BOD acts on behalf of shareholders and other stakeholders to meet their interests. The Ethics Committee was established in 2007 to improve It also makes decisions on key management issues and transparency in internal operations and management other matters stipulated in the articles of association, with ethics. In 2015, the Ethics Committee was expanded and the aim of continued business growth. It also supervises renamed the Corporate Governance & Communication directors and executives. In addition to regular quarterly Committee, in order to further protect shareholder meetings, BOD meetings are held by the chair or appointed interests. It is comprised of four outside directors to directors whenever a resolution of the BOD is required. ensure its independence and transparency. The Committee A resolution is valid if supported by at least half of the undertakes a preliminary review of matters related to votes cast, and with more than half of the BOD members mergers and acquisitions, the acquisition or disposal being present, unless otherwise stipulated in the relevant of major assets or shares, and other matters deemed laws. The BOD runs sub-committees that are in charge of important by the Committee in representing shareholder certain roles to strengthen the supervision and execution interests. The Committee has dedicated staff in charge of of the duties of the directors while enhancing expertise the protection of shareholder interests; the staff acts on and efficiency in decision-making. The sub-committees behalf of shareholders, and is a communication channel are the Audit Committee, the Outside Director Candidate between the BOD and shareholders, attending briefing Nomination Committee, and the Corporate Governance & sessions for domestic investors and non-deal roadshows Communication Committee. for overseas investors. The Committee discloses its activities to shareholders through various channels, including our Audit Committee annual sustainability report. The Audit Committee, which is comprised of four outside directors to ensure transparency and independence, is responsible for auditing the company’s finances and BOD Status operations. It requires directors to provide information on sales and investigates the financial status of the Information on the BOD of Hyundai, including the company, which is then reported to the BOD. In addition, it composition of the BOD and sub-committees, BOD communicates with external auditors about the plans and the resolutions, profiles of BOD members, their attendance, results of audits of the company’s financial statements to and salaries, is available in our business reports and on perform efficient auditing work. the company website. The AGM is notified three weeks in advance, earlier than the standard two weeks stipulated in Outside Director Candidate Nomination Committee the commercial law, so that shareholders have sufficient The Outside Director Candidate Nomination Committee time to examine the agenda in detail. We also notify consists of two internal directors and three outside shareholders with holdings of less than 1% about the 050 Hyundai Motor Company 2015 Sustainability Report O ur S y st e m O ur V a lu e Sustainability Management System Corporate Governance Creating and Sharing Economic Value Sustainability Management Materiality Analysis AGM, so that all shareholders can benefit from their rights by improving transparency in governance through strict and interests. Although the BOD can approve financial compliance with the relevant laws, and by sharing with statements and dividend payments under the current law, major stakeholders our long-term roadmaps, including Hyundai handles these at the AGM, to promote a focus plans on R&D investment. on the shareholder. We communicate with the market Date of Name Title Committee Role Term appointment CEO, Chair of the BOD, Mong Koo Chung Chairman & CEO Outside Director Candidate Nomination Committee Chair of the Outside Director Candidate Mar. 14, 2014 3 years Nomination Committee Internal directors Eui Sun Chung Vice Chairman Mar. 15, 2013 3 years Choong Ho Kim President & CEO Outside Director Candidate Nomination Committee CEO Mar. 15, 2013 3 years Gap Han Yun President & CEO CEO Mar. 13, 2015 3 years Audit Committee, Se Bin Oh Outside Director Corporate Governance & Communication Committee, Mar. 14, 2014 3 years Outside Director Candidate Nomination Committee Audit Committee, Sung Il Nam Outside Director Chair of the Audit Committee Mar. 15, 2013 3 years Outside Director Candidate Nomination Committee Outside directors Corporate Governance & Communication Committee, You Jae Yi Outside Director Mar. 15, 2013 3 years Outside Director Candidate Nomination Committee Audit Committee, Dong Kyu Lee Outside Director Mar. 13, 2015 3 years Corporate Governance & Communication Committee Audit Committee, Byung Kook Lee Outside Director Mar. 13, 2015 3 years Corporate Governance & Communication Committee * As of April 24, 2015 Shareholders (Unit: Share ― ordinary share) 20.8 Hyundai MOBIS 45,782,023 Affiliated persons 11,408,759 5.2 61.5 Treasury shares 11,632,277 5.3 National Pension Services 15,914,606 7.2 Others (financial institutions, etc.) 135,538,814 * As of December 31, 2014 Total 220,276,479 Sustainability Performance 051 Creating and Sharing Economic Value We deliver greater value by sharing with our stakeholders the economic value created through global management, quality management, and brand management. Global Business Performance Production █ Domestic █ Overseas (Unit: Vehicle) In 2014, the global automobile market was unstable due to oil price and foreign exchange volatility. Hyundai, U.S. 361,348 however, achieved sales of 4.96 million vehicles, breaking China 855,307 the company’s record for sales, thanks to a wellIndia 638,775 balanced global production portfolio and improved brand 1,905,261 2012 2,497,317 Czech Republic 303,035 management. We strive to meet the various demands of Turkey 87,008 our stakeholders through continual quality improvements Russia 224,420 and ethical management, so that we can be a trustworthy Brazil 27,424 partner in the global automobile market. Market Share (Unit: %) Total 4,402,578 2012 2013 2014 Domestic 43.3 41.6 41.2 U.S. 399,500 Overseas 4.9 5.1 5.1 China 1,040,018 Global 5.6 5.7 5.8 India 633,006 Czech Republic 303,460 1,850,727 2013 2,919,550 Turkey 102,020 Global Production Russia 229,400 We established our first overseas manufacturing plant Brazil 167,346 in Turkey in 1997, and since then, we have continued to China (Commercial) 44,800 build plants in major markets, including India, China, and the U.S. This has helped us achieve our rapid growth. In 2010, overseas production capacity surpassed domestic Total 4,770,277 production for the first time, and in 2013, over 60% of our products were manufactured at overseas plants, shaping our global production system. In 2014, we increased the U.S. 398,851 production capacity of the plant in Turkey from 100,000 to China 1,120,000 200,000 units per year by increasing operations to threeIndia 610,650 shifts. We also built a global production network for our Czech Republic 307,450 1,876,428 2014 3,079,108 commercial vehicles with the completion of a new plant in Turkey 203,157 Sichuan, with annual production capacity of 150,000 trucks. Russia 237,000 In 2015, we are planning to break ground on our fourth and Brazil 179,480 China (Commercial) 22,520 fifth Chinese auto assembly plants so that we can meet 4,955,536 demand from the rapidly growing Chinese market. Total 052 Hyundai Motor Company 2015 Sustainability Report O ur S y st e m O ur V a lu e Sustainability Management System Corporate Governance Creating and Sharing Economic Value Sustainability Management Materiality Analysis Global Sales* Sales Hyundai saw continued growth in 2014, helped by the █ Domestic █ Overseas (Unit: Vehicle) recovery of advanced economies despite slow growth in some emerging markets. Global sales of Hyundai’s vehicles 667,777 totaled 4,963,535 units, up 4.9% over the previous year. In the domestic market, sales increased by 6.9% thanks to steady sales of the new Genesis and the popularity of 2012 the new Sonata. The number of vehicles sold overseas 3,742,861 was 4,278,344 units, up 4.6% over the previous year; this represents 86% of total sales. In North America, the number of vehicles sold increased by 2.9% to 923,522 units thanks Total 4,410,638 to continued low interest rates and improved conditions for vehicle purchases. In Western Europe, economic recovery 640,865 and improved consumer confidence helped the company to achieve sales of 436,853 units, an increase of 12% compared to the previous year. Sales in China, where SUVs dominate, increased by 10.4% year-on-year to 1,134,316 units, 2013 4,091,668 resulting from active responses to customer demand, such 4,732,533 as the launch of the new ix25 compact SUV. In India, one of the world’s largest emerging markets, Hyundai saw sales of Total 411,471 units, up 8.2% over the previous year, driven by a strong localization strategy with the new i10 and i20. We plan to increase sales by 1.7% to 5.05 million units in 685,191 2015. 2014 4,278,344 Total 4,963,535 * Based on shipments Sustainability Performance 053 Business Performance Market conditions in 2014 were challenging, with slow climate, Hyundai still achieved record sales and production growth in emerging markets and fluctuations in oil prices volumes through aggressive investment and rigorous quality and exchange rates. Despite this uncertain economic management. Financial Highlights (Unit: KRW billion) 2012 3) 2013 2014 Consolidated Separate Consolidated Separate Consolidated Separate Sales 84,470 43,162 87,308 41,691 89,256 43,046 Operating profit 8,441 4,305 8,315 3,721 7,550 3,735 Operating profit margin (%) 10.0 10.0 9.5 8.9 8.5 8.7 Net profit 1) 9,061 5,280 8,993 5,182 7,649 4,914 EBITDA 2) 10,965 5,960 10,867 5,341 10,100 5,349 Shareholders’ equity 47,918 37,020 56,583 41,952 62,621 45,662 1) Consolidated net profit: includes non-controlling interests 2) EBITDA = Operating profit + depreciation of tangible assets + depreciation of real estate held for investment + depreciation of intangible assets 3) Part of the business performance for 2012 contained in the previous sustainability reports had to be amended in accordance with the change of accounting standards Sales by Overseas Subsidiary (Unit: KRW billion) 2012 2013 2014 HMMA 6,992 7,385 7,437 BHMC 14,519 19,433 19,756 HMI 5,097 4,737 4,637 HAOS 1,576 1,816 2,744 HMMC 5,311 5,450 5,398 HMMR 2,855 2,751 2,384 HMB 414 2,384 2,263 054 Hyundai Motor Company 2015 Sustainability Report O ur S y st e m O ur V a lu e Sustainability Management System Corporate Governance Creating and Sharing Economic Value Sustainability Management Materiality Analysis Distribution of Economic Gains We share our economic gains with our stakeholders, commitment to fulfilling our social responsibilities. Hyundai including shareholders, investors, suppliers, local will continue to flourish through economic growth and communities and government agencies, as part of our stability, and to share more value with our stakeholders. Distribution of Economic Value in 2014 Generated Shareholders Government and local Employees Suppliers economic value and investors communities Dividends, Salary, Raw materials costs, Internal tax, Local tax, Sales Interest expenses Training expenses Outsourcing labor expenses Social contribution expenses 43,046 KRW billion 940 KRW billion 6,255 KRW billion 26,825 KRW billion 2,943 KRW billion Distribution of Economic Value by Stakeholder (Unit: KRW billion) 2012 2013 2014 Generated economic value Sales 43,162 41,691 43,046 Dividends 521 534 817 Shareholders and Interest expenses 203 121 123 investors Total 724 655 940 Salary 5,587 5,994 6,211 Employees Training expenses 44 47 44 Total 5,631 6,041 6,255 Raw materials costs 26,411 25,844 26,311 Outsourcing labor Suppliers 590 533 514 expenses Total 27,001 26,377 26,825 Internal tax 2,106 2,046 2,606 Local tax 176 175 272 Government and local communities Social contribution 74 75* 65 expenses Total 2,356 2,296 2,943 * The costs of our social contributions for 2013 were recalculated based on the changed standards in calculating the costs of social contributions Sustainability Performance 055 Sustainability Management Materiality Analysis We listen to the voices of our stakeholders to help us to identify issues that matter, and to communicate on those issues in a transparent way. Materiality Analysis business impact and social interest. The top 30% of issues were classified as “Priority 1” and the next 30% were categorized as Our sustainability report focuses on high priority issues “Priority 2”. As a result of the analysis, we found that supplier that have been identified, through rigorous analysis of management had become a new top priority, while the same internal and external issues, as being of highest interest issues that were analyzed as being material in the previous year to stakeholders and as having a major impact on business were selected as priority issues once again. It was particularly operations. In 2014, a survey was conducted among the staff interesting to note that issues on product/service quality and responsible for key areas of sustainability management in internal/external communications rose in priority, mainly due order to identify high priority issues and to measure their to the worsening business environment, because those types materiality. We will continue to publish sustainability reports of issues are vital in building the foundations of our corporate that contain the information that is most important to our competitiveness. stakeholders, and will ensure that our sustainability activities are communicated in full through those reports. Hyundai has applied these results to its business decisionmaking, and has included in its reporting a disclosure on Materiality Assessment Results management approaches (DMA) regarding Priority 1 issues, in line with GRI G4 guidelines and along with relevant performance Important sustainability issues for Hyundai in 2014 were selected data. See the list on page 57 for more information. through the Materiality Analysis based on two main criteria ― Materiality Analysis Process Collecting issues on sustainability Step 1 management Step 2 Analyzing external issues Step 3 Analyzing internal issues We bring together key issues from Media coverage analysis A survey was conducted of Hyundai’s existing sustainability reports, and More than 47,000 news articles relevant staff involved in functions most form a pool of 30 issues which reflect to sustainability management were relevant to sustainability management. amended regulations and our own identified, of which 4,946 articles were The survey results were analyzed with management policies. analyzed. Key issues were classified respect to strategy, risk and business into categories such as the economy, impact, to measure the materiality of the environment and society, and then each issue. divided into positive and negative. Global guideline analysis The latest sustainability management guidelines, such as GRI G4, the UN Global Compact, ISO 26000 and DJSI, were analyzed as regards to their reporting requirements and guidelines. Competitor and industry leader benchmarking Sustainability reports by other automobile manufacturers were analyzed for best practices. 056 Hyundai Motor Company 2015 Sustainability Report O ur S y st e m O ur V a lu e Sustainability Management System Corporate Governance Creating and Sharing Economic Value Sustainability Management Materiality Analysis Major Issues _ Priority 1 Business Impact ❶ Product and service quality Employees, suppliers, customers, shareholders/investors 60 ❷ Economic performance Employees, suppliers, government, society, shareholders/investors 52 ❸ Labor-management relations Employees, government, society, shareholders/investors 90 ❹ Development of eco-friendly products Customers, government, shareholders/investors 35, 70 ❺ Job creation and retention Employees, government, society 90 ❻ External stakeholder communication Employees, customers, suppliers, government, society, shareholders/investors 49 ❼ Employee communication Employees, shareholders/investors 90 ❽ Suppliers management Suppliers, society 84 ❾ Employees’ human rights and diversity Employees, government, society Social Interest 90 ❿ Social contribution Employees, government, society Selecting priority issues and Step 4 identifying relevant stakeholders Step 5 Reporting priority issues 100 Major Issues _ Priority 2 Items identified as high priority were “Priority 1” issues were subject to ⓫ Right-path management then ranked as priority 1 and 2 issues specific management approaches for according to the results of our analyses each subject and its key data. ⓬ Participation in public policy of media and global guidelines, and the ⓭ Improvement of energy consumption and efficiency benchmarking of competitors and major ⓮ Employees health and safety global companies. We define a reporting ⓯ Management of environmental impact on society scope by considering the impact of the ⓰ Sustainability management system priority issues on stakeholders. ⓱ Compensation and benefits ⓲ Corporate governance ⓳ Responding to external assessment of sustainability management ⓴ Human resources development and career development Others 21 Voluntary compliance to international standards 22 Financial/non-financial risk management 23 Strengthening security management 24 Support for suppliers 25 Strengthening environmental management system 26 Management of pollutants and harmful substances 27 Greenhouse gas emissions management 28 Waste discharge management 29 Management and recycling of raw materials Stakeholder Engagement In the Report (Page) 30 Water resources management Sustainability Performance 057 01 Product Responsibility Management Approach Hyundai wants to care for its customers. We want our customers to recognize the value of our products, and to take pride in quality that is based on vehicle performance, safety and the convenience offered by our innovative technology. We are committed to producing vehicles that help our customers be respected and appreciated. We are therefore developing technology leadership in safety and convenience, to respond proactively to the rapidly changing automotive industry and technological environment. We seek to identify not only apparent quality issues but also latent ones, to ensure quality excellence and customer focus, meeting the quality requirements of our customers. Facts & Figures 058 Hyundai Motor Company 2015 Sustainability Report We develop products with the aim of caring for our customers, and touching their hearts through quality that comes from vehicle performance and pioneering technology. Progress in 2014 Produced the world’s safest vehicle (the new Genesis was the first car ever to receive perfect ratings in all areas of the small overlap crash test conducted by the IIHS) Topped the surveys on initial quality service and productivity satisfaction conducted by J.D. Power, as well as sales satisfaction in China and customer satisfaction in Brazil Genesis, Avante, and Accent ranked highest in initial quality in their respective segments of the J.D. Power Ranked first in Russia and Turkey for satisfaction on customer service Hyundai’s second-generation Genesis designed with HMI and the concept of “Modern Premium” Sustainability Performance 059 01 Developing Technologies of the Future Developing automobiles in which our customers can take pride P. 060 Innovation in Safety Technology for Safety and P. 061 IT in Vehicles Convenience Brand Market-focused and customeroriented product quality Innovation based on P. 062 Proactive and Creative Quality Management Quality P. 062 Achieving Quality in Customer Safety Response P. 063 Enhanced Quality Satisfaction Improving Brand that communicates Customer with customers Value P. 064 Proactive Customer Service P. 064 Developing Smart Services P. 065 Marketing Communications P. 066 Protecting Customer Information Main Activities in 2014 Offered premium features as standard across our range of vehicles Improved fuel efficiency and collision safety by applying high tension steel plates to all models Improved driver convenience by applying IT and autonomous driving technology Enhanced the Global Service Support Center (GSSC) services provided worldwide Facts & Figures 058 Hyundai Motor Company 2015 Sustainability Report Premium value for all drivers — Genesis Hyundai defines “premium” as ensuring that designs and functions are optimized for customers through cutting-edge technology. Hyundai’s second-generation Genesis is designed to be “Modern Premium”, using a human-machine interface (HMI) approach that allows drivers to easily understand the various functions of the vehicle. In addition, the Genesis impresses drivers by offering high-quality interior materials. Hyundai’s second-generation Genesis designed with HMI and the concept of “Modern Premium” Sustainability Performance 059 Developing Technologies of the Future driving and traffic situations with the goal of “invention of intelligence-based safety vehicle technology”. for Safety and Convenience Integrated safety control system Hyundai is focusing on the development of vehicle Accident prevention technology ┃ We develop and safety and convenience technology to take a leading provide tools that can facilitate safe driving on top of the role in technologies of the future. Automobile accidents basic driving and braking features. To minimize collision may cause a tremendous number of injuries and injuries in case of an inevitable collision, we ensure deaths, as well as material losses. It is thus imperative maximum robustness of our vehicles, and provide cuttingto develop safety technologies that can help to prevent edge airbags and seatbelts. Vehicle front ends absorb crash these accidents, and crash avoidance technologies that energy for the safety of pedestrians, and devices mounted can limit damage. Hyundai improves driver convenience at the front can automatically contact first responders by combining telematics and IT in its vehicles. when an accident occurs. This integrated safety system helps protect drivers and property as much as possible by Innovation in Safety Technology managing the entire collision management process. Hyundai offers world-leading technology in collision Emergency driver assist system ┃ The introduction prevention and safety, to drastically reduce injuries in car of the electronic vehicle control system has led to accidents. We are developing more advanced accident improvements in sensor accuracy and overall vehicle avoidance technology, and technologies designed to detect performance. This has led in turn to the development of active safety technology that can detect dangerous situations and take preemptive safety measures. The Advanced Safety Vehicle emergency driver assist system can analyze the location and speed of vehicles in the vicinity, detect the possibility Precaution of a collision, identify the safest route which will help to Recognize driving conditions avoid a collision and prompt the driver to maneuver the – Control a vehicle – Improve driving efficiency vehicle out of danger. The system also constantly analyzes information from the sensors mounted at the front and Accident prevention rear ends of the vehicle, and analyzes the safest way Recognize driving conditions to avoid any possible collision. The system can actively – Alert and control a vehicle – Improve safety intervene with steering and braking inputs, adjusting them to maneuver the vehicle and driver out of emergency Crash damage reduction situations. Detect cause of accidents – Alert and control a vehicle Autonomous emergency braking system ┃ There is – Reduce pre-crash damage growing demand for active collision prevention systems. In Europe, a vehicle safety ratings institution has had a C r a sh policy that would make it obligatory for vehicles to be Crash safety equipped with autonomous emergency braking systems Detect accidents and crash since 2014. Hyundai’s system detects a potential collision – Control a vehicle based on inputs from sensors installed in the vehicle, and – Ensure the crash safety sends a warning alert. It applies brakes autonomously when Prevision of further damage necessary to protect drivers and the vehicle from a possible Detect accidents and crash collision. The system can detect stationary or slow-moving – Improve V2V communication network vehicles and pedestrians, which helps prevent collisions at – Improve safety after crash low speeds and reduces collision damage at higher speeds. 060 Hyundai Motor Company 2015 Sustainability Report O ur S y st e m O ur V a lu e Product Responsibility Eco-friendliness Suppliers Employees Society Rear-side alert system ┃ Hyundai was the first Korean Vehicle safety test for improved safety company to create an alert system that uses radar to Hyundai models have earned exceptional safety ratings in detect vehicles approaching in blind spots on both rear tests in Korea and overseas. The new Genesis received a sides when a driver changes lanes, and applied it to the record-breaking score of 96.6 in the new vehicle safety 2012 Equus. This system further improves the safety of test, and was awarded “2014 Safe Car of the Year” by the drivers and passengers. Korean Ministry of Land Infrastructure and Transport. It also achieved the highest score ever in the Australasian Technologies that reduce injury in collision New Car Assessment Program testing ― 36.9 points out of Pedestrian protection technology ┃ Pedestrian protection a possible 37, and a maximum five-star safety rating. In the technology minimizes the impact of a pedestrian-vehicle U.S., it was named a Top Safety Pick (TSP+), along with the accident. Hyundai has developed an active hood system, one new Sonata, by the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety of best ways to reduce pedestrian impact during a collision. (IIHS), and became the world’s first sedan model to receive This technology has been applied to the Genesis, Aslan, and good ratings in every facet of the IIHS crash test. These are the all new Tucson. In addition, energy-absorbing structures the results of our efforts to manufacture vehicles with high and materials on the bumpers and hoods of vehicles help to safety ratings. minimize injury in the event of a pedestrian collision. Robust body structure ┃ Our mid-to long-term platform strategy has committed us to developing a robust yet lightweight vehicle frame optimized for each vehicle model. The vehicle frame is the main structure that affects driving performance, noise and vibration while also protecting passengers. Hyundai develops robust vehicle frames that are capable of handling collisions with the front, sides and The condition of a Genesis after a small overlap crash test by the IIHS ― the impact damaged the front part of the vehicle, but it is well distributed rear as well as overturns. We use very high tensile steel for and there is no damage evident in the driver’s compartment, showing how more than 50% of the car body, and also use lightweight this model ensures driver safety. materials such as aluminum and carbon composites, to develop lightweight yet robust frame structures which can IT in Vehicles enhance fuel efficiency and improve collision safety. There is growing demand for vehicles equipped with a Device to reduce personal injury ┃ In the event of a variety of IT devices. Hyundai is developing “Connected collision, passengers risk severe injury due to their own Car” technology by integrating information, communication, kinetic energy, even if a robust vehicle frame minimizes maps and Internet-related technologies, to allow people deformation of the passenger cabin. Hyundai uses a access to the services they want, anywhere and at any technology that minimizes impact on passengers by forcibly time. We are also in the process of developing technologies tensioning the seat belt reel at the moment of impact that connect vehicles, users, and IT, and are conducting to reduce injuries to the head, chest, and abdomen. In research on in-vehicle user behavior in this area. The addition, the six-airbag system, including front airbags for advancement of IT will accelerate the development of the driver and passenger, front side airbags, curtain airbags intelligent vehicles. and rollover sensors, is simultaneously deployed to absorb the remaining kinetic energy of the passengers, to minimize Blue Link service severe injuries. Airbag pressure and deployment time Blue Link is Hyundai’s global telematics brand, utilizing a automatically vary according to the nature of the collision, GPS system and mobile communication technology; “Blue” which helps with passenger safety. Hyundai also leads in is a color of Hyundai, and “Link” represents connectivity. protecting infant and child passengers by offering a child Blue Link is designed to provide a safer and more seat as a standard feature. convenient driving environment by combining automobiles Sustainability Performance 061 and IT. It provides Brand Innovation Based on Quality SOS emergency services in the event Hyundai does not imitate the strategies of other of a car accident, successful global companies. Instead, we implement our stolen vehicle tracown creative quality management, suited to our unique king, remote vehicle corporate culture. Hyundai continuously enhances its diagnosis and autoenterprise-wide quality management system, to predict motive repair assistance, as well as convenient features and proactively respond to changes in the marketplace, such as remote start, climate control, parking location and to respond immediately to any concerns about guide, and destination confirmation, using a smartphone. product quality. As a result, we have won many We introduced our first telematics service, “Mozen”, in quality awards at home and abroad. Hyundai puts into 2003, and the launch of the smartphone-based service practice its winning credo, “Hyundai Way is the Quality Blue Link in 2012 was the beginning of providing telematics Way”, and is committed to becoming a brand that our services in earnest. In 2013, the second-generation Blue customers can take pride in, and the “Best Buy Brand”. Link was applied to the new Genesis. The new Blue Link comes with the “Concierge+” service which includes a GPS Proactive and Creative Quality Management navigation application, and runs automated self-diagnostics to prompt the driver to visit the nearest Hyundai repair Hyundai’s quality management can be encapsulated in two center if needed, as well as existing functions such as words: “proactive” and “creative”. We do not imitate the smart control, safety/security features, vehicle diagnostics strategies of other successful global companies; instead, management, and information services. A new “Blue Link we implement our own creative quality management in Truck and Bus” telematics service for use with the Trago a way that is suited to our unique corporate culture. We Xcient, a heavy-duty truck, was launched in 2013. It offers are also endeavoring to exceed the quality demands services such as vehicle diagnostics, safety/security of customers and the market. Based on our quality features, heating without starting the car, air-conditioning management philosophy which states that “there must be control using a smartphone; it can also provide the driver no comprise when it comes to quality”, we strive to improve with a Digital Tachograph (DTG)-based real-time control transparency and integrity of our quality management. service, optimized for heavy-duty trucks, free of charge Equipped with state-of-the-art facilities that can for two years. In 2014, we offered a five-year service plan simultaneously check blueprints and products in realfor the first time with the Aslan, to improve the safety of time, plus performing WOW (Worst of Worst) tests in our customers. which products are tested under the most extreme of conditions, the company is discovering and solving not Blue Link service was launched in North America in 2011, only quality problems that appear on the surface but also and China in 2012. Hyundai has also launched a new service potential problems that are latent in our products, so that in North America, the “Hyundai Assurance Connected we can achieve quality that exceeds the expectations of Care Program”, with various safety and car care features, our customers. Hyundai is dedicating itself to realizing the including automatic collision notification, SOS emergency quality excellence and customer focus, and is committed to assistance, vehicle maintenance and recall alert services, maintaining quality-first management in order to become a to improve driver safety and convenience. In China, the most-wanted “Best Buy Brand”. “Connected Care” service has contributed to an image of the Hyundai brand as innovative, safe, secure, and convenient, thus boosting the product value of SUVs and Achieving Quality in Customer Safety Response larger cars. There is increasing focus on driver safety after a number of major recalls in the automobile industry. Hyundai 062 Hyundai Motor Company 2015 Sustainability Report O ur S y st e m O ur V a lu e Product Responsibility Eco-friendliness Suppliers Employees Society Hyundai Quality Improvement System Global Leading Company Premier global brand Sales Global sales competitiveness BBB Achieve the Best Buy Brand (BBB) Quality Marketing Enhance perceived quality Global Quality Winner Win global quality awards Mind-set Innovation Customer-oriented quality morale has undertaken a number of preemptive recalls, and is Accent and Elantra (Avante in Korea) won top prize in their responding with continuous quality enhancement and respective categories. repairs for vehicles that show potential quality problems. Hyundai also won first place in the Residual Value Award The company will continue to provide immediate responses from the 2014 Automotive Lease Guide (ALG) in the U.S. to customer complaints, and will dedicate itself to quality The ALG publishes every other month the expected resale improvements at company level. value of a vehicle after three years of use, and has a big influence on the automotive market in the U.S, as a Enhanced Quality Satisfaction higher resale value can increase the purchasing power of customers by reducing cost-of-carry and decreasing lease Hyundai scored 94 points in the 2014 Initial Quality Survey prices. After coming top for residual value in 2012 with the (IQS) by the J.D. Power, 22 points higher than the industry Elantra, Azera and Santa Fe, and in 2013 with the Accent average. It is third time the company has won first place and Santa Fe, the victory for the 2014 Genesis proves among 20 carmakers, after doing the same in 2006 and once again how the value of Hyundai cars is maintained 2009. The IQS scores a vehicle 90 days after its purchase at a high level, even after purchase. In addition, Consumer based on the number of complaints per 100 units in 233 Report, the biggest consumer magazine in the U.S., made detailed categories such as engine, transmission, driving the Santa Fe its top pick, and the Sonata (YF) hybrid and and steering performance. A lower score indicates better the Tucson won best vehicle awards in Strategic Vision’s quality, and the results can exert a great influence on comprehensive quality satisfaction survey. automotive purchases by American customers. The Genesis, Sustainability Performance 063 Improving Customer Value for service managers who oversee local dealers. The focus of the program is on improving profitability and increasing There are Hyundai customers across the world, and customer satisfaction through innovation in the customertheir numbers are constantly increasing. There is handling process. The program will use training tools on therefore a need to provide global customer service tablet PCs, smartphones and other smart devices, in line that transcends geography, which is why Hyundai has with the latest in learning trends. The company also hosts established an overseas service identity called “Right a world repair technician and service adviser contest every Here, Right Care”. Customer needs at every point of other year; 150 repair technicians and service advisers from sales are identified based on this principle, enabling us 60 countries, screened through local preliminary contests, to provide the best customer service based on perfect display their skills to win major prizes. preparation. Before service Hyundai has also introduced an innovative digitalized service system so that customers can access service Hyundai aims to provide the best in service to customers as close as possible. In addition, the company’s diverse worldwide through its global service network. As part of communication activities impart a consistent philosophy this, the company introduced the industry’s first “Before” and brand image to customers, integrating marketing, service. Through this service program, we visit customers arts and culture to share common values. Customer before problems occur to provide preventative inspections privacy is given the highest priority. All customerand repairs free of charge. More than four million related activities focus on our core value of “Customers customers have already enjoyed this service. First”, so that we can offer customers the unique value that only Hyundai can provide. Home-to-home service Because visiting a service point to collect a car can be a Proactive Customer Service burden, in 2011 Hyundai introduced its “Home-to-Home” service, through which we visit the customer at a time and Overseas customer care service place convenient to them, take the car to the repair shop, Hyundai operates a call center known as the Hyundai and then return it to the customer. This program continues Customer Care Center (HCCC). The company previously to be expanded. In addition, Hyundai has introduced a free operated customer call centers in various regions to car washing program for customers who visit showrooms receive general questions and complaints from customers and service centers, the “Quick Service” program through by telephone, homepage, e-mail, fax and SNS. This has which regular vehicle check-ups and oil changes are now been standardized under the HCCC brand, which provided within one hour, and various other customer has upgraded the perception of our call centers, and services that take care of every detail of a customer’s improved customer convenience and our company image. service requirements. The improvements have made us number one in customer satisfaction in Russia, Turkey and other major customer Developing Smart Services countries, and customer satisfaction is also increasing in other regions. Quality customer service is in turn Customer-centered smart services contributing to enhanced brand perception. To improve customer convenience and the efficiency of our repair services, in 2014 Hyundai expanded its repair shop Trainings for overseas dealer service automation service to the global business sites. Every part In November 2014, Hyundai introduced its dealer manager of the service experienced by the customers, from making training program, to improve the competitiveness of an appointment to bringing the car to the repair shop, overseas dealers and enhance customer satisfaction. The collecting it and the after-service, are operated through program is for Dealers Parts and Services Managers, and an innovative digital operations system, enabling smooth 064 Hyundai Motor Company 2015 Sustainability Report O ur S y st e m O ur V a lu e Product Responsibility Eco-friendliness Suppliers Employees Society communications with customers. This is another example Marketing Communications of how Hyundai is constantly developing state-of-the-art In 2011, Hyundai set the company’s brand direction as services and equipment to provide customer services that “Modern Premium”, and is now endeavoring to provide transcend time and space. premium value at all stages of its communications with customers. Creative marketing communications have Mobile device-based next generation diagnostic system been well received by our customer, and customers get IT technology has helped us to enhance customer consistent information about Hyundai’s brand thanks to convenience. Developed in 2014, the world’s first mobile the consistency of our brand philosophy, encompassing device-based diagnostic system allows us to use tablet PCs our entire operations and services, including development, and other smart devices to diagnose the condition of a marketing and service. vehicle, which has enabled big improvements in the speed and quality of diagnosis, with faster and more accurate Principles of communication services without the constraints of space. Hyundai makes extra efforts to avoid any privacy violations, double standards or attempts to influence the vulnerable, Remote vehicle maintenance service in its marketing communication activities. We also preview Since 2010, Hyundai marketing communications locally in the global market, h a s re d u c e d t h e to make sure they are in line with the ethical and cultural distance to its custostandards of that region. As a result of such efforts, we mers by implementing have not been fined for violating rules and regulations remote diagnostics regarding its marketing communication for the past three services. Difficult years since 2012. repair problems in overseas regions are referred to the Global Service Support Brand activities Center (GSSC) in Korea, so that customers across the world Hyundai is creating can receive quality real-time support. GSSC operations are new value through expanding, to provide the best in vehicle repair services to culture and the Hyundai customers worldwide. arts, through longterm support for the National Museum of Modern and Contemporary Art of Korea, the Tate Modern in the UK, and the Los Angeles County Museum of Art (LACMA) in the U.S. In addition, the company is participating in the Brilliant Memories campaign that makes an artwork out of a car, the World Rally Championship, and it supports the FIFA World Cup. These diverse marketing campaigns provide our customers with experiences and value that only Hyundai can offer. Hyundai Brand Website http://brand.hyundai.com Sustainability Performance 065 Personal information security system We monitor and provide training for our suppliers when they work with customer information so that they too comply with all relevant regulations, laws and our own strict internal guidelines. In addition, we have a Personal Information Security (PIS) system that manages the entire process of handling and distributing customer information, ‘Hyundai Brilliant Interactive Art’ installed on a large billboard as well as post-process management. It has helped at Times Square in Manhattan, New York establish a stable system of handling and distributing customer information by reinforcing technical protective measures to manage, control and monitor confidential customer information. Internalizing brand Hyundai has expanded the Modern Premium concept Certification for PIMS throughout the company, in order to enhance product In 2013, Hyundai established a confidential information competitiveness and streamline operations. The company pro tec ti o n a nd m an agem en t sy st em whi ch h as provides Modern Premium training so that employees can subsequently attained all standards required by the relevant put ‘Modern Premium’ into practice in their work, and Korean government agency. Also in 2013, the company create positive change throughout the company. As a acquired Personal Information Management System (PIMS) result, Hyundai won first place in J.D. Power’s IQS study, certification for domestic customers. The company has and is top for consumer satisfaction in China and Brazil. In now established an enterprise-wide customer information addition, the company ranked the top 40 in the Best Global protection system, and strictly abides by all laws and Brands 2014 from InterBrand, with a global brand worth of regulations related to privacy throughout the entire USD 10.4 billion. business, ranging from the collection of private information to shredding. Periodic reviews and updates help to increase Protecting Customer Information the level of customer protection and to manage private information properly. Hyundai strictly observes all laws and regulations regarding privacy and information protection, and use of customer information is strictly limited by corporate regulations on Personal Information Management System information security and confidentiality. Implemented since 2011, the system checks if an organization can systematically and sustainably implement privacy information protection Protecting privacy information activities and certifies business that satisfies certain proficiency levels. Hyundai created the Privacy and Information Protection – Competent authority: Korea Communications Commission Committee in 2011, and established a foundation for – Certification organization: Korea Internet Security Agency managing protection of privacy information. Confidential – Legal foundation: Information and Communication Network Law information protection is the responsibility of the Chief Article 47, Section 3 Privacy Officer (CPO) at each relevant filed, and internal – Certification standard: 124 items (310 detailed check-up categories) inspections of confidential information protection procedures minimize the amount of customer information kept by our employees. Regular training also emphasizes the importance of privacy. 066 Hyundai Motor Company 2015 Sustainability Report O ur S y st e m O ur V a lu e Product Responsibility Eco-friendliness Suppliers Employees Society Global Highlight Our cutting-edge Micro-fine dust and yellow dust threaten people’s health technology protects Yellow dust is a natural phenomenon through which dust from dry and Since the human nose can only filter particles as small as 50μm, microsemi-desert land in China is carried to fine dust can go through the nose customers from air pollution Korea by westerly winds. In the past, yellow dust was not a big problem, but unfiltered, and penetrate deep into the lungs. with the rapid desertification caused Manufacturing plants, production by industrialization in China, the Hyundai’s ultimate product responsibility is to yellow dust now contains pollutants facilities and diesel cars are known to be major sources of micro-fine customers. We therefore go beyond producing such as heavy metals, which are dust. In particular, this is becoming causing serious health concerns. a vehicle with great driving performance, a serious health concern in Asian Unlike yellow dust, micro-fine dust countries such as Korea and China. and develop technology which can help with is produced by combustion, and can If exposed to yellow dust or microa customer’s health and happiness. The air contain sulfates, nitrates, ammonia fine dust for a long time, the immune and other ion elements, as well as system weakens, which can cause cleaner and the high-efficiency filter installed in hazardous materials such as metals respiratory diseases such as rhinitis. our cars are good examples of Hyundai’s efforts and carbon mixtures. Dust with a Increased exposure can also cause particle diameter of less than 10μm cardiovascular, skin and eye diseases. and innovations designed to keep customers is called micro-fine dust (PM 10). happy and healthy. Protecting customers China & Asia from air pollution The best way to avoid micro-fine dust is to stay indoors; however, one can only stay indoors for so long. Hyundai has therefore developed various technologies to protect against micro-fine dust and yellow dust, and has begun to commercialize these technologies. Cluster Ionizer outside the vehicle. People wear a mask when it is needed, however, cars Recently manufactured Hyundai always wear a mask, so to speak. cars are all equipped with a “Cluster Ionizer” air purifier system, located Outside air always comes inside a car between the blower motor and through the air conditioning system evaporator, where it creates negative unless the internal circulation mode is ions. When the ions cluster, they on. That signifies the importance of “We will develop a plan to protect our customers’ health remove germs, thus reducing odors a filter, and cars need a new, highfrom the deteriorating atmospheric environment in China.” caused by air conditioning and efficiency filter to be protected from Eui Sun Chung, Vice Chairman of Hyundai Motor Company purifying the air inside the vehicle. micro-fine dust. In short, the Cluster Ionizer removes Hyundai finished developing its highbad odor from the air conditioner efficiency particle air filter in 2014; and purifies the air inside the vehicle. this filter has a 99% collection rate for This system is automatically activated micro-fine dust (PM10), and a 93% when the car starts. collection rate for ultra micro-fine dust (PM 2.5). The high-efficiency filter was first applied to the ix25 in High efficiency filter for fine dust China and the Sonata in Korea, and A filter equipped in a vehicle serves will be rolled out to other vehicles the same function as a mask and soon. protects against pollutants in the air Cluster Ionizer and high-efficiency filter protect customers from air pollution. Sustainability Performance 067 02 Eco-friendliness Management Approach Since announcing its principle of global environmental management both inside and outside the company, Hyundai has sought growth in which profit and environmental preservation are balanced. Hyundai has established a system that incorporates use of resources and recycling of waste, right from the product design stage, and minimizes pollution and greenhouse gas emissions. The company is also expending tremendous efforts in developing eco-friendly cars, and supports a range of ecology restoration activities to help preserve the global environment. Facts & Figures 068 Hyundai Motor Company 2015 Sustainability Report We fulfill our responsibilities as a global citizen through proactive eco-friendly policies, so that we can leave the smallest ecological footprints possible while developing vehicle technology that can create new markets. Progress in 2014 Acquired 27 certifications for eco-friendly models (11 international standards for eco-friendly cars, 14 certifications for greenhouse gas emission, two types of low-emission certifications) Reduced 0.8% of greenhouse gas emissions per vehicle Recorded ‘zero’ violation in environmental laws and regulations Sustainability Performance 069 02 Developing Eco-friendly Vehicles Creating corporate value through proactive environmental management P. 070 Designed for Ease of Recycling P. 070 Vehicle Weight-reduction P. 071 Handling of Hazardous Materials P. 072 Vehicle Gas Emissions Reduction P. 072 Eco-friendly Vehicle Certification Natural Sustainable use of resources throughout entire process Resource Recycling P. 073 Resource Recycling of End-of-life Vehicles System P. 074 Recycling of Water Resources Responding Strategy for greenhouse gas to Climate reduction to prevent global warming Change P. 074 Responding to Climate Change Risks and Opportunities P. 076 Reducing Greenhouse Gas Emissions in the Workplace P. 077 Carbon Capture and Storage Technology P. 078 Emissions Trading Minimizing Social responsibilities in line with Environmental our role as an automobile specialist Impact P. 078 Managing Pollutants P. 079 Environmental Restoration Activities P. 080 Environmental Accounting Main Activities in 2014 Established the 2020 mid-to long-term strategy for eco-friendly vehicles Expanded the use of ultra-high strength steel plate through weightreduction technology Established a policy to respond to Emissions Trading Systems at domestic and Chinese worksites Ulsan plant introduced its own power plant facility, the first in the domestic automobile industry Facts & Figures 068 Hyundai Motor Company 2015 Sustainability Report Add performance to efficiency — Sonata Hybrid Hybrid cars are often perceived as being eco-friendly and economical, but relatively low in performance. Hyundai has developed eco-friendly cars with both superior fuel efficiency and performance, opening a new chapter for hybrids. The new Sonata Hybrid is fitted with both a direct fuel injection 2.0 GDi hybrid engine with 156 horsepower and an electric motor with 51 horsepower. This model has excellent driving performance, and will pave the way for the development of better and more exciting eco-friendly vehicles. Sustainability Performance 069 Developing Eco-friendly Vehicles Vehicle Weight-reduction Hyundai’s weight-reduction strategy places priority on Hyundai aims to increase the fuel efficiency of the practical customer value. This will allow our customers to internal combustion engine in the short term, and experience greater benefits from technology, especially over the longer term, develop and market completely when compared to our competitors. We focus in particular pollution-free cars. The company therefore considers on research into both structural strength and lightweight, ease of recycling from the beginning of the initial such as ultra-high strength steel plate, weight reduction product design stage to the end of a car’s useful life. The in rotator parts using high strength steel, enhancing fuel company is also developing technology for zero-emission efficiency, and high strength aluminum and carbon fiber engines, and is constantly decreasing the amount of materials that can be commercialized in the future. hazardous materials used in its manufacturing processes. As a result, Hyundai has acquired various international Expanded use of new materials environmental standard certifications. We will continue to Hyundai is cost competitive in steel, and is expanding the develop eco-friendly vehicles, and, by 2020, aim to have use of aluminum, magnesium, and carbon fiber materials built a full line-up of eco-friendly cars. to achieve weight-reduction targets. The company has increased its use of advanced high strength steel by up Designed for Ease of Recycling to 50%, and also uses high strength steel for hot stamped Digital recycling verification parts in order to improve collision safety. For aluminum, the company has developed a structural alloy that Hyundai verifies the reusability of vehicles right from overcomes existing strength limitations, and research into initial vehicle design. From the 3D blueprint of a vehicle commercializing this product is now on going. Hyundai is in development, parts disassembly and vehicle reuse are also continuing its research into developing parts based on reviewed and, if any problems are identified, designers can magnesium and carbon fiber, the next generation of new adjust their work to improve reusability. materials for mass-produced cars. Assembly techniques to ease disassembly Development of new manufacturing technology Hyundai considers ease of disassembly for hardware such The diesel engine cylinder block that used to be produced as bolts, nuts and spanners as we develop the car assembly using steel now uses aluminum, based on our new precision process. The company therefore uses an enhanced snapmanufacturing technology. This has reduced the engine fit method of assembly, to ease disassembly, and is also weight by 45%, and the weight of the bed plate that researching easy disassembly methods for AI and other supports the crankshaft has also been reduced by 30% by lightweight materials. using a high strength aluminum insert process instead of the previous steel insert process. For shaft steel parts, a Building Recycling into the Design Process Planning Preparation for design Design Preparation for mass production Mass production Develop and apply new Apply eco-friendly Verify digital Evaluate vehicle eco-friendly products design guide reusability reusability – Use products with enhanced – Use parts assembly guide for Enhance the reusability of – Evaluate reusability reusability reusable parts blueprints – Derive enhancement plan for vulnerable parts – Provide disassembly information 070 Hyundai Motor Company 2015 Sustainability Report O ur S y st e m O ur V a lu e Product Responsibility Eco-friendliness Suppliers Employees Society hollow-forge technique is used to make the inside of the areas of improvement. Presentations were given on the product hollow, which drastically reduces weight. These current status of hazardous materials regulations around new manufacturing technologies can reduce vehicle weight the world, trends in domestic environmental legislation, by 10 to 30% while using the existing materials. such as the Act concerning Registration, Evaluation, etc. of Chemical Substances, and their impact on the company. Development of next generation weight-reduction The consulting group not only shares its professional technology knowledge, but is also aiming to create a consensus on how to respond to major regulations. In 2010, Hyundai launched the “multi-material mix ultralightweight vehicle development” project. This project will cost a total of KRW 13.5 billion by 2015, with Government Management of hazardous chemical materials * IMDS: Internetbased parts investment of KRW 6.75 billion and private investment of Hyundai is creating a database of the weight and materials/weight KRW 6.75 billion. The project aims not only to reduce vehicle information on the chemical materials used to build management system that was weight but do so in the most efficient way, through the its vehicles. The company then uses this information jointly developed optimal allocation of materials for performance, cost and mass to respond to environmental regulations in Korea and and is being production. This is expected to become a vital trend in designing worldwide. In 2004, the company joined International used by all major global automotive lightweight vehicles. Hyundai aims to use high strength steel, Material Data System (IMDS), to assess if its processes manufacturing aluminum, magnesium and carbon fiber to reduce vehicle meet regulations on parts from the beginning of vehicle companies weight by more than 30% compared to the existing vehicle development, and if the company is preemptively handing body, while maintaining the same performance. The use of hazardous materials. In 2007, Hyundai developed the www.mdsystem.com advanced high strength steel plate in each generation of e-Chemical Management System (e-CMS), and has used the Sonata is 7% (NF), 21% (YF) and 51% (LF), showing a the data from IMDS to create a database of chemical significant increase in the use of advanced materials. materials information on all parts used in all of its vehicles manufactured since 2005. Metal deposition research center A research facility dedicated to studying core technology Responding to Environmental Regulations by for manufacturing aluminum and magnesium has been Controlling the Chemical Materials in Parts established within our technology research center. This facility will be used to develop new lightweight materials Creating and revising environmental regulations and metal-making processes, and its research results will Monitoring trends in regulations be shared across our engineering network, encompassing Sharing information on the automotive industry our affiliates and suppliers, to increase vehicle efficiency. Suppliers – Sharing information on chemical materials Handling of Hazardous Materials Global environmental expert network IMDS – Collecting information on materials Since 2012, Hyundai has operated a global environmental – Evaluating compliance with regulations expert network called “GrEEN”, to share global and domestic trends in response to environmental regulations, e-CMS and to create solutions through collaboration. The fourth Building a database of information on materials Assessing the status on use of hazardous materials meeting of GrEEN, held in 2014, hosted 70 experts from the planning and purchasing departments at headquarters in Response to environmental regulation Korea, IT departments, research centers, and manufacturing – Providing registration information plants in Ulsan, Asan and Jeonju. They shared information – Use of eco-friendly replacement products about environmental conservation and discussed possible Sustainability Performance 071 Policy to stop use of four major heavy metals being expanded by the government. Hyundai prohibits the use of ozone-depleting substances in all its plants, and has In 2006, Hyundai created its ‘global standard for four major never received a fine or non-monetary penalty for violating heavy metals’, to prohibit the use of four major heavy rules on ozone-depleting substances. metals in parts and materials in all vehicles. The company prohibited the use of four major heavy metals in parts and materials in new vehicles sold in the EU after July 1, 2003, Vehicle Gas Emissions Reduction and the prohibition was applied in Korea for new cars sold Vehicle gas emissions reduction regulations after 2008. In 2009, the policy was expanded to all overseas markets, and the company remains entirely compliant with In Europe, the Euro 6 (80mg/km) standard is now in effect, this rule. Hyundai continues to develop alternate and safer with the regulatory limit for nitrogen oxide (NOx) reduced materials for its vehicles where necessary. by 56% compared to the previous Euro 5 (180mg/km) standard. The state of California in the U.S. is continuously Response process to REACH increasing sales of zero emission vehicles (ZEVs), and Korea also has strict NOx and PM emission standards for Since 2007, the EU has had in place a new chemicals law low pollution cars in metropolitan areas. called REACH ― the registration, evaluation, authorisation and restriction of chemicals. Hyundai must also comply with Clean diesel engines obligations related to the registration, reporting, permissions and restrictions on chemical materials designated by the Diesel engines, although more fuel efficient, emit large Europe Chemical Materials Office ― a violation could result quantities of NOx and PM. Hyundai has developed a clean in the company being prohibited from selling cars in the EU. diesel engine, applying technologies such as an electronic Hyundai has therefore created a database of information control to precisely inject fuel at high pressure, an improved on all chemical materials used in the manufacturing of its NOx catalyst, and improved combustion. These have not vehicles and parts inside and outside Korea, in order to only improved fuel efficiency and reduced emissions, but minimize regulatory risks. have also reduced vehicle noise. Combustion efficiency for our diesel vehicles is now 20-30% more efficient than in Response process to ARECS gasoline vehicles, and CO2 emissions are down by 20%. The company has used these new clean Euro 6 standard diesel The Ministry of Environment in Korea introduced the engines in its semi mid-size sedans and RVs since 2014. Act concerning Registration, Evaluation, etc. of Chemical Substances (ARECS), similar to the EU’s REACH, in January NOx reduction technology 1, 2015. Hyundai has completed its response to ARECS, based on its response process for the EU’s REACH, in In order to drastically reduce NOx emissions, Hyundai is order to comply with obligations related to the registration, developing LNT (NOx catalyst system, Lean NOx Trap) and reporting, permissions and restrictions on chemical LP EGR (Low Pressure EGR). LP EGR recycles low-pressure materials designated by the Ministry of Environment. gas emissions at the back of post-processing devices, which could reduce NOx emissions by 60%. In 2012, the company Policy to stop use of ozone-depleting substances applied LNT to develop a new R engine that satisfies Euro 6 standards, and used it in later models of the Santa Fe. Since 1989, the U.S. has strictly prohibited the production of ozone-depleting substances, and also levies a tax on their use. In Korea, the use of chloro fluoro carbons (CFCs), Eco-friendly Vehicle Certification halon and carbon tetrachloride (CCI4) has been prohibited To enhance the eco-friendliness of its new cars, Hyundai since 2010, and the use of methyl chloroform (1.1.1-TCE) has implemented a lifecycle assessment test based on has been prohibited since 2015. Policies for regulating the ISO 14040 series. The lifecycle assessment test is an ozone-depleting substances over the mid-to long-term are eco-friendliness test that quantitatively identifies the 072 Hyundai Motor Company 2015 Sustainability Report O ur S y st e m O ur V a lu e Product Responsibility Eco-friendliness Suppliers Employees Society environmental impact of a vehicle over its entire lifecycle, Natural Resource Recycling System starting from the collection of raw materials, to their use in manufacturing and then scrapping. The company uses this With global natural resources and energy supplies assessment to evaluate the environmental impact of a new continuing to be depleted, the efficient use of natural car compared to previous models. This lifecycle test is also resources is an ethical responsibility. Hyundai has used as a basis for obtaining environmental certifications. therefore set a target of 85% recycling rate for the plastic, rubber and glass in its end-of-life vehicles International standards for eco-friendly vehicle (ELV), and a 95% recovery rate. The company is also certification investing in handling and recycling ELVs, and pioneering Since achieving its first eco-friendly vehicle certification in ways to establish a vehicle resource recycling system. 2010 from TÜV NORD for the Tucson ix (locally named ix35) In addition, the importance of water resources is in the and ix20, Hyundai has acquired environmental certificates spotlight, which is why Hyundai has a targeted water for 11 vehicles, as of 2014. resource reuse system at each worksite. 2010 LM (Europe), JC (Europe) Resource Recycling of End-of-life Vehicles 2011 PB (India), HA (India) 2012 GD (Europe), DM (U.S.), MD (U.S.) Recycling of plastics 2013 LM FCEV (Europe), IA (Europe) The interior and exterior plastic parts used in cars include PA, 2014 LM FCEV (Korea, U.S.), GB (Europe), LF HEV (Korea) ABS, PC and other thermoplastic polymer materials. Because the surfaces of these plastic parts become polluted as cars are driven, and they degrade due to age, it is necessary to Low carbon vehicle certification develop technology that removes pollutants and enhances Hyundai measures the total amount of carbon dioxide the underlying material. Hyundai reuses plastics produced created by the entire process of manufacturing a during car manufacturing to produce wheel guards, vehicle and then driving it for 120,000 km, and reports undercover and other automobile parts, using technology it this information to customers. More advanced hybrid has independently developed with its partners. The company technology that used in the Grandeur Hybrid has reduced is also diversifying the reuse of materials by introducing the total amount of greenhouse gases produced by 5.3 vehicle body weight reduction and other related technologies. tons. Hyundai continues to strive to reduce its carbon footprint through enhanced hybrid technology, ecoRecycling of seat foam friendly driving guidance systems and the application of The foam used in car seats is thermoset polyurethane foam advanced materials. and, unlike other plastic parts, it is difficult to reuse. Hyundai, however, has been able to reuse seat foam to create Lifecycle Greenhouse Gas Emissions materials for other car parts, and is using it in the mass (Unit: tCO2e/Vehicle) production of luggage partitions. The company will expand Model Name Total Emissions the scope of this technology to other parts in the future. Genesis 3.3 GDi 34.8 Sonata 2.0 CVVL 26.1 Recycling of eco-friendly cars Grandeur Hybrid 21.8 Unlike internal combustion engine vehicles, hybrid vehicles Aslan 3.0 32.8 are fitted with batteries and therefore require a different Santa Fe 2.0 26.8 recycling system. In order to improve the recycling of I40 1.7 25.1 hybrid vehicle parts, Hyundai created a manual that Sonata Hybrid 17.6 provides guidelines for the safe handling of high voltage lithium ion batteries installed in these vehicles, and * Detailed model names omitted Sustainability Performance 073 distributes these manuals to vehicle salvage yards. The for automobile manufacturers is in painting and washing ― company plans to develop safe recycling technology for therefore, in order to reduce the amount of water consumed the hybrid and electric vehicles of the future. during painting, and the overall amount of wastewater created in the factory, a water recycling system reduces the quantity Participating in pilot program to enhance disused of high density wastewater created during the post-painting vehicle recycling system washing process, thus reducing total wastewater by 33%. In 2012, Hyundai signed an agreement with the Ministry of Environment on a pilot project to enhance disused vehicle Water-saving devices recycling system. This project is designed to extract metal Water-saving devices have been installed in our office resources from ELVs, and recover refrigerants to reduce buildings, at headquarters and in research laboratories, to greenhouse gases. The company has established a cooperative reduce water wastage. relationship with ELV recycling businesses and vehicle salvage yards across Korea to implement this agreement; it has achieved a recycling rate of 95%, as required by laws on ELV recycling, and continues to monitor the status. Responding to Climate Change Hyundai undertakes diverse activities to develop ecoVehicle resource recycling center friendly cars and reduce the amount of greenhouse Hyundai operates a vehicle resource recycling center for gases created during the manufacturing of vehicles, all the eco-friendly disassembly of cars and the development in efforts to respond to climate change. The company of enhanced recycling technology. The center has an has organized a taskforce to deal with climate change, eight-stage vehicle disassembly system that encompasses to support each worksite in achieving its greenhouse the registration of ELVs through to the final compression gas reduction goals, and to facilitate any necessary process. It has diverse vehicle disassembly equipment investments. The company’s Business Strategy that can recycle 95% of a car. More than 4,000 cars per Planning Division under Choong Ho Kim, President & year used for testing were disassembled at this center CEO of Hyundai, has an office dedicated to reporting through its eco-friendly processes, and this has enabled important climate changes issues directly to executive many research and development capabilities related to ELV management, so that these issues can be reflected recycling technology and resource recycling to be built up. in company strategy. In addition, Hyundai is reducing The technologies developed are now being made available greenhouse gas emissions by developing technology to vehicle resource recycling businesses nationwide. that collects carbon dioxide, and by participating in emissions trading in Korea and overseas. Recycling of Water Resources In 2014, the company’s consumption of water resources Responding to Climate Change Risks and Opportunities increased by 4.2%. In contrast, through aggressive efforts Hyundai is responding to climate change by making financial to save water and reuse wastewater, Hyundai’s water assessments of the associated risks and opportunities. resource reuse and recycling rate was up 70% over the The company has a natural disaster emergency response previous year. system to anticipate circumstances in which normal business cannot continue due to drastic declines in productivity, Zero discharge system cost increases or the effect of natural disasters or climate At Hyundai’s manufacturing plant in India, where water is an change. The company also has strong worksite accident especially vital resource, and at the Asan plant in Korea, there prevention measures in place in Korea and overseas. are zero discharge systems installed, and water used in the Moreover, the company has created a separate account of plants is recycled for reuse. One major area of water use “greenhouse gas reduction” in investment budget category for efficient decision-making on investments. 074 Hyundai Motor Company 2015 Sustainability Report O ur S y st e m O ur V a lu e Product Responsibility Eco-friendliness Suppliers Employees Society Greenhouse Gas Reduction Strategy External ❺ Emission-reduction purchase Internal ❶ Efficiency 4.67 tons of greenhouse gas per 10,000 kWh of electricity ❹ Solar power Use of electricity Indirect GHG emissions 22.2 tons of greenhouse gas ❷ External steam per 10,000 nm2 of LNG gas Use of gas Direct GHG emissions ❸ Carbon capture and storage Use of oil, etc. Direct GHG emissions Response to Climate Change Risks and Opportunities Category Status and Response Strict regulations on Regulations on fuel efficiency and emissions across the Enhance fuel efficiency technology for all models and fuel efficiency globally world, including Korea, the U.S., Europe, China and India develop eco-friendly cars Tax benefits and penalties through CO2-based vehicle Enhance fuel efficiency technology for all models and Taxes on fuel and energy Regulatory taxes in 17 European countries develop eco-friendly cars risks Reinforced regulations on Regulations on new refrigerants to be implemented in Develop refrigerant technology refrigerants, tires and fuel Europe and the U.S. Greenhouse gas emissions regulations in most domestic Ensure the reliability of greenhouse gas emissions across Emissions reporting system and overseas worksites the globe Regulatory Increase in sale of eco-friendly cars due to reinforced Enhance competitiveness in fuel efficiency through Regulation on product efficiency opportunities greenhouse gas regulation consistent R&D efforts in comparison with competitors Tropical low pressures Risk of tornadoes during summer in the U.S. Changing rain patterns Risk of flood, snowstorms, drought and yellow dust in Korea and China and drought Risk of snowstorms in the Czech Republic Physical risks Abnormal temperature Risk of hot temperatures during summer in Korea, Turkey and the Czech Republic Risk of tsunami in India Other climate risks Possibility of disruption in parts supply from vendors and in imports (maritime logistics) due to abnormal climate change Physical Opportunity for sales increases due to climate changes in countries where competitors are located opportunities Increase in consumers’ demand for eco-friendly cars Managerial Change in consumer behavior that as a result of eco-friendly car support policy in the U.S. Increase in sale of eco-friendly cars opportunities prefers eco-friendly products and Europe Sustainability Performance 075 Reducing Greenhouse Gas Emissions in the Workplace greenhouse gas emissions. To achieve these targets, energy efficiency will be maximized in the short-term through Hyundai strictly controls greenhouse gas emissions in energy use reduction, recycling waste heat, and developing all its workplaces and buildings, including manufacturing manufacturing process which requires lower energy plants, research centers and headquarters. Stricter consumption. In the mid-to long-term, energy resources greenhouse gas reduction programs are in place at major will be diversified by using more renewable energy sources. manufacturing plants, which account for 85% of our total Greenhouse Gas Reduction Activities Install high-efficiency condensing boiler Install high-efficiency direct heat oven Apply invertor style motor Maintain consistent room temperature by automatically adjusting temperature within 2℃ Control electricity usage in the ovens for each painting process Reduce temperature of mid-range Build greenhouse gas inventory oven Optimal operation of painting plant Improve factory lighting Reduce initial operation time for oven and T/UP booths Reduce unnecessary usage of heating system recovery time objective Improve lighting system of Improve power generator Introduce high temperature heat a transmission plant Improve electric circuit retrieval facility at a painting plant Optimize robot operations and other facilities Replace heating system at engine assembly lines Russia China Czech Republic Turkey Domestic Ulsan Plant Replace heat sources at a paint plant U.S. Install 11 high-efficiency boilers Replace air-compressor machines India Apply LED lighting Build energy-saving type Introduce smart welding machinery factory Apply engine transmission invertors Introduce one-kit type Operate sensor-operated Apply high-efficiency motors distribution system lighting Use energy saving rice cookers in company cafeterias Practice energy monitoring and saving Asan Plant Replace LED lighting at assembly lines Install invertors at fans and Recycle waste heat at painting plant Brazil pumps Improve steam supply method at the Environment Building Replace old street lamps with Use invertor/power saving circuit at an engine LED lights manufacturing plant Install solar power street lamps Jeonju Plant Apply invertors to dust collectors and engine washing pumps at an engine manufacturing plant Improve suction temperature of air compressor Install waste heat recycling system for steam boilers at Replace old air conditioner and burner for old freezer with a paint plant high-efficiency ones Control and optimize oven combustion flame Decrease emissions quantity at painting booths Decrease pre-heating time for oven at a painting plant Use automation system for temperature and lighting Namyang Build a solar power facility (500kW) of buildings Technology Replace old lighting equipment with high-efficiency LED Optimize air pressure Research Integrate and enhance energy use systems of Use high-efficiency pumps and motors Center experimental device 076 Hyundai Motor Company 2015 Sustainability Report O ur S y st e m O ur V a lu e Product Responsibility Eco-friendliness Suppliers Employees Society Ulsan plant a 500kW solar power generator facility was built on the rooftop to produce 640,000 kWh of electricity per year. The Ulsan plant introduced the industry’s first pressure An additional 500kW solar power generator facility will be differential power generation plant in 2014, and this has built in 2015, and the Center will also invest KRW 1 billion to now begun supplying electricity for factory facilities. In replace its old lighting system with more efficient LEDs. 2014, as part of its greenhouse gas reduction program, the company invested KRW 11.2 billion in streamlining highefficiency energy supply facilities, enhancing manufacturing Employee business trips processes and introducing energy-saving facilities. As With Hyundai becoming an ever more global company, the a result, in 2014, the emission of greenhouse gases per number of business trips has increased, which in turn adds to vehicle produced decreased by 0.2%. greenhouse gas emissions. Domestic business trips are now undertaken using the Avante LPi hybrid model, launched Asan plant in July 2009, with higher fuel efficiency, and, in 2014, more than 50% of company cars used for business were hybrid The Asan plant monitors energy consumption at each shop, vehicles. Also, in order to minimize the use of airplane trip, and analyzes greenhouse gas emissions every month. which requires high energy consumption, the company also An energy specialist is assigned to each department, to discourages unnecessary business trips, especially by air, undertake energy monitoring, education and the promotion and instead encourages video conferencing ― webcams of energy-saving measures. In 2014, while the production were given out to employees above manager level in 2007, of vehicles increased by 1.3% compared to the previous and are available to any staff who needs one. year, the plant produced 141,145 tons of CO2, 14.7% lower than its target. In 2015, the plant will install 16,000 highefficiency LED lamps, to improve lighting for better product Optimized distribution quality and to enhance energy efficiency, all in efforts to Hyundai maintains an optimized distribution system, reduce greenhouse gas emissions. encompassing the transportation of raw materials, parts, vehicles and staff business trips. Because land Jeonju plant transportation accounts for most of our distribution activities, reducing the greenhouse gases produced during At the Jeonju plant, the truck production rotation changed land transportation is the key to reducing our emissions from one shift (10 hours/day) to two shifts (8 hours + 9 during distribution; the company therefore has 13 shipping hours) in late 2013, which has increased working hours centers in Korea, to reduce transportation distances and and vehicle production, but has in turn led to an increase in number of transport. Hyundai is also expanding its use of greenhouse gas emissions. Emissions in 2014 were 144,394 railway transportation, and minimizes its transportation tons, a 5.5% increase over the previous year. However, routes to increase loading efficiency. The company greenhouse gas emissions per vehicle produced decreased additionally encourages the use of public transportation, by 8.9%. The Jeonju plant will introduce an air monitoring and provides special commuter buses as part of its efforts system to save energy, and will continue to install highto be a truly environmentally friendly company. efficiency facilities, enhance its manufacturing processes and use energy more efficiently. Carbon Capture and Storage Technology Namyang Technology Research Center The Namyang Technology Research Center is operating a The area of our research buildings expanded by 16% in test plant, to test new carbon capture and storage (CCS) 2014, and so the amount of equipment also increased, technology. The test plant can handle 18 tons of CO2 per year which caused an increase in overall greenhouse gas and consists of two technologies ― one to isolate and capture emissions of 11.4% compared to the previous year. The greenhouse gases from chimney emissions, the other to use Namyang Technology Research Center uses high efficiency algae to convert greenhouse gases into value-added materials. eco-friendly energy facilities in its buildings and in 2014, The CCS technology was successfully tested in 2013, and can Sustainability Performance 077 reduce the emission of greenhouse gases by 20,000 tons required by law. The company runs a system that monitors per year. Hyundai will therefore use CCS technology as the amount of pollutants discharged, and makes preemptive part of its emissions reduction efforts. The company is also efforts to stop pollutants being discharged in the first place. reviewing a plan to implement the technology to produce liquid carbon dioxide for welding process; the test will be Emission of Pollutants completed in October 2015. In addition, Hyundai will use bio Air pollutants Water pollutants Waste materials materials produced from algae in vehicle parts production, creating added value. Waste synthetic resin, VOCs, Dust, COD, BOD, Waste molding sand, Sludge, NOx Zn, T-N, T-P Waste paint, Waste oil, Waste organic materials Emissions Trading Emissions trading schemes are being introduced worldwide. In Europe, an emissions trading system is already in effect, and Minimizing air pollutants Hyundai’s Czech manufacturing plant has been part of the Air pollutants produced in the vehicle manufacturing system since 2013. In China, following a pilot test on emissions process include volatile organic chemical compounds trading in six major cities, a system will be implemented in full created during painting, and the dust from the molding sand across the country in 2015, and our manufacturing plant in used at materials plants. China is undertaking appropriate responses. Emissions trading Volatile organic compounds (VOCs) are critical elements began in Korea in 2015; our Korean plants have established for making paints, as well as for diluting them and washing a three-year short-term response plan for the period up painting equipment. They are, however, hazardous for the to 2017, and are currently reviewing long-term emissions environment and for human health, which is why Hyundai reduction strategy to effectively respond to a 10% allocation is implementing various activities to reduce their use. The share to meet the regulation objective by 2025. Hyundai does Ulsan plant, where the Genesis is manufactured, was its utmost to establish a stable system that can effectively designed to minimize the use of paints and thinners, and a respond to the emissions trading at home and abroad. regenerated thermal oxidizer (RTO) was installed to handle the VOCs created in oven emissions. In addition, ecofriendly water-soluble paints are used in all plants, which Minimizing Environmental Impact dramatically reduces VOC emissions. In 2014, the amount of VOCs produced in Hyundai’s Korean plants was 8,429 tons, Hyundai ensures that water and air pollutants do not a 2.8% increase over the previous year. leak from its manufacturing plants. The company undertakes ecology restoration activities from a longMinimizing water pollutants term perspective, and is committed to the investments Automobile manufacturing processes consume significant necessary to implement its environmental activities. amounts of water. Hyundai understands that the efficient Hyundai considers the environmental impact on the management of wastewater is an important task, which is why local community, and seeks to minimize the impact on it has created in-house environmental standards on water the Earth as a whole. Hyundai’s eco-friendly activities pollutants that are stricter than required by law. The company reflect its philosophy on environmental preservation, categorizes water pollutants into bio oxygen demand (BOD), which is to create a world in which men and Nature cochemical oxygen demand (COD), suspended solid (SS), oil (nexist in harmony. H), total nitrogen (T-N) and total phosphorus (T-P) categories. Hyundai is also improving its vehicle washing processes and the Managing Pollutants dust collection process which removes paint particles created during painting, and is reducing wastewater produced from Hyundai has stricter corporate standards on air and water engine and gear parts processing. pollutants produced in its manufacturing processes than are 078 Hyundai Motor Company 2015 Sustainability Report O ur S y st e m O ur V a lu e Product Responsibility Eco-friendliness Suppliers Employees Society The Ulsan plant operates two consolidated pollutant and desertification project is taking place in the Chakanor wastewater disposal facilities, one wastewater disposal facility area of Inner Mongolia. Chakanor used to be a great lake, and seven auxiliary disposal facilities. It has also installed divided into eastern and western areas ― but now the lake electroplating washing recycling facilities, which reduce the total water has all dried up, and it is becoming a desert. Hyundai amount of electroplating wastewater by 33%. Since 2007, as planted trees, which grow well in alkaline soil, in the west of required by the Ministry of Environment, wastewater from the the lake in order to transform the region into a grassland. Ulsan plant is transferred to a sewage treatment facility in Ulsan We have also used tree branches to build a wall so that city. As the density of organic materials must not exceed a seeds would not get swept away in the wind. target level for treatment at the Ulsan sewage treatment facility, At the completion of the first phase of the project, which the Ulsan plant makes sure its wastewater meets those targets. was the world’s biggest grassland construction project, As a result, the amount of wastewater pollutants at domestic 60% of the western part of the lake was converted into 50 worksites was 187 tons in 2007, an increase of 45% from the million m2 of grassland for reptiles and insects to inhabit. previous year. The amount of water pollutants produced in 2007 The second phase has a completion date of 2017; this was 181 tons, which was a 3.3% decline year-on-year. phase will see the cultivation over several years of plants that are useful in preventing desertification. This huge Minimizing waste materials ecological improvement will not only help local residents in Waste produced in automobile manufacturing includes China, but will also contribute to preventing the yellow dust paint, thinner, packaging materials such as vinyl, paper and that blows into Korea. wood, and molding sand used to create molds for cylinder blocks. Scrap metal is all collected and recycled either Green forest project in India within the company or by specialists in other industries. Since 2011, Hyundai has been working in partnership with Hyundai strives to reduce the volume of waste materials in TIST India, an Indian NGO, on the “Go Green Hyundai” the plants and to enhance recycling. Waste is sequentially project, to grow a teak forest on desert land. An agreement transported to waste materials storage by time for more has been signed with 282 households in the Tirubalruhr and efficient recycling. All paint sludge is incinerated, and sludge Kanchipuram regions to plant teak trees and maintain them water treatment technology reduces the water content for 10 years without cutting them down. The local residents of paint sludge by up to 40%. In addition, waste paint have since planted a total of 200,000 trees ― 100,000 in compression facilities have been installed. In 2014, Hyundai 2011, 50,000 in 2012 and 50,000 in 2013. recycled 56,457 tons of waste materials, a 1% increase over Teak trees, which proliferate across India and Southeast Asia, the previous year. do not easily expand or contract. They also do not become twisted or split, which makes them easy to process and Environmental Restoration Activities resistant to disease. Teak trees are therefore very popular as raw materials and for re-forestation projects. Hyundai has Hyundai is committed to ecological preservation and transformed 3.2 million acres of deserted land into grassland restoration activities. The company is undertaking green through this project, and the improvements in soil, underground zone projects, forest preservation activities and endangered water and air quality are supporting the animals and plants of species protection in the long term. In the short term, the forest. In addition, the company receives carbon emission Hyundai reports on the state of the environment near its rights for its contribution to combating global warming. plants, in order to protect the living creatures that have lived alongside humankind. Restoration of sericinus montela Anti-desertification project in China With increases in environmental pollution and climate change, the number of endangered animals and plants is increasing. Since 2008, the Hyundai Green Zone China project In Korea, there are 246 endangered species designated by has helped China to limit desertification. This antiSustainability Performance 079 the Ministry of Environment. Hyundai pursues activities that of the Guil swamp, near the Okcheon delivery center. We protect endangered species and natural ecological resources created the Ssamji Park, and continue to provide regular through its Hyundai Green Zone Korea project. The company is support for water management activities. Furthermore, for supporting the preservation of the red-crowned crane, blackexpanded participation of citizens, the company provided faced spoonbill, Asian twinleaf and quillworts, and the release natural insecticides, detergent and other eco-friendly of whitebaits. In addition, the company is helping to remove products. It also purchased eco-friendly agricultural invasive species, and to protect old trees in local communities. products, to support the underprivileged. In addition, the company has provided consulting and the education Hyundai is particularly proud of its long-term success in the needed to develop eco-friendly green villages. Hyundai will restoration of dragon swallowtail butterfly, which had been continue to provide support for environmental education endangered as a result of industrialization and urbanization. The restoration project began in 2005, the butterfly began for local residents. breeding in 2006, they produced pupae in 2007, and now the restoration project was successfully completed. Hyundai has Environmental Accounting not just restored the habitat ― we have also created ecological Hyundai analyzes environmental costs and investments from learning places and textbooks so that more people will become an accounting perspective, and makes them part of the interested in the restoration of natural ecological resources. company’s decision-making process. The company considers both environmental costs and benefits, and also provides “One Company, One River” campaign environmental information to shareholders, investors, local Hyundai has in place a “One Company, One River” campaign, communities and other major stakeholders through various a collaboration based around its factories that encompasses communications channels. In 2014, the company spent KRW civic, governmental and corporate organizations, including 120 billion on environmental costs, including direct and environmental organizations and activist groups. The goal of indirect costs, and the risk management costs associated the campaign is to preserve the environment and enhance with pollution reduction, a 7% increase over the previous quality of life for local residents by improving the quality of year. The direct and indirect costs associated with pollution river water and the water ecological system. reduction account for more than 70% of the total. Since 2012, the Asan plant has collaborated with the Breakdown of Environmental Costs Saemaeul Association of Asan city to create ecology parks as waterfront cultural spaces. In 2012, the company planted 1,980㎡ of water purifying plants around the Onyangcheon River, which was suffering from water pollution problems, 36% 1 3 29% and created an ecology park to be used for ecological studies. In 2013, the company planted 13,000 water purifying plants on 1,650㎡ of land around the River, and 2 created a second ecology park. The company also engages 35% in monthly water cleaning activities at the Onyangcheon and Gokgyocheon Rivers. The company released native 1. Direct costs 2. Indirect costs 3. Risk management fish and has worked on removing odors and enhancing associated with associated with costs associated with water quality through the Onyangcheon River improvement pollution reduction pollution reduction pollution reduction campaign, in partnership with civic, governmental and corporate organizations. In 2014, a third ecology park was Operating costs for running and Indirect costs of maintaining Costs such as effluent charges, repairing facilities that manage eco-friendly systems, such fines and penalties, fire created, and the water quality of the River is improving. water quality, air pollution, as environmental training and prevention costs, prevention odors, noise and vibration, education, eco-friendly company or recovery costs for Since 2013, Hyundai has also been working on the waste materials and hazardous certification and ISO reviews, environmental accidents, green materials and eco-friendly energy systems zone maintenance costs, and ecological restoration of the Geumgang River. From May and environmental safety environmental contribution to November 2014, the company worked on the restoration organizations at each factory expenses 080 Hyundai Motor Company 2015 Sustainability Report O ur S y st e m O ur V a lu e Product Responsibility Eco-friendliness Suppliers Employees Society Global Highlight Environmental Eco-friendly Czech plant earns European certification management to prove our Hyundai Motor Manufacturing Czech (HMMC) is committed to environmental management. In 2012, HMMC reacquired ISO 14001, and acquired the EcoManagement and Audit Scheme (EMAS) certification, a standard environmental green competitiveness management system certification in Europe. HMMC reacquired the EMAS certification in 2015. HMMC has implemented various pro-grams to enable its plant to produce 350,000 Hyundai seeks ways to grow in partnership vehicles, an increase of 50,000 vehicles, while minimizing its environmental impact. In August 2014, the company received an approval for changing environment with local communities, while minimizing impact assessment from the Ministry of Environment of the Czech Republic. its ecological footprints. Our Czech plant HMMC has established environmental goals for three key fields, such as energy consumption, waste management and environmental systems. reflects this commitment ― 40% of its land is green zone, and the plant has Water resources management Management System, and uses global standard environmental systems to HMMC aims to minimize the creation professional vendors to help in its waste management. HMMC separates achieve its environmental objectives. of wastewater in its manufacturing p r o c e s s e s, a n d t o r e d u c e i t s waste materials according to whether consumption of water resources. they can be recycled, and supports this In 2014, the company implemented with efforts to increase the reuse of technology and process optimization materials. In 2014, 83% of total waste Czech Republic in its painting processes, which materials was recycled, and hazardous reduced the use of water resources waste materials are gradually declining by 17,478m 3 . The company also in quantity. reduced per vehicle water resource consumption from 1.83m3 in 2012 to Energy efficiency and 1.73m3 in 2014, a 5.8% reduction. GHG management HMMC has been receiving allocations Wastewater management for greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Wastewater produced at HMMC is from the European Union Emissions discharged to a local sewage water Trading Scheme (EU ETS) since 2013. treatment facility. Industrial wastewater The company has been operating a undergoes initial treatment at our inGHG inventory in response to GHG house wastewater treatment facility, regulations since 2009. HMMC uses so that it satisfies legal requirements natural gas and electricity as its main on wastewater discharge. Water that energy sources, and has increased contains oil goes through a water-oil the use of natural light. As a result separation facility, so that it does not of these efforts, in 2014, despite contain oil on discharge. expanded facilities, HMMC was able to reduce its GHG emissions compared to Air pollutants management the previous year. HMMC has established an ROT facility that can incinerate 350 tons of harmful Hazardous materials management VOCs created during the painting HMMC has created a constantly process. This system will continue to updated list of the hazardous chemicals reduce the production of VOCs. used during its manufacturing processes, based on local government Waste materials management regulations regarding the handling of HMMC has established a comchemical materials, and the company prehensive waste material management also obtains all necessary approvals system called the Complex Waste from local governments before using 40% of HMMC is made up of green zone. new chemical materials. Sustainability Performance 081 03 Suppliers Management Approach The automotive industry is a major assembly business and Hyundai suppliers provide the company with 95% of parts used in building Hyundai vehicles. The company believes that the competitiveness of its suppliers is the basis for its true competitiveness. Therefore, the company provides its suppliers with education, system and human resource supports for their quality improvement, technology development and environmental protection endeavors. Hyundai has a number of teams dedicated to helping its suppliers, including Supplier Cooperation Team, R&D Technical Support Group, and the Foundation of Korea Automotive Parts Industry Promotion. Employing these and other organizations, Hyundai seeks mutual growth in three strategies: cultivating global competitiveness; reinforcing the basis for sustainable growth; and establishing a joint growth system. Facts & Figures 082 Hyundai Motor Company 2015 Sustainability Report Hyundai pursues mutual growth with its suppliers by helping them to be more efficient, sustainable and competitive. Progress in 2014 Partnerships averaging 28 years, 2.5 times the average life of small and medium-sized manufacturing companies Joint overseas expansion with 600 suppliers Quality and technology training provided to 1,500 suppliers (cumulative) 17,510 people hired via job fairs held for suppliers 293 companies have participated in joint growth and fair trade agreements Sustainability Performance 083 03 Cultivating Global Competitiveness Supporting suppliers in improving product competitiveness and technology to the world-best P. 084 Developing Competitiveness in Quality P. 084 Supporting Productivity Enhancement P. 084 Developing R&D Capability Reinforcing Supporting suppliers in stability and self-sufficiency the Basis for Sustainable P. 084 Sustainable Management Foundation Growth P. 084 Global Outlet Expansion P. 085 Infrastructure for Growth Establishing Cultivating a culture of fair trade a Joint and joint growth Growth P. 085 Strengthening the Collaborative Network System P. 086 Supporting Tier 2 and 3 Suppliers P. 086 Culture of Joint Growth P. 086 Environmental Safety System for Suppliers Main Activities in 2014 Supported suppliers in building job websites Provided technical support and management consulting to suppliers Helped suppliers create energy management system ‘Transparent Purchase Center’ in operation for suppliers Facts & Figures 082 Hyundai Motor Company 2015 Sustainability Report Places for growth in harmony — Job fair for suppliers Job fair Hyndai holds for its suppliers is a well-known mutual growth program at Hyundai Motor Group. It is based on the company’s belief that the growth of suppliers leads to its own growth. The company spares no efforts in supporting the job fairs, from planning and operation to financial support. The fairs also serve as an opportunity for the company to fulfill its social responsibility by contributing to employment. * This event is co-hosted with Kia Motor Company. Sustainability Performance 083 Cultivating Global Competitiveness Developing R&D Capability Joint collaboration program Competitiveness in product quality, technology and Hyundai operates the value engineering (VE) system which productivity are keys to develop the global competitiveness centers on reducing costs without lowering product quality, of our suppliers. Hyundai offers its suppliers various thus avoiding the need for imports. The company also programs as a way to help develop their competitiveness. implements a guest engineer system for joint research with To achieve this objective in a more efficient manner, the engineers from its suppliers on new models being developed. In company has created suppliers support teams. 2014, the number of engineers and suppliers who participated in the program averaged 340 and 40, respectively, per month. Developing Competitiveness in Quality Seminar to boost the competitiveness of suppliers The company provides seminars to executives and Reinforcing the Basis for employees of its suppliers to share its strategic directions Sustainable Growth and to enhance their business competencies. The seminars are categorized in terms of positions, departments and programs. The company also provides seminars for Hyundai believes that the business stability and selfmanagers and staffs with a focus on R&D and technology sufficiency of suppliers are crucial for them to grow enhancement. into global corporations and achieve sustainable growth. Thus, we support their efforts to strengthen their capital base, improve growth infrastructure, and expand Supporting Productivity Enhancement overseas operations. Hyundai Motor Group created the Foundation of Korea Automotive Parts Industry Promotion in 2002, as a nonSustainable Management Foundation profit organization. Hyundai, Kia and Hyundai Mobis made joint investments to create the Foundation, and it provides Hyundai employs various means aimed at supporting its Hyundai suppliers with education programs on product suppliers’ efforts to achieve business stability. We provide quality, technology and general management. small and medium suppliers with liquid assets to cover the cost of delivering goods; slash our suppliers’ purchasing costs by half through use of joint contracts; extend Foundation of Korea Automotive Parts Industry loans and other financial supports to suppliers in need of Promotion normalizing their regular operations, improving productivity Members of the Quality and Technology Volunteer Group and product quality, or facility investments; and extend of the Foundation and those of the Supplier Support Group, family networks developed for our Tier 1 suppliers to Tier 2 mostly retirees of Hyundai, often spend three to 12 months suppliers so as to provide a cost for their goods. a year working on the business site of Hyundai suppliers to provide guidance and support. This program is provided not only to the Tier 1 suppliers but to Tier 2 suppliers, which Global Outlet Expansion are relatively small in size, as well. Joint overseas expansions Most of the current suppliers of our overseas R&D Technology Support Group manufacturing plants are Korean firms that entered the The R&D Technology Support Group is run by the Technical international market together with Hyundai. We proactively Support Team for R&D Suppliers. The Group seeks to share support the growth of 600 some suppliers working with the company’s technology development know-how with Hyundai’s eight international plants, in order to help them the suppliers and to identify and offer solutions to problems become small but strong global corporations. in their day-to-day production operations. 084 Hyundai Motor Company 2015 Sustainability Report O ur S y st e m O ur V a lu e Product Responsibility Eco-friendliness Suppliers Employees Society Hyundai supports its Tier 1 and 2 suppliers’ efforts to fair for its suppliers struggling to attract top talent. In 2014, establish local plants in the international market. This we launched job fairs by region together with 371 suppliers. enables the suppliers to secure a stable flow of orders The job fairs received positive responses for having and guarantees Hyundai a reliable supply of high-quality contributed to the suppliers’ recruitment of talent based on materials, thus contributing to mutual growth for both. the brand recognition of Hyundai. We continue to promote our suppliers’ recruitment and PR efforts by maintaining a website dedicated to employment of our suppliers. Results of joint overseas expansions We attain positive achievements in quality competitiveness Human resources development consortium and substantial increases in sales by expanding together Since 2004, Hyundai has held technology training and with our suppliers into overseas markets. In particular, many future leader development seminars for its suppliers of our suppliers, who originally entered the worth market through a human resources development consortium jointly as Hyundai suppliers, are steadily expanding their overseas operated by Hyundai, the Ministry of Employment and operations as they have gained recognition for their Labor, and Hyundai suppliers. product quality from other automakers. Such positive results also are a great boon to creating Venture Plaza synergies in joint operations including job creation and We established the ‘Venture Plaza’ in 2000 to jointly expense reduction. In short, the joint expansion of Hyundai’s develop technological ideas suggested by our suppliers and its suppliers’ performances serves as a stepping stone and to support promising start-ups. All jointly developed for the suppliers to further develop themselves as globaltechnologies and related rights and incomes are shared by scale suppliers. Hyundai and its suppliers. Supporting Joint Overseas Expansions Establishing a Joint Growth System We provide our suppliers interested in expanding their operations overseas Consulting service with information on industry regulations, Hyundai fosters collaborative growth culture and seeks business procedures and other relevant to strengthen its collaborative ties with suppliers. We matters. implement various forms of partnership reinforcement with Tier 1 as well as Tier 2 and 3 suppliers. Hyundai We support our suppliers to build better relationships with local governments by corporation ecosystem aims at promoting transparent guiding them through the procedures transactions and spreading the joint growth culture. Local license support required for local plant construction and production line installations, in addition to help with tax negotiations. Strengthening the Collaborative Network We support the operation of cooperation Hyundai shares its procurement and quality policies with councils of our suppliers in overseas Cooperation council markets, with the purpose of building its suppliers. To help establish a rational and fair trade collaborative network and sharing culture between our Tier 1 suppliers and Tier 2 and 3 information. suppliers, we operate a cooperation council for the Tier 1 suppliers. In addition to sharing company policies and announcements, the council serves as a communication Infrastructure for Growth channel through which to receive suggestions and complaints from Tier 2 and 3 suppliers. Support top talent recruitment for suppliers In 2012, Hyundai hosted the nation’s first cooperative job Sustainability Performance 085 Supporting Tier 2 and 3 Suppliers manage industrial waste, and of case studies of green corporations and improvements. Hyundai plans to develop Hyundai operates a free training program that sends training programs for its suppliers interested in improving out to small and medium-sized corporations teams of their abilities to make appropriate countermeasures in professionals and consultants who share their expertise the areas of the environment, safety and health. in auto-related technology and know-how, thereby helping the corporations improve their productivity, quality technology and global competitiveness. Environment standards for suppliers and agreements Furthermore, as a means of supporting our suppliers on eco-friendly material supply in account payment, we offer low interest loans based We have adopted and practice ‘Hyundai-Kia Automobile on Hyundai’s no-interest deposits and special funds of Environment Standards’ to create corporate values financial institutions. As of this reporting, the size of the through proactive environmental management, as we fund stood at KRW 40 billion. recognize an eco-friendly approach as a successful component for corporations. We also have identified requirements for suppliers to observe so that we can Culture of Joint Growth better conduct corporate social responsibility and build Hyundai signs a ‘Joint Growth Agreements’ with its to an eco-friendly society together with our suppliers. suppliers every year and carries out various support In addition, we have set up guidelines on managing programs. Included are subcontract guideline operations, four major heavy metals and published a list of highly financial support, reinforcement of support for Tier 2 hazardous materials. Since 2007, we have signed and 3 suppliers, consultation of price adjustment on raw agreements with our domestic and overseas suppliers of materials and others. Also, we operate a ‘Transparent supplying eco-friendly auto parts as a way to respond Purchase Center’ on Hyundai’s website, through to global environmental regulations and to contribute which we share our code of conduct and guidelines to local communities. In 2012, we completed the with our suppliers and receive suggestions from them. agreements with domestic suppliers and, in the first-half Prohibition of child or forced labor is clearly spelled out of 2013, signed the agreements with overseas-based in the practical principles we have set for employees, suppliers associated with the production of automobiles including those of our suppliers, to follow. Furthermore, for export to the EU area. we publish and reward the best cases of joint growth made by Tier 1 and 2 suppliers in an effort to promote OHSAS 18001 certification the joint growth culture. In 2014, three companies were We recommend our domestic and overseas suppliers honored for their exemplary contributions. to acquire the OHSAS 18001 certification in order to prevent or manage risks related to production Environmental Safety System for Suppliers operations and establish a voluntary safety and health Environment, safety and health management management system. We plan to encourage our suppliers to secure industrial safety operating systems in addition To grow and prosper together with our suppliers, our to increasing safety awareness. All of our domestic Ulsan plant conducts an education support program suppliers acquired the certification in 2013, while the aimed at training Tier 1 suppliers in the Youngnam overseas suppliers are in the process of doing so. region in the areas of the environment, safety and health. In 2014 which marked the 8th year of the program, 200 managers of 180 companies completed the program, of which 97 participants from 93 companies voluntarily participated in the program, consisting of how to respond to environmental or safety accidents, how to 086 Hyundai Motor Company 2015 Sustainability Report O ur S y st e m O ur V a lu e Product Responsibility Eco-friendliness Suppliers Employees Society Global Highlight Hosting an auto R&D Tech Festival for win-win relationships with suppliers technology festival Our R&D Tech Festival comprises ‘R&D Tech Day’ and ‘R&D Motor Show’. On the R&D Tech Day, our suppliers exhibit their new technologies, and share their experience and know-how through seminars. At the R&D Motor Show, automobiles with win-win relations from many countries are put on display for participants to compare and analyze. The R&D Tech Festival is expected to contribute to the cultivation of a sustainable R&D foundation between Hyundai and its suppliers. We will continue to explore Believing that our suppliers’ technology is the new ways of motivating more suppliers to share their new technologies and know-how through the festival and thus to grow together. In addition, we will growth engine of our own, we promote sharing strive harder to turn the annual event into Korea’s leading auto tech festival in new technology information with our suppliers. which not only auto-related corporations but also the public can participate. In pursuit of this, Hyundai creates communication R&D Tech Day R&D Motor Show opportunities and promotes joint growth in At the 2014 R&D Tech Day, which was At the 2014 R&D Motor Show, which research and development by hosting an annual in its ninth year, 36 of our Tier 1 and 2 marked its 11th year anniversary Tech Festival with the theme of ‘Win-win and suppliers in diverse sectors, including with the theme of ‘Joint Growth and chassis, design, bodywork, electronics, Communication’, 84 automobiles and the Future’, together with our R&D suppliers. powertrain and eco-friendly cars, 12 dissected vehicles, platforms, and introduced the world’s first 17 inventions body frameworks were put on display. and Korea’s first 23 technologies. In In particular, eco-friendly cars such as particular, the number of new inventions Grandeur Hybrid and Tucson Hydrogen Korea in the powertrain and eco-friendly FCEV were dissected and put on public car sectors rose to nine, from five in display so as to allow participants the previous year event. Hyundai also and the public to compare them with introduced seven new technologies. regular internal combustion models. In At the 2014 R&D Tech Day, coaddition, eco-friendly automobile parts sponsored by KIA Motors, Hyundai such as the Theta 2 Improved 2.4 GDI and KIA jointly held a new technologyengine, R-2.2 Euro 6 Diesel Engine, and related seminar to share their carbon fiber automobile frame attracted technology development information keen attention at the festival. This and know-how. Furthermore, we festival focused mainly on eco-friendly selected and awarded top suppliers in automobiles and fuel efficiency-related the three categories of outstanding technologies so that suppliers could new technology, digital car development share relevant information among and quality improvement in durability. themselves and the public could witness Through these activities, Hyundai the latest in automobile trends. reinforces its partnerships with its suppliers, to bolster their technology development and R&D competencies. R&D Tech Festival R&D Tech Day R&D Motor Show Employees from suppliers observing The venue where R&D Tech Festival the engine room took place Sustainability Performance 087 04 Employees Management Approach Hyundai works with hundreds of thousands of employees around the world through global economic activities. Relying on the belief that our future competitiveness rests on a creative human resource development, we foster global talent in a culture of promoting respect for humanity. In addition to complying with international regulations on human rights protection, we respect employee diversity and strive hard to make opportunity and fair rewards available to more employees. In order to assist our employees in maximizing their potentials, we create a safe environment, provide various benefits and foster a pleasant workplace so that they can sustain a happier life. Facts & Figures 088 Hyundai Motor Company 2015 Sustainability Report We foster creative and innovative talents who will consummate our vision of ‘Lifetime partner in automobiles and beyond’ through ‘new thinking, new possibility. Progress in 2014 Total number of employees increased 4.6%, year-on-year, to 109,748 The number of female employees increased 8.6%, year-on-year, to 7,718 The number of handicapped employees increased 7%, year-on-year, to 1,766 The employee satisfaction rate increased by 2% A special agreement reached on future development strategy through collective bargaining between labor and management Sustainability Performance 089 04 Respecting Human Rights and Diversity Building a culture of mutual understanding and respect P. 090 Human Rights Protection P. 090 Employee Distress Counseling P. 090 Labor-Management Relations P. 091 Employee Diversity Fostering Cultivating outstanding talent with global competitiveness Outstanding Talent P. 092 Human Resources Development Program P. 093 Career Development System P. 094 Performance Reward System Creating Building a safe and smart work Great environment Workplaces P. 094 Safe Work Environment P. 095 Employee Benefits & Welfare P. 095 WorkSMART P. 096 Employee Satisfaction Main Activities in 2014 Strengthened work safety guidelines at domestic and overseas worksites Improved the human resources development system at domestic and overseas worksites based on a mid-to long-term strategy Strengthened the WorkSMART Diversified hiring systems: a year-round hiring program introduced Facts & Figures 088 Hyundai Motor Company 2015 Sustainability Report The future competitiveness of Hyundai — HR development Our future competitiveness will be determined by how much innovative product development competency we secure and how we cultivate talent. Accordingly, Hyundai plans to increase investment in expanding advanced research facilities and attracting outstanding engineers and other specialists while stepping up efforts to strengthen academic-industrial collaborations. Sustainability Performance 089 Respecting Human Rights and Diversity Employee Distress Counseling We operate various counseling places to help employees Hyundai’s human resource philosophy comprises suffering from distress. They include “Talk-Talk Center” respect for talent, strengthening of employee trust at the headquarters, “Mind+” at the Namyang Technology and provision of a promising future to employees. We Research Center, and “Happy Rest Area” at the Ulsan/ believe that only when a company and employees Asan/Jeonju plants, all staffed by professionals experienced establish mutual understanding and respect for each in handling diverse cases of employee distress, including other can both share the vision and goals and grow work stress and family problems. We also operate ‘One together, and the company earn respect from society Click HR’, an online counselling service, for employees who and contribute to social development. can’t visit the centers in person. As a global corporation, Hyundai practices human resource policies that embrace diverse talent. Hyundai Labor-Management Relations respects the human rights and diversity of its employees Hyundai seeks a labor-management relationship that working worldwide. The company also pursues a healthy pursues improvements in productivity and product quality in and advanced culture of labor-management relations the short run through worksite stabilization, and in the mid through a proactive use of various communication to long run, contributes to develop a sympathy that labor channels. and management are partners to each other. We believe that only through a progress made of such improvements Human Rights Protection and relationship, work conditions and job security will be Hyundai’s corporate activity is based on respect for human enhanced in a sustainable manner. As the job stability rights and promotion of love for humanity. All Hyundai and performance improvement of employees lead to the employees sign and declare a code of ethics by which they enhancement of corporate competitiveness, Hyundai’s pledge their respect for individual human rights. By including labor unions and management strive hard to bolster this ‘People’ in our five core values, we have pronounced our virtuous cycle. commitment to human rights protection. As such, we comply with all human rights-related regulations of individual Labor unions countries where Hyundai auto production facilities are located. Hyundai honors employee rights to organize labor union activities, to take collective actions and to exercise collective Sexual harassment prevention education bargaining. As of 2014, 46,217, or 71.4%, of its domestic In 2014, we executed a company-wide intensive campaign employees were members of the Hyundai Chapter of the aimed at developing a healthy organizational culture that Korean Metal Workers’ Union. The Hyundai labor union tolerates no sexual harassment in any manner or form. pursues a win-win labor-management relationship. In 2014, We focused on training in-house grief counselors on the union and the company reached a special agreement in sexual harassment issues and collected diverse opinions the collective bargaining area in response to a nation-wide on workplace conditions and remedies from interviews paradigm shift in labor-management relations and as a strategy with female employees working diverse worksites. In for the future. particular, we have established a hotline service through which employees can receive counseling year-round. Labor-management communication We also have improved the grief counseling process by Hyundai operates a labor-management council for allowing employees to select counselors or experts of their employee distress treatment in accordance with the choice. Overseas, we operate employee distress treatment, laws and collectively agreed guidelines. The main laborsexual harassment prevention and other programs in strict management council, in which labor representatives compliance with each country’s related regulations. participate, were convened twice in 2014 and a total of 090 Hyundai Motor Company 2015 Sustainability Report O ur S y st e m O ur V a lu e Product Responsibility Eco-friendliness Suppliers Employees Society 21 cases of employee distress and workers welfare were Employee Diversity discussed and resolved. The company informs the labor Programs to recruit diverse talent union of all major management changes in accordance with the laws and collectively agreed guidelines, and labor As the global operations of Hyundai gather speed, local and management work together to respond to changes hiring practices become more prevalent. By employing in the management environment by holding management unique talent recruitment programs, we focus less on the conferences that focus on sharing updates on market academic backgrounds and grades and instead more on the creativity and growth potential of candidates. conditions and business performances. In 2014, we focused on recruiting diverse talent with right Labor-management relations at overseas worksites personalities and growth potential through use of preselection channels such as internship program, as well as The manufacturing plants in China (BHMC, CHMC) and “The H” program and a year-round recruiting program. India (HMI) have official labor unions representing the In particular, by including history essays as a part of the voices and views of their employees. The Czech Republic requirements, we sought to look into the candidates’ subsidiary (HMMC) has a labor union whose percentage of value system and historical perspectives beyond general membership is as high as the national average, sufficiently knowledge. high enough to generate constructive labor-management relations. The Brazilian subsidiary (HMB) enjoys stable labor-management relations by being a member of a Recruitment at overseas worksites larger labor union in the region in accordance with local We have 64,956 employees in Korea, which accounts for labor regulations and standards. The U.S. subsidiary 59.2% of the total workforce of Hyundai. The remaining (HMMA), located in the southern part of the country, and 44,792 work at overseas plants and business sites, mostly plants in Russia (HMMR) and Turkey (HAOS) do not have locally recruited employees. The number of local employees official labor unions, but have been able to successfully has increased 7.1% from last year due to increases in resolve distress-related employee complaints or other overseas production and the establishment of overseas requests by holding roundtable meetings and various labor subsidiaries in Mexico and the Netherlands. subcommittee activities on a regular basis. Talent Recruitment Programs Year-round Recruiting Global Scholarship H Innovator The H Job Fair Program Fosters talent in developing Hires outstanding talent by Identifies talent by focusing Hires talent with integrity Provides job applicants with countries and secures applying internship training on job skills rather than on through diverse activity opportunities to introduce key managers at overseas system in the recruitment qualifications (Domestic/ programs themselves and offers free subsidiaries process overseas sales, management counselling on relevant files support, IT, product marketing strategies, etc.) Sustainability Performance 091 Upper management at overseas worksites Fostering Outstanding Talent The number of executives at our overseas subsidiaries consists of 89 Korean nationals and 162 local officers, As a global corporation, Hyundai believes in the which brings locally hired executives to 64.5% of total. By importance not only of training employees capable of increasing the number of local employees in the upper conducting international business but also of fostering management, we create an environment in which decisions talents who can become future growth generators. Hyundai are promptly made and gain a better understanding of local pursues human resources (HR) and career development markets and cultures. systems from a perspective that anticipates future needs and applies diverse approaches in the areas of Female workforce HR management, education and organizational culture. One of the approaches is human resource development Due to the characteristics of its business, Hyundai (HRD), optimized to the individual job responsibility and had traditionally a low ratio of female employees in its competency of employees based on the company’s midworkforce; but the ratio has grown noticeably of late, as to long-term HRD development strategies. the number of female employees continues to increase in the entry level. This is a result of Hyundai’s recognition of the role of employee diversity in corporate competitiveness. Human Resources Development Program As of late 2014, female employees at domestic business The HR development system at Hyundai consists of sites numbered 3,043, which represented a 13.1% increase Hyundai Leadership Course (HLC) for training corporate compared with the year before. leaders, Hyundai Professional Course (HPC) for improving In addition to increasing female employees, we are job competency, Hyundai Value Course (HVC) for expanding benefits for them. All female employees at internalizing core values and strengthening the power of domestic business sites are given a monthly vacation and action, and Hyundai Global Course (HGC) for improving the a 90-day maternity leave. Every Hyundai business site global competency of employees. operates child-care facilities conditions and continues to expand the facilities in an effort to ease the child-rearing Hyundai Leadership Course burden of its female employees. Meanwhile, Hyundai’ HLC focuses on the long-term development of leaders s overseas operations employ a combined total of 4,672 competent enough to perform their given tasks and prepare female employees. for the future preemptively by acquiring the necessary abilities through work, interaction and training. By offering Workforce Composition courses designed to enhance the leadership competency █ Domestic (Unit: Person) of leaders along with pre-leader development courses, the █ Overseas course seeks to make sure that leadership candidates have █ Portion of overseas workforce (%) an ample experience prior to their promotions to leadership Total positions. 2012 39.0 38,318 59,831 98,149 Hyundai Professional Course HPC seeks to enhance diverse job competencies and to create organizational synergies by generating cooperation 2013 39.9 41,838 63,099 104,937 among different divisions. This course comprises an academic track for developing specialists by sector and an e-learning track for building the basic competencies through management, task performing skills, and the 2014 40.8 44,792 64,956 109,748 humanities. 092 Hyundai Motor Company 2015 Sustainability Report O ur S y st e m O ur V a lu e Product Responsibility Eco-friendliness Suppliers Employees Society Hyundai HRD System Specialist Operating Leader Directional Leader Visionary Leader Leadership Leadership Pipeline Program HLC (Leadership) Competency Program Professional Academy InnoBiz School HPC (Professional) Job Competency New Employee Value Build-up Program Orientation HVC (Value) Organization Development Program Regional Expert Expatriate Program Program HGC (Global) Global Communication Program Culture & Diversity Program Hyundai Value Course Career Development System HVC supports developing organizational culture and We offer career development programs that represent strengthening the adaptability of new employees. This our commitment to talent development and competency course operates a track for strengthening promotion enhancement. candidates’ reactiveness on core values and track for building core values among new employees. Voluntary job rotation system The voluntary job rotation system provides an opportunity Hyundai Global Course for employees to transfer to departments of their choice HGC seeks to strengthen the global competency of according to their career development goals and plans. We domestic and overseas employees through value, culture, assess the company’s operation plans and the needs of leadership, global communication training and other education individual employees to support the job rotation system. programs. HGC comprises training for strengthening the Since the establishment of the system, two to three global communication skills of domestic employees, language thousand employees apply for the system each year and courses for building cooperation skills, and e-learning courses the number of employees department transfer has been for effectively supporting e-culture education and overseas increasing. The system invigorates communication within subsidiaries’ local HRD. In addition, this course offers a the organization and increases employees’ job performance regional specialists program to support developing locally hired by supporting individual employees’ competency talents at overseas subsidiaries into global leaders with strong improvement and career visions and goals. leadership qualities and business competencies. Sustainability Performance 093 Job rotation program for outstanding talent Safe Work Environment Hyundai established a job rotation program for outstanding Under the vision, “Safe companion for happier tomorrow”, talent in 2010 and has since expanded the scope of the Hyundai has adopted a safety-first management policy, program. In the past five years, 155 top employees at “Reaching the production of the highest possible quality by domestic and overseas business sites have participated in placing safety at the top”. In 2014, in order to strengthen the program. The participants were assigned to various organizations dedicated to work safety, we changed the posts at home and abroad for eight weeks and given operation format from three teams per one office and opportunities to improve their job competencies as well eight safety departments for each business division to six as to cooperate with their fellow workers. In 2014, we teams per one center (business division level) and eight implemented the program twice in the first and second safety teams for each business division, and assigned 300 halves, and 35 domestic and overseas employees of top employees to the safety organizations. performances participated in the programs. Hyundai will establish a global management system by continuously Health and safety organization expanding the program and contribute to improving the Safety Health & Environment Center oversees safety performance of its domestic and overseas employees. management and regulations at all domestic worksites of Hyundai, and each division has a team dedicated to the Performance Reward System health and safety of its employees. Medical Care Center carries out employee health-involving tasks, and teams of Hyundai practices no gender bias in the payment of basic hygiene experts conduct occupational diseases-preventive salaries and maintains transparency in its performance measures. In addition, Industrial Occupational Safety reward system. We also operate uniform evaluation and Health Committee, comprising an equal number of and performance-based reward systems to ensure fair members from labor and management, deliberates on and evaluations and rational compensations. We motivate decides major policies and issues related to work safety employees to improve their individual competencies by and employee health. The committee continues to adopt applying performance evaluation results to the salaries of measures that are practical and effective in preventing employees above the manager level. The ‘Promotion Point’ industrial accidents and to strengthen relevant policies. system is focused not on seniority but on discovering talent with exceptional performance. Through the ‘multifaceted Management system for health and safety evaluation system’, team members evaluate the leadership of employees above the team manager level, so that All domestic business sites of Hyundai have established they would be motivated to continuously pursue selfand operate the Health and Safety Management Systems development and thus become responsible leaders. (KOSHA 18001, OHSAS 18001). The Ulsan plant received the certification in 2010, and passed the evaluation for the extension of the KOSHA/OHSAS 18001 in April 2013. The Asan plant acquired the accreditation of KOSHA Creating Great Workplaces 18001 in 2000 and that of OHSAS 18001 in November 2012. The Jeonju plant achieved a joint-accreditation of Hyundai gives a top priority to creating a workplace KOSHA/OHSAS 18001 in December 2002. Furthermore, the that ensures the safety of employees and accordingly Namyang Technology Research Center also gained a jointoffers various benefit policies to increase employee accreditation of KOSHA/OHSAS 18001 in November 2012, satisfaction. In response to the continuously changing a clear sign that the center has continued to enhance the automobile market and industry, we promote programs level of health and safety management it practices. aimed at increasing employee productivity as well as supporting employees’ work-life balance. ‘WorkSMART’ is one of our efforts to create a great workplace. 094 Hyundai Motor Company 2015 Sustainability Report O ur S y st e m O ur V a lu e Product Responsibility Eco-friendliness Suppliers Employees Society Integrated system for health and safety Portal’, an integrated information site detailing employee benefits, has been launched to provide useful information ‘i-ESH (http://iesh.hmc.co.kr)’, an integrated health and on leisure and cultural activities as well as on selfsafety system, provides real-time status and information development and children’s education. ‘Benefit Points’, about workplace safety, health, environment management a point system, and ‘One-day Two-shift Points’ can be at domestic business sites. The information generates redeemed at designated online and offline sites. synergy effects in the safety, health and environment management areas, as is reconfigured in diverse statistical data which then is used by employees for conducting their Support for stable life jobs. By analyzing the information thus utilized, every year To support employees and their families without houses we conduct a risk evaluation on the job and work process of their own, we operate company housing and dormitory and the results are used in making proactive responses to systems at our business sites. We provide long-term, lowsuch complex environmental changes as production method interest loans to non-house-owning employees. We also and technology development changes. operate company bus services serving many areas surrounding the business sites of Hyundai; and legal counseling support Culture of health and safety centers to help employees lead stable lives. In order to increase the employee awareness of health and safety, we have implemented safety training for all Support for leisure activities employees and reinforced relevant systems. We have To help employees with common interests lead invigorating developed an integrated disaster prevention system that organizational lifestyle, we assist diverse club activities generates alarms in case of actual fires and suppresses and provide gym clothes to employees. We also support fires immediately; established “Health and Safety Shelters” employee families’ leisure activities through various at all work sites to provide emergency response training programs, including lectures for married couples and and to conduct basic health check-ups. We also operate English camps for children of employees. Overseas travel “Happy Rest Areas” to support the stability of employees’ opportunities are made available to long-term employees mental and emotional states and to serve as a safety and their spouses. The ‘refresh vacation’ program, measure for keeping children of employees safe from introduced to help employees recharge their bodies and auto accidents. In addition, we run monitoring teams which minds, has contributed a great deal to improving the regularly check workplace conditions for violations of morale and productivity of employees. Moreover, we have safety rules. By adapting emergency response manuals, partnered with nationwide top-rated condos and hotels to we seek to improve golden time responses. The Ulsan plant help employees enjoy their vacations and leisure activities publishes a safety newspaper, “Safety Is Happiness” to at more affordable prices. We also operate summer promote safety awareness among its employees. vacation houses at major beaches for our employees and their families Employee Benefits & Welfare Caring for family members WorkSMART To reduce the financial burden of its employees, Hyundai Hyundai offers a creative work environment beyond offers scholarship programs for children of employees, outdated customs and formality, through which it pursues provides collective accident insurance, and subsidizes the innovation of corporate culture such a way as to embed cancer screening expenses. Furthermore, the company a “Working DNA” based on trust and communication. Once provides financial supports to its employees and their such a DNA has been embedded, we expect it to go beyond families for medical expenses. Culture or sports centers are contributing to the improvement of employees’ individual operated at all business sites to promote healthy lifestyles values and to evolve into a sustainable growth engine of among employees and their families. In addition, ‘HEW Hyundai. Sustainability Performance 095 Promoting WorkSMART ways of adopting more productive work methods. We will continue to promote the awareness by putting more efforts To implement WorkSMART in a systematic manner, we into implementing diverse change management activities. make long-term efforts to permeate the WorkSMART culture company-wide. From 2013 to 2015 has been designated as a period of adopting changes in work-styles SMART Day to implement “practical changes” in achieving WorkSMART. At Hyundai, every Wednesday is designated as ‘SMART In 2015, we plan to launch various campaigns and activities Day’, a day to bring changes to the way work is done. Every to increase employee engagement and make WorkSMART SMART Day, company cafeterias stop serving dinner, the an integral part of our corporate culture. hours for company commuter buses are shortened, and office computers are turned off after 18:30, all designed to Working environment for WorkSMART steer employees toward concentrating more on their work, thus finishing it earlier and putting saved hours to a more In 2014, we devised a mid-to long-term office environment productive use. To achieve this, we operate ‘work focus time’ improvement plan to foster a creative work culture and twice on a day and eliminate any unnecessary meetings to increase efficiency in the way work is conducted. or tea times. In addition, to expedite the decision-making Accordingly, all office spaces are to be equipped with heightprocess, we induce shortening of the electronic approval adjustable desks and other hi-tech, agronomic office time and promote use of one-page reports and emails. To furniture; all workflows optimized; and places for meeting, establish SMART Day as a leading in-house campaign, we resting and gaining knowledge expanded, with the brand will continue implementing the monitoring system by using identity of the company clearly displayed. These changes internal system analyses and employee surveys. and modifications were first applied to the company building on Yeongdong-daero in August, 2014, and other domestic offices spaces will be modified in 2015 in a gradual manner. Employee Satisfaction Hyundai has conducted surveys of office staff and engineers WorkSMART Index since 2008 to gage the satisfaction level of its employees. Since 2013, Hyundai has developed and operated the In 2014, we conducted an employee satisfaction survey WorkSMART Index (WSI). WSI is based on the WorkSMART consisting of 75 questions (81 for staff at manager level and system and comprises 63 indexes to assess the awareness above) in ten categories including job, position, evaluation, level of work methodology by organization. This evaluates promotion, reward, and welfare. 11,051 employees or an organization’s overall activity status and analyzes 53.1% of total employees responded, registering the overall organizational strengths and weakness for further highest satisfaction level since the survey began. improvement. By monitoring its WorkSMART activities In detail, the teamwork, leadership, and welfare categories through use of such a diagnostic tool, Hyundai will continue showed relatively high satisfaction levels; these indicate to respond to market changes in the optimal manner. more and more employees feel they have coworkers to rely on, that their supervisors are worthy leaders, Internal web-toon and that the work-life balance is improving. These To encourage a progressive mind-set among employees, marks of improvement also imply that the intra/interwe publish every Wednesday a weekly internal webteam competitive edge seminars which the company toon, ‘Ilbangcheomhwa’, meaning adding flowers to work has continued to implement to internalize its core values methods. The web-toon has been received well for its and to foster a more productive corporate culture, the provision of information beyond simple education messages WorkSMART campaign and other company-wide efforts through use of characters in the image of staff at the have proved effective. The results of employee satisfaction Yangjae headquarters, Namyang Technology Research surveys are applied to improve HR management systems Center, manufacturing plants, and domestic sales sites, and the work environment as well as to fine-tune programs offering entertaining information and knowledge on developed to increase employee satisfaction. 096 Hyundai Motor Company 2015 Sustainability Report O ur S y st e m O ur V a lu e Product Responsibility Eco-friendliness Suppliers Employees Society Global Highlight Opening a new ‘Us’, a community built upon communication and trust chapter in internal Harmony Room a week, giving an ample opportunity for all production line employees HMB has established and operates communication to take part at least once a year. two ‘Harmony Rooms’, spaces for The Brazilian government and labor counseling, on its premises in view unions have acclaimed the program of employee approachability and as a model employee communication convenience. Harmony Room A In fostering a healthy corporate culture and system. plays the role of a window through achieving sustainable success, there is one aspect which employees with distress can be assisted. Harmony Room B is staffed that is particularly important to us: being Suggestion Box by full-time, certified counselors a responsible employer who listens to employees’ ready to dispense professional Proposals, suggestions, complaints and other issues of employees are voices from the heart. Hyundai Motor Brazil (HMB) counseling. Employees may seek received through the ‘Suggestion help on issues beyond work-related is fast becoming an exemplary place problems, to include any emotional Boxes’ installed at nine places in the HMB. All these can be submitted to work, thanks to its efforts to promote distress or personal concerns related anonymously. Since the installation of to family issues, interpersonal internal communications. relationships, financial difficulties the boxes in September 2012, HMB received a total of 365 proposals, and the like. In 2014 alone, the cases suggestions and complaints, and of counseling numbered 1,856. Of approximately 90% of these have these, 425 were of family and spouse been processed. To expedite the relationships, 404 of health issues, Brazil process, HMB plans to set up an 101 of emotional concerns, and 70 of online suggestion system. drug addiction. HMB also operates a hotline system to address employees’ emergency HMB President’s Cup Soccer issues. By dialing a designated phone Tournament number, employees can report or HMB maximizes employee teamwork receive counseling on any grievances through use of Brazil’s national or complaints. In principle, all call-ins pastime ― soccer. Since 2012, every are processed within a week from fact April, HMB has hosted a company finding to investigation, mediation and tournament in which departments feedback. and sections form their own teams and go through competitive rounds of Roundtable Meeting elimination. The tournament is very popular among employees and their HMB operates ‘Roundtable Meetings’ families, as the players display their to promote active internal skills and teamwork. In fact, the event communication related to factory brings together not only participating management issues. Every month, employees but also their coworkers executives and senior managers and families as one unified community. convene a meeting at which The winning team receives a coveted employees from different divisions, trophy as well as the honor of being including the heads of HR, production the champion. and personnel management, share employee issues and management information. Through these meetings, HMB members become familiar with HMB’s new way of internal We, rather than Me! The HMB President’s Cup the status of company operations. communication, Roundtable Meeting Soccer Tournament The meeting takes place three times Sustainability Performance 097 05 Society Management Approach “Moving the world together” is Hyundai’s slogan for its social contributions to show how the company pursues social responsibility. Hyundai creates positive changes in society through commitment, and actions taken in partnership with its community neighbors. Hyundai is a global corporate citizen with firm principles and beliefs on social contributions, and has established the mission and core values of its social contributions. In October 2014, we established the CSV Strategy Team consisting of experts who will align our corporate strategies with our commitment to sharing value in global communities. Facts & Figures 098 Hyundai Motor Company 2015 Sustainability Report As a global carmaker, we lead a culture of the automobile industry by creating eco-friendly economic value and deep-rooted social value, thus promoting sustainable society. Progress in 2014 65 Spent KRW 65 billion on social contributions Raised a cumulative USD 87 million for Hope on Wheels Led the Happy Move Global Youth Volunteer Corps, with 1,000 participants annually Signed a sponsorship with the Tate Modern for the next 11 years, and sponsored the Hyundai Commission Hyundai-KOICA Dream Center in Ghana Sustainability Performance 099 05 CSR Activities in Korea Moving the world together through the ‘4 Move’ campaigns P. 100 Easy Move P. 101 Safe Move P. 102 Green Move P. 103 Happy Move P. 104 Gift Car Campaign Overseas Undertaking region-specific CSR activities CSR Activities P. 104 Hyundai Hope on Wheels in the U.S. P. 105 Skills for the Future in Europe P. 105 Global CSR Activities Supporting Helping to globalize Korean arts the Arts P. 106 MMCA Hyundai Motor Series and Culture in Korea P. 106 Sponsoring the Tate Modern in the UK Main Activities in 2014 Established the CSV Strategy Team to strengthen social contribution activities Undertook region-specific overseas social contribution activities Launched the Gift Car Sharing campaign Facts & Figures 098 Hyundai Motor Company 2015 Sustainability Report Creating shared value through social contributions — Hyundai-KOICA Dream Center As a global automaker, we have been undertaking CSV projects for global communities with expertise and responsibilities. One of the projects is the “Hyundai-KOICA Dream Center”, which provides maintenance technology training for young adults in local communities to promote job creation, sustainable regional economic development, and to improve product quality by increasing the number of highly-qualified maintenance specialists. We cooperated with the Korea International Cooperation Agency (KOICA), Plan Korea, local governments, and other related organizations to establish the Hyundai-KOICA Dream Centers, starting with Ghana in 2013, then Indonesia in 2014, and the Cambodian center began its construction in 2014. Hyundai-KOICA Dream Center in Ghana Sustainability Performance 099 CSR Activities in Korea can be implemented successfully. In addiHyundai provides the right social contribution programs tion, we have been to a diverse range of people in need, including the contributing to the disabled, senior citizens, and children. We proactively specialization of solook into relevant social issues, and try to develop cial welfare services programs that can contribute towards resolving those by offering consulissues, in partnership with local communities to promote ting and networking services to organizations and sustainable society. personnel. Season 1 of ‘Moving the World Together’ was completed in 2014, and the new start of Season 2 is being planned for 2015. Easy Move ‘Easy Move’ provides free mobility to people who need it Enhancing mobility for people with disabilities most, including the disabled, senior citizens, children and Since 2006, Hyundai has helped the disabled become more pregnant women. By enabling people to take transport self-reliant by upgrading facilities at institutes dedicated to more easily, we have taken the first step in our overall goal their support. We support the installation of facilities such ― ‘Moving the World Together’. as automatic doors, handrails, ramps, anti-slip rolls, height adjustable countertops and braille blocks, the construction Moving the World Together projects of interior rubber block, and the repair of external walls Since 2005, Hyundai has supported organizations which and disabled bathrooms at welfare institutes. provide welfare projects for the disabled, senior citizens, children, and young people through our annual “Moving Supporting the Easy Move Inc. the World Together” projects. We support organizations Hyundai launched the Easy Move Inc., a social enterprise that are facing difficulties with budgets or shortage of in August 2010, and has been supporting its operation. personnel, and help them develop new programs that The Easy Move Inc. is the first social enterprise in Korea meet the needs of people in the community. We regularly to produce and sell support and rehabilitation equipment monitor and manage the selected projects, so that they for the disabled and senior citizens. The enterprise aims at Support for “Moving the World Together” Projects Number of projects supported through payment of expenses Number of projects Total number of Total cost supported with Disabled Seniors Children Others projects supported (KRW billion) vehicles 2005 6 6 6 4 – 22 0.3 2006 7 6 6 19 0.3 2007 11 7 8 26 0.3 2008 13 7 9 29 0.3 2009 21 11 12 1 45 0.5 2011 18 8 13 39 0.5 2012 21 13 10 44 0.6 2013 17 15 12 2 44 0.6 2014 9 8 9 11 37 0.6 Total 122 80 85 5 13 305 4.0 100 Hyundai Motor Company 2015 Sustainability Report O ur S y st e m O ur V a lu e Product Responsibility Eco-friendliness Suppliers Employees Society product satisfaction by developing advanced technology, Kids Hyundai producing auto-parts, and by providing excellent after“Kids Hyundai” is Hyundai’s child-friendly website on service. Easy Move Inc. fulfills its social responsibility by the history, manufacturing process, and technology of contributing more than two-thirds of its operating profits automobiles. We provide instructive educational materials for social purposes, and focusing on the hiring of underon topics relating to safety and the environment for privileged workers. elementary schools and kindergartens. In addition, we are contributing to a safe traffic culture by promoting traffic Safe Move safety for children. The project also implements programs relating to the environment, so that our children can freely We believe that the safety and convenience of cars can be run and play on a clean planet. enjoyed when there is an environment that all drivers and pedestrians can rely on. Hyundai’s ‘Safe Move’ campaign Wing of Angels supports the children of victims of car accidents, and provides traffic safety education and automobile preIn collaboration inspection services, to help to create a safe and pleasant with the Citizen’s transportation culture. Coalition for Safety, Hyundai has unLooking for Three-Leafed Clovers folded the “Wings of Angels” campaign, While a four-leafed clover signifies good fortune, in Korean which attaches culture, a three-leafed clover signifies happiness. Based on ‘angel wings’ to buses used for children’s centers and such belief, Hyundai has been supporting children who lose kindergartens, to help children get safely on and off their parents in car accidents, and suffer from not only great buses. These ‘angel wings’ are protruding information signs grief but also financial and emotional hardship. Through the made of sponge that say “Children exiting the bus” which “Looking for Three-leafed Clovers” campaign since 2005, appear when children are getting on and off buses, in order we have been helping the children overcome their grief and to protect children from motorcycles approaching from the brighten their future. rear. Traffic Safety Stories with Robocar Poli Children Safety the Best To h e l p ch i l d re n This program, provided by Hyundai, the Ministry of Public stay safe on roads, Safety and Security, and the Citizen’s Coalition for Safety, Hyundai has introoffers vital safety educational materials for children during duced a global project, school vacations, and is aimed at educating children in “Traffic Safety Stokindergartens and elementary schools about traffic safety ries with Robocar from a young age. Children learn about traffic safety, water Poli”. We have prosafety, and household safety, to protect them in their daily duced animated DVDs and a Robocar Poli website and lives. The “Best Safety Exhibition” consists of experience, smartphone applications. We have also distributed DVDs watch and exhibition, and 30 free educational programs in several languages to children’s centers, kindergartens, are available for children; these include experience-based schools and welfare institutes around the world, to promote learning opportunities about evacuation in case of fire traffic safety for children. or natural disasters, ship and aircraft safety experiences, traffic safety, and resuscitation. This event also has displays of the safety equipment and stop signs installed on children’s school buses, future transportation, and Hyundai concept cars. Sustainability Performance 101 Safety Quiz Campaign for Children in Korea Hyundai Green Zone China Since 2009, Hyundai has run the annual “Safety Quiz From 2008 to 2012, Campaign for Children in Korea”, to address the importance the “Hyundai Green of safety education and to enable children to learn about Zone China” created safety in an easy and fun way. a 50㎢ green grassland in the Chakanor Kids’ Auto Park dry lake region of the Inner Mongolia In May 2009, Hyundai opened the “Kids’ Auto Park” at the Kuhn Santa desert. This region is 660km from Beijing, and Seoul Children’s Grand Park in partnership with the Seoul has been the main source of the yellow dust that affects Metropolitan Government. This park consists of educational northern China and Korea every year. Hyundai Green facilities that include a virtual car experience, a driving Zone China has won the ‘2008 CSR Ecological Civilization education site, an auto booth, and a driver’s license test Award’ and garnered great attention from the locals ― this that is similar to real-time traffic. Children from age six project has been introduced in a journal published by the to ten may participate in these practical and entertaining National Committee of China, and also been featured in a programs, and there is even a chance to earn a child’s documentary. traffic safety license after simple tests on traffic safety. Green Country Drawing Contest for Children in Korea Green Move In order to educate children on the importance of the Caring for our environment is an important part of the environment, Hyundai annually hosts the “Green Country protection of everyday life for ourselves and the next Drawing Contest for Children in Korea”, one of the biggest generation. Hyundai’s ‘Green Move’ campaign shares its children’s art contests in Korea. Any kindergarten or commitment to the environment, protects endangered elementary school student can participate in this contest, animals and plants, and focuses on developing high-tech which provides them an opportunity to draw how they eco-friendly electric and hybrid cars. see nature. Feedback from parents and teachers has been universally positive. Hyundai Green Zone Korea “Hyundai Green Zone Support for Korea Roadkill Prevention Association Korea” is a restoAs part of our efforts to build a culture of traffic safety ration project for enand to restore ecological environment, we support the dangered species operations of the Korea Roadkill Prevention Association and the protection (KRPA), established in July 2013. More than 300,000 wild of natural resources animals die on roads each year in Korea, and the KRPA in the Ulsan region. works on safety and protection issues regarding wild In particular, the restoration project initiated in 2005 on animals on the roads. As an automobile specialist, Hyundai sericinus montela, an endangered species, achieved a will continue its efforts to prevent road-kills and the successful performance in restoration. Furthermore, this secondary car accidents, in partnership with its customers. project also educates children on the importance of nature, and provides a rest area for local residents. Hyundai Green Zone Korea now operates five Dragon Swallowtail Ecology Learning Centers in Ulsan, Asan, Jeonju, Hwaseong and Busan. 102 Hyundai Motor Company 2015 Sustainability Report O ur S y st e m O ur V a lu e Product Responsibility Eco-friendliness Suppliers Employees Society Happy Move H-Volunteer Designer ┃ This program provides an opportunity for staff to help design volunteer activities Sharing with neighbors through volunteer work creates a by contributing to the volunteer service planning process. better world. The ‘Happy Move’ campaign, in partnership The company provides budget support for the selected with our staff, families and college students, will make volunteers, and also provides mentoring. The scope of our world more harmonious by helping under-privileged activities for H-Volunteer Designers ranges from sharing neighbors in Korea and around the world. their talents, to planning volunteer activities with theme, and volunteering their time and effort. Volunteer Activities System of Hyundai Year-round volunteer programs By Hyundai employees Holiday volunteering ┃ The Hyundai volunteer groups and clubs host events over New Year and Korean Thanksgiving Common Programs Optional Programs to visit those in need, and share rice cakes, fruits, and other Visiting and volunteering at Volunteering with family traditional foods. We also distribute gift certificates to be sisterhood organizations members spent in traditional markets, which contributes to regional Free housing repair, H-Volunteer Designer Holiday volunteering Employee clubs donating economic revitalization. One Company-One Village talent partnership One Company-One Village partnership ┃ Hyundai business Blue Santa campaign sites in Korea contribute to urban-rural coexistence by twinning with a local village through the One Company-One With outside organizations Village partnership. We help our partner villages by lending a hand during the farming seasons, fixing facilities and Happy Move Global Youth Volunteer Corps promoting the consumption of local agricultural products. Hope Engine University Student Volunteer Corps Happy Move Global Youth Volunteer Corps Hyundai’s “Happy Monthly volunteer programs Move Global Youth Volunteer Corps” to Visiting and volunteering at sisterhood organizations ┃ The train young leaders employee-organized volunteer groups and clubs at Hyundai was established in visit charitable organizations every month to provide July 2008, and is now various services for children and senior citizens, including one of the largest catering, cleaning and laundry, children’s education, and public service groups in Korea. Every year, approximately others. The costs are funded by voluntary donations from 1,000 college students are selected and sent during Hyundai employees, and corporate sponsorship. school vacations to various locations around the world to Free housing repair ┃ The Hyundai volunteer groups provide services such as cultural projects, environmental and clubs offer free housing repairs, to help fix plumbing, help, or traffic safety advice, as requested by the host replace flooring and hang wallpaper for people living in country. After they return, the participants continue their poorer neighborhoods. contribution to Korea’s international relations by sharing their experiences and staying in touch with the communities Volunteering with family members ┃ Every business they visited. Hyundai has now sent 7,000 young people out sites of Hyundai supports the value of sharing through as part of the Happy Move Global Youth Volunteer Corps, community activities, and encourages staff and their young people who can become true global leaders with families to participate in volunteer work. warm heart and broad perspectives. Sustainability Performance 103 Gift Car Campaign insufficient support for childhood cancer patients and their The Gift Car camfamilies. That is why Hyundai has initiated the “Hyundai More information paign is a program Hope on Wheels” program as a way to give back to on Hyundai’s CSR through which the customers and local communities. activities are available on its CSR website at Hyundai Motor Hyundai Hope on Wheels is one of Hyundai’s main social http://csr.hyundai.com Group provides contribution programs, and is non-profit organization and automobiles to the one of the biggest sponsors for childhood cancer research unemployed to in the U.S. The program has been sustained for more than help them overcome economic hardship ― this supports 16 years by the shared sincerity and support of many people who have an entrepreneurial spirit and acumen, but people ― it was initiated by dealers from Hyundai Motor lack basic support. In addition to providing compact cars, America (HMA), but is now maintained by thousands of 1-ton trucks, vans and other vehicles as required, we give participants who give hope to patients, researchers and financial support for car registration, self-reliance funding, hospitals. entrepreneurship and management consulting, to help to Its main goal is to provide financial support for the stabilize the finances of low income families. treatment and research of childhood cancers, and to Car sharing is becoming more and more popular worldwide, increase awareness. Financing is collected by nationwide which has inspired Hyundai to apply car sharing to its Gift dealers at more than 800 Hyundai dealer shops in the U.S.: Car campaign. As well as simply donating cars to help those every time a Hyundai car is sold, USD 14 is donated by HMA who need automobiles to start their own businesses, we will and its employees. People from outside the company are also implement Gift Car sharing, so that more people can also able to donate and fundraise through various events enjoy the benefits, memories and joys of sharing with us. and through the website ― about 4% of the total fund was raised by local citizens. Its donations for childhood cancer research and medical institutes over the 16 years from 1998 to 2014 have totaled USD 87 million. HMA directors and Overseas CSR Activities dealers manage the program’s budget, and beneficiaries are selected by a panel of doctors. Hyundai promotes positive changes with its global For the past 16 years, the Hyundai Hope on Wheels neighbors by volunteering and doing its best to fulfill program has been making positive changes in the U.S. the needs of local communities, through welfare, The program has helped children with cancer to dream education, medical support, employment, culture and of a new life, and funded researchers, doctors and other CSR activities. hospitals in their fight against childhood cancer. It has also increased awareness of childhood cancer, which helps Hyundai Hope on Wheels in the U.S. with early detection. This has been accomplished through The world is seeing a rising number of childhood cancer collaboration between HMA, dealers, customers, local patients and so is the U.S. Treating children with cancer citizens and netizens, and Hyundai plans to develop the is not only painful and distressing for the child, but also Hope on Wheels program further, in the hope of saving imposes a huge financial burden, leaving children and more young lives. their families with physical, psychological and financial difficulties. Fortunately, childhood cancer can often be cured if the patient gets the right treatment after early discovery, and, through advances in technology, the survival www. rate for childhood cancers has increased from almost 0% hyundaihopeonwheels.org in the 1960s to around 80% today. However, there is still 104 Hyundai Motor Company 2015 Sustainability Report O ur S y st e m O ur V a lu e Product Responsibility Eco-friendliness Suppliers Employees Society Skills for the Future in Europe substantially contribute to increasing the potential of students in Europe. Hyundai strives to reduce the skills gap As the economic downturn has dragged on in Europe, youth http://skillsforthefuture.eu between vocational schools and actual worksites through unemployment in some countries has soared above 25%. practical training, so that young adults can find jobs, and Hyundai’s “Skills for the Future” program, led by Hyundai industries, including the automobile industry, can find skilled Motor Europe (HME), provides practical technology workers for stronger economic growth. In this way, Hyundai training, to improve vocational schools and develop the is building a brighter future for young Europeans. skills demanded by industry. Since 2012, we have provided customized technology training and start-up education to approximately 10,000 students aged from 15 to 18 every Global CSR Activities year, at 400 vocational schools in 15 countries, to help them Hyundai promotes active social contributions by its find long-term employment. overseas subsidiaries in their local communities. This project, operated in collaboration with automobile industry experts and education professionals, will Social Contributions by Overseas Subsidiaries of Hyundai HME HAC Skills for the Future / Hyundai Hockey Nation / Brilliant Young Entrepreneur Hyundai Hockey Helpers – Providing skills training to young – Supporting a youth hockey people / Supporting college team / Providing hockey students’ start-ups classes to children from lowRussia income families Canada Europe HMCIS Czech Republic – Traffic safety campaign for children in Turkey collaboration with the Traffic Safety U.S. HMA Administration in Russia Hyundai Hope on Wheels HAOS HMMR – Supporting research and – Volunteer activities by employees treatment of childhood Traffic safety campaign cancer – Installing ‘Wings of India Angels’ on children’s HMMA school buses HMI Better Montgomery Model Village program – Supporting improvement – Improving living condition in eight villages projects for education, near the Hyundai plant in Chennai culture and health in HMMC Montgomery – Fund-raising and donation for Australia local communities HMB Brazil Hope Soccer Ball campaign – Donating 100,000 soccer balls to under-privileged children HMCA in liaison with the 2014 FIFA Blue September Campaign World Cup Brazil™ – Helping to prevent and improve the awareness of male cancers Sustainability Performance 105 Supporting the Arts and Culture we therefore aim to support the expansion of Korean art by sponsoring Korean contemporary artists, so that they An automobile is based on an understanding of can share their vision and art. “MMCA Hyundai Motor technology, design and human beings, and then having Series 2014: LEE BUL”, the first exhibition from this project, them collaborate to bring various genres together. was hosted at the MMCA Seoul Gallery from September The production of an outstanding automobile could 30th, 2014 to March 29th, 2015, and displayed experimental therefore be compared to the creation of a work art that is rarely seen in Korea. of art. In order to provide our customers with new MMCA Hyundai Motor Series adheres to Hyundai’s perspectives, Hyundai goes beyond just sponsoring the philosophy of placing great emphasis on Korean history and arts, and develops deep-rooted partnerships with the art culture. Reinterpreting traditional values to achieve creative community through mutual respect and understanding. innovation is something that Hyundai always strives to We do this based on three core principles ― we seek do, which is why we will support the potential of Korean to understand the art community, we aim to use that contemporary art for the next decade. understanding to establish communication channels for every generation, and we want to fulfill the demands of the art world, rather than just follow trends. Sponsoring the Tate Modern in the UK Tate Modern is one of the world’s top art galleries, built on Hyundai has therefore developed mid-to long-term the site of the old power station in London. It has attracted partnerships with three major art galleries: the National more than five million visitors every year since re-opening Museum of Modern and Contemporary Art (MMCA) in 2000, when an old London landmark, abandoned for 20 of Korea, the Tate Modern in the UK, and the Los years, was reinvented as the world’s best contemporary Angeles County Museum of Art (LACMA) in the U.S. art museum. The reason that Tate Modern became a In addition, in May 2015, we sponsored the Korean world-class art gallery was not just because of its unique booth at the Venice Art Biennale, a global art festival, building structure or its historical features ― it was to promote Korean contemporary arts to the world. We because Tate Modern successfully implemented innovative also launched ‘ART-UNI-ON (Art University Online)’, space management, education programs, and special a network platform for art universities worldwide, in exhibitions. Tate Modern hosts artworks produced from collaboration with the College of Fine Arts at Seoul the 20th century onwards, and the works displayed in the National University, to support mutual communication gallery tell the whole history of the art of the modern and and to discover talent that can lead the future of art. contemporary periods. Since 2014, we have been producing the “brilliant 30”, video clips that show the production processes and As part of Hyundai’s 2014 cultural project, Tate Modern and increase awareness of prominent artists. Furthermore, Hyundai have established an 11 year partnership, the longest since May 2015 we have partnered with the global ever set up by Tate Modern. Through this partnership, media group, Bloomberg, to produce a TV program Hyundai will present exhibitions with Tate Modern until called “Brilliant Ideas”, to expand the market for global 2025, and, in particular, from 2015 to 2025 we will present artists’ unique ideas. the “Hyundai Commission”, a unique series of exhibitions to be displayed at the Turbine Hall. The Turbine Hall is located at the center of the ground floor of Tate Modern, and has MMCA Hyundai Motor Series in Korea been used to introduce a number of major contemporary art The “MMCA Hyundai Motor Series” is a special mid-to pieces ― we expect the Hyundai Commission to be another long-term project planned by the MMCA and Hyundai outstanding example of sharing the contemporary arts. This to increase the presence of Hyundai in the Korean arts. collaboration goes beyond just sponsorship, and will enable Hyundai saw that Korean artists had difficulty in acquiring Hyundai to develop projects that convey the values of our platforms for global exhibitions, despite their great abilities; time, and share them more widely. 106 Hyundai Motor Company 2015 Sustainability Report O ur S y st e m O ur V a lu e Product Responsibility Eco-friendliness Suppliers Employees Society Global Highlight Creating a brighter CSR strategy and programs in India India faces sluggish economic growth and pervasive societal inequality; this future together makes it a country where puts greater emphasis on CSR. In fact, the Indian government has implemented strict CSR policies dictating that companies are obliged to spend 2% of their net profits on CSR. Hyundai has therefore in India established an independent organization to manage all its CSR activities in India, and runs differentiated CSR projects across the disparate regions of India. Hyundai offers support to those in need by Dream Village 87,600 students in the Kanchipuram going beyond just donations and charity work Hyundai has implemented its Dream region. We have also provided nursing training for women in the and by creating shared value ― we help local Village project, to focus on building the Kanchipuram and Tiruvallur regions, economic independence of villages. We communities around the world, including in provide job training to give practical which has helped 210 women to earn their nursing licenses and find India, where our overseas business sites are assistance to female workers, which a job. In addition, we have donated contributes to job creation in local located. We support the daily needs of local communities, and the resulting income pre-owned car engines and training materials to local universities. Another residents, and hope to create a better future boost improves quality of life and project in the Kanchipuram region regional economic development. in partnership with them. is being planned in collaboration with a local NGO, through which 480 Model Village women students will receive computer Hyundai has implemented the Model education. India Village project in eight villages near its Chennai plant since 2011. This Support for medical and healthcare project improves hygiene facilities, We have established five medical and drinking water tanks, drainage water health service centers in the state purification facilities, streetlights and of Tamil Nadu, to look for congenital other public facilities. It also installs heart disease in new-born infants trash cans, playgrounds, libraries, bus and children. We have also donated stop facilities, a health hygiene camp, medical and surgical equipment to fruit planting and other community national hospitals in Kanchipuram and improvement facilities. Sriperumbudur, and supported the renovation of the national hospital Volunteer work for traffic safety in Srirangam. At the Chennai plant, and driving education we encourage regular participation Since 2008, we have helped 280 in blood donation campaign, and 947 college students to assist traffic police employees contributed blood in 2013. in New Delhi, Chennai and Kolkata. We also established the “Hyundai driving Sharing and volunteering school” at our Chennai plant for unemployed local young adults. 520 We sponsor sport events for disabled students have completed the course, children and, on India’s Independence and a majority of them has succeeded Day, we donated water purifiers to in finding a job. In 2013, we launched seven public schools located around the “Hyundai driving class” in Chennai, our Chennai plant. Our staff also to provide free driving classes to the cleaned nearby beach and lake areas general public. in Chennai. In addition, we have donated automobiles to local NGOs, and offer regular support to the IndoEducation support Korean Centre to improve Korea-India Since 2007, we have been donating relations. Opening a new brighter future through education 28,750 sets of desk and chairs to Sustainability Performance 107 Facts & Figures Global Production & Sales Sales by Overseas Subsidiary (Unit: KRW billion) Global Production 2012 2013 2014 HMMA 6,992 7,385 7,437 (Unit: Vehicle) BHMC 14,519 19,433 19,756 2012 2013 2014 HMI 5,097 4,737 4,637 Domestic 1,905,261 1,850,727 1,876,428 HAOS 1,576 1,816 2,744 Overseas 2,497,317 2,919,550 3,079,108 HMMC 5,311 5,450 5,398 Total 4,402,578 4,770,277 4,955,536 HMMR 2,855 2,751 2,384 HMB 414 2,384 2,263 Global Sales (Unit: Vehicle) 2012 2013 2014 Distribution of Economic Value Domestic 667,777 640,865 685,191 Overseas 3,742,861 4,091,668 4,278,344 Distribution of Economic Value by Stakeholder Total 4,410,638 4,732,533 4,963,535 (Unit: KRW billion) * Based on shipments 2012 2013 2014 Generated Sales 43,162 41,691 43,046 economic value Business Performance Dividends 521 534 817 Financial Highlights Shareholders Interest 203 121 123 and investors expenses (Unit: KRW billion) Total 724 655 940 2012 3) 2013 2014 Salary 5,587 5,994 6,211 ConConConSeparate Separate Separate Training solidated solidated solidated Employees 44 47 44 expenses Sales 84,470 43,162 87,308 41,691 89,256 43,046 Total 5,631 6,041 6,255 Operating 8,441 4,305 8,315 3,721 7,550 3,735 Raw materials profit 26,411 25,844 26,311 costs Operating profit 10.0 10.0 9.5 8.9 8.5 8.7 Suppliers Outsourcing 590 533 514 margin (%) labor expenses Net profit 1) 9,061 5,280 8,993 5,182 7,649 4,914 Total 27,001 26,377 26,825 EBITDA 2) 10,965 5,960 10,867 5,341 10,100 5,349 Internal tax 2,106 2,046 2,606 Shareholders’ Local 176 175 272 47,918 37,020 56,583 41,952 62,621 45,662 Government equity and local Social 1) Consolidated net profit: includes non-controlling interests communities contribution 74 75* 65 2) expenses EBITDA = Operating profit + depreciation of tangible assets + depreciation of real estate held for investment + depreciation of intangible assets Total 2,356 2,296 2,943 3) Part of the business performance for 2012 contained in the previous sustainability reports had to be amended in accordance with the change of accounting standards * The costs of our social contributions for 2013 were recalculated based on the changed standards in calculating the costs of social contribution 108 Hyundai Motor Company 2015 Sustainability Report Product Responsibility Eco-friendliness Customer Value Management Index Consumption of Raw Materials 2012 2013 2014 The scope of data aggregation is limited to overseas subsidiaries. Product durability index 125 141 169 (Unit: Ton) Initial quality index 107 106 94 2012 2013 2014 Steel (amounts used) 659,689 708,354 772,498 GRI G4-PR8 Steel (scrap) 210,239 253,987 257 ,339 Aluminum (amounts used) 25,160 4,781 30,170 Incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications such as advertising, sales Aluminum (scrap) 5,376 6,444 7,094 promotion, and sponsorship GRI G4-EN2 In the past three years, Hyundai has neither committed any violations with respect to marketing communications-related regulations nor Rates of Materials Recycled been subjected to any fines. The scope of data aggregation is limited to overseas subsidiaries. 2012 2013 2014 (Unit: %) Number of cases 0 0 0 2012 2013 2014 GRI G4-PR7 Steel scrap 24.2 26.4 25.0 Aluminum scrap 17.6 57.4 19.0 Complaints registered regarding the breach of customer privacy or GRI G4-EN2 the loss of customer data In the past three years, Hyundai has neither have any complaints Consumption of Water regarding the breach of customer privacy nor have any data lossrelated issues. The amount of reused water and recycled wastewater increased 3.8% in 2014, compared with the total amount of water consumed. 2012 2013 2014 (Unit: Ton) Number of cases 0 0 0 2012 2013 2014 GRI G4-PR8 Water consumed 26,780,769 28,581,973 29,794,243 Water reused 109,674 253,294 458,017 Wastewater recycled 1,829,642 1,858,626 3,128,504 Total 28,720,085 30,693,893 33,380,764 Recycling ratio (%) 6.8 6.9 10.7 GRI G4-EN10 Sustainability Performance 109 Consumption of Ozone-depleting Substances Number and Volume of Major Toxic Chemical Spills Through technology development, Hyundai had continuously decreased Hyundai has managed to prevent hazardous chemical spills through its consumption of refrigerant substances. thorough management of its hazardous materials. (Unit: Liter) (Unit: Liter) 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 Refrigerant (CFC, HFC, R135a) 66,569,968 48,721,499 39,571,473 Hazardous materials 4,272 4,200 4,822 consumed GRI G4-EN20 GRI G4-EN24 Air Pollutants Cumulative Number of Models Certified as Eco-friendly Vehicles Hyundai had decreased its discharge of air pollutants except for carbon monoxide over the previous years. Environmental certifications in the chart below indicate certifications of international standards, and greenhouse gas emission and reduction (Unit: Ton) certifications indicate low carbon certificates acquired in Korea. The 2012 2013 2014 standards applied to data aggregation are limited to vehicle models CO 250 272 345 certified with ‘carbon footprint’ labels, and models expired certificates SOx 65 78 40 are excluded. NOx 337 413 399 (Unit: Type) PM 849 710 615 2012 2013 2014 GRI G4-EN21 Environmental certifications 7 9 11 Greenhouse gas emission 11 12 14 certifications Total Weight of Waste by Type Greenhouse gas reduction 1 1 2 (Unit: Ton) certifications 2012 2013 2014 GRI G4-EN24 Regular waste 685,163 590,363 571,669 Specified waste 32,476 47,050 124,886 Fines for Non-compliance with Environmental Regulations Total 717,639 637,413 696,555 The scope of the data aggregation is limited to business sites in Korea. GRI G4-EN23 Fines have been fully paid that had been applied to the Asan plant in 2013 and to the Asan and Jeonju plants in 2014. (Unit: KRW) Total Weight of Waste by Disposal Method (Unit: Ton) 2012 2013 2014 Penalty and fine 0 480,000 61,388,000 2012 2013 2014 Landfill 56,261 48,914 135,050 GRI G4-EN29 Incineration 34,260 71,979 68,209 Recycling 647,955 558,747 564,571 Others 3,421 3,035 2,997 Total 741,897 682,674 770,827 GRI G4-EN23 110 Hyundai Motor Company 2015 Sustainability Report Energy Consumption Greenhouse Gas Emission Intensity In the chart below, liquefied fuel consists of LNG, butane and propane, Hyundai’s continued efforts to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions while gaseous fuel represents carbon dioxide used in welding. In 2014, have proven effective: despite a 3.9% increase in vehicle production, the overall energy consumption increased by 3%, compared with the the company succeeded in reducing greenhouse gas emissions per previous year. vehicle production by 0.8% in 2014. (Unit: MWh) (Unit: tCO2e/Vehicle) 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 LNG 1,682,718 1,704,754 1,683,424 Greenhouse gas emissions per 0.547 0.512 0.508 vehicle production Electricity 3,283,126 3,428,001 3,595,979 Diesel, Kerosene, Gasoline 104,174 98,784 111,087 GRI G4-EN18 Liquefied fuel 343 3,835 1,796 Gaseous fuel 4,096 2,172 2,914 Reduction of Greenhouse Gas Emissions Total 5,074,457 5,237,546 5,395,200 Despite an increasing production volume from 2012, Hyundai’s GRI G4-EN3, EN6 greenhouse gas emissions has steadily decreased. Direct emissions (Scope 1) has slowed in growth rate, a result of the company’s active implementation of energy efficiency and strategic reduction measures. Energy Intensity (Unit: tCO2e) Although Hyundai’s energy consumption increased in 2014, the 2012 2013 2014 energy intensity which represents the amount of energy used in the Scope 1 51,165 -29,904 -3,426 production of a single vehicle has decreased by 0.8%, when calculated in the Korean currency, compared with 2013. Scope 2 71,569 64,725 77,909 (Unit: MWh/Vehicle) Total 122,734 34,821 74,483 2012 2013 2014 GRI G4-EN19 Energy consumed in 1.15 1.10 1.09 producing one vehicle Costs and Investments for Environmental Protection GRI G4-EN5 Hyundai has continued to increase costs and investments to better protect the environment in and around its worksites. The total amount of environmental costs and investments made in 2014 increased 10.3% Greenhouse Gas Emissions over the previous year, while direct and indirect costs associated with Hyundai’s domestic worksites saw their aggregated greenhouse gas pollution reduction went up approximately 14%. emissions increase by 2.2% in 2014 due mainly to a 1.4% increase (Unit: KRW billion) in auto production and to the establishment of new research 2012 2013 2014 development facilities; overseas worksites saw a 4.4 % increase in greenhouse emissions due to a 5.5% production increase. Overall, all Direct costs associated with 71.4 56.8 64.5 worksites combined had an average increase of 3.1% in greenhouse pollution reduction gas emissions in 2014, compared with the previous year. Indirect costs associated with 26.6 39.1 44.9 (Unit: tCO2e) pollution reduction 2012 2013 2014 Risk management costs associated 13.8 13.2 10.9 with pollution reduction Scope 1 872,539 842,635 839,209 Total 111.8 109.1 120.3 Scope 2 1,533,990 1,598,715 1,676,624 Total 2,406,526 2,441,348 2,515,833 GRI G4-EN31 GRI G4-EN15, EN16 Sustainability Performance 111 Suppliers Employees Support for Foundation of Korea Automotive Parts Industry Workforce by Region Promotion The 2014 total number of Hyundai employees, increased 4.6% (Unit: Company) compared with the previous year, and, in particular, the number of 2012 2013 2014 Accumulated overseas workforce increased 7.1% from the year before. By region, they numbered 6,558 in North America and 6,693 in Europe, indicating Quality and Technology 111 103 97 1,156 a combined increase of 347 employees. The employment in China and Volunteer Group India combined increased 6.7% over the course of 2014 to 26,157, exceeding that of the North America and Europe worksites. Supplier 44 43 42 341 (Unit: Person) Support Group 2012 2013 2014 Korea 59,831 63,099 64,956 North America 6,211 6,873 6,558 Cumulative Number of Suppliers in Joint Expansion Partnership Europe 5,991 6,031 6,693 (Unit: Company) China 13,768 15,631 17,173 2012 2013 2014 India 8,816 8,893 8,984 Tier 1 suppliers 239 239 265 Others 3,532 4,410 5,384 Tier 2 suppliers 360 360 343 Total 98,149 104,937 109,748 Total 599 599 608 GRI G4-HR1 Domestic Workforce by Duty Joint Recruitment with Suppliers through Job Fairs (Unit: Person) (Unit: Person) 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 Management 182 176 183 Recruitment 14,531 17,215 17,510 Research committee 10 12 12 Research 8,240 8,742 9,161 Office work 11,359 11,453 11,668 Suppliers in Joint Growth and Fair Trade Agreements Technology, production, 31,563 32,990 33,337 (Unit: Company) maintenance 2012 2013 2014 Sales 6,225 6,237 6,199 * Number of suppliers in Others 2,252 3,489 4,396 joint growth and fair trade 203 301 293 Total 59,831 63,099 64,956 agreements GRI G4-HR1 * Includes such special-duty employees as flight attendants, nurses, and helicopter pilots 112 Hyundai Motor Company 2015 Sustainability Report Labor-Management Relations Employee Training More than 70% of Hyundai’s domestic employees are members of the Hyundai offers systematic employee training programs, thus labor union; but the overall percentage of labor union membership has contributing to an increase in average training hours per employee. decreased over the past years. 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 Training expenses per employee 74 74 67 Labor union membership (KWR 10,000) 44,351 45,576 46,217 (Person) Training hours per employee 61 55 62 Labor union membership (Hour) 74.1 72.2 71.2 percentage (%) Total training expenses 441 469 436 (KRW 100 million) GRI G4-HR4 GRI G4-LA9 Employee Turnover Female Employees Both number of employee turnover and turnover rate decreased compared with the previous year. The number of female employees, including females in upper management, at both domestic and overseas worksites, has been increasing over 2012 2013 2014 the past few years. The 2012 data is for domestic workforce only. Number of employee turnover (Unit: Person) 1,018 1,343 1,114 (Person) 2012 2013 2014 Employee turnover rate (%) 1.70 2.13 1.72 Number Number Number GRI G4-LA1 of of of female Female female Female female Female employees employment employees employment employees employment (Number of rate (Number of rate (Number of rate Return to Work after Parental Leave female female female directors) directors) directors) The number of employees who use parental leave continues to Korea 2,576 (1) 4.31% 2,692 (1) 4.27% 3,046 (3) 4.69% increase. As the company adopts policies of inducing employees to return to work after their parental leaves, the post-parental leave North 927 (4) 13.50% 960 (4) 14.60% retention has improved, reaching 95% in 2014. America Europe 1,082 (3) 17.90% 1,058 (3) 15.80% 2012 2013 2014 China 1,918 (0) 12.30% 2,044 (0) 11.90% Number of employees Male 18 18 19 India 84 (0) 0.90% 140 (0) 1.60% on parental leave (Person) Female 69 96 150 Others 402 (0) 9.10% 470 (0) 8.70% Retention rate after Male 100 94 95 Total 7,105 (8) 6.76% 7,718 (10) 7.02% parental leave (%) Female 94 97 97 GRI G4-LA12 GRI G4-LA3 Accident Rate The formula for calculating accident rates is based on the number of employees involved in occupational accidents divided by the total number of employees. This rate at domestic and overseas worksites has continued to decrease, recording a 10% decrease in 2014 compared with the previous year. (Unit: %) 2012 2013 2014 Accident rate 1.22 1.00 0.90 GRI G4-LA6 Sustainability Performance 113 Employees with Disabilities Society Hyundai plans to continue increasing employees with disabilities in proportion to total workforce. 116 persons with disabilities were hired Social Contributions in 2014. Hyundai has set up a CSR strategy and has allocated resources by 2012 2013 2014 area in accordance with the strategy. In particular, the company Number of employees with has expanded expenditures in education, medical and healthcare, 1,625 1,650 1,766 emergency relief and other social contributions, in step with growing disabilities (Person) social needs and demands. Percentage of employees with 2.72 2.61 2.72 disabilities (%) (Unit: KRW million) GRI G4-LA12 2012 2013 2014 Social welfare 34,311 33,602 24,058 Medical and healthcare 350 14 102 Compliance Training Education 18,334 13,953 15,236 Hyundai provides all of its employees with compliance programs on Culture & Sports 12,389 14,970 9,722 sexual harassment, ethics and other human rights-related matters. Starting in 2013, the company has reported related data collected Environmental protection 1,347 1,531 1,285 through an integrated compliance training system. Emergency relief 1,557 883 4,662 International exchange 4,937 3,780 2,713 2013 2014 Others 1,001 6,267 7,422 Domestic (Number of trainings/ 37/3,200 41/24,400 Total 74,226 74,999 65,201 Number of participants) GRI G4-EC1 Overseas (Number of trainings/ 10/637 14/765 Number of participants) Voluntary Performance GRI G4-HR2 2012 2013 2014 Number of volunteer activities 2,998 2,982 2,691 Outstanding Talent Work Rotation Program Participants Number of participants 31,862 33,262 23,480 (Unit: Person) Number of hours participated 135,047 216,434 132,887 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 1st 2nd 1st 2nd 1st 2nd 1st 2nd Total half half half half half half half half Domestic 11 14 7 17 14 14 16 8 8 109 employees Overseas 8 10 9 9 10 46 employees 114 Hyundai Motor Company 2015 Sustainability Report GRI Index 116 Third Party Assurance Statement 119 Sonata History 120 Sustainability Report Publication History 122 Contact Information 123 Appendices 115 GRI Index Core G4 Core GRI G4 No. Description ISO 26000 Page Reference 1. General Standard Disclosures Strategy and analysis G4-1 Statement from the most senior decisionmaker of the organization 4.7, 6.2, 7.4.2 004~005 G4-3 Name of the organization 006 G4-4 Primary brands, products, and/or services 006 G4-5 Location of organization’s headquarters 006 G4-6 Countries with significant operations 006 G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form 006 G4-8 Markets served 006 G4-9 Scale of the reporting organization 006 Organizational 6.3.10, 6.4.1~6.4.5, profile G4-10 The total workforce by employment type, gender, employment contract and region 6.8.5, 7.8 091~092, 112 G4-11 The percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. 090, 112 G4-12 Description of the organization’s supply chain 112 Significant changes during the reporting period relating to size, structure, G4-13 006 or ownership or its supply chain G4-14 Implementation of the precautionary approach or principle 048~049 G4-15 External initiatives that the organization endorses 122 G4-16 Memberships of associations such as industry associations 122 G4-17 Entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents 002 G4-18 Process for defining report content 002 G4-19 Material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content 057 Identified material aspects and G4-20 Aspect Boundary within the organization 5.2, 7.3.2~7.3.4 056~057 boundaries G4-21 Aspect Boundary outside the organization 056~057 G4-22 Effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements 054, 055 G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries 006 G4-24 Stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 049 G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 049 Stakeholder G4-26 Approaches to stakeholder engagement by type and by stakeholder group 5.3 049 engagement Key topics and concerns raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has G4-27 049 responded to them G4-28 Reporting period 002 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report 122 G4-30 Reporting cycle 7.5.3, 7.6.2 122 Report profile G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents 123 G4-32 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report 116~118 G4-33 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report 002, 119 Governance G4-34 Governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest governance body 6.2, 7.4.3 050~051 Ethics and integrity G4-56 Organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior 7.7.5, 4.4, 6.6.3 047 2. Specific Standard Disclosure Economic DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 052 Economic G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 052~055 5.3 G4-EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change 074~075 DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 090 Market presence 6.4.3, 6.8.1~6.8.2, G4-EC6 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community at significant locations of operation 091~092 6.8.5, 6.8.7 DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 055 6.3.9, 6.8.1~6.8.2, G4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported 055, 114 Indirect economic 6.8.7, 6.8.9 impacts 6.3.9, 6.6.6~6.6.7, G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts 6.7.8, 6.8.1~6.8.2, 055, 112~113 6.8.5, 6.8.7, 6.8.9 116 Hyundai Motor Company 2015 Sustainability Report GRI G4 No. Description ISO 26000 Page Reference Environmental G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 109 Materials 6.5.4 G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials 109 G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization 111 6.5.4 Energy G4-EN5 Energy intensity 111 G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption 6.5.4~6.5.5 111 G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 109 Water 6.5.4 G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused 109 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of G4-EN11 079~080 high biodiversity value outside protected areas Significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of G4-EN12 080 high biodiversity value outside protected areas Biodiversity 6.5.6 G4-EN13 Habitats protected or restored 080 Total number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas G4-EN14 079 affected by operations, by level of extinction risk G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) 111 G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) 111 6.5.5 G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity 111 Emissions G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 111 G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) 6.5.3, 6.5.5 110 G4-EN21 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions 6.5.3 110 DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 071 G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination 6.5.3~6.5.4 078, 081 G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 110 Effluents and waste G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills 071~072, 110 6.5.3 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the G4-EN25 N/A Basel Convention 2 Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 070 Products and services G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services 6.5.3~6.5.5, 6.7.5 073, 110 G4-EN28 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category 6.5.3~6.5.4, 6.7.5 073 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance Compliance G4-EN29 6.4.6 110 with environmental laws and regulations Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials Transport G4-EN30 6.5.4, 6.6.6 077 for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce Overall G4-EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type 6.5.1~6.5.2 080 Supplier environmental G4-EN33 Significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 6.3.5, 6.6.6, 7.3.1 086 assessment Social Labor Practices and Decent Work DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 090, 092 G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender, and region 6.4.3 113 Employment Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, G4-LA2 6.4.4, 6.8.7 094~095 by significant locations of operation G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender 6.4.4 113 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management–worker health and safety G4-LA5 6.4.6 094 committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs Occupational Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number health and safety G4-LA6 6.4.6, 6.8.8 113 of workrelated fatalities, by region and by gender G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions 6.4.6 094 G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category 6.4.7 113 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of G4-LA10 6.4.7, 6.8.5 092~093 Training and education employees and assist them in managing career endings Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, G4-LA11 6.4.7 094 by gender and by employee category Appendices 117 GRI G4 No. Description ISO 26000 Page Reference DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 090 Diversity and equal opportunity Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to G4-LA12 6.2.3, 6.3.7, 6.3.10, 6.4.3 112~113 gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 090 Labor practices grievance mechanisms Number of grievances about labor practices filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance G4-LA16 6.3.6 049, 090 mechanisms Human Rights Total hours of employee training on human rights policies or procedures concerning aspects of Investment G4-HR2 6.3.5 047~048, 114 human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 090 Non-discrimination G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 6.3.6, 6.3.7, 6.3.10, 6.4.3 090 DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 086 Child labor Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, 6.3.3~6.3.5, 6.3.7, G4-HR5 086 and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor 6.3.10, 6.6.6, 6.8.4 DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 086 Forced or compulsory labor Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, G4-HR6 6.3.3~6.3.5, 6.3.10, 6.6.6 086 and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 090 Human rights grievance mechanisms Number of grievances about human rights impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through G4-HR12 6.3.6 049, 090 formal grievance mechanisms Society DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 098 Local communities Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, G4-SO1 6.3.9, 6.5.1~6.5.3, 6.8 105 and development programs DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 046, 086 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption and Anti-corruption G4-SO3 6.6.1~6.6.3 086 the significant risks identified G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures 6.6.1~6.6.3, 6.6.6 046~047, 086 Anti-competitive Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices G4-SO7 6.6.1~6.6.2, 6.6.5, 6.6.7 No such cases behavior and their outcomes Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance Compliance G4-SO8 4.6 108~109 with laws and regulations Grievance mechanisms Number of grievances about impacts on society filed, addressed, and resolved through G4-SO11 6.3.6, 6.6.1~6.6.2, 6.8.1~6.8.2 086 for impacts on society formal grievance mechanisms Product Responsibility DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 060 Percentage of significant product and service categories for which health and safety impacts 6.7.1~6.7.2, Customer health G4-PR1 061 are assessed for improvement 6.7.4~6.7.5, 6.8.8 and safety Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning G4-PR2 4.6, 6.7.1~6.7.5, 6.8.8 No violations the health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 072 Type of product and service information required by the organization’s procedures for product G4-PR3 and service information and labeling, and percentage of significant product and service categories 6.7.1~6.7.5, 6.7.9 072~073 Product and service subject to such information requirements labeling Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning G4-PR4 4.6, 6.7.1~6.7.5, 6.7.9 No violations product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 6.7.1~6.7.2, 6.7.6 063 G4-PR6 Sale of banned or disputed products No such cases Marketing communications Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning G4-PR7 4.6, 6.7.1~6.7.3 109 marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of Customer privacy G4-PR8 6.7.1~6.7.2, 6.7.7 109 customer data Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning Compliance G4-PR9 4.6, 6.7.1~6.7.2, 6.7.6 No such cases the provision and use of products and services 118 Hyundai Motor Company 2015 Sustainability Report Third Party Assurance Statement Terms of Engagement This Assurance Statement has been prepared for Hyundai Motor Company, Korea. Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Ltd. (LRQA) was commissioned by Hyundai Motor Company to assure its GHG Inventory Report for the calendar year 2014. The Hyundai Motor Company data as presented in the GHG Report have been prepared in accordance with GHG Target Management Scheme for quantification and reporting of greenhouse gas emissions in Korea. The Report relates to direct GHG emissions and energy indirect GHG emissions. The Hyundai Motor Company comprised of the Headquarters, Ulsan Plant, Asan Plant, Jeonju Plant, R&D Centre, A/S Centre and Sales Branch Offices. Management Responsibility The management of Hyundai Motor Company was responsible for preparing the Report and for maintaining effective internal controls over the data and information disclosed. LRQA’s responsibility was to carry out an assurance engagement on the Report in accordance with our contract with Hyundai Motor Company. Ultimately, the Report has been approved by, and remains the responsibility of Hyundai Motor Company. LRQA’s Approach Our verification has been conducted in accordance with GHG Target Management Scheme in Korea: Specification with guidance for verification of greenhouse gas assertions to provide reasonable assurance that the Hyundai Motor Company. In order to form our conclusions we have: • Conducted site tours of the facilities and reviewed processes related to the management of GHG emissions data and records • Interviewed relevant staff of the organization responsible for managing and maintaining raw and consolidated data, and • Verified the historical data and information at an aggregated level for the calendar year 2014. Level of Assurance & Materiality The opinion expressed in this Assurance Statement has been formed on the basis of a reasonable level of assurance and at a 2.5% level of materiality. LRQA’s Opinion Based on LRQA’s approach we have found that the GHG data as presented in the Inventory Report of GHG emission and the amount energy used within the Report are materially correct, subject to the following qualifications: • The emissions (purchased electricity) from the others’ corporations located in the Hyundai Motor Company’s premises have not been excluded within the data. The amount is not considered to be material. • The emissions from the rented Sales Branch Offices have not been included within the data. The omission is not considered to be material. Dated: 19 March 2015 SANG-KEUN YOO LRQA Korea Ltd. 17th Floor, Singsong Building, 67 Yeouinaru-ro, Yeongdeungpo-gu, Seoul, 150-923, Republic of Korea LRQA Reference: SEO6012382 This document is subject to the provision below: This Assurance Statement is only valid when published with the Report to which it refers. Lloyd's Register Quality Assurance Limited, its affiliates and subsidiaries and their respective officers, employees or agents are, individually and collectively, referred to in this clause as the ‘Lloyd’s Register Group’. The Lloyd’s Register Group assumes no responsibility and shall not be liable to any person for any loss, damage or expense caused by reliance on the information or advice in this document or howsoever provided, unless that person has signed a contract with the relevant Lloyd’s Register Group entity for the provision of this information or advice and in that case any responsibility or liability is exclusively on the terms and conditions set out in that contract. Because of the inherent limitations in any internal control it is possible that fraud, error, or non-compliance with laws and regulations may occur and not be detected. Further, the verification was not designed to detect all weakness or errors in internal controls so far as they relate to the requirements set out above as the verification has not been performed continuously throughout the period and the verification carried out on the relevant internal controls were on a test basis. Any projection of the evaluation of control to future periods is subject to the risk that the processes may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with them may deteriorate. The English version of this statement is the only valid version. The Lloyd’s Register Group assumes no responsibility for versions translated into other languages. Appendices 119 Sonata History 2nd Generation In the summer of 1988 when the Seoul Olympics was hosted, the second generation, New Sonata, was developed as a strategic export automobile. New Sonata had curved shape comparable to the previous generation and equipped with a front-wheel drive for 3rd Generation the first time among Korean mid-sized In the early 1990s, Korea vehicles, ideal for the icy and snowy experienced dramatic cultural road conditions of Korea in winter. changes. Sonata II was introduced 1st Generation In 1991, Hyundai introduced a modified at a time when LP and CD, and model of New Sonata which featured In the mid-1980s, Koreans started pagers and cell phones coexisted. a new emblem as well as the Hyundai CI. to enjoy more leisure life as the Sonata II applied such advanced economy grew, which greatly affected technologies as folding side mirrors, automakers, including Hyundai which SRS airbag and ABS, and recorded introduced to the nation the first 600,000 sales in 33 months from its made-in-Korea model, the Sonata. May 1993 launch. In February 1996, The first generation of Sonata was Sonata III was introduced as equipped with a 5-speed transmission a Sonata II with a face lift. Sonata III and viewed as a luxury model of was praised for its most “KoreanHyundai Stella. like” yet world-class design. 1985 1988 1992 ~1988 ~1992 ~1998 120 Hyundai Motor Company 2015 Sustainability Report 6th Generation YF Sonata, launched in September 2009, sported ‘Fluidic Sculpture’, Hyundai’s 4th Generation design concept, for the first EF Sonata, introduced in 1998, time. The model improved hit a sales bump during the its engine efficiency by first ensuing 1997 financial crisis, adopting the 2.0 Theta Ⅱ but, from February 1999 to engine, 2.4 Theta GDi engine August of the following year, and a six-speed automatic quickly sored to and remained transmission. The model then in the top spot in sales for switched to stronger engines 19 consecutive months. such as 2.0 Gnu engine and An interesting fact about this 2.0 Theta Ⅱ Turbo engine. In 5th Generation May 2011, Hyundai introduced model is that it was the only model, among the Sonata Korea’s first gasoline hybrid NF Sonata, released in models, with the license vehicle as one of the YF Sonata September 2004, was produced plate on the bumper, not on series. during a rapid economic the trunk. New EF Sonata, development of Korea. a modified 4th-generation 7th Generation NF, or ‘Never-ending Fame’, model, was ranked as the No.1 is a dream project of Hyundai, LF Sonata is Hyundai’s mid-sized vehicle in the 2004 embodying the company’s sprit. strategic model introduced in Initial Quality Study conducted Developed at a cost of 2014, five years after the by J.D. Power of the U.S. KRW 290 billion for a period YF Sonata series. Sporting the of 26 months, the model was slogan ‘From Fundamentals’, praised for its outstanding the model is made true to the product competitiveness including fundamentals of automobiles, advanced safety features. “run, turn, stop, and protect”. 1998 2004 2009 ~2014 ~2004 ~2009 ~2014 Appendices 121 Sustainability Report Publication History 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 2003/2004 2003 UN Global Compact Index Hyundai joined the UN Global Compact in 2008 and has since complied with the principles and publishes its compliances through sustainability reports. Principles Page Reference Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of 090 Human Rights internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 086, 114, 122 Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the 090 effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 086 Labour Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and 086 Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment 090 and occupation. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental 078 challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental Environment 079~080 responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally 070~073 friendly technologies. Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, Anti-Corruption 046, 086 including extortion and bribery. 122 Hyundai Motor Company 2015 Sustainability Report Thanks to (In alphabetical order) An Kang Kim Jun Ho Kim Beom Su Kim Jun Mo Jeong Chan Hyung Cho Jung Hwan Lee Chang Gyo Jeong Jung Won Kim Chang Hee Kang Ki Bum Song Dae Hwan Jeong Ki Sung Lee Dae Hyung Lee Kyung Min Do Dae Il Jeon Mi Jin Hwang Deok Woo Kim Min Joon Park Dong Ho Kwak Min Kyu Kang Dong Hyeok Son Min Suk Park Dong Wook Lee Min Young Park Eun Hye Jeon Myung Ro Lee Eun Jin Choi Nak Seung Jeong Eun Jin Seok Nam Soo Han Gwang Su Kim Sang Cheol Lee Gyo Hoon Jeong Sang Hee Lee Hae Sung Jeong Sang Hyup Kim Han Yoon Seol Sang Keun Bang Hea Ho Ahn Sang Mi Han Hong Seok Jeong Sang Soon Park Hun Deok Lim Sang Yoon Lee Hwan Il Kim Se Jong Kwak Hyun Ju Lee Seok Bum Hong Hyun Jae Kim Seung Won Nah Hyun Sik Baek Seung Yoon Shin Il Sang Jeong Soo Hee Nam In Gyo Jeong Sook Cho Jae Ho Jeong Soon Jae Hong Jang Ho Kook Soon Jeong Jeong Jang Ho Shin Sung Yoon Jeong Jeong Wook Huh Tae Hoon Kim Jin Bae Kim Yeon Man Jeong Jin Gu Choo Yeon Sil Park Jin Mo Nam Yong Hee Park Jin Won Seo Yong Joon Park Jong Gon Bae Yoon Bok Hwang Jong Rae Cho Young Deok Han Jong Wook Hwang Young Deok Ko Joo Hyeon Kim Young Eun Choi Joo Hyung Ryu Young Gil Lee Joo Yong Park Young Pyo Kim Jun Cheol Shin Young Soo Yoon Publication Date June 18, 2015 Publisher Hyundai Motor Company Production CSV Strategy Team, Business Strategy Planning Division Design Talantone Creative Group 12, Heolleung-ro, Seocho-gu, Seoul, 137-938, Korea Tel: +82-2-3464-8614 Email: HMCSR@hyundai.com A portion of the paper used in printing the Hyundai Motor Company 2015 Sustainability Report is certified as acid-free and elemental chlorine-free by the FSC™ (Forest Stewardship Council), an NGO that promotes forest Website: www.hyundai.com management. In addition, the soy-based ink used in the printing minimizes its impacts on the environment.
