Engineering: people’s work Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 Steven Delfgaauw The Netherlands Inge Blom The Netherlands Engineering: people’s work Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 REPORT BY THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS In 2014, Witteveen+Bos N.V. underWitteveen+Bos was awarded several so many project teams, including our took numerous challenging projects new contracts in 2014. We are now clients and external partners, like to use in all parts of the world, thus helping playing a prominent part in challenging the new office in Amsterdam as their to solve major social challenges projects such as the ‘Room for the headquarters,’ says Henk. in areas such as liveability, health, River’ works in the IJssel delta, the safety and accessibility. The organiplanning process for the expansion of ‘Our concern for sustainable developsation has grown to 977 employees, the A9 motorway near Amstelveen, and ment is not confined to our projects,’ with revenue of 119 million euros the design of a new wastewater treatKarin continues. ‘Staff regularly visit and a sound net profit of 15.3 ment plant in Azomures, Romania. Karin colleges and schools to talk about their million euros. Directors Karin Sluis stresses the importance of cooperation. work, while events such as the Science and Henk Nieboer look back on a ‘When preparing any project proposal, Weekend bring young people into consuccessful year. we take time to identify the people and tact with technology. We strengthen our organisations who can help us arrive relationships with clients and partners Both the global economy and the Dutch at the desired results. Solving complex through various cultural and artistic economy are showing signs of recovery. issues demands the very best expertise activities. We sponsor the Deventer op Most of the domestic markets in which available. That is the basis on which we Stelten festival, and every year we presWitteveen+Bos operates are stable, form our teams and our alliances with ent the Witteveen+Bos Art+Technology while the international markets offer other organisations.’ Award to an innovative artist.’ opportunities for growth. Karin: ‘The world’s population is expected to reach ‘By applying an integrated design proIn short, Witteveen+Bos pursues Corponine or ten billion by 2050, with growth cess which devotes full attention to rate Responsibility (CR) in every sense concentrated in Asia and Africa. Defunction and value, we ensure that every of the term. This also entails offering full mand for food and water will increase, project makes the maximum possible transparency about all aspects of the while ongoing urbanisation will create contribution to sustainable developcompany’s performance, not only the new challenges in terms of liveability ment. Embedding sustainable design financial results. ‘In 2014, we introduced and accessibility. If we factor in other principles in our projects remains a pria number of non-financial Key Perforglobal trends such as climate change ority,’ Henk adds. ‘We shall continue to mance Indicators which we shall use to and rapid technological development, develop and apply various sustainability monitor our sustainability performance. the growth markets for engineering coninstruments, such as the Sustainable The eventual aim is to produce a single sultancies become very clear.’ Infrastructure Projects methodology integrated report in which the financial and low-carbon design. We always act and non-financial indicators are Witteveen+Bos is committed to providin accordance with the ten principles presented alongside each other,’ Henk ing reliable solutions for the technical of the United Nations Global Compact, explains. For 2014 we continue to and social challenges facing our stakewhich establish firm standards in areas publish a separate Annual Report holders: clients, employees, suppliers, such as human rights, employment conalongside this CR Report, which proenvironmental and civil-society organditions, environmental management and vides an overview of our non-financial isations, and the general public. Henk: business ethics.’ targets and results during the period ‘We wish to be seen as a ‘responsible from 1 January through to 31 December world citizen’ and we shall make full use The size and value of our projects is 2014. This Corporate Responsibility of our expertise to help solve the global increasing, which has implications for Report is based on the guidelines issues of today and tomorrow. We contheir risk profile. Karin: ‘We must mainissued by the Global Reporting Initiative tinue to develop that expertise. In 2014, tain client satisfaction, staff satisfaction (GRI). We have used the GRI G3 matrix we responded to the burgeoning deand financial results. In 2014, we deto achieve GRI level B+. The report has mand for energy by devoting even more voted special attention to projects with been assessed by a stakeholder panel attention to our knowledge and skills in a higher level of risk. We organised a consisting of external experts. the field of renewable energy.’ masterclass in contract management, where project teams from four large Karin: ‘This report includes interviews ‘To keep pace with global developprojects joined clients and external exwith the people involved in four ‘showments, we also began to restructure perts to examine where improvements case’ projects, who describe how they the internal organisation in 2014. We can be made.’ are making a difference. After all, an encreated four business lines which bring gineer’s work is all about people. In the people together based on their pro‘To facilitate working as a project team, years ahead, there will be much work for fessional expertise. This enables us to we developed PLUSworking, a new ‘hot our industry in all parts of the world. We assemble the best possible team for desking’ office concept in 2014. Staff therefore intend to pursue further growth every project,’ Henk continues. ‘We also can opt to work together in a large, to maximise the contribution made by established two new international officopen-plan office space or at a quiet Witteveen+Bos.’ es, in Singapore and Dubai. We are very individual workstation. Although we are proud of these developments. However, taking full advantage of IT resources Deventer, The Netherlands, the Netherlands is and will remain our and new methods of communication, we 12 March 2015 ‘home base’ where we shall continue believe it is important for people to have to work on projects of all sizes to gain face-to-face contact with each other, Board of Directors Witteveen+Bos N.V. valuable experience and develop our since casual encounters often spawn Karin Sluis knowledge yet further.’ exciting new ideas. It’s encouraging that Henk Nieboer 4 5 CONTENTS 8 Corporate Responsibility 10 Sustainable design principles 12 Interview: Jochem Schut and Richard Sedafor 16 Living with climate change 18 Sustainable use of resources 20 Protecting the environment 22 Developing and sharing knowledge 24 Interview: Steven Delfgaauw and Renée van Dorst 28 Engagement 31 Reporting in accordance with GRI guidelines 37 Carbon footprint 40 Development of non-financial performance indicators 42 United Nations Global Compact 44 Stakeholder panel 11 12 20 28 34 6 16 18 24 40 42 44 7 8 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY The world faces many challenges: flood risks, ongoing urEmbedding CR in our projects banisation and the depletion of natural resources, to name We believe that input from our employees is an essential but three. As an engineering consultancy, we possess the precondition in order to embed sustainability and corporate knowledge and skills needed to improve safety, health, acresponsibility in our projects. The Board of Directors and the CR cessibility, and the quality of the human environment. We team define the CR vision and support our employees in impleare keen to place our expertise at the service of society. menting it. By encouraging enthusiastic colleagues to join the CR team, we ensure a constant flow of fresh ideas. Activities in We have a clear mission statement: 2014 included a course on integrated design methods, where ‘Witteveen+Bos offers its clients value-added consultancy and participants explored how our six sustainable design principles top-quality designs for water, infrastructure, environment and can be implemented even more effectively in projects. construction projects. We use our high-end expertise to resolve complex issues and are a committed partner for our clients. We Key Performance Indicators attach great importance to our independence and to our corpoWitteveen+Bos has decided to implement a number of nonrate culture, which allows all our employees to excel, utilise their financial Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) in order to monitor talents to the full, and maximise value for clients.’ our sustainability and CR performance. In 2014 we worked on the introduction of the first non-financial indicators, with a view to Vision ultimately producing an integrated Annual Report for 2016. KPIs Witteveen+Bos is an engineering consultancy committed to ofare used to measure operational processes and make adjustfering the very highest level of quality. We aim to be very good at ments if necessary. They are based on Witteveen+Bos’ long-term what we do. Our staff are experts in their respective disciplines perspective and must therefore be aligned with our mission and and pursue ongoing personal development. We maintain a cultuvision. KPIs address matters of importance to Witteveen+Bos re of entrepreneurship and trust. Excellence is based on a passi(impact) as well as our stakeholders in the chain (materiality). on for our profession. We work on interesting projects which call for creative, added-value solutions. Maintaining that excellence We have identified two main non-financial objectives: demands constant development of our talents, knowledge and Delivering social value skills, including those in areas such as project management. We Developing top talent work alongside partners of equally high standing, whereby we can offer an appropriate range of expertise in every project. We The KPIs associated with these objectives are described on assemble the best possible team to maximise the intrinsic value page 40 of this report. of our advice. We believe that every employee must be allowed to excel at what he or she does. We therefore work in an environBasic principles ment of trust, allowing significant personal discretion and placing The non-financial KPIs have been defined based on a number of responsibilities as low as possible within the organisation. principles. For instance, we believe that KPIs must be flexible to some extent, and must be limited to Witteveen+Bos’ sphere of Sustainable design principles influence at all times. In addition, we have defined KPIs for the An engineer’s core business is to help plan, shape and design organisation as a whole and for the different business lines and the physical environment in a responsible manner. This necesProduct-Market Combinations (PMCs). The CR team is responsitates consciously addressing the impact of our decisions on sible for the KPIs at the organisational level, while the KPIs at people and society. Witteveen+Bos has therefore developed a business line and PMC level are the responsibility of the relevant set of sustainable design principles predicated on the general managers. The parties involved regularly exchange experiences approach to sustainable development as formulated by the and consult with each other. Brundtland Commission in 1987. We apply these principles within the confines of our operations. Our designs make allowance Phased implementation for the ‘here and now’: we create plans for people who live in We have introduced a relatively small number of KPIs to ensure today’s society and benefit directly from them. We also think that the required changes in behaviour proceed as smoothly as in terms of ‘there and later’. We strive to apply these principles possible. KPIs are presented in the form of an action-oriented company-wide, creating a powerful drive to put the principles of ‘dashboard’ to encourage progress. They must be easy to measustainability into practice. sure and communicate, both internally and externally to market parties. Monitoring performance using non-financial KPIs requiCR team res a change in behaviour from managers. We have therefore Witteveen+Bos’ policy on Corporate Responsibility (CR) is imopted for phased implementation. The first non-financial KPIs plemented and monitored by a dedicated CR team which incluwill be introduced in 2015 and will be adjusted based on annual des representatives of all our business lines. The team meets six measurements. times a year, and its activities include overseeing the biannual publication of our carbon footprint report. The team members also ensure that CR is embedded in our operations by means of the environmental management system, and serve as a point of contact for sustainability issues. In addition, the team organises an annual CR event for engineers and architects. 9 SUSTAINABLE DESIGN PRINCIPLES 1. Nature and climate We endeavour to produce nature-based and climate-proof designs. Nature and climate are not static, but dynamic and subject to change. Our designs take the natural environment into account as much as possible. The ecosystem is our starting point and we strive to use natural processes wherever possible, thus maintaining or even improving biodiversity. 2. Trias principle We apply the Trias principle when pursuing sustainable solutions. This principle is applied to design aspects such as energy, raw materials, water, soil, waste, CO2 and other greenhouse gas emissions, mobility and management. The three steps of the Trias principle are: Limit demand and prevent unnecessary use Use renewable resources as much as possible Use non-renewable resources intelligently and efficiently 3. Chain In our designs we try to consider the entire process and project chain as an integrated whole, in what we call the ‘chain approach’. Our aim is to offer sustainable solutions which provide optimum results from the point of view of the entire chain, as established through life cycle analyses or by applying the Cradle to Cradle® approach. 4. Optimisation of functions In developing or reconfiguring the built environment, we endeavour to allocate the right function to the right location and search for the optimum use of existing values. Combining functions such as living, employment and recreation often enhances sustainable development. Multifunctionality and flexibility are important requirements for sustainable design. For the existing built environment we focus on efficient revitalisation. 5. Participation We recognise the importance of public participation by stakeholders and end-users when it comes to decisionmaking within the development and design process. We value effective communication because sustainable design requires broad public support. 6. Well-being Public health, safety, social cohesion, cultural heritage, perception and other aspects of social sustainability are guiding principles in the design process. 10 11 INTERVIEW Jochem Schut + Richard Sedafor Ghana Most of the Ghanaian population currently and private-sector parties aimed at promoting firm Berenschot and Witteveen+Bos in orgahas little or no access to sanitation. Facilihygiene and providing clean water and good nising projects in complex environments, the ties are either completely absent or of poor sanitation facilities to five Ghanaian municiconsortium possesses the skills required to quality, and the supply of clean drinking palities. The programme is jointly financed by solve the problems in Ghana in a pragmatic water is often limited. The same applies the Dutch Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the manner. ‘By improving access to sanitary facito drainage facilities and waste disposal Ghanaian government. Dutch NGO Simavi lities in 100 schools, we are making a tangible services. This situation has an adverse has gained extensive experience in implecontribution to the well-being of thousands of impact on public health, hinders economic menting sustainable Water, Sanitation and Ghanaians,’ says Jochem Schut, who heads development, and leads to unhealthy living Hygiene (WASH) programmes. Its familiarity the Witteveen+Bos office in Ghana. ‘We also conditions. with the local context ensures the involvement teach people how to use the newly built saof the local population, so that residents themnitation and other facilities. Maintenance can The Ghana Netherlands WASH Programme selves take initiatives to meet their needs. often be quite a challenge, and this is one of (GNWP) is a collaboration between NGOs Combined with the expertise of consultancy the reasons why diseases like cholera are still 12 Richard: ‘Providing clean drinking water and sanitary facilities for an increasing number of children – that’s what motivates me and makes me happy’ endemic here.’ In addition to building sanivent homes from being flooded. As you may field visit,’ Jochem explains. ‘I am pleased that tary facilities for schools, the project aims to imagine, this poses significant risks to public we have been able to offer attractive positiupgrade the entire water supply system and health,’ says Jochem. Part of the design work ons to seven Ghanaian colleagues, enabling sanitation infrastructure. ‘In the first phase of is carried out in collaboration with local engithem to support their families. We also want to the project, we focus mainly on drawing up neering firms. Witteveen+Bos supports them provide people with an inspirational working master plans and helping municipalities to in making the right choices on aspects such environment where they can develop their taformulate effective policies on water, sanitaas planning and maintenance. Eventually, the lents. Our Ghanaian colleagues can learn a lot tion and hygiene. We are now also working aim is for local parties to build and manage from working for an international company like on the preparation and realisation of concrete the facilities themselves. ‘Informing municipaWitteveen+Bos.’ Richard Sedafor from Ghana projects. Floods frequently cause road conlities, local residents and other stakeholders joined Witteveen+Bos as an engineer in 2013, gestion in Ghana, for instance. By building and gaining their support is important. You and found the early phase of the master plan’s drainage facilities in the capital Accra, we can need to know how to open a meeting and development particularly interesting. ‘Working help to make roads passable again and prewhich formalities precede a consultation or with Dutch colleagues has taught me to think 13 14 outside the box. This allowed us to really proThe electricity supply here is very unreliable. duce good plans for the future of my country, Blackouts are a weekly occurrence and can in consultation with the local partners,’ he last for entire days. Thanks to our back-up recounts. ‘The smiling faces of the children at generator, the work can always continue. We the schools where we have already installed switch off the power outside working hours, drinking water and toilet facilities make me and are currently looking into the possibility very happy.’ Jochem: ‘It’s not just one-way of using solar panels to cope with interruptraffic: we also learn a lot from our Ghanaian tions in the electricity supply. Plastic bottles colleagues. Their enthusiasm is unmatched are separated and our waste is collected by and they often have a more positive attitude a waste-processing firm. This is by no means to the challenges we face. We combine their standard practice in Ghana!’ experience with our Dutch expertise. We try to work as sustainably as possible at our office. 15 LIVING WITH CLIMATE CHANGE The choices that engineers make in their consultancy work have an impact on the human environment. Devoting attention to liveability can help ensure that an area is an attractive place to live, work, and spend leisure time. As the world’s population and the number of people living in cities continues to grow, the quality of life in urban environments is affected. In combination with climate change, this can lead to problems like flooding, poor air quality, and heat stress. Witteveen+Bos helps to develop solutions to these challenges by factoring in the relevant trends and including adaptive measures in its designs. These measures contribute to maintaining quality of life, now and in the future. Heat-resistant cities Heat waves can pose significant risks to human health which are further exacerbated in cities. A city’s heat resistance is affected by the design of the urban environment. Urban planning must therefore devote attention to heat and the effects of heat stress. However, no standard method is currently available for identifying and assessing these effects. The result is that measures are applied only on a very limited scale. In collaboration with Wageningen University & Research Centre and the Royal Netherlands Meteorological Institute (KNMI), Witteveen+Bos has therefore developed the Urban Climate Assessment and Management (UCAM) method. It can be used to analyse and assess the heat resistance of residential districts in existing as well as future situations. The results provide an objective and realistic picture of the relevant area’s heat resistance profile and any required improvement actions. The UCAM method provides insight into the effects of projects and measures. As an additional benefit, the method is objective and scientifically sound but also accessible and easy to apply. Resilient water system for Valkenburg site Witteveen+Bos has produced a Life Cycle Analysis (LCA) for a resilient water system as part of the redevelopment of the former Valkenburg military airbase near Leiden. The LCA sought to answer the main question in the design brief for the water system: which future water and ground levels should be assumed to ensure optimum sustainability performance from an economic, technical and ecological perspective? Aspects like climate change and soil subsidence were key considerations. Based on the results of the Witteveen+Bos LCA model, a proposal was put forward to raise the ground and water levels to above polder level. This means that the existing polder system and its pumping station will no longer be needed to drain off surplus water, since gravity would be able to do its work. In addition, dikes will no longer be required to protect the polder. It is possible to create a larger water system which allows boats to sail to the new residential district. 16 Valkenburg The Netherlands Heat-resistant cities 17 Water use in the energy sector Water supply for greenhouses 18 SUSTAINABLE USE OF RESOURCES The safe and responsible use of natural resources is an important consideration in our projects. Global population growth and greater prosperity are leading to a worldwide increase in the use of natural resources like gas, petroleum, water and wood. Consequently, these resources are quickly becoming depleted. Some construction materials make a disproportionate contribution to global greenhouse gas emissions. It is therefore essential to use renewable energy sources in our designs, and to make responsible use of natural resources. Reusing wastewater in the glasshouse horticulture industry A new greenhouse with a total glass surface area of 220 hectares is being built in the Nieuw Prinsenland horticulture area in North Brabant province. The area has a unique centralised water supply system and collective treatment facilities for the wastewater produced by local households. The water supply to the greenhouses combines rainwater from the greenhouse roofs and reused wastewater from the nearby Suiker Unie sugar factory. Every year, approximately 270,000 m³ of wastewater from the sugar factory is treated to produce 200,000 m³ of demineralised clean water. During the sugar beet campaign (September-January), industrial wastewater is converted into high-quality water which is then stored underground for use during the growing season (April-October). Witteveen+Bos is involved in design assessment, certain aspects of the licensing procedure, and procurement and project management for the design, construction and operation of the water treatment plant. Study of water use in the energy sector Greenpeace International has commissioned Witteveen+Bos to conduct a study into the expected development of water use in the energy sector, and the consequences for the available groundwater and surface water reserves worldwide. The growth of the energy sector and the resulting increase in water use may lead to regional water shortages. This could endanger the security of energy supplies, but shortages may also affect other water users such as farmers, industry, and drinking water companies. In addition, rivers may run dry in certain areas. The study focuses primarily on water use in coal-based energy production, including mining operations (coal, lignite) as well as coal-fired power stations. The period from 2012 to 2050 will be surveyed based on three different development scenarios. 19 De Alde Feanen The Netherlands Naardermeer The Netherlands 20 PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT There is a growing awareness that human health is directly linked to the health of our planet. We regard it as our responsibility to contribute to this awareness. Protecting the environment, safeguarding biodiversity, and restoring natural habitats are important aspects of our activities. Through research into ecosystem services and biodiversity impact assessments, we try to make ecology a key aspect of sustainability in our projects. Restoring natural habitats in Naardermeer nature reserve Naardermeer is the Netherlands’ oldest official nature reserve. The landscape consists of several small lakes surrounded by reedlands, swamps and swamp forests. The reserve provides a habitat for many plants and bird species. Unfortunately, the bogwood in this area has begun to degrade due to changes in hydrology and water quality during the twentieth century. In an attempt to restore natural habitats, Waternet has investigated the effects that flexible water level management would have on the area. The results showed that this type of management would make a positive contribution to the ecological quality of the swamp forests. In combination with other measures, flexible water level management can create an ecosystem that is very similar to the natural conditions under which swamp forests develop. Witteveen+Bos made an important contribution to the integration of the various elements of this large-scale study, which was performed in collaboration with partners B-Ware, Scirpus Ecologisch Advies, the Netherlands Institute of Ecology, and Deltares. Improving biodiversity in De Alde Feanen fens De Alde Feanen fens are located in central Fryslân province. This nature reserve features a diverse range of landscapes, varying from open water and reedlands to swamp forests. As a result, De Alde Feanen is a habitat of international importance for countless plant and animal species. However, biodiversity in this Natura 2000 area is under pressure. As part of the EU LIFE+ ‘Booming Business’ project, extensive remediation measures have been planned to improve the environmental conditions and thus protect and restore the various landscape types and the associated biodiversity. Witteveen+Bos participated actively in the entire process. We initially performed a water system analysis in order to identify the main obstacles to restoration of good ecological conditions. Further to this analysis, we advised on the effectiveness (or lack thereof) of a number of specific measures. Witteveen+Bos provided assistance in designing the measures, and we were also responsible for their actual implementation. 21 DEVELOPING AND SHARING KNOWLEDGE Developing and disseminating innovative technologies is an important aspect of our work. Areas prone to large-scale flooding, for instance, sometimes lack expertise in water management. Knowledge-sharing is therefore a precondition to resolve the issues at hand. Witteveen+Bos works with local engineers, communities and research institutes to promote technological development and share knowledge. Modernising Dhaka’s drainage system With an estimated 12 million residents, the Bangladeshi capital Dhaka is a true megacity. Because Dhaka is located in the Ganges-Brahmaputra delta and has a monsoon climate, the city has to deal with frequent flooding. The urban drainage system is under pressure from illegal construction activities, large-scale dumping of waste, and rapid growth of floating vegetation. In combination with maintenance backlogs, these problems have reduced the capacity of the drainage system, resulting in flooding that impacts economic development and quality of life. To tackle these challenges, the Dhaka Water Supply and Sewerage Authority (DWASA) started the Urban Dredging Demonstration Project (UDDP) in collaboration with Vitens Evides International and the Dutch embassy in Bangladesh. Witteveen+Bos provides training and technical support for this project, enhancing DWASA’s capacity to carry out urban dredging work using equipment supplied for the project. The training is targeted at employees at all levels of the organisation, from project managers to operators of field equipment. Through its involvement in this project, Witteveen+Bos is helping to disseminate knowledge and technologies that enable megacities to cope with the challenges they face. Sustainability in practice Witteveen+Bos is a participant in D-Tool.nl, a web-based platform devoted to ‘making sustainability measurable’. The platform’s website provides access to a wide range of sustainability-related tools and applications. The site allows users to share experiences and measurement tools, and also offers functionality for assessing tools. Adding tools is free of charge, resulting in an objective list displayed to all website visitors. Through its participation in D-Tool.nl, Witteveen+Bos hopes to contribute to greater accessibility of knowledge on sustainable infrastructure and a sustainable built environment. 22 Sustainability tools Dhaka Bangladesh 23 INTERVIEW Steven Delfgaauw + Renée van Dorst The Netherlands Zuidas is the financial and business cenThe capacity of the road network between the also be expanded. With support from consultre of Amsterdam. Unless measures are Nieuwe Meer and Amstel interchanges will tancy firm AT Osborne, a consortium consistaken, the expected substantial increase be expanded along a stretch of approximately ting of the engineering companies ARCADIS in traffic levels and the number of public five kilometres, and a section of the A10 moand Witteveen+Bos is currently elaborating the transport passengers will result in poor torway near the Zuidas district will be brought plan and preparing the execution phase of this accessibility, deterioration of air quality, underground. Amsterdam Zuid station will be project. The project will have a major impact and considerable noise pollution affecting expanded to include more urban and regional on the area, both during the performance of local residents. In the coming years, a public transport facilities. The station’s transfer work and upon completion. Creating a smart number of projects are therefore being uncapacity will be increased, transport connecreference design – with the right functions in dertaken in order to optimise accessibility tions will be improved, and new amenities will the right places – presented a considerable by road as well as public transport. be added. The railway and metro platforms will challenge. ‘The area includes offices, homes, 24 Renée: ‘The complex Zuidasdok project provides me with wonderful opportunities for professional development’ hospitals and other public buildings. Each staA decision has also been taken to erect higher management team, we identified which sites keholder has its own wishes and requirements noise screens than required by law, so that would be affected by noise and vibrations which must be carefully taken into considerapeople can leave their windows open.’ With resulting from construction work, and when tion. Sometimes it’s a fight over every square the plan elaboration phase and the tender prethey would be affected. As you can imagine, metre,’ says Witteveen+Bos project leader parations nearly complete, a call for tenders office employees prefer construction work Steven Delfgaauw. ‘We frequently have to think will be issued soon. It was quite a challenge to be carried out during the weekend, while outside the box to devise the best solution. to ensure that life can go on as normal during local residents are less pleased with such a Resolving one problem may cause difficulties the performance of work, with people visiting schedule,’ Steven explains. ‘We also challenelsewhere. For instance, a section of the A10 public buildings, commuters travelling to work, ged contractors to help devise ways to reduce motorway is to be moved underground to imand local residents enjoying a pleasant living nuisance for road users and public transport prove the quality of life for local residents. environment. ‘Together with the stakeholder passengers.’ Renée van Dorst completed her 25 26 thesis project at Witteveen+Bos in 2013, and at five in the morning, I definitely enjoyed the Space Usage (COB). Steven: ‘Working on a then started work on the soil surveys for the opportunity to see for myself how the data I complex project like Zuidasdok provides a Zuidasdok project. Shortly afterwards, Steven use every day is actually collected. It was a talented young professional like Renée with invited her to assist him in his role as project great experience.’ Renée’s work has not gone wonderful opportunities for professional develeader. ‘I really learn a great deal from sitting unnoticed. In October 2014, her master thesis lopment.’ in on client meetings,’ says Renée. ‘All of a – on artificial ground freezing as a construction sudden I’m attending important consultations, method for underground spaces – received an which gives me a much better understanding honourable mention at the presentation of the of the big picture and my role in it. One day Schreuders Thesis Prize, which is awarded I tagged along with the team that carries out every two years by the Expertise Centre for the soil surveys. Although they started work Underground Construction and Underground 27 ENGAGEMENT Ownership structure a series of personal visits to the various offices in Witteveen+Bos N.V. is the holding company of the first quarter of 2015. The results also provided the entire Witteveen+Bos group. All shares in the input for determining the focus areas for the new company have been held by our own employees Council, which will take office following elections in since 1992. This share ownership scheme is a key the spring of 2015. element of our identity, and provides a major incentive for staff engagement and entrepreneurship. Social engagement Participation in the scheme reflects a long-term Social engagement is important to Witteveen+Bos. commitment, with the continuity of the company as Engagement and knowledge of the supply chain is the main goal. essential in order to take social factors into account when managing our operations. The scheme distinguishes between four categories of shareholders: senior partners, premium partners, Initiatives in 2014 included: partners, and participants. The senior partners and Our in-house course on integrated design premium partners form the senior management of methods, which was first organised in 2013, was the company. They are nominated by the Board of held again in 2014.The course focuses on the Directors and appointed subject to the approval of integrated nature of design practice and the involthe General Meeting of Shareholders. The partners vement of all disciplines and external stakeholders are other key employees of the company. They are at an early stage. nominated and appointed by the Board of Directors. In October 2014, Witteveen+Bos joined 33 other The category of participants is open to all staff with organisations in signing a regional action a permanent contract of employment. The extent to programme for the climate-proof development of which employees can participate in this category dethe IJssel-Vecht delta. The signatories recognise pends on their position (salary), the number of years the importance of climate-proof development and they have been with the company, and the operating regard it as an opportunity to add value to the company with which they have concluded their emIJssel-Vecht delta through smart and efficient ployment contract. collaboration, investment, realisation and management. The rate of participation at 1 July 2014 was 78.5 %. Witteveen+Bos helped to organise the Cleantech The senior partners (19) and the premium partners Tomorrow 2014 conference in Deventer, where (9) together hold 62.5 % of the shares, the partners representatives of the private sector, government (79) hold 22.0 %, and the participants (487) hold and education exchanged experiences and stories 15.5 %. At 1 July 2014, the internal price of the about the path to a clean future based on a Witteveen+Bos share stood at € 5.59 (up from circular economy. As part of the programme, € 5.36 at 1 July 2013). Witteveen+Bos organised a workshop on the BREEAM sustainability certification system. Works Council Witteveen+Bos is one of the initiators of the In 2014 the Works Council was actively involved in Almere Urban Agriculture Development Centre several developments affecting the Witteveen+Bos (OSA), and organises various activities in this organisation. The Council consulted with the Board context. of Directors and the employees involved about the October 2014 saw the start of WaterLab, a joint sale of the Facade Restoration and Environmental project of Witteveen+Bos, Delft University of TechMeasurement Service units to other companies. nology and Science Centre Delft, that provides Both transitions were completed in the course of pupils at four Delft primary schools with an 2014. The year under review also saw the relocation opportunity to conduct their own climate research of our offices in Almere and Maastricht to Amsterprojects. dam and Breda, respectively. The Works Council Witteveen+Bos is one of the initiators of the ‘New agreed an additional package of benefits with the Hanseatic League’, a project aimed at intensifying Board of Directors, providing compensation for the trade and collaboration with Germany in the field increase in travel times to the relevant employees of technology, energy and raw materials. The over a two-year period. The Council is developing League offers an inspiring perspective, with a Privacy and Internet Protocol together with the international collaboration between member cities Board of Directors. This Protocol will establish rules promoting sustainable economic development and and guidelines for dealing with privacy-sensitive creating new employment opportunities. information within the Witteveen+Bos organisation. From 2011 to the year under review, a stakeholder Flexible working arrangements, health and safety panel offered feedback on our Corporate policy, and the introduction of the Expense AllowanResponsibility Report. ce Scheme were some of the other topics discussed by the Works Council in 2014. The Works Council conducted a survey in 2014 to gain insight into the interests and views of the employees, who were informed of the results through 28 29 Rotterdam The Netherlands CARBON FOOTPRINT Emissions per activity and/or source in tonnes of CO2 (The Netherlands) 2014 10 % public transport 34 % business travel by car <1 % paper 12 % heating <1 % electricity 14 % commuter travel by car 30 % air travel for business purposes 2013 8 % public transport 36 % business travel by car <1 % paper 14 % heating <1 % electricity 12 % commuter travel by car 28 % air travel for business purposes 2007 9 % public transport 33 % business travel by car <1 % paper 7 % heating 22 % electricity 16 % air travel for business purposes 12 % commuter travel by car 38 REPORTING IN ACCORDANCE WITH GRI GUIDELINES Energy consumption (The Netherlands) 2014 2013 District heating (hot water in GJ) 355 874 Gas consumption in office buildings (m3) 236,100 290,849 Use of company cars for business purposes (litres of fuel) 203,305 219,310 Use of company cars for commuting purposes (km)* 292,883 288,034 Electricity consumption (kWh) 1,597,084 1,711,573 Air travel (km) 7,159,934 7,245,532 Use of private cars for business purposes (km)* 3,152,086 4,029,135 Paper use (kg)** 36,971 46,208 Use of private cars for commuting purposes (km)* 2,251,995 2,100,539 Use of public transport (km) 6,254,426 5,957,059 * For our carbon emissions inventory, we use the following units: litres of fuel for the use of company cars for business purposes, kilometres for the use of hybrid cars for business purposes, and kilometres for the use of private cars for business and commuting purposes. ** This category only includes office paper; printed books and leaflets are excluded. Total workforce by temporary and permanent contracts, full-time and part-time contracts 2014 2013 Full-time (The Netherlands) 529 583 Part-time (The Netherlands) 325 276 Fixed-term or temporary contract (The Netherlands) 91 118 Indefinite-term or permanent contract (The Netherlands) 763 741 The Netherlands 854 859 Indonesia 28 29 Kazakhstan 67 55 Russia 2 2 Latvia 8 8 Belgium 13 12 Vietnam 2 2 Singapore 2 0 Dubai 1 0 Total number of employees worldwide 977 967 Total workforce in the Netherlands (FTEs) 780 789 Total global workforce (FTEs) 899 892 31 + Energy-efficient office building for APM Terminals APM Terminals commissioned Witteveen+Bos to design an office building that would meet the BREEAM sustainability guidelines. Energy efficiency and sustainable energy technology were key aspects in the design of this new building, which is located in the Second Maasvlakte industrial zone. Throughout the design process we applied the Trias principle: reduce energy consumption, use renewable resources as far as possible, and use non-renewable resources intelligently and efficiently. REPORTING IN ACCORDANCE WITH GRI GUIDELINES This Corporate Responsibility Report is based on the Our carbon footprint report meets the ISO 14064 standard. guidelines issued by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). The accuracy of this report is determined by the accuracy We have used the GRI G3 matrix to achieve GRI level B+. of the data provided for the SKAO CO2 Performance LadIn this chapter we discuss the five main indicators defined der emission factors. Because larger companies obviously in the GRI guidelines, in order to provide an overview of will have higher emissions, emissions per capita are used our performance in 2014 and how this performance was for comparison purposes. In 2014 Witteveen+Bos produced achieved. The relevant figures may be found on pages total emissions of 3,689 tonnes of CO2, and had a workforce 31/32 and 37/38. of 899 FTEs. CO2 emissions per capita decreased from 5.41 tonnes in 2007 to 4.10 tonnes in 2014. This adds up to a total The full GRI index is available on our website at reduction per capita of 24 % compared to the reference year www.witteveenbos.com/CR. The table provides an over2007. Witteveen+Bos has defined a reduction schedule for view of all the GRI indicators we selected. the period up to 2020. Economic Employment Figures on our financial performance may be found in the Our workforce (2014 average: 899 FTEs) forms the basis for Annual Report 2014. In 2014 Witteveen+Bos invested our sustained success. At 31 December 2014, Witteveen+Bos € 130,976 in various projects in the field of sports, educahad 977 employees. In 2014 a total of eight persons were tion, health, renewable energy and culture (including the employed under an on-call contract. The workforce may be Witteveen+Bos Art+Technology Award). We also made classified according to employment contract (temporary or significant contributions in kind to a number of socially permanent), employment type (full-time or part-time), and relevant projects. country. Environmental This breakdown shows that a large majority (89 %) of the Environmental protection entails more than just complying Witteveen+Bos workforce in the Netherlands is employed unwith legislation and official regulations – it also covers all der a permanent contract. For the year ending at 31 Decemaspects of sustainability. We carefully manage our environber 2014, voluntary employee turnover as a percentage of the mental impact at all project stages, from business operatotal workforce population amounted to 9.7 %. The average tions to the impact of our designs. To ensure a systematic length of service was 8.7 years. We do not publish figures on approach in our business operations, we have implemenour employee turnover by region. The approximate breakdown ted an environmental management system based on interof the total workforce by gender was 71 % male and 29 % national guidelines and standards. We apply sustainable female. The composition of our workforce in the Netherlands design principles to our products and services. in terms of educational levels is 46 % with university degrees, 34 % with higher vocational qualifications, and 20 % Materials with intermediate vocational and accounting qualifications. In 2014 Witteveen+Bos used 36,971 kg of photocopying Witteveen+Bos does not register composition of governance paper in its offices in the Netherlands. Although the paper bodies according to gender or age group. Witteveen+Bos does not contain any recycled materials, it is FSC-certified does not register minority group membership. and produced in a carbon-neutral manner in an integrated pulp and paper mill, where no fossil fuels but only natural In our company, employees with a temporary contract and fuels are used to meet the remaining energy requirement. regular part-time employees receive the same benefits as The paper is produced using wood that originates from full-time employees, except for share ownership, which is only sustainably managed forests, and has been awarded the possible for employees with a permanent contract. EU Ecolabel and the Nordic Swan certificate. We encourage digital working methods in order to further reduce Witteveen+Bos has a system of in-company training courses paper consumption. for its employees. Additionally, the company contributes financially to relevant private courses of study undertaken by Energy employees and to external seminars, workshops and training We use natural gas to heat our offices in the Netherlands. sessions. As the different business segments have specific The remaining direct energy consumption results from the training needs and training programmes that are not centrally use of fuel by our vehicle fleet. Pages 16 to 23 describe managed, Witteveen+Bos is not able to report company-wide company initiatives aimed at developing energy-efficient or statistics on the annual average number of training hours. In renewable-energy-based products and services. 2014 Witteveen+Bos spent € 464,686 on leadership and employee development. Carbon footprint In absolute figures, our 2014 carbon footprint has decreased compared to our 2013 footprint. Our workforce has grown, resulting in a reduction in the footprint per capita. The most striking development is the decrease in gas consumption due to a relatively warm year. Travel by company car for business purposes has decreased, as Witteveen+Bos encourages the use of public transport, video-conferencing facilities, and leased cars for long-term projects and longer distances. 34 35 De Alde Feanen The Netherlands REPORTING IN ACCORDANCE WITH GRI GUIDELINES Level of education (The Netherlands) 2014 46 % University 34 % Higher Voc-ed* 20 % Intermediate Voc-ed 2013 45 % University 33 % Higher Voc-ed 22 % Intermediate Voc-ed * Voc-ed = vocational education In-company training and education and number of interns/final-year students (The Netherlands) 2014 2013 Number of employees that received in-company training or education 457 437 Money spent on training and education per employee € 544 € 598 Number of interns and final-year students 112 113 Employee turnover by age group and gender (The Netherlands) 2014 2013 Employees leaving 77 69 Male employees leaving 47 53 Female employees leaving 30 16 Employees below the age of 30 leaving 17 16 Employees in the age of 30 to 45 leaving 48 38 Employees over the age of 45 leaving 12 15 Average number of years with the company 8.7 10.1 Benefits provided to employees (The Netherlands) Benefits Full-time/part-time employees Accident insurance with life and disability/invalidity coverage All employees Collective health care insurance All employees can participate Maternity/paternity/parental leave All employees Retirement provision All employees Share ownership Full-time and part-time employees with a permanent contract 32 CARBON FOOTPRINT Emissions per scope in tonnes of CO2* (The Netherlands) 2014 2013 2007 Scope 1 Use of company cars for business purposes 611 643 620 Gas consumption 431 531 258 Subtotal for scope 1 1,042 1,174 878 Scope 2 Electricity consumption 24 26 849 Air travel 1,125 1,117 606 District heating 4 10 Use of private cars for business purposes 626 786 655 Subtotal for scope 2 1,779 1,939 2,110 Scope 3 Paper consumption 4 4 4 Use of private cars for commuting purposes 451 420 778 Use of public transport 356 328 362 Use of company cars for commuting purposes 57 58 90 Subtotal for scope 3 868 810 1,234 Total for Scope 1, 2, 3 3,689 3,923 4,222 * According to the SKAO CO2 Performance Ladder scope classifications Emissions per FTE in tonnes of CO2 (The Netherlands) 2014 899 4.10 2013 875 4.48 2007 708 5.41 Number of employees (annual average in FTEs) Emissions per FTE CO2 emissions reduction schedule up to 2020 9,5 % 17 % 25 % 29 % 30 % 11 % 22 % 30 % 17 % 24 % 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2020 Reduction planned compared to 2007 Reduction achieved compared to 2007 37 + Improving biodiversity in De Alde Feanen fens De Alde Feanen fens are located in central Fryslân province. This nature reserve features a diverse range of landscapes, varying from open water and reedlands to swamp forests. As a result, De Alde Feanen is a habitat of international importance for countless plant and animal species. However, biodiversity in this Natura 2000 area is under pressure. Witteveen+Bos was involved in the process to restore the environmental conditions and improve biodiversity. DEVELOPMENT OF NON-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS As of 2015, we will start using non-financial KPIs to measure and monitor our performance. In 2014 we worked on defining and developing these non-financial KPIs, a process that will be continued in 2015 with support from an external consultancy. Delivering social value We want to help develop solutions for major global challenges like climate change, pollution, and loss of biodiversity in order to contribute to sustainable economic and social development. By applying our six sustainable design principles in all our projects, we can make an important contribution to preventing and mitigating any negative impacts. Achieving this aim will require a substantial effort. Although we have already reached Level 5 of the SKAO CO2 Performance Ladder, maintaining this level requires a constant commitment. There is still considerable progress to be achieved in this area, for instance by incorporating CO2 awareness in our designs and in the management of our operations. Goal Subgoal Means KPIs 2015 Contributing to climate Sustainable Number of projects in which Baseline resilience, biodiversity designs our six sustainable design measurement and environmental principles have been applied Delivering social protection Level 5 of the SKAO CO2 Retain value Performance Ladder Level 5 Climate resilience Sustainable Level 5 of the SKAO CO2 Retain operations Performance Ladder Level 5 Developing top talent Talented individuals are constantly looking for an inspiring environment where they can make a meaningful contribution to the world. We want to provide top talent with opportunities to pursue professional and personal development through the projects we undertake. We aim to provide all our employees with equal opportunities, regardless of gender or nationality. We also attach great importance to ensuring that sufficient numbers of young people start relevant courses of study in technical fields to provide an adequate inflow of employees in the long term. We are therefore keen to involve young people in our work. Goal Subgoal Means KPIs 2015 Training and Ensuring equal Breakdown of workforce Baseline developing development by gender measurement top talent opportunities for Inflow = throughflow Baseline all our employees, Breakdown of workforce by measurement regardless of nationality gender or Inflow = throughflow Developing nationality top talent Ensuring adequate Involving young Number of interns and Baseline inflow of students people in our work final-year students measurement starting courses of Number of contributions to study in technical educational projects fields Number of business courses Number of events for young people held at our offices 40 RWZI Halsteren 41 42 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT The United Nations Global Compact commits Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elicompanies to uphold ten principles in areas such mination of discrimination in respect of employas human rights, employment conditions, environment and occupation mental management, and business ethics. The Witteveen+Bos has been making active efforts for principles have been derived from the Universal years to appoint more women in key positions. A feDeclaration of Human Rights, internationally recogmale Managing Director was appointed in 2013. We nised declarations like those of the International continued this policy in 2014, appointing a female Labour Organisation, and conventions of the United PMC leader to head our Industry and Energy PMC. Nations. Witteveen+Bos endorses these principles. Our progress in implementing each principle is desPrinciples 7, 8 and 9: Businesses should supcribed below. port a precautionary approach to environmental challenges, should undertake initiatives to proPrinciple 1: Businesses should support and mote greater environmental responsibility, and respect the protection of internationally proclaishould encourage the development and diffumed human rights sion of environmentally friendly technologies Our Code of Conduct states that ‘assignments in Finding solutions to environmental challenges is one contravention of national and international law and of the core activities of our company. We promote inrules will not be accepted’. We support and respect novative technologies and approaches and enhance the protection of internationally proclaimed human partnerships. We provide our clients with unsolicited rights. The company also devotes attention to safe advice on environmentally friendly alternatives in and healthy working conditions for employees in the investment projects. We promoted the principles Netherlands and other countries. of sustainable design within the company in 2014, and provide training to our designers in order to Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that implement the principles in all our projects. Further they are not complicit in human rights abuses information on progress in this regard may be found No cases of complicity in human rights abuses were in the chapter ‘Corporate Responsibility’, and in the reported in 2014. project descriptions on page 16 through to 23. Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freePrinciple 10: Businesses should work against dom of association and the effective recogniall forms of corruption, including extortion and tion of the right to collective bargaining bribery Witteveen+Bos is an employee-owned company. We will not engage in bribery and we will not accept Through shareholder meetings, employees can any assignment which has been assigned to us on influence the company’s policy. Furthermore, emdubious grounds. We reject payments which may ployee engagement in the Netherlands is guaraninfluence our objective and socially responsible teed through the Works Council, which looks after approach. The chapter on standards and values in the interests of all employees. Witteveen+Bos is not the Employee Regulations provides employees with bound to formal agreements with trade unions, as clear guidance on our policy in this area. By signing the company has its own agreements with employthe employment contract, every employee agrees ees. These agreements have been ratified by the to comply with these values. An Integrity CommitWorks Council, and are laid down in the Employee tee oversees compliance with our Company Code. Regulations and the Quality Manual. Employees can contact a confidential adviser (appointed by the Board of Directors) to report integrity Principle 4: Businesses should support the eliissues or dilemmas. No incidents were reported in mination of all forms of forced and compulsory 2014. labour Witteveen+Bos believes that employees excel when they perform work they enjoy and support. We encourage our employees to develop their strengths and pursue their ambitions. This ensures a high level of job satisfaction and productivity. Our Code of Conduct prohibits forced and compulsory labour in our operations. Principle 5: Businesses should support the effective abolition of child labour Our Code of Conduct prohibits forced and compulsory labour in our operations. Witteveen+Bos endorses the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. 43 STAKEHOLDER PANEL For the fourth year, Witteveen+Bos has asked a panel of external stakeholders to provide balanced and impartial feedback on our sustainability performance and our CR reporting practices, and to make appropriate recommendations for improvement. Main points The stakeholder panel compliments Witteveen+Bos on its decision to use non-financial KPIs to manage its operations. It will be exciting to monitor how delivering social value (KPI 1) and developing top talent (KPI 2) will contribute to the four main themes addressed by Witteveen+Bos: liveability, safety, health and accessibility. We commend Witteveen+Bos for its exploration of international opportunities in the field of Corporate Responsibility, with a view to its international ambitions. Insight into the global field of work Witteveen+Bos has growing international ambitions. We therefore recommend gaining insight into the field of work at the international level. Although Witteveen+Bos has already undertaken several activities in this area, the results are not yet sufficiently clear. We recommend identifying the relevant threats and opportunities and examining what can be achieved in the area of Corporate Responsibility. Significance of international ambitions to development of top talent Witteveen+Bos should continue to explore its added value to society. If the world is truly its domain, what does the company need to achieve long-term success? We recommend connecting with the experiences of (local) communities to enhance value for Witteveen+Bos. Measurability of targets and results Targets and results can be defined with even greater clarity. This will provide even greater insight into the actions taken by Witteveen+Bos to achieve its CR and other targets. Cohesion of the report Structure the Corporate Responsibility Report around the mission, vision and strategy of the organisation. Avoid excessive technical jargon, incorporate mandatory elements (such as progress on implementing the United Nationals Global Compact principles) in the main body of the text, use active phrasing, and stay true to Witteveen+Bos’ corporate identity. This will make the report more accessible to the main target group, i.e. Witteveen+Bos employees. Deventer, The Netherlands, 20 February 2015 2015 stakeholder panel Jessica van den Bosch (Innovation & Sustainability Project Manager, ProRail) Sander Dekker (Sustainability Manager, Van Oord) Frank Hoekemeijer (Sustainability Manager, Heijmans Wegen & Civiel) Ruud Sprock (Senior Sustainability Consultant, C2N) 44 45 COLOPHON Text Witteveen+Bos Layout and design Houdbaar Printed by Te Sligte-Olijdam Photos and illustrations APM Terminals Maasvlakte II Cynthia Boll Dinesh Dhawan Renske Diek Gerard Dubois Hans Engbers Geert-Jan Hobijn Paul Kavanagh Astrid van Loo Tom van der Put Rijkswaterstaat Beeldbank Shutterstock Femke Teusink Hilko Visser Fonger de Vlas Sander van der Werf Witteveen+Bos Witteveen+Bos N.V. Van Twickelostraat 2 P.O. Box 233 7400 AE Deventer The Netherlands t +31 570 69 79 11 f +31 570 69 73 44 e info@witteveenbos.com i www.witteveenbos.com Enschede Trade Register no. 55094503 46 Sawarendro Indonesia Jochem Schut Ghana
