United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2014|2015 Sitel Corporate Social Responsibility Experience shared. United Nations Global Compact Research and Insights Communication on Progress p. 2 Customer Relations Trends to Watch in 2014. Index of content Statement of continued support by the CEO…………………………………………………………..……………………………… 3 About Sitel................................................................................................................................................... 4 Human Rights............................................................................................................................................... 8 Labor............................................................................................................................................................ 11 Environment................................................................................................................................................ 19 Anti-Corruption............................................................................................................................................ 22 Experience shared. sitel.com Experience shared. United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2014/15 Statement of continued support by the CEO Dear Stakeholders, For another year, we are proud to be part of the United Nations Global Compact. And this year we are excited to confirm that we have extended what started as a localized initiative in our Spanish business unit to apply to our global Sitel operation. As global corporate citizen, Sitel recognizes its obligations to act responsibly, ethically and with integrity in our interactions with all stakeholders be they our Associates, clients, suppliers, or the communities and environment in which we all live and work. Sitel strives to treat all of our Associates with respect. We are mindful that we share a responsibility to provide opportunities for individuals and contribute to the well-being of the communities in which we operate. I am pleased to confirm that Sitel reaffirms its support of the ten principles of the Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anticorruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business operations. Over 2014 and 2015, our main focus has been the development of a global Corporate Social Responsibility framework to provide a solid foundation for the implementation of corporate policies and practices that support the ten universally accepted principles. Our global framework seeks to blend the principles of the Global Compact into Sitel’s existing strategies, plans, cultures and operations. Sitel is proud that many of our Associates are taking an active part in helping to drive this initiative. Yours sincerely, Bert Quintana President & Chief Executive Officer Page Experience Experience shared. shared. 3 of 26 sitel.com United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2014/15 About Sitel About Sitel Page Experience Experience shared. shared. 4 of 26 sitel.com United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2014/15 About Sitel Sitel is a leader in the global customer care Sitel was originally founded in June 1985. In October outsourcing industry. We meet clients’ customer 2006, ClientLogic and Sitel announced a definitive care and transaction processing needs through merger between the two outsourcing firms. When 62,000+ Associates in approximately 100 customer the merger was finalized on January 30, 2007, the contact center and related facilities in 21 countries. newly branded Sitel emerged as a significant industry leader with the single most diversified Sitel provides world-class solutions from onshore, client mix, vertical industry expertise and global nearshore and offshore locations across North footprint in the industry. America, South America, EMEA and Asia Pacific. Clients receive the strategic insight, scale and Sitel is a privately held company incorporated in diversity of offerings to ensure the best return on Delaware, wholly owned by Groupe Acticall, S.A. their customer investment through Sitel’s awardwinning services. Sitel Worldwide Revenue Sitel annual global revenue was approximately $1.4 billion per annum during this period. About this report This report serves as Sitel Worldwide Corporation’s towards meeting the UN Global Compact’s first Communication on Progress to the United principles during the two calendar years 2014 and Nations Global Compact (UNGC) initiative. Sitel 2015. This document also outlines our goals for Ibérica S.A. was the first affiliate company to join the continued improvement and plans to further build UNGC in 2012 and this is the first year that we are our corporate responsibility initiatives. Going reporting as global organization. forward, subsequent reports will annually track our progress against those objectives on a current year We have taken a decision to move from reporting a basis. year in arrears to a current year basis, in line with many of our peers. To enable this change, this For further information about Sitel, please visit: report reflects our performance and progress www.sitel.com. Page Experience Experience shared. shared. 5 of 26 sitel.com United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2014/15 Scope of this report This report relates to our global operations including those locations where we operate our own sites, those locations where we operate from client locations and the 60+ countries into which we provide services. Sitel CSR Program In 2014 Sitel launched a global Corporate Social Responsibility Program as a way of improving its business practices in the social and environmental arena. At a fundamental level, Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) involves looking beyond a profitability focus to a wider commitment to building a better society. CSR challenges companies to take responsibility for their impact on the community and environment in which they operate regardless of whether this is through their actual business practices, how the company treats its Associates and/or through extracurricular activities such as charitable donations, or staff volunteering projects. Sitel’s CSR Program covers the following elements: While we acknowledge the standards underlying CSR should be part of normal business practice, by Human Rights and Labor. Upholding the human formalizing this in a global program, we hope to rights of our Associates. make CSR an important element of our corporate  Working hours identity.  Wages and benefits  Humane treatment CSR is meant to be a proactive program which aims  Non-discrimination to:  Freely chosen employment • Mitigate negative impacts and unethical  Child labor avoidance conduct, by ensuring safe working conditions  Freedom of association and the respectful and dignified treatment of Ethics. Corporate values and the way in which we workers and Associates; conduct our business. • Assure our clients of the ethical conduct of  Business integrity company business;  No Improper advantage • Establish, control and deliver company activities  Disclosure of information at a minimal potential pollutant level, providing  Intellectual property guidance and direction for the implementation  Fair business, advertising and competition and operation of environmental controls;  Protection of identity • Establish, implement and maintain appropriate Health & Safety. Welfare of our Associates free control over Health & Safety hazards; from injury or illness.  Occupational risk management • Integrate, where possible, socio-economic,  Emergency preparedness environmental, occupational health and safety, human rights, and governance best practices  Occupational injury and illness into our business processes. Environment. Reducing the pollutants from and within our facilities. Page Experience Experience shared. shared. 6 of 26 sitel.com United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2014/15  Environmental risk management Ethics which defines the ethical standards by which  Pollution prevention and resource reduction Sitel conducts its business and a Supplier Code of  Waste disposal and recycling Conduct, which sets out the standards we expect of our suppliers. As a complement to the Global Code Sitel’s Global CSR Framework of Conduct, Sitel has adopted a Corporate Social Responsibility Policy to document Sitel’s We have designed our Global CSR Framework to commitment to best practices in the area of CSR. foster Sitel’s adherence to the law, ethical standards and international norms, as well as to incorporate Through our CSR policy, Sitel recognizes the social and environmental values into our business importance of establishing a documented CSR model. program to demonstrate sound: Sitel’s Global CSR Framework was designed taking • Social responsibility to our Associates, by into account key industry best practices, and is providing safe working conditions and treating centered on a “PLAN-DO-CHECK-ACT” methodology Associates and others with respect; of continuous improvement endemic in Sitel’s • Organizational health and safety awareness, by business culture. Our framework is a management recognizing and controlling health and safety system approach that that we believe will drive hazards across Sitel; sustainable solutions. • Environmental stewardship, by controlling the CSR Policies impact of waste from business and the other impacts of business activities, products and Sitel has adopted a Global Code of Conduct and services on the environment. We believe Sitel believes that conducting business with a high standard of professional conduct, ethics and proficiency is critical to our success and the success of our clients. We continually strive to improve our processes and procedures to achieve the highest quality and the best results for our clients in accordance with all applicable laws and regulations and in respect of the principles of the UN Global Compact. The Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact Human Rights Environment • Principle 1. Businesses should support and • Principle 7. Businesses should support a respect the protection of internationally precautionary approach to environmental proclaimed human rights; and challenges; • Principle 2. Make sure that they are not • Principle 8. Undertake initiatives to promote complicit in human rights abuses. greater environmental responsibility; and Labor • Principle 9. Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly • Principle 3. Businesses should uphold the technologies. freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Anti-Corruption • Principle 4. The elimination of all forms of • Principle 10. Businesses should work against forced and compulsory labor; corruption in all its forms, including extortion • Principle 5. The effective abolition of child and bribery. labor; and • Principle 6. The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Page Experience Experience shared. shared. 7 of 26 sitel.com United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2014/15 Human Rights Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Page Experience Experience shared. shared. 8 of 26 sitel.com United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2014/15 S itel is an organization committed to the respect of human rights and upholding labor standards, and to ensuring all internal and external stakeholders are treated with dignity and respect. Sitel’s human rights practices are embedded within Reporters may use the EthicsPoint as a channel to the company’s policies, including the Sitel Global report activities that may conflict with Sitel’s logical Code of Conduct and Ethics, the Sitel Supplier Code and ethical standards or breach Sitel policies, such of Conduct and Ethics, and the Sitel Global Corporate as the Global Code of Conduct and Ethics, the Social Responsibility Policy. Sitel respects the Supplier Code of Conduct and Ethics, the Anti-Bribery principles of the UN Global Compact throughout our and Corruption Policy, the Global Privacy Policy and global operations. many other Sitel policies. Suspected accounting, financial, or audit matters, frauds, dishonest acts, All Associates are required to review and certify bribery or anything that may affect the vital interest their understanding of and compliance with the Sitel of Sitel or the moral or physical integrity of its Global Code of Conduct and Ethics. Key Sitel Associates may be reported. Reports may be Associates undergo annual code of conduct and submitted anonymously where permitted by law. ethics training, in which they learn about the major components of the Sitel Global Code of Conduct, Sitel’s Global Code of Conduct and Ethics includes an how it can be used to guide decisions and actions in open door policy and strictly prohibits retaliation specific situations, and what actions are appropriate against any person for making a report in good faith to take when a violation of the Code of Conduct is or cooperating in an investigation. suspected. This online training also serves to increase our Associates awareness of how to deal Policies with everyday situations that challenge their ability Sitel invests significant effort to promote policies to demonstrate respect and inclusion. that are consistent with our goals. Sitel has Suppliers are another important part of our business conducted a review of the company’s relevant and we expect the same commitment from them as policies in order to embed Sitel’s commitment we do for ourselves. This is why we have established against all forms of human rights abuses. a Sitel Supplier Code of Conduct and Ethics. In order to do business with Sitel, suppliers are required to The Sitel Global Code of Conduct and Ethics defines review and acknowledge their conformance with the ethical standards by which Sitel conducts its Sitel policy. business and the Sitel Global Corporate Social Responsibility Policy documents Sitel’s commitment to best practices in the area of social and Reporting environmental responsibility. All Sitel policies are accessible to the Associates and available in the Concerns about human rights or other issues can be company’s intranet. brought to our attention via EthicsPoint, a confidential, integrated toll-free telephone and webSitel has also published a Corporate Social based hotline. EthicsPoint is staffed by an Responsibility Statement, endorsed by our CEO, to independent third party that is available 24 hours a stress our commitment to social responsibility by day, seven days a week, with interpreters available providing safe working conditions and treating our for language assistance. Associates and others with respect and according to Country-specific guidance is also available through the standards of the UN Global Compact, and by the Ethics and Compliance Portal on the Sitel global controlling the impacts of business activities, intranet. Reporting procedure and contact products and services on the environment. Copies of information for the EthicsPoint is also available on the CSR Statement are available in all Sitel sites posters on notice boards in all sites, in the Sitel Code across the globe and electronic copies are available of Conduct and Ethics and in other relevant policies. both internally in the Sitel intranet, and externally in Sitel corporate website. Page Experience Experience shared. shared. 9 of 26 sitel.com United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2014/15 Sitel Footprints Site Footprints is a CSR Program that aims to have a The Sitel Footprints program aims to support positive impact on the communities where we community projects in those areas we operate in and call home. operate, through the expertise of the business and further enhancement of philanthropic, diversity and Sitel aims to partner with reputable organizations, sustainability efforts on corporate responsibility in including non-governmental and civil society all Sitel locations around the globe. Sitel Footprints organizations and make meaningful and sustainable serves as the umbrella program for a number of CSR contributions to the host countries and communities projects focused on Education and Job Generation, where Sitel operates. Health and Wellness, Social Responsibility, and Environmental Conservation. Our goal Sitel will provide ethical and safe working condition and respectful and dignified treatment of Associates and fully embed the company’s commitment against all human rights abuses. Sitel will engage suppliers in its corporate social responsibility program, by having suppliers acknowledge compliance with Sitel’s Supplier Code of Conduct and Ethics. Page Experience Experience shared. shared. 10 of 26 sitel.com United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2014/15 Labor Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labor Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Page Experience Experience shared. shared. 11 of 26 sitel.com United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2014/15 S itel Associates are the core of our business, and we conduct our business with respect for and adherence to principles of diversity and equal employment opportunity. Sitel is further committed to providing a safe and healthy work environment that minimizes the incidence of work related injury, is free from harassment, discrimination, harsh treatment and acts or threats of violence. It is our goal to promote an environment that encourages open communication, promotes mutual respect and teamwork, and which encourages individuals to develop and learn. Child, forced and compulsory labor Non-discrimination and equal employment Sitel condemns all forms of compulsory labor. Sitel opportunity treats its Associates with dignity and respect and Sitel employs a diverse workforce and does not does not condone the use of forced, bonded or tolerate unlawful discrimination. indentured labor, involuntary prison labor or the trafficking of persons. Sitel seeks to provide a work environment free of unlawful discrimination based on race, color, age, Sitel upholds an environment where work is gender, sexual orientation, ethnicity, disability, voluntary and Associates are free to terminate their pregnancy, religion, political affiliation, or marital employment. No Associate is required to surrender status. At Sitel, Associates or potential Associates any personal document as a condition of are not subjected to medical tests for any unlawfully discriminatory purpose. employment. Additionally, Sitel does not support child labor in any Sitel is committed to equal opportunity for all matter or form. The use of legitimate workplace qualified Associates and job applicants. Applicants apprenticeship programs, which comply with all and Associates are evaluated and compensated laws and regulations, is supported. Sitel does not based on their qualifications, demonstrated skills, expose children to any situations in or outside of and achievements, in an environment free from the workplace that are hazardous or unsafe to unlawful discrimination. their physical and mental health and development. Our commitment to equal opportunity is an investment in our people and our future growth. A Freedom of association company that attracts, selects, develops, and retains Sitel upholds its Associates’ rights to join or refrain the best people will remain the industry leader. from joining worker associations in accordance with Sitel’s ongoing efforts in this area will provide us the law. Where worker organizations are legally with a critical competitive advantage in the recognized, Sitel recognizes those rights provided by marketplace. law. All employment decisions such as hiring, discipline, Sitel seeks to ensure that representatives of terminations, promotions, and job assignments are Associates and any personnel engaged thereby, are based on Sitel’s needs and an Associate’s not subjected to discrimination, harassment, performance and potential. These decisions are intimidation, or retaliation for reason of their being made without regard to a person’s gender, race, members of a union or participating in trade union color, national origin, age, religion, sexual activities, and that such representatives are afforded orientation, or any other characteristic protected by their rights under the law. applicable law. Page Experience Experience shared. shared. 12 of 26 sitel.com United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2014/15 Sitel endeavors to address non-discrimination and strongly encourages its Associates to report any gender equality through Sitel’s internal hiring and harassment to appropriate company officials. promotion processes. Over 70% of our Coaches, Managers and Site Directors are promoted from Open door policy within our diverse and global agent population. In Sitel operates under a set of values that illustrate 2014, 51.9% of Sitel’s total workforce was composed how we do business and work together. We are of female Associates. In 2015, this percentage committed to ensuring a positive work environment increased to 53.1%. Female Associates in leadership and to providing the best possible working position managers and above increased 2.8% in conditions for our Associates. the same period. Part of this commitment includes encouraging an Sitel India has launched a Women’s Empowerment open and frank atmosphere in which any problem, program to help women to realize their potential complaint, suggestion or question that is delivered and to offer key information for their personal in a respectful manner receives a timely response development. The program focuses on gender from management. equality and women’s empowerment not only as human rights, but also because they are important All Associates are expected to treat each other with for sustainable development. courtesy and mutual respect and are encouraged to In the first three quarters of 2015, Sitel India offer positive input and constructive criticism to help improve relationships and the way we work Associates had a total of 1,825 hours of activities together. related to women’s empowerment, covering 1,269 female Associates in our four Indian sites. The If any Associate wishes to discuss any matter directly activities included inspirational, educational with someone at a level higher than their manager, seminars and activities to boost confidence and selfthey can do so, without fear of reprisal. Sitel’s Open esteem, such as seminars and other similar activities Door Policy may be used whenever job-related on sexual harassment and women’s safety, healthy concerns or questions cannot be resolved directly hearth, stress management, personal health, bone between an Associate and his or her immediate mineral density, women’s wellness activities, and supervisor, or if the Associate is simply not cancer awareness, and even a Women’s Cricket comfortable bringing the concerns to the supervisor. Tournament and a fashion show. Associates who have experienced conduct that may be contrary to Sitel policy may report their concerns Professionalism and harassment to their immediate Manager, a member of the Sitel Associates are expected to be respectful of Human Resources department, or the EthicsPoint others’ customs and traditions. We treat each other, hotline. our clients and their customers with respect, Our Open Door philosophy is embedded in how our courtesy and dignity. organization works every day. Because we are a Each Sitel Associate throughout the world is entitled virtual organization, often the open door is to work in a professional atmosphere, free from all facilitated through access on email or Skype® and forms of harassment. Sitel seeks to provide a work Human Resources via the HR HelpDesk. At all of our environment without harsh and inhumane sites, leaders are accessible and are encouraged to treatment, including any sexual harassment, sexual walk the floor so that agents may easily ask abuse, corporal punishment, mental or physical questions or provide feedback. coercion or verbal abuse of Associates or threat of One great example is that every week our CEO films any such treatment. and sends out a short video to keep our Associates Sitel supports Associates in reporting any inhumane informed about what is happening across the globe. treatment without fear of reprisal or intimidation. Following every video, a brief survey is included so Sitel prohibits retaliation against anyone who that any Associate can respond and provide reports discrimination or harassment or who feedback. Our CEO reads every single survey participates in an investigation of such reports. Sitel comment and personally responds as appropriate. Our executive team is constantly engaged in skipPage Experience Experience shared. shared. 13 of 26 sitel.com United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2014/15 level meetings and discussions with Associates persons with limited mobility or other disabilities. since many of our leaders began their careers in the Notwithstanding the flexibility of our Work@Home contact center, they are well-attuned to the needs programs, we further find that for physical of a frontline associate population and work hard to disabilities, specifically, Sitel’s contact center ensure a People-First culture in their daily actions. environment is also a great place to work. Many of our Associates, who have worked in physically Associate satisfaction demanding industries, like the military or construction, often appreciate Sitel job We encourage all Associates to share ideas and opportunities because of the comfortable working work together to make Sitel a great place to work as conditions and benefits. we strive to achieve our common goals of personal and professional success. Another example of actions to improve the opportunities for people with disabilities is the goal At Sitel, we administer a global annual employee for our Spanish operation to have at least 2% of survey called Sit & Tell through which we measure disabled Associates in the workforce. Sitel Spain progress on our People strategy against employee collaborates with the Discatel Project whose main engagement, and employee Net Promoter Score for objective is to demonstrate the technical feasibility all Associates. We use the results to create targeted and economic and social performance of contact action plans that are led by Human Resources in centers by allowing telecommuting from home or partnership with leaders across the globe for every remote centers for people with physical disability. region and function utilizing standard process and Our Spanish sites also work in a complementary way tools on our global Sit & Tell SharePoint. with the Carmen Pardo-Valcarce Foundation to print Each business and function reviews their results the local newsletter Sitel Informa. Almost 90% of with their Associates and identifies focus areas for Carmen Pardo-Valcarce’s staff have disabilities and action planning. They also assign a Results to Action they teach the employees how to use tools and (R2A) Champion to sponsor the action planning printing machinery, as well as all kinds of tasks from process. Each R2A Champion has a team of layout design to printing, filming and logistics. volunteers who are working to change their focus Sitel’s Procurement organization also seeks to areas into actionable plans. The goal is to have an increase Sitel’s procurement of goods and services action plan charter in place that is shared with all of from minority, women and disabled business the Associates. enterprises owned or controlled by minorities, women, the disabled and military veterans. Global diversity and inclusion As a global company, Sitel recognizes and celebrates Training and development the cultural differences among its workforce and Sitel provides learning and development provides a workplace that respects those opportunities to train all Associates in undertaking differences. their jobs effectively and efficiently. It also promotes At Sitel, we recognize the benefit of a diverse supply the continued growth and development of their chain in our global markets with Associates, careers. The aim is to identify learning needs, customers, and suppliers coming from diverse develop training programs and ongoing evaluation backgrounds and cultures. We believe that a culture and monitoring of trained staff. All Sitel leading of diversity and inclusion positively affects the positions are required to undergo a specific workplace and drives superior business performance, which allows us to compete leadership training plan. successfully in a global marketplace. Learning & Development at Sitel encourages all One of our fastest growing businesses is our Associates to learn and grow through the benefits of continued and steady development. Work@Home business, where our employees are able to work directly from their homes. We aim to With a combination of mixed training, classroom, recruit more Associates from the larger disabled distance and online, Sitel ensures its employees the population because of the ability of our Work@Home programs to suit the needs to those Page Experience Experience shared. shared. 14 of 26 sitel.com United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2014/15 opportunity to participate in a learning environment expanding the council approach to other teams in and training uniform, consistent and effective: 2016. • Live training courses. Based primarily on Each of our regions also sponsor a variety of classroom training courses through the use of activities dedicated to connecting Associates and various tools, graphics and audio-visual support. promoting our People-First culture. Below are two Normally, physical documentation support and examples from Sitel Philippines: practical guidance, as well as exercises and Manager Conclave: Over 100 managers and quizzes are delivered. executive leaders came together to meet one • On-line training courses. Training courses are another, build their professional skills, and learn to done through the Internet and/or telephone and work more effectively as a team to share best not face-to-face. Supporting documentation, practices across the region. exercises and questionnaires are made available Experience Shared sessions: This activity started via the web. primarily as a platform to invite employees to share • Joint training courses. Mixed courses include their Sitel experiences or life experiences that have classroom, distance and online modules. contributed to their careers in a positive way. These activities happen on a weekly basis in our Baguio • Continuous training courses. Aimed at ensuring site and on a monthly basis in Manila. The theme is the maintenance and improvement of quality in different for each session. Recent sessions have the services we provide to our clients’ customers included topics such as helping single parents as well as continual professional development balance personal and professional life and how and education of our Associates. employees from para-professional roles, such as Sitel has a dedicated Global Training Leader and has janitorial or security, can become full-time invested heavily in its training organization. The Associates. focus has been on improving the training content and delivery to be more effective and efficient for Sitel University our Associates. Sitel University is the company’s global learning In 2014, 4,535,699 hours of training were delivered management system which provides all Associates to our Associates. with a wide variety of online, self-paced, and In 2015, Sitel delivered instructor-led trainings, in multiple languages. This learning environment allows Sitel Associates all over 4,450,985 of training hours to its Associates the world to participate in a centralized and uniform training environment that has proven to be convenient and effective, and gives Sitel the In addition, we are in the process of implementing a opportunity to report on training participation new performance, career development and online globally. learning platform in 2016 for all Associates. Sitel University offers hundreds of courses on topics In 2015, we also placed a special focus on our topranging from Sitel-specific content to compliance, performing employees by launching three Global management, leadership, team building and Leadership Councils. These councils focus on specific professional development. populations Operations Managers, for example to link high-potential Associates around the world Sitel University encourages Associates to continue to learn and grow through the benefits of e-learning. together for best practice sharing, insight from our And above all, Sitel University is a symbol of the executives, and collaborative work. The council dedication Sitel has to its Associates, with a purpose members work together to plan agendas and of bringing out the true potential of each individual. identify areas within the company where they can contribute to solving real business problems or All Associates are required to participate in an finding innovative solutions to complex challenges. online course that covers, among other topics, the Our associates are truly enjoying being part of a Sitel Global Code of Conduct and Ethics, Corporate global peer group, and we look forward to Social Responsibility, Privacy, Security and incidents Page Experience Experience shared. shared. 15 of 26 sitel.com United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2014/15 reporting. This course is a required annual Given the size of Sitel population, certification. this means that Talent management and career opportunities 1,441 and Associates were promoted 1,737 Sitel fills open positions by promoting Associates from within the company whenever possible, in 2014 and 2015, respectively enabling our clients to benefit from trained, experienced personnel. Internal job openings are Work and personal life balance posted on our corporate intranet and within each Sitel believes that maintaining a professional/ site where Associates can submit an application for personal life balance and creating a family culture any posted position. within our facilities is critical to employee We invest in internal training programs to prepare satisfaction and success. Associates for advancement. Examples include our At Sitel, one of our brand pillars speaks to our Track Training programs, designed to prepare philosophy on work life balance Global Strength, Associates to become managers. Individual eLocal Flexibility. Indeed, we continue to promote training courses are available through our learning local ways of working as part of doing business so management system, Sitel University. Depending on that employees can work wherever, and to some the individual goals, Sitel has pre-determined career extent, whenever they want. In fact, one of our paths to guide development towards a variety of fastest growing businesses is Work@Home, where positions. For example, there is a clear career path our agents are able to work directly from their from Agent, to Coach, to Operations Manager to home. Additionally, we continue to invest in Site Director and above. technology so that we can connect with each other A formal talent management and succession no matter where we are located. It is typical for planning program is used to help identify future business meetings to be held virtually, utilizing leaders based on knowledge, skills, abilities, work Skype® and conference bridge services so that our ethic, performance, leadership abilities, key employees are able to work effectively together, competencies and behavioral characteristics. even if they are not together in one location. In 2014, Work@Home agents constituted 2.9% of Sitel is committed to focusing on recruiting and our total agent population, and the following year retaining our agents by creating an environment that is positive, nurturing, and respectful. Career the percentage of Associates benefiting from this advancement based on individual strengths is program increased to 3.8%. In our 2015 Associate strongly encouraged at Sitel. The ability to move up engagement survey, when we asked each of our within the organization makes Sitel more than just a Associates to report on their work life balance, 79% stopping point in an Associates’ career. of all participating Associates and 83% of Work@Home Associates reported being able to Generally speaking, Sitel rarely recruits externally balance their work and life. We think we can for Coach positions, as internal candidates can continue to make progress as we support flexible contribute notably more Sitel experience. Our jobworking opportunities for our Associates. posting system aids in internal promotion, traditionally filling 80% to 90% of advanced positions In 2014 In 2015 at Sitel. In-house training programs are conducted we had we have 1,445 1,995 regularly to further prepare Associates for advancement. In 2014, Sitel promoted 5.4% of its Associates to Work@Home agents Work@Home agents higher positions and in 2015 the promotions represented 6.1% of the staff. Page Experience Experience shared. shared. 16 of 26 sitel.com United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2014/15 and training, and investigation of incidents and As an example in the Philippines, aside from the accidents. attractive benefits package every Sitel Associate enjoys, the Sitel Human Resources team promotes Sitel is committed to an open communication with work-life balance by bringing certain vendor services all Associates on workplace health and safety, nearer to our Associates. Pamper and massage day, encouraging Associate input and continual haircut day, pizza day or medical check-up days are education to identify and solve health and safety just some of the activities done in partnership with issues, or other concerns relating to working different companies through the efforts of the Sitel conditions without fear of reprisal or intimidation. HR team. General assemblies and client-sponsored events and parties are also a favorite because Sitel has implemented a global business continuity Associates are able to bond and build better management policy to set required standards for emergency preparedness in all sites. Safety of our relationships outside the workplace. people is the first priority and is addressed prior to Sitel also holds Corporate Social Responsibility any consideration regarding Sitel’s or clients’ business requirements. activities in all sites which are usually sponsored by both the company and the Associates themselves. All Sitel Associates take our Privacy and Security Company-wide events, such as Christmas and yearAwareness Training in which they learn about Sitel end parties and Battle of the Bands, soccer privacy, security and safety policies, practical championships, also bring the Associates together to examples on how to apply them both at work and celebrate their successes as one big Sitel family. personal life, and also learn to identify situations In Brazil, at the occasion of Child’s Day, the that pose a risk to the company’s and their own Associates are invited to bring their small children to security. This training has annual refreshers to work. During the day, the Human Resources team ensure all Associates are aware of the main takes the children on a site tour to teach children elements. about their parent’s workplace and work routine. Our Brazilian sites have established a committee to develop preventative solutions and corrective Health and safety measures for any occupational health and safety Sitel is committed to providing a safe and healthy issues. The committee members representing the environment for our Associates, clients, and visitors. employees are elected by the Associates Sitel makes every reasonable effort to promote, themselves. The committee members meet create, and maintain a safe and healthy workplace regularly and develop risk assessments and plans to by providing safeguards against injury or hazards reduce accidents, provide training, and other through maintaining proper equipment, materials, programs related to health and safety in the facilities, and Associate training. workplace. Sitel recognizes that, in addition to minimizing the incidence of work-related injury and illness, a safe Communication and healthy work environment enhances Associate Communication plays a key role in the success of retention and morale. any program or policy and serves as the foundation for consistent workplace practices. We are aware that to successfully create a safe and healthy environment we must ensure our Associates Sitel has several established communication understand the risks to their health & safety and channels for our Associates. First, we have a work together with us to avoid them. It is essential quarterly online employee magazine called The that our Associates receive information on risk Globe that is translated into five languages and identification and risk avoidance, and know how to showcases information from across the globe, react during an emergency situation. including Human Resources, leadership and client Our commitment to achieve these goals is to updates, and highlights associates and community activities, like volunteerism and giving. establish the means to develop preventive activities, to improve communication, procedures, information Page Experience Experience shared. shared. 17 of 26 sitel.com United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2014/15 We also have a weekly video blog from our CEO, Communication is bi-directional fostering not only called Five Minute Friday, where he typically chats communications to Associates but from Associates with another leader from across Sitel about to management important and timely business updates. Our CEO In addition to our traditional communication films these videos across the globe so that events channels, we also have a variety of touch points with happening all over Sitel are regularly captured for all our Associates to provide opportunities for dialogue Associates. between leaders and Associates. Examples include At the local level, each site spends time every week Experience Shared sessions in the Philippines and communicating with Associates via meetings, social Europe where we held focus groups to learn more media, and bulletin board postings. Best practices about what Sitel Associates value and what include suggestion boxes used by site directors to motivates them. We also have quarterly Site solicit ideas from Associates for improvements. In Director and Coach boot camps and on-boarding addition, we continue to invest in our strategy and trainings where we bring leaders together from resources for social media communications so that across regions to learn best practices and make sure we can more readily access all of our Associates. they have what they need to support our Associates. Our goal Sitel will comply with applicable work and labor legislation and regulations in the operation of our business and support dignity and respect in the workplace. Sitel will engage suppliers in its corporate social responsibility program, by having them acknowledge compliance with Sitel Supplier Code of Conduct and Ethics. Additionally, we will enhance the use of human resources information systems as a reliable, single system of Associate record providing consistent and accurate reporting of Associate information globally. Page Experience Experience shared. shared. 18 of 26 sitel.com United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2014/15 Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Page Experience Experience shared. shared. 19 of 26 sitel.com United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2014/15 W e are committed to the concept of sustainable development which requires balancing the good of the wider global community, the protection of human health and the environment with the need for profitable growth of our operations. Sitel provides world-class customer care solutions apply those to their own suppliers they work with in from onshore, nearshore and offshore locations in the delivery of goods and services for Sitel. 21 countries. As a service provider, Sitel activities As an example, in the US facilities, all utilized have little impact on the environment when cleaning products are “green chemicals”. The Sitel compared to other industries. Nevertheless, Sitel Procurement team also negotiates with suppliers to believes in being a responsible, environmentally provide the preferred choice of recycled paper in aware company, minimizing, wherever possible, our sites. negative effects on the community, environment and natural resources. Carbon footprint and use of resources Sitel strives to comply with applicable Sitel encourages the use of technologies that environmental laws and regulations in the operation improve efficiency and conserve resources. of its business and explores opportunities to be a good steward of natural resources through actions Business travel is a large contributor to the such as recycling, operating paperless and the use of environmental footprint in our industry. Most energy efficient equipment. notably, web and teleconferencing greatly reduces the need for business-related travel. By providing Sitel is committed to reducing pollutants Associated Associates with multiple conferencing options and with its business which may have adverse effects on collaboration solutions, Sitel encourages the use of the community, environment and natural resources, the available technology, whenever possible, in while safeguarding the health and safety of the order to reduce business travel, which, in turn, public. reduces the company’s carbon footprint. All Associates are expected to be respectful of the New equipment purchased is assessed for energy communities and environment within which we efficiency. For example, purchasing energy efficient operate, safeguarding the health and safety of the computers and other electrical and electronic Associates and the public. equipment is a smart way to reduce energy consumption. Procurement Examples of other actions that are being As with all aspects of our business, we conduct our implemented, where possible, are the use of motion procurement using the highest ethical standards and sensors for lights, use of low energy LED lighting, considerations. Our procurement decisions take into scheduling of air conditioning units turn on and off, account not only price, quality and reliability of shutting down computers when not in use, etc. service, but also how potential suppliers treat the people, communities, and environment in their Additionally, waste prevention and recycling are sphere of influence. powerful ways to use less energy, reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and contribute to a Sitel expects suppliers to comply with all local and healthy climate. Everything we consume from a national environmental legislation, regulations and sheet of paper to computers requires energy for its directives to protect and improve the environment, manufacture, transportation and disposal. This and have processes in place to ensure compliance. energy is usually produced by burning fossil fuels Suppliers should have action plans in place to and releases carbon dioxide and other greenhouse manage their environmental impact, e.g. energy gases into the atmosphere. Our sites have recycling reduction and waste management programs. programs in place to minimize landfill impact and Our goal is to work with our suppliers to ensure full the release of harmful gases due to its production compliance with these principles, as they in turn and disposal process. Page Experience Experience shared. shared. 20 of 26 sitel.com United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2014/15 Associate engagement in energy efficiency and 16,904,000 cubic liters in 2013 to 12,754,000 in carbon reduction can help change behavior in the 2014 representing almost a 25% reduction of the workplace, to reduce unnecessary energy water consumed. consumption and cut your organization's carbon Sitel Serbia operates from one of the few certified emissions. green buildings in Belgrade. The building has Sitel is developing a system to track, manage and received the BREEAM certification that sets the reduce the use of natural resources and the standard for best practice in sustainable building greenhouse gas emissions of our sites. While saving design, construction and operation and is one of the energy is an obvious strategy reducing waste, most comprehensive and widely recognized reducing the use of copy paper and saving water is measures of a building's environmental also really effective. performance. BREEAM includes aspects related to energy and water use, the internal environment As an example, Brazil implemented a water saving (health and well-being), pollution, transport, program in the sites. Many actions were taken, such materials, waste, ecology and management as awareness campaigns, maintenance of water processes. pipes, and installation of water pressure reducing valves and water-saving toilets. The Brazilian sites were able to reduce water consumption from Our goal Sitel will seek to meet the requirements of all applicable legislation providing for protection of the environment, our Associates and the public and set higher targets where appropriate. Sitel will assess and implement practices and technologies that reduce waste, and support environmental stewardship, and encourage our Associates to incorporate into their work activities practices that decrease impact on the environment. Page Experience Experience shared. shared. 21 of 26 sitel.com United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2014/15 Anti-Corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Page Experience Experience shared. shared. 22 of 26 sitel.com United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2014/15 W e strive for excellence in what we do and how we do it. At Sitel we value integrity and ethical behavior in the conduct of our business. Sitel is committed to compliance with anticorruption and anti-bribery laws in the countries in which we do business and to implement policies and procedures that prohibit bribery and corruption by our Associates and anyone representing our interests. Sitel does not tolerate any form of bribery or incident resolution. The mandatory reporting of corruption. Under no circumstance shall any suspected or actual fraud or ethical conduct matters Associate or anyone acting on Sitel’s behalf give, is managed through Sitel’s existing global incident pay, offer, promise to pay, or authorize the giving or reporting procedures, with training developed to payment of money or any other thing of value to maintain awareness of the incident reporting any foreign government official or Sitel client, obligations. vendor or other business partner for any improper Operational adherence is managed through our purpose or in violation of applicable law, including Management System that is aligned to ISO 27001 the local laws of any relevant country. standards to ensure that controls for the secure Sitel has a Compliance and Ethics department management of all data required to manage and headed by the Vice President of Global Compliance deliver the services are in place and are assessed on reporting directly to the Chief Legal Officer of Sitel. an ongoing basis for effectiveness with a view to Designated compliance contact persons assist with continual improvement. Relevant management the implementation of Sitel’s compliance program. information and reporting are shared with clients as part of established escalation management and We have achieved compliance with key industry periodic business review processes. standards which provide all Associates with a consistent management framework to apply to ethical behavior. Sitel Anti-Corruption Program As a United States-based company, Sitel’s antiSitel also maintains adequate accounting books and corruption program is based around the U.S. Foreign records and keeps a system of internal accounting Corrupt Practices Act FCPA. However, it also seeks controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances to set a clear global standard for its approach to that, among other things, transactions have been honest and fair dealing, which meets the legislation executed in accordance with generally accepted in all its countries of operation such as UK Anti accounting principles Bribery Act and the Brazilian Anti-Corruption Act. Sitel’s Internal Audit team performs financial and The program has 6 key principles: compliance audits throughout the year, covering Tone at the top processes that are potentially subject to ethical deviations, such as bribery and frauds. Management’s “tone at the top” is vital for establishing a transparent and company-wide Sitel’s global policies include the Global Code of culture against corruption. Conduct and Ethics, Supplier Code of Conduct and Ethics, Global Anti-Bribery and Corruption, Global The top-level management of Sitel is committed to Anti-Money Laundering, Global Risk Management, preventing bribery by persons associated with Sitel. Fraud Management, Global Security and Ethics They foster a culture within the organization in Incident Management, Global Information which bribery is never acceptable. Classification, Global User Access & Approval, and other security awareness and usage policies. Sitel’s top-level management is committed to sending clear and regular messages to all Associates All Sitel Associates and, where appropriate, third and business partners that corruption and bribery is party contractors or vendors, are required to report unacceptable, such as communications from the any fraud, security and ethically related incidents company’s CEO reinforcing the need for Code of following the Sitel Security Incident Reporting Conduct and Ethics Training, and referencing the procedure to enable response, investigation and Page Experience Experience shared. shared. 23 of 26 sitel.com United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2014/15 compliance obligations on quarterly town hall assessment is periodic, informed and documented. meetings. Sitel performs comprehensive risk assessment activities that identify and weigh risks that help Top management is also involved in developing the define priorities including: company’s corruption-prevention procedures by setting prevention policies, assigning management • Management Compliance Questionnaire to develop, implement and monitor procedures, as reviewed quarterly by Sitel’s Finance team; well as supporting centralized controls for • Internal Audit reports; procurement procedures. • Internal Audit annual Enterprise Risk Assessment Proportionate procedures to identify potential risk areas and collating Sitel’s procedures to prevent bribery by persons conclusions; and associated with it are proportionate to the bribery • Site Compliance Questionnaire to identify key risk risks it faces and to the nature, scale and complexity areas. of its activities. They are also clear, practical, accessible, effectively implemented and enforced. Due diligence At the entity level, internal controls have been Sitel applies due diligence procedures, taking a developed that help ensure that management proportionate and risk-based approach, in respect of directives for the entire organization such as persons who perform or will perform services for or financial analysis and integrity, and adherence to on behalf of Sitel, in order to mitigate identified applicable laws and professional standards financial bribery risks. analysis and integrity, and adherence to applicable Sitel has implemented mandatory requirements for laws and professional standards are appropriately screening and conducting integrity due diligence carried out. They define our corporate culture and assessments of our business partners: clarify the desired behavior of our Associates, management team, and board members. • All suppliers sign up to Sitel’s Supplier Code of Conduct and Ethics, and Anti-corruption The outputs of the entity-level control procedures commitment; provide the basis for mitigating business risks according to their potential impact. Examples of • Business credit checks as standard, and Office of activities that support these controls in Sitel include: Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) as required, to minimize business risk; • ASAT (Associate Satisfaction Survey) with questions on workplace environment; • Increasing percentage of supplier contracts are centrally reviewed and tendered, enabling a • EthicsPoint Associates may report any concerns standardized and consistent process. to Sitel compliance, ethics and whistleblowing hotline; Additionally, due diligence procedures in the recruitment process enables Sitel to hire the best • Background Checks in accordance with policy candidates. Poor hiring decisions can hurt Sitel in a (minimums per country or specific account) and variety of ways increased turnover, increased where permitted by country specific law; burdens on co-workers, compliance problems, and • Associate Handbook defines fraud and action to even business ethics issues. be taken; and Communication and trainings • FCPA Anti-corruption Policy published on the Sitel intranet to employees and incorporated as part Sitel seeks to ensure that its bribery prevention of Sitel’s vendor registration procedure. policies and procedures are embedded and understood throughout the organization through Risk assessment internal and external communication, including training that is proportionate to the risks it faces. Sitel assesses the nature and extent of its exposure to potential external and internal risks of bribery on A key element in the Anti-Corruption Program is its behalf by persons associated with it. The capacity-building and regular training of all Page Experience Experience shared. shared. 24 of 26 sitel.com United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2014/15 Associates. Our training ranges from online courses, Monitoring and review dilemma-training modules and other Sitel Sitel monitors and reviews procedures designed to awareness activities. Sitel strives to constantly prevent bribery by persons associated with it, and improve and tailor the training program in order to makes improvements where necessary. Anti-bribery ensure that our commitment against corruption is and anti-corruption policies are dynamic and require known throughout the organization. Sitel to perform ongoing monitoring of its All Associates are required to review and certify compliance programs and adapting to changing their understanding of and compliance with the Sitel business environment in order to remain effective. Global Code of Conduct and Ethics. Additionally, Sitel Sitel has established internal checks needed to requires key Associates to undergo annual code of monitor and review anti-bribery policies that include conduct and ethics training, in which they learn financial monitoring, bribery reporting, incident about the major components of the Sitel Global investigations, reporting from the Risk and the Audit Code of Conduct and Ethics. The certification process Committee: is completed via a web-based training and certification program. This web-based training • Policy Working Group: annual review of Sitel anticovers anti-corruption and anti-bribery, among corruption policies; other subjects. This online training is provided in the • Risk Committee: monthly meeting involving key Associate’s local language, is available around the departments reviewing current plans and risks clock, and provides participants with a arising enabling discussion of new risks; comprehensive understanding of what is, and is not, permissible as they undertake their responsibilities • Quarterly Audit Committee: report on enterprise each day as Sitel Associate. In addition to the online level risks; and curriculum, Sitel’s Legal Department provides • EthicsPoint Group: review of current EthicsPoint support for Associates should they have questions. hotline cases. Our goal Sitel will regularly refresh conduct training to keep our Associates engaged and updated on the main areas of concerns. Additionally, Sitel will engage suppliers in its anti-corruption program, by having them acknowledge compliance with anti-corruption laws and the Sitel Supplier Code of Conduct and Ethics. Page Experience Experience shared. shared. 25 of 26 sitel.com United Nations Global Compact United Nations on Progress 2014/15 Communication Communication on Progress © Copyright Sitel Corporation 2015 Produced in the United States of America November 2015, version [1.0][?] All Rights Reserved Sitel Global Headquarters Two American Center 3102 West End Avenue Suite 900 Nashville, TN 37203 USA Phone: +1 615.301.7100 Toll-Free (in U.S.): +1 866.95.Sitel sales-na@sitel.com For more information, please visit www.sitel.com Sitel is a world leader in outsourced customer care services, providing our clients with predictable and measurable return on customer investment by building customer loyalty, increasing sales and improving efficiency. Experience shared. Page Experience Experience shared. shared. 26 of 26 sitel.com
