CO R P O R AT E S O C I AL RE S P O NS I B I LI TY C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S 2 0 1 5 2 C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S 2 0 1 5 RTX AND CSR Flemming Hynkemejer RTX strives to act responsibly towards all the Group’s stakeholders. This is a core value in the way we define and implement strategic objectives and action plans. In 2014 RTX adopted the UN’s Global Compact 10 principles for social responsibility, and they form the basis for both our internal and external conduct. By adopting with the UN Global Compact, RTX affirms that the Group support and enact the ten general accepted principles of social responsibility. Our operation is global and there are In this annual Communication on The 2015 objectives are among others natural and cultural differences in Progress (COP) RTX describes actions to halve poverty, ensuring universal business culture and business conduct. taken in the past year to improve our primary education and reducing child UN’s Global Compact is the world’s performance on CSR related matters mortality by two thirds by the year largest initiative for corporate social as well as the development and goals 2015. Denmark Collection makes a responsibility. As RTX wishes to for 2016. noticeable difference to the poorest. contri­bute to society’s positive deve­ RTX supported the Denmark Collection lopment, RTX has signed up to these It is our belief that the target setting (in Danish “Danmarks Indsamling”) principles, which cover human rights, within CSR and the reporting provides financially in January 2015. employees’ rights, the environ­ment a meaningful track for RTX and our Also in 2016 RTX will support the and anti-corruption. In our contracts shareholders, and it is also our belief Denmark Collection or similar charity. and current dialogue with our suppliers, that these contributions will ultimately RTX also assists in the observance of make our world a little bit better, human rights, employees’ rights, the and we are committed to share this Yours sincerely environment and anti-corruption. information with our stakeholders. Flemming Hynkemejer President & CEO, RTX A/S As a global working technology Once a year twelve humanitarian company based on intellectual capital organizations together with Danish our employees is the most valuable Radio unite their capabilities in order asset. In order to maintain a healthy to help people in some of the business it is therefore important poorest countries achieving UN’s that RTX contributes to ensure human 2015 objectives. and labour rights in all areas where we operate. 3 C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S 2 0 1 5 RTX – VISION AND MISSION IN A KNOWLEDGE BASED BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT In order for RTX to maintain its position as an attractive sub-supplier of spe­ VALUES – WHEN cialised wireless development services VISION WORKING WITH and advanced IP products, it is essential OUR that the Group’s employees have a CUSTOMERS broad insight into the engineering disciplines required to carry out high technology development projects Our vision is that customized wireless We believe that, because our experts from definition to delivery of wireless solutions will lead the way. RTX delivers are trustworthy and value-adding, we communications services and products. adapted simplicity to users and market earn long-term partnerships with our advantage to businesses. customers. The fact that RTX is able to supply turnkey solutions is down to the skills of its employees. The structure of the organization VALUES enables prompt integration of addi­ MISSION – WHEN tional skilled employees. As a result of WORKING RTX’s location near Aalborg University TOGETHER in Denmark, and its presence in Hong Kong, the Group has access to international skillset within develop­ RTX’s mission is to enable global We believe that, because our teams ment, logistics and quality assurance. brands to freely innovate and launch are customer and goal oriented, we An adaptable development organization targeted, unique wireless solutions by work openly and efficiently with integrity enables the transfer and recruitment providing the specialist knowhow that and mutual respect in an informal of engineers in technological areas makes it all possible – wireless wisdom. environment. at short notice. During 2015 we have refined our vision and mission statements: VALUES VALUES – ACHIEVING – WHEN WORKING OUR MISSION INDIVIDUALLY At RTX, we describe our values as the We believe that, because our colleagues underlying principles for how we work are responsible and proud, we and what we offer to our customers. experience high levels of competence, job satisfaction and enjoyment. We believe the way we work, with our customers, together, and as individuals, has a significant impact on the performance of our business and the satisfaction of both our customers and our employees. Our employees and our actions define our company. 4 C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S 2 0 1 5 RTX – OUR CODE OF CONDUCT RTX is committed to sustainability. suppliers delivering raw PCBs, semi­ 1. Suppliers are expected to manage During 2015 we have therefore conductors, plastic and metal parts, adverse impacts on internationally formalized and developed our code of cables, screws etc., all operated in a recognized human rights including conduct based on our revised mission global context to our EMS partners labour rights. and vision statements. The code of for final assembly. Based on our conduct includes respect for universally definition of sphere of control RTX 2. Suppliers are expected to establish recognised principles on human rights has prioritized the focus to our tier adequate processes to manage all including labour rights, the environ­ one suppliers in 2016. significant potential and actual ment, and anti-corruption. impacts on the external environment. RTX recognizes that establishing the At RTX we have decided to pay parti­ required processes outlined in the 3. Suppliers to RTX should establish cular attention to our sphere of control. Code of Conduct requires both time adequate processes to counter corrupt Therefore, it is at the same time very and resources, especially in the initial practices. Such processes should important to understand RTX’s position phases, as we are also implementing support and be in line with the United in the value chain. Developing and similar processes in our operations. Nations Convention against corruption. supplying complex products and The Code of Conduct should therefore modules without own production be understood as a tool for cooperation The aim of this Code is to guide the facilities makes sourcing of the right and dialogue with our supply chain business relationship between RTX components and products a very partners about improving systems to and suppliers. In case of nonim­portant competence for RTX to manage adverse impacts on human compliance, RTX will support suppliers master. The complete supply chain rights including labour rights, the improve their management of adverse can be very complex from distant sub environment and anti-corruption. impacts continuously. 5 C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S 2 0 1 5 RTX AND HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 1: satisfaction survey will be carried out candidates for management level in RTX supports and respects the in 2015/2016. We regularly invite all RTX. In our recruitment process RTX protection of internationally employees to internal employee therefore encourages qualified proclaimed human rights. briefings where an open and female applicants to seek vacancies constructive dialogue is encouraged. as they arise. PRINCIPLE 2: We believe that a good working RTX will make sure that the environment and a high level of job Executive management: In April 2013 company is not complicit in satisfaction results in greater employee the Supervisory Board adopted policy human rights abuses. satisfaction, higher efficiency levels, to ensure a greater number of female lower staff turnover and low board members elected by the Annual At the end of the financial year absenteeism. General Meeting. The objective was 2014/15, the RTX Group employed that by 2017 the number of female 174 people: 121 in Denmark and 53 Every four years, in accordance with members on the Supervisory Board outside Europe. We strive to manage the Danish Companies Act, RTX Group should be at least 17% of the board the company professionally in all employees elect three members of the members elected at the Annual aspects. All employees are offered Supervisory Board. In January 2015 General Meeting. facilities and working conditions that the present three employee represen­ accord with local conditions. RTX tatives were elected to the Supervisory In January 2015, Katrin Calderon was assigns great importance to a healthy Board of RTX A/S. The next election re-elected as a member of RTX’s physical and psychological working will take place in the financial year Supervisory Board by the Annual environment and we currently carry 2018/19. The employee representatives General Meeting. This means that out employee satisfaction surveys in are elected for a four year period, women represent 20% of the board addition to the mandatory workplace and they join the Supervisory Board members elected by the Annual assessments. The satisfaction survey following the Annual General Meeting General Meeting. is anonymous. in January 2019. Other management: In order to The results are analyzed by manage­ OBJECTIVE FOR THE promote, facilitate and increase the ment with a subsequent summary UNDERREPRESENTED GENDER number of women in management shared with the employees. Based on RTX’s staff policy aims to attract and level positions at RTX, Management these questionnaires, initiatives as well maintain highly qualified and motivated defined the following objectives in as areas of improvement are defined employees. With regard to employment 2014/15: To increase the percentage by management and employees. and recruitment we endeavour to of females at management level as These surveys have resulted in RTX have both male and female candidates, vacancies arise, based on the selection investing in indoor climate improve­ despite the fact that we operate in a of candidates with the appropriate ments at the Noerresundby site during male dominated working environment. skills and to ensure that the recruit­ the financial year 2014/15. By investing ment firms in question identify at least in new and improved climate systems RTX recognizes that the current one female candidate. During 2014/15 we achieved both improved indoor percentage of females in our staff of there were no vacant positions in climate and reduced energy engineers may be too low to secure the RTX management team. consumption. The 2015 employee a pipeline of future female 6 C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S 2 0 1 5 WIRELESS WISDOM IS SUPERB PROAUD I O AUDIO PERFORMANCE The professional audio industry is constantly expertise to deliver incredible sound quality searching for robust wireless transmission in high-density RF environments, whether they links that can transfer high-resolution audio are in the home, the studio or difficult radio signals at super low latency. Recent frequency environments with high inter-symbol regulation has driven professional systems interference. towards digital modulation schemes and open ISM bands, putting them in competition for If you need ProAudio with a twist – such as low spectrum against widely used technologies latency, spectrum-efficient high audio quality, and applications, such as Wi-Fi and Bluetooth™. long radio range or low power consumption To develop a highperformance system that can – we have the expertise you need. We have deliver perfect sound in these environments, already created ProAudio transmission systems you need Wireless Wisdom. for many of the world’s leading brands. We can help you, too. With years of experience in ProAudio design, development and manufacturing, RTX has the 7 C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S 2 0 1 5 RTX AND EMPLOYEES’ RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 3: Freedom of association applies to all questions, post inspirational messages RTX supports freedom of employees in RTX, and RTX complies and follow the achievements of their association and recognizes the with collective agreements. colleagues. right to collective bargaining. The safety committee in RTX is part RTX has established a coordination PRINCIPLE 4: of our statutory safety organization. committee in Noerresundby. The RTX supports the elimina­tion of This committee is responsible for purpose is to promote the ongoing all kinds of forced labour. ensuring a good working environment development and efficiency of the for all employees in the company, company and its continued competi­ PRINCIPLE 5: and it consists of both management tiveness, which is in the interests of RTX supports the effective and employee representatives both management and the employees. abolition of child labour. (safety representatives). The committee comprises six members: two members from the Executive PRINCIPLE 6: RTX has achieved the Danish Working Team and four members are elected RTX supports the elimina­tion of Environment Services’ “green smiley” democratically by secret ballot by all discrimination in respect of award for its Danish workplace, which employees (+ 2 substitutes). In 2015 employment and occupation. recognizes compliance with working the coordination committee has been environmental regulations on a good involved in changing the structure and RTX is involved in promoting the wellworking environment – both physically the administration of the employees being of our employees on an ongoing and psychologically. insurance and pension funds. basis. We want to be an attractive employer for all employees, irrespective Every week management posts a Furthermore the coordination of gender, religion and ethnic newsletter in order to ensure that all committee plans to make it possible background. employees obtain knowledge of the for the employees in the parent tactical and strategic development in company to donate their company RTX has drawn up policies for senior the Group. The newsletters are aimed Christmas present to charity and the and disabled employees, and we have to be inspiration and motivation to coordination committee also takes examples of employees who, in recent work aligned towards the common decision on how to sponsor local years, have benefitted from such objectives in the Group. sports or charity activities. policies. RTX cooperates with local job centres in their work assessment In 2015 RTX has implemented Yammer, RTX conducts yearly salary interview schemes, traineeships, etc. and in which is our social, digital forum with the employees and employee some cases we have offered full-time where all employees across functions development interviews. positions to individuals following and national borders have the oppor­ their training period with us. tunity to debate with each other, ask 8 C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S 2 0 1 5 RTX AND ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLE 7: all windows facing the sun. Both this technology in several customer RTX supports a precau­tionary invest­ments have been carried out in projects during the year under review. approach to environmental Noerresundby. The expected benefits In the same way – but with another challenges. are to reduce the energy related to wireless technology namely Bluetooth cooling the building and at the same – RTX expects to take part in major, PRINCIPLE 8: time improve the indoor climate for partly customer-financed projects RTX supports initiatives to the employees in Noerresundby. within Bluetooth Low Energy (also promote greater environmental Furthermore, RTX continuously opti­ known as Bluetooth Smart) in 2014/15. responsibility. mizes energy saving light sources Compared to the classic Bluetooth, the when possible. advantage of Bluetooth Low Energy PRINCIPLE 9: is that this is able to contribute to RTX supports the develop­ment RTX cooperates with a number of significantly lower power consumption and diffusion of environ­mentally customers who are involved in the while maintaining the communication friendly technologies. development of power-management range. and efficient energy-saving radio RTX wishes to demonstrate responsi­ technologies. RTX’s continuous RTX cooperates with sub-suppliers bility for the environment and to reduce development of the DECT standard to reduce material consumption and our consumption of water, heat and has led to environmentally friendly impact on the environment. RTX also electricity. RTX has implemented and energy-saving improvements to encourages its sub-suppliers to use energy-saving schemes as ”Wakethe DECT technology known as DECT environmentally acceptable raw mate­ on-LAN” because servers, computers ULE (Ultra Low Energy). rials and products, and RTX requires and software play a major role in a them to comply with directives that development company like RTX. One of the advantages of this tech­ regulate the environmental-friendly nology is that it generates energyproduction and handling of electronic In 2015 RTX has invested in new saving operations. It also enables an equipment (RoHS, REACH and WEEE efficient cooling facilities for the server extended lifetime for batteries in directives). installations and during the year RTX mobile and wireless units. RTX has has also installed sun control film on contributed to the implementation of 9 C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S 2 0 1 5 RTX AND ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE 10: organization, and that the Executive RTX wishes to work against Management encourages everyone corruption in all its forms, to report any serious and sensitive including extortion and bribery. matters relating to any breach of the company’s business ethics and/or RTX strongly disapproves of corruption relevant legislation. The policy has in all its forms, including extortion been implemented and employees and bribery. To support this the have the opportunity to report any Supervisory Board in 2013 introduced unethical conduct to the Supervisory a whistle blower policy in order to Board in RTX. No matters were reported emphasise to employees that RTX under the whistle blower policy during wishes to be an open and trustworthy the financial year 2014/15. 10 C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S 2 0 1 5 WIRELESS WISDOM IS SEAMLESS PROTEL E CO M HD AUDIO AND SO MUCH MORE More and more people are using wireless We have offered PABX integrated cordless products to talk & work on the go. Whether solutions for many years and have a unique you need to produce a single standard product platform for integrating our system into or want to develop a unique wireless system complete solutions. We have worked with a for large enterprises, RTX has the technology long list of PBX operators and our portfolio and expertise to make it happen with a short covers a wide range, from single base and time to market. generic handsets to systems with several thousand simultaneous users and high-end As an expert provider of wireless solutions user-specific android-based terminals. to the telecom industry, we have profound knowledge of telecom and VoIP solutions for From HD-quality enterprise solutions with business. Since pioneering the first digital seamless handover and audio encryption to cordless telephones rolled out in Europe, a wireless VoIP solutions with alarm response and standard that was later adopted in America messaging built-in, we can deliver finished and Japan, we have developed hundreds of standard products or design and develop unique products for customers that combine custom systems for specific applications, users excellent RF performance with crisp and clear and environments. audio and an intuitive interface. 11 C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S 2 0 1 5 RTX.DK RTX was established in May 1993. Since June 2000 the Company’s shares have been listed on the NASDAQ OMX Copenhagen Stock Exchange. RTX is headquartered in Denmark and has facilities in Hong Kong and California, USA. RTX possesses a unique combination of both software and hardware know-how. Our team of highly experienced engineers and experts has sound knowledge of all relevant technical and professional disciplines. RTX takes projects from the concept stage all the way through specification, design, development, test and verification into final product. In addition, RTX offers production services for OEM and ODM products.
