National Pension Service Social Responsibility Management Report 2014 13, OLYMPIC-RO 35DA-GIL, SONGPA-GU, SEOUL http://www.nps.or.kr Tel. 02-2240-1908 Fax. 02-3485-9812 25 page Special Issues NPS going to the world About this Report 15page Overview A wealthier nation with a stronger pension Characteristics of 2014 report Status of stakeholders’ 02 About this Report NPS is working to make tomorrow's world a better place economically, We applied GRI G4 Guideline and ISO 26000 for materiality evaluation opinion reflected to management 03 Contents socially, and environmentally. Details of our efforts and results are and from the 9 issues derived from the evaluation, we selected 7 core 04 Company Profile included in this annual Social Responsibility Report. This is the third issues for the sustainable growth in 2013. Accordingly, this report 05 CEO's Message issue since 2012. presents issues relevant to stakeholders in a highly-readable format. Core issues 1~7 are covered in pages 18~55. Sustainable Business 06 Social responsibility management structure Guideline 08 Sound and transparent governance In accordance with G4 Core Guidelines of the GRI (Global Reporting 11 Stakeholder participation Initiative) revised in 2013, we reported all necessary items of Core option of general standard disclosure, and for major issues derived Material Issue from materiality evaluation, this report includes DMA(Disclosures on 16 Social responsibility management Core issues Management Approach) and more than 1 item contents. 18 pension system 23 page 26 fund management Reporting period 34 ethics·compliance This report highlights the social responsibility activities and 38 local community accomplishments of the NPS during the NPS from January 1 to Best Practice 44 shared growth December 31, 2013. For material managerial activities, those of up till Innovation management · 48 employment July 2014 are included, for trend analysis. creation management 52 environment If you have further question or require additional information, please contact us. More detailed contents are available at NPS website(http:// Efforts to improve reliability www.nps.or.kr) Appendix A third-party verification was carried out to improve the reliability and 57 Third party assurance Department Social Responsibility Management Team, accuracy of the contents of this report. The detailed outcomes of the General Administration Department 60 GRI G4, ISO 26000 Index verification are provided through the assurance statement of the thirdE-mail nps0621@nps.or.kr 64 Memberships and principles Tel 02-2240-1908 party verifier in the Appendix. For this 2014 NPS social responsibility management report, information is presented through story-oriented infographics in order to enhance reader understanding. An This report is available in interactive PDF format. Interactive PDF provides convenient functions such as video clips, relating website links and shortcuts that cannot be included in print version. increased font size improves readability. The report was printed with soy oil ink and on eco-friendly paper so that it greatly reduce the emissions of air pollutants while Additional informations are marked with icons for your reference. printing. Company Profile CEO's Message National Pension Service Social Responsibility Management Report 2014 Overview Sustainable Business (as of end of 2013) Material Issue NPS was established in September, 1987 for the Name of corporation National Pension Service purpose of contributing to the enhancement of welfare Location 13, Olympic-ro 35Da-gil, Songpa-gu, Seoul, Korea and stable livelihood of the people by providing Number of employees 4,786 pension benefits for old age, disability and death. Organization Headquarters: 11 departments, 2 centers, Fund Appendix As of end of 2013, we are providing pension service to Management Center, Compliance Officer, National Pension Research Institute 20.74 million insured and 3.44 million beneficiaries, managing a fund of KRW 427 trillion, and carrying Regional Offices: 97 branches, 51 counseling centers, Disability Assessment Center, International We pursue social responsibility management for sustainable growth Center out various welfare service businesses. Overseas: New York Office, London Office National Pension Fund KRW 427 trillion Key businesses of NPS Thanks to all of your interest and support, the National Pension Service has grown to be one of the world's largest pension services with a fund of over KRW 450 trillion, 21 million insured people, and 3.53 million beneficiaries. Service for the insured Fund management Management Status Social security is composed of public assistance, social insurance, and welfare services. We are the main body managing social · managing and maintaining of records of the · executing national pension fund security, the national pension, and the basic pension (public assistance). We also provide welfare services such as disability assessment, supporting insured management policy activities of the disabled, and planning for senior citizens. We are world’s the only comprehensive welfare service organization covering all areas of social · imposing pension premiums · management of domestic and overseas · issuing certificates stocks, bonds and alternative assets security. National Pension, introduced in 1988, has expanded coverage to the entire nation, and acquired financial stability for about 50 years thanks · planning for old age · transparent fund·accounting management to financial stabilization action of two times. Lately, national pension fund exceeded KRW 450 trillion. By size we are only the fourth biggest, but Japans · ‘Durunuri’ social insurance subsidy program · proper disclosure of management pension fund concentrates on public market, Norway’s is Sovereign Wealth Fund, and when we surpass Netherlands’s (KRW 470 trillion) which we expect performance at end of this year, we will, in fact, be the world's biggest genuine pension fund management organization. International cooperation Research and study Social Responsibility Management Task and Accomplishment With an eye on being socially responsible toward management of the economy, · signing and execution of social security · research on the pension scheme and agreements social security systems society, and the environment, we establish six keys of ethical management: shared growth, social contribution, environmental management, responsible · proper management of foreigner beneficiaries · research on fund management investment, and reliable management. We also fully recognize the importance of gender equality within the workplace, and the improvement of labor · advanced system instruction and international effectiveness tradition in the organization management point of view. Firstly, we consider the public good to be of equal importance to stability and profitability. We were cooperation · system core trend propagation awarded 'Institutional Investor of the Year' for 2014 due to our role as a leading investment institution, as well as our efforts in preliminary management, rational exercise of voting rights, and expansion of consignment management. Secondly, in terms of system management, we are trying to provide topPension benefit service Welfare service quality service in every business. We received the Presidential Award for public administration and welfare for the disabled, and our call-center judged · pension benefit payments · disability assessment based on Welfare of to have the best service of any call-center in public or private industry. Thirdly, we position ourselves as Korea's representative institution for old age · lump-sum payments Disabled Persons Act planning and possess the world's best precision in terms of pension payment. Also, trying our best for early settlement of basic pension system and · claim guide of possible beneficiary · activity supporting business for the disabled · follow-up management · national pension silverloan flawless management. Lastly, we are increasing the number of female managers and executives to promote gender equality within the organization. We · work capacity assessment for beneficiaries also promote employment of high school graduates and the disabled. of national basic livelihood To accomplish for goals of social responsibility, we set our service motto and business philosophy as ‘We will serve the public.' Also, by issuing an annual social responsibility report, we aim to promote and enhance social responsibility as a key management consideration. Major accomplishments (Presidential Award in five areas) Excellent case Excellent organization Organization Settlement of We wish your kind affection and interest. Excellent company in gender equality in improving for human resource received citation in coexisting laborThank you. employment administrative service development, commemoration of Day management culture (2013.5) for the public National Quality of the Disabled in commemoration of ‘Customized Management (2014.4) Labor Day October 2014 Chairman & CEO of National Pension Service Choi Kwang Reassuring Service’ Convention (2014.5) (2013.11) (2013.11) 4 5 Social Responsibility Management Structure National Pension Service Social Responsibility Management Report 2014 Overview Sustainable Business NPS CSR Index Material Issue As the best happiness partner of the '100-year-old era' NPS strengthened its social major Social responsibility strategic direction execution task KPI accomplishments in 2014 plan responsibility management to secure a sustainable growth infrastructure. We are management strategy 2013 promoting systematic activities to ensure social contribution management by making preemptive preparations for domestic and international initiatives, such as the ISO Appendix 26000, and establishing the six strategic directions and 14 executable tasks of the Social · realization of trusted · ethics diagnosis index · integrity evaluation result · realization of transparent clean-NPS · integrity index ‘Zero’ corrupt activity by management through Responsibility Management department. · number of fund ACRC(Anti-Corruption proliferation of ethical management corruption and Civil Rights culture Commission) ethical integrity management enterprise vision 100 years old era, best partner you look for · contribute to customers’ · local community · social contribution · social contribution independence and local participation index mileage 116,912 points mileage 129,000 points enterprise strategy enhancing continuous growth infrastructure – strengthening social responsibility management growth · number of people supported by insurance social responsibility happiness community making warm society together · social contribution management goal social contribution mileage 6 strategy ethical management social contribution shared growth 14 execution task environmental management responsible investment strengthening social trust · coexistence cooperation · fair trade index · cooperating company · establishment of fair, based growing together · cooperating company coenesthesia satisfaction cooperative relationship with SMEs coenesthesia satisfaction (91.4 points) with SMEs * For further information, see CSR Homepage : http://csr.nps.or.kr ‘Social Responsible Management Committee’ is an expanded organization of former growing together Social Responsible ‘Ethical Management Committee.’ The development of action plans is handled by the Management Social Responsibility Management Working Group while the execution is handled by Promotion System · model institution · continuous management · perfect score for · LED lighting penetration each functional subsection. The Social Responsibility Management Advisory Council practicing carbon on detailed items greenhouse gas above 50% consists of outside experts, and a stakeholder advisory board reflects various opinions in reduction in life according to environment reduction and energy · small car and information disclosure saving performance environment friendly car our business activities. NPS is also strengthening internal performance through regular system (100 points) penetration above 50% self-checkups such as our SR practice cases and online education programs based on ISO environmental management 26000. We are also annually reporting our compliance status to the UNGC to ensure our socially responsible management meets international standards. · strategic review of · advanced pension & fund · responsible investment · ESG factor analysis responsible investment ‘s investment case study internal and external followed by preparation Social Responsibility Management Committee highest decision-making body : chairman introduction and increase and internal and external presentation, ESG of responsible investment on internal and external sharing analysis structure review strategy Social Responsibility Management Working Group social responsibility general : director of planning understanding responsible investment sub section executing practical administration (social responsibility management department) social service ethics, integrity management shared growth · establishment of · number of (government) · Through the social · establishment of social · social service · anti-corruption · equal opportunity social credibility and public coenesthesia credibility establishment, credibility through · proliferation of donation culture · proliferation of ethical culture · supporting social enterprise others (labor, human promotion of sustainable campaign 3 times winner social responsibility · strengthening of internal checking · fair competition environmental management rights) management through of presidential management · environment-friendly headquarter · equl employment responsible investment credible management contribution commendation in related reinforcement building · labor security social credibility · purchasing environment-friendly · ESG research · system improvement · education field · SRI investment · coenesthesia satisfaction strengthening products · green investments · communication · personal information protection 6 6 function working group 7 Sound and Transparent Governance National Pension Service Social Responsibility Management Report 2014 Overview Sustainable Business Material Issue The NPS board of directors is composed of 11 members, including the chairman, three In 2013, we held a total of 10 boards meetings, and 100% of the executive directors and Composition of the Board of Directors executive members, and seven non-executive directors. With regard to business-related non-executive directors on the board attended. Reporting key issues prior to a board Board of Directors Meetings issues and social responsibility, it is the highest decision-making body at NPS. Nonmeeting has been systemized, and preliminary deliberation of all items prior to a board executive members are appointed by the Minister of Health and Welfare, based on the meeting has allowed us to minimize the percentage of amended decisions. Appendix recommendation made by the Executive Search Committee. Two non-executive members represent business owners and two other non-executive members represent corporate employees. Two non-executive members represent self-employed persons, and one For the independence of non-executive directors, we are operating non-executive Strengthened roles represents the government's pension policy director of the MOHW. directors initiating expert committee and gave them the right to request audit. By holding of non-executive directors orientation for non-executive directors, we are trying to enhance their understanding of (as of end of July 2014) NPS and providing them of job execution manual to strengthen non-executive directors’ Name Organization & position remarks roles. Also to better utilize expertise of non-executive directors, business suggestion Choi Kwang chairman chairman of the board management system, as a result, out of 40 business suggestions, 33 were reflected to actual executive Lee Won-hee executive director of planning executive director directors business. Kim Min-soo executive director of operations executive director Hong Wan-sun executive director of fund management executive director Executive directors are subject to evaluation of implementation performance against Vice president of Korea Employers Evaluation and Kim Young-bae Federation business owner representative agreed objectives. Through the public organizations performance evaluation system compensations Lee Seung-cheol Vice president of the Federation of Korean business owner representative of Ministry of Strategy and Finance, transparency of organization management, ethics Industries president, Federation of Korean Trade enhancement, responsible management, realization of fair society, efforts for shared Kim Dong-man employee representative non-executive Unions growth are comprehensively evaluated and according to the yearly comprehensive directors vice president, Korean Confederation of Kim Gyeong-ja Trade Unions employee representative evaluation result, we are paying the incentives differently. The evaluation for 2013 was B Oh Choong-han KICPA deliberation committee individually insured and total of KRW 108,808,929 of incentive was paid excluding directors. representative Kim Ae-kyung Consumers Korea chief individually insured representative BOD operation performance Cho Nam-kwon pension policy director of MOHW government representative No date agenda participation(%) NPS is utilizing expertise of non-executive directors’ by having expert committees such as · 2013 1 revised supplementary budget(plan) and 5 other issues st 1 2013. 1. 29 100 Board of Directors and the Management Subcommittee, Systems Subcommittee, Funds Subcommittee and Social 2 2013. 2. 26 · 2013 business operation(plan) and 5 other issues 100 Committees Responsibility Management Subcommittee. 3 2013. 4. 24 · 2013 1 budget change(plan) and 5 other issues st 100 4 2013. 5. 14 · chairman management contract(plan) 100 BOD and expert committee composition 5 2013. 6. 19 · organization rule partly change(plan) and 1 issue 100 Board of Directors 6 2013. 7. 23 · human resource rule partly change(plan) and 6 other issues 100 7 2013. 8. 27 · accounting rule partly change(plan) and 3 other issues 100 8 2013. 10. 22 · NPS mid-term management goal(2014-2018) and 1 issue 100 Social Responsibility Management Management Subcommittee Systems Subcommittee Funds Subcommittee Subcommittee 9 2013. 11. 26 · organization rule partly change(plan) and 5 issues 100 3 non-executive directors 3 non-executive directors 3 non-executive directors 3 non-executive directors 10 2013. 12. 24 · NPS 2014 budget(plan) and 4 other issues 100 + 2 executive directors + 2 executive directors + 2 executive directors + 2 executive directors 8 9 Stakeholder Participation National Pension Service Social Responsibility Management Report 2014 Overview Sustainable Business Material Issue The Fund Management Committee is the highest decision-making body for fund management NPS is listening to more opinions from various channels to satisfy the needs of stakeholders. Our dedicated team Fund Management policy. It deliberates and resolves material issues related to fund management. It is chaired by is continuously managing stakeholders by identifying four groups of customers: value-creating customers, valueCommittee the Minister of Health and Welfare, and there are 20 members. The committee is held more purchasing customers, value-delivering customers, and value-influencing customers. This way, the various interests of than 4 times a year to approve fund management instruction(IPS), which is the investment each stakeholder group is met according to our value-creation standards which are aligned with our vision of social Appendix policy book, mid to long-term asset allocation, yearly fund management plan. For expertise of responsibility. Opinions of each stakeholder are included in page 15. decision making of the committee, there are sub organizations of practice appraisal committee, investment policy committee, stock voting right exercise special committee, performance evaluation compensation special committee. value creating value purchasing value delivering value influencing customers customers customers customers Fund management practice appraisal committee : Economy, Business administration, Special Committees finance specialists such as accountants, lawyers are involved for the expertise in fund management to carry out preliminary review of items for fund management committee. Investment policy special committee : Out of items decided by the fund management committee, this committee advises on investment policies of asset allocation, domestic and international alternative investment, exchange hedge, resource investments related items. creates value and delivers to demanding customers customers enhancing mutually customers influencing value Stock voting right exercise special committee : When NPS exercises voting right of the customers purchasing services that are pursuing value and growing creation that NPS is pursuing created by NPS together stocks we own, the committee decides on material issues that are difficult to judge and periodically reviews the guideline of exercise of voting rights. Performance evaluation compensation special committee : The committee acts on · government and · employee · insured people · related institution customer detail customer detail customer detail customer detail suggestions about fund management performance evaluation policy and makes decisions national assembly · beneficiary · cooperating company · media and academic on compensation policy as well. It evaluates and makes final decisions on accounting society matters such as whether to close an account of the national pension fund. · ordinary citizen · local community Risk management committee : To check in advance of inherent risks of fund management · strengthening of Fund management · best understand the · continuous cooperation for creating · communion and and to secure transparency in investment decision making process, the committee carries service value that NPS communication on communication with execution decision of synergy effect by out the establishment of risk management basic guideline, setup and management of risk approach direction approach direction approach direction approach direction pursues and lead by service value that NPS delivering value that NPS value to establish making bodies NPS is pursuing limits or loss limits, building of risk management structure and operation, checking of example is providing friendly image on NPS · strengthening · close cooperation · attitude and expertise of · strengthening contact risk management status. customer contact point execution ability and strengthening of and person in charge frequency by meetings Investment committee : Supports rational investment, stable fund income, establishment through direct positive influence greatly influences thus and publications communication requires thorough of transparent fund management structure and major task is to approve investment control guideline and management plan by assets, to establish annual and monthly fund management plan and management strategy, to set target profitability by asset and communication channel communication channel communication channel communication channel · labor-management · VOC, survey, house call · conference for · workshops, public investment loss limits, to select and manage trading institution. service, CS practical hearings, conferences, conference committee, durunuri growing together social responsibility · labor-management practical meeting, · Dodream Center committee, social Alternative investment committee : The committee was made up to strengthen questionnaire survey, responsibility practical meeting effectiveness and expertise in alternative investment decision making and major role is to satisfaction survey, conference, fund · grievance committee beneficiary forum management committee decide or change infra domestic investment and specific project. 10 11 Stakeholder opinion gathering National Pension Service Social Responsibility Management Report 2014 Overview We are actively applying Sustainable Business your opinion to the our business. Material Issue Prof. Kim Gwan-bo Catholic Univ. Kim Jae-eun Institute for Industrial Policy Studies Prof. Lee Ui-young Gunsan Univ. Appendix homepage to find this information are definitely satisfaction and integrity is the most important miss the essence while minding too much on different kinds of customers. Disclosure is to factor in social responsibility management, technical part. To be easily delivered to general communicate with the public so it needs to set efforts to enhance these factors are required public, by using simple terms and concept guideline to explain from customers’ angle. hence, it is very serious problem that NPS’s explanation, you need to make it deliverable and external integrity is at the lowest. External hearty contents, increase the accessibility with 1st Yang Joon-mo (Citizens United for indications should be thoroughly examined and bigger font size so that the report could be the Better Society) For voting right, we need to actively reflected. subject of a benchmarking. be a bit serious. The voting right should be Comment Comment Comment executed in cautious manner since it should be Prof. Kim Gwan-bo Catholic Univ. When Choi Kwang Chairman NPS is the biggest 01 exercised in terms of guarding public asset as a 02 carrying out shared growth, an effort is and one of a kind pension fund institution in 03 shareholder. necessary to survey and understand the actual the international financial market dealing with fund management committee NPS SR committee Beneficiary forum feeling of partners. Also through redefining of the whole social security(public aid), social 3rd Lee In-sub (Federation of Korean stakeholders, it would be meaningful to find insurance, and welfare service, and the nature of Public Trade Unions) In case of silverloan for other subjects to grow together other than business is closely related to social responsibility over 70 year olds, abolition of joint surety is not partner companies. Since the report contains management. Since the relationship with the National pension fund management a true improvement. There are lots of complaints NPS organized a Social Responsibility contents of shared growth, if issuing of the social responsibility management is higher than NPS held the beneficiary forum to improve committee is the highest decision and dissatisfaction on interest and joint surety. If Co m m i t te e to a c t i ve l y re s p o n d to report can be earlier, evaluation committee can any other institution, we set the execution of the quality of beneficiary service with making body for national pension fund delinquency ratio is 0.3%, it can be regarded as domestic and foreign social responsibility refer to it for understanding the shared growth social responsibility on top priority in the job. 21 participants which are 15 old age, management policy, and is composed of 100% repaid, thus we need to actively review environment, and listen to experts ’ efforts of NPS. As disclosed in our management philosophy disability, survivor pension beneficiaries Minister of Ministry of Health & Welfare the joint surety. opinion from internal and external on of ‘We will serve the public’, we will take the and 6 of NPS including direc tor of as a chairman, and official members of annual major activities. On July 17, 2014, Kim Jae-eun Institute for Industrial Policy initiative recognizing the importance of social operations, pension payment chief and government such as Ministry of Strategy 4th Choi Kwang (NPS) Paradigm of whole social responsibility committee was Studies NPS is one of a kind institution with responsibility and social proliferation. We will others. The opinions of the beneficiaries and Finance and Ministry of Commerce, national welfare policy is changing and for held and reported on contents of social special business structure. An effort is required reflect the opinions of you three we invited today are reflected in the business plan for 2014 Industry and Energy, and employer, fund management, there is social responsibility responsibility report and evaluation on to derive unique CSR model that can be applied to fill the gap within our organization. and being carried out. laborer, individuals and related experts. investment area. Unless it significantly harms shared growth performance. to overseas pension and fund institution, The committee was held 5 times in profitability, we need to have a comprehensive reflecting the typical characteristics and in global Kim Myung-joong Member People tend to 2013 and only opinions related to social review of responsible investment, including old Prof. Lee Ui-young Gunsan Univ. When perspective. In the aspect of communicating be confused about the difference between basic responsibility were quoted in this report. age loan, in fund management committee. establishing CSR strategy, considering with stakeholders through the report, not only pension and basic old-age pension. The general government policy is important, however, preparing CSR issues and materiality evaluation public would better understand these terms if 1st Lim Chae-min, Chairman People who considering what CSR strategy best reflects well but also requires internal thorough review they were explained together. read disclosures and people who visit the NPS characteristics of NPS is most important. Since on actually analyzed parts, and should not 12 13 Stakeholders’ opinions reflected to management opinion reflected to management report employees National Pension Service Social Responsibility Management Report 2014 Overview on-site management uneasiness due to the possibility of unexpected act of the install CCTV and emergency bell, protective inoculation for disabled when accompanying them infectious diseases, install recording system Sustainable Business labor-management top-down compulsive participation for social service establish social contribution committee at the branch to committee participation leaded by headquarter proceed with their own social service insured customer VOC income report period for individual subscriber is not extension of 1 month for due date and improve the convenient due to overlapping with National Tax Service system (cooperate with NTS and try to exempt separate Material Issue reporting period reporting) woman with career discontinuity are not regarded as guarantee the survivor’s pension beneficiary right for 21 subscriber which is irrational making it impossible to woman with career discontinuity Meeting for shared growth with cooperating companies receive survivor’s pension for disability or death Appendix complaint for disability class evaluation, inconvenient extension of eligibility for disabled, loosen disability 22 necessary paper, evaluation focused on papers evaluation criteria, extension of NPS gathering the Kang Hyung-mo Member The loan amount so we have set up an online payment monitoring evaluation document service , extension of evaluation document sharing from related institution for silver loan is small and the eligibility is limited system. While this should ensure that compare to those of other institutions such as subcontractors get paid, this is not sufficient. survey requested for the first time subscriber easy to read and inserted cartoons, added sample cases, enlarged font size 03 understand information material Government Employees Pension and requires The whole system needs to be transformed to beneficiary review on these. guarantee that subcontractors will be paid on beneficiary forum make pension terminology easier to understand, expand applying for 2014 operations time. eligibility for application for silver loan and extension of repayment period Lee Eun-ja Member Silver loan system is request for support for beneficiary service group practically helpful for the olds who have difficulty Fund The venture fund preliminar y Comment survey diversification of beneficiary service contents, support for beneficiary meeting and club vitalization applying for 2014 operations in getting a job or borrowing money, and even management company system that NPS without actually have to use the loan, you feel 04 is implementing is to give a chance to idea contest establishment of beneficiary guardian registration system applying for 2014 operations and selected as task for public institution normalization reassured in life. The system seems good management companies other than consignment Meeting for shared growth with cooperating company hearing from the neighbors and I wish it to be management companies to have management coexistence consultative problem with burdening of additional maintenance cost applying for 2014 operations 14 cooperating companies continued. experience so that to help the venture capital group during the execution of IT project industry growth. To vitalize these preliminary necessary to increase effectiveness of subcontractor applying for 2014 operations 14 payment monitoring system Kim Myung-joong Member Among the management companies, we request to extend to vitalize the preliminary management companies, applying for 2014 operations 14 beneficiaries, there are many people who wishes the criteria for fund consignment to small and necessary to extend the criteria for fund consignment to to make life meaningful by involving in social NPS periodically hold meeting for shared medium sized companies. small and medium sized companies. contribution such as volunteering service. Also growth with cooperating companies to government and assembly it is necessary to review the preparation of a gather difficulties and suggestions. On parliamentary audit problem with restriction on fee support for income earners abolition of lower limit, raise upper limit of less than KRW 350,000 space for the beneficiaries(meeting, counseling) July 8, 2013, we hold meeting for shared necessary to encourage the payment exempted people to intensively guided to 230,00 people and 20,000 reported then activities utilizing external lecturer to growth with cooperating companies and report the income enhance the image of NPS and provision of trying to strengthen the communication specialist doctors society health information for beneficiaries will also be and prepare the coexistence alternatives. rehabilitation medicine if the disability re-examination criteria is weakened, it is make exception clause for re-examination according to 22 society, neurosurgeon impossible to correctly rate the grade disability condition possible. society, 16 medical society, IT Additional maintenance cost for the 21 times opinion gathering Cho Seong-ik Member After 7 years of period of IT project, it is paid by the cooperating external expert receiving the pension, I realized the importance company and it is harming the profit. We need economy, society, policy consideration is necessary for income of the execution of related policies such as loosened the eligibility 22 of NPS. In Ansan area, the voluntary service of realistic solution such as increase in budget or environment field disabled for disability pension benefit, early payment of disability pension, expansion of disability acknowledgement beneficiaries are actively carried out for side dish preparation of special budget. when managing the fund, necessary to increase social newly established responsible investment team in 2013 31 delivery, intellectually disabled support and it is responsibility investment laying foundation for responsibility investment to exceed KRW 6.3 trillion for social responsibility investment a very good chance for the olds to overcome the Construction At the moment, NPS is measures to enhance the pension management increased anti-corruption integrity promotion group 36 loneliness and helplessness. promoting subcontractor payment monitoring, transparency is the first priority task for integrity member and established 97 branch integrity practice management teams, expanded integrity ombudsman to 230 people 14 15 Social responsibility management core issues National Pension Service Social Responsibility Management Report 2014 Overview Sustainable Business Material Issue We select the issues of high interest of stakeholders and immense influence on the social responsibility management of materiality evaluation result NPS out of various internal and external issues to report with core issue focus. In this regard, we carried out materiality External materiality(0~100%) evaluation to examine the materiality of the issue on the base of report making guideline GRI G4. Core issue selection 100 has been processed in the order of issue identification, prioritization, issue review, validation and report. Appendix 80 reinforcement of customer information protection enhancement of sustainability of fund STEP 1 issue identification STEP 2 prioritization STEP 3 issue review STEP 4 validation and report internal issue organization influence review from external expert by area reinforcement of pension system settlement of fair cooperative relationship · management strategy / KPI · strategic importance · validation and report strengthening of ethical management · management policy / system · business influence stakeholder interest review from management 60 diversification of customer communication channel and · social trend provision of correct information external issue · importance by issue diversification of employment and strengthening of fostering system · benchmarking / media analysis · stakeholder opinion contribute to local community 40 respond to climate change materiality issue pool Core Issue evaluation 20 STEP 1 To analyze core Issue, total of 30 key issue pool was formed through international standards such as GRI, ISO 26000 and media issue research, trend & impact analysis, government projects analysis, internally promoted performance review, key business unit identification interview. 0 20 40 60 80 100 Internal materiality(0~100%) STEP 2 By analyzing the importance of external stakeholders and our business aspect, we prioritized for each issues. The importance of Core issues and GRI G4 aspect prioritization stakeholders means the influence of the issue on the activities of stakeholders related to NPS and decision making which were evaluated through external stakeholder survey and interview. The importance of NPS is an aspect to understand the short, mid, long-term strategy direction and relationship with issues, NPS’s influence on economic, environmental, social circumstances 2013 core issue 2014 core issue reporting area page related to the issue. For this, we performed internal employee survey, staff interview, internal strategy and management document provision of correct information of pension receipt reinforcement of pension system analysis, management opinion gathering. Final 8 issues were reported to NPS top and external stakeholder mid level to put weight reinforcement of private information protection diversification of customer communication channel and provision of correct information pension system 18-25 on external stakeholder opinion gathering. strengthening of fund management monitoring system reinforcement of customer information protection increase fund profitability and diversification of portfolio STEP 3 Before determining the final core issues, we undertook an external expert review and management check. We checked to research fund sustainability enhancement enhancement of sustainability of fund fund management 26-33 issue review make sure that not only internal_NPS opinions were heard, but external expert opinions were included as well. Furthermore, the expansion of responsible investment and exercise of voting right opinions of external stakeholders who are related to the value-chain are thoroughly considered for issue pool composition and the strengthening of ethical management system strengthening of ethical management ethics & compliance 34-37 prioritization evaluation process. settlement of fair cooperative relationship settlement of fair cooperative relationship shared growth 44-47 STEP 4 Based on 8 core issues selected through priority evaluation, we chose key aspects suggested by GRI G4. The chosen 7 aspect Improvement of the pension benefits for vulnerable classes participation and development of local community local community 38-43 validation and are own areas of ‘pension system’, ‘fund management’, ‘ethics and compliance’, ‘local community’, ‘shared growth’, ‘employment’, strengthening of employment and fostering system diversification of employment and strengthening of fostering system employment 48-51 report ‘environment’ which were finally determined and major activities and performances are reflected in this report. effort to respond to climate change respond to climate change environment 52-55 * Materiality of 'respond to climate change' is relatively low, however, for the issue still matters to NPS as public institution, we decide to include in report area 16 17 What is the most important core area for NPS? Core issue 01 WHAT Overview How is NPS practicing internal stakeholders Enhance income security after retirement due to the rapid aging Pension 91.0 points Sustainable Business Mitigating socio-economic polarization system external stakeholders 86.1 points reinforcement of pension Necessary for customer characteristics considered service support Material Issue system? WHY Why is the pension system important to the continued growth of the pension? Appendix National Pension is a social insurance and social security system that the Korean government Korea is rapidly aging. However, the preparation for old age is relatively scarce thus the interest for adopted from the insurance industry's model of receiving premiums from subscribers, pension as a security measures is more increasing. However, people became very anxious when NPS employers and government, and then paying pension money to the elderly, survivors, and the announced in 2013 that calculations show that pension reserves will be exhausted in 2060. Then disabled. These payments contribute to a more stable life and enhanced welfare. For effective the addition of the basic pension was controversial, so distrust of the national pension system is management and operation of pension system, NPS was established in September 1987 to continuously increasing. A change in the pension system drastically affects the amount of money in start with laborer and employers of 10 or more employee business. In 1992, expanded to 5 or the pension fund, and people rely on pension funds to help them through their retirements. Therefore, more employee businesses, and in 1995, expanded to rural areas and in 1999 implemented we are aware of the future danger of social chaos or the disappearance of the national pension system. to urban area to open the era of the whole nation pension. We are reflecting stakeholders’ opinion to management HOW 16.17 1.38 stakeholder opinion reflected to management page NPS silverloan · joint surety and advance deduction of guarantee fees becoming · abolition of joint surety for 70 years old customers 22 million million customer VOC another constraint for the customers who use silverloan that and over, guarantee fee for less than 70 years old people people needs improvement customers disability pension · difficulties in preparing and submitting a disability reassessment · loosened criteria for disability pension review and 22 income earners insurance supported beneficiary VOC review data. Most of the reassessment results are same grade that disability grade review (510 thousand increase compare to (470 thousand more than previous lacks necessity the previous year) year) Choi Dong-ik, · necessary to prepare a plan to support whose wage is below KRW · abolished lower limit for insurance support member of the 350,000 and limited from receiving assistance at present (total subscriber 20.74 million National Assembly people) Kim Hyun-sook, · owner of 9 imported cars insists there is no money to pay for · utilize of National Taxation Service data of income 21 member of the national pension? to confirm afterwards National Assembly · it is necessary to actively inform and induce the exceptional cases 3.44 million people 90.0 points Kim Yong-ik, member of the National Assembly to report their income · as it in not fair to support the rich with government fund, we need to prepare plan to limit this · strengthening of checking adequacy by expanding investigation on business sites 20 pension beneficiaries recognition of old age preparation National Assembly · low new registration through insurance benefits · support for registration and create registration 21 · improvement in system to protect the exempted with enrollment condition (130 thousand increase compared (3.7 point increase) record such as housewives · apply the plan for registration system renewal on to the previous year) ‘national pension comprehensive operation plan’ 2012 NPS · need to prepare foundation to receive stable pension for people · expand to 23 all financial institutions for national 21,23 assessment group with low credit by expanding financial institutions that operates pension dedicated accounts foreclosure prevention accounts management · necessary to review the continuance and scale of implementation · review maintaining the current business scale, but 24 assessment group for silverloan extending the business period · necessary for further effort to expand the pension beneficiary right · expand ‘Happy retirement design center’, building and contact point for ‘retirement design service’ ‘Retirement design integrated consultation system’ external expert · necessary to complement basic pension policy for lower income · Proper management policies to low-income 21,22 class or vulnerable class subscribers, and 360,000 people workers · necessary to consider policy for the income of disabled vulnerable New Account · Mitigation policies, such as running a pension, disability requirements, early disability pension payments, disability recognized zoom range 18 19 Expanded insurance support for low-income workers NPS will help to reassure the newly registered laborers from low income class Low-income benefit newly joined 360,000 people National Pension Service Social Responsibility Management Report 2014 Overview 36 class We selected five sectors to encourage the registration of low-income workers including a temporary future of public workers and newly admitted 360,000 vulnerable class, increased by 220,000 people, compared to Sustainable Business 140,000 people in 2012. In addition, we mitigated insurance support criteria and increased support level to support 80 thousand people of KRW 19.4 billion additionally. ten thousand peolpe Material Issue Farmers, fishermen up to 50% support for insurance premium Farmers, 96,000 people newly joined for benefit fishermen In case any individually insured person and voluntary insured person are farmer or fisherman, the 99.9% Appendix government supports for pension premium of fixed amount(rate). In 2013, if monthly income is less Enhanced information for benefit claim achieved claim rate than KRW 790,000, the support was 50% of pension premium of KRW 35,550 that brought 96,000 new farmers and fishermen subscribers. By supporting pension premium to 329,000 farmers and Enhanced support through collaboration with relevant agencies (family court, Ministry of Security and Public Administration, fishermen in 2013, we are working to secure income after retirement. Ministry of Foreign Affairs, local governments, etc.), non-claimants tracking system, intensive promotion, so that there would be no case of missing pension claim due to lack of inform. As a result, we achieved 99.9% for claim rate, which is the highest Guarantee of beneficiary right for vulnerable class with no income data performance compared to 55.2% of private pension, and 85.5% of insurance industry. Thanks to strengthening of ‘zero blind Vulnerable Benefitting newly joined 480,000 people spot project’, the recipient of divided pension has been increased by 20% to ten thousand in 2013 from 8.3 thousand the class In case of people with no income data or with vulnerable preparation for retirement are in dire need previous year. In addition, after enhancing linkage of public pensions through related agencies collaboration(Government for security from pension beneficiary right. We proceed customized consulting to selected priority 3.0), the public pension linkage recipients increased 32.1% of 3.7 thousands from the previous year’s 2.8 thousand. Especially target of 2.93 million people of baby boomers (55-63 year olds), women with career break and through social security agreements, by strong support of the pension beneficiary right of people with a history of foreign recently lost their jobs to have 480,000 people of newly insureds. pension, 23 hundred people received foreign pension of KRW 7.5 billion every year. Pension risk management achieved 99.96% appropriate process rate Business Relieved discomfort and enhanced reporting usability for business enhanced adequacy for standard monthly income When business reported wrong income for enrollment, separate adjustment reporting was Increase in beneficiaries also increased risk for payment work. Recently, due to the social interest on welfare payment errors necessary which was inconvenient. We introduced advance verification system for adequacy of and voices of concerns, it is requested of the system to prevent payment by mistake by thorough verification from the standard monthly income, through post proof submission, and corrected reporting of 1,583 people beginning of the pension payment. We launched and operating ‘payment investigation team’ and completed a flawless pension to eliminate hassle and additionally charged KRW 500 million. Also retroactively imposed KRW 22.1 system of payment risk prevention, risk benefit follow-up and monitoring. We are the first to operate the risk management billion to 28 thousand people after checking National Tax Service’s income tax data of 75 thousand organization among the public agencies and securing the pension payment accuracy with proper payment rate of 99.96% in people. 2013 compare to 99.93% in 2012. Optimum management of standard monthly income of individually insured person Individually Increase equity with workplace insured person Early blocking of dishonest payment Launched early detection system insured Individually insured people have low possibility of keeping income tax data and arises gap between the actual incomes bringing equity problem compared to workplace insured people. We guided There exit social concerns about the dishonest payment. We need to cut off the dishonest payment from the source by those who do not have any taxable income to report with amount above recommended monthly thorough check of changes in the beneficiary right, such as death. By establishing ‘dishonest payment early detection system’, income and by strengthening post-confirmation with National Tax Service, we additionally imposed we derive the type of danger signs and by utilizing internal and external resources to discover danger signs early, we prevent 310,000 people with KRW 183 billion. the dishonest payment. Also we are checking the changes in the beneficiary right through enhanced public resources collaboration between agencies and by providing our investigation materials to other agencies, we are leading the prevention Push ahead system improvement focused on insured people of dishonest payment of welfare benefits. Women with guaranteed beneficiary right of disability and survivor pension to total of 4.64 career 98% million people including women with career discontinuity Strengthen guide for lump-sum claims for foreign workers achieved claim rate break Despite with a history of past contributions, if one does not involved in earning activities currently, an unmarried person is eligible for a disability or survivor's pension, being managed as an exception, We implemented a lump-sum claim system to protect the beneficiary right of foreign workers. By providing step-by-step however, a married with no earnings is not eligible for disability or survivor's pension which raised an guides to foreign workers of lump-sum claim from immigration to departure, and thanks to the enhanced promotion in 2012 equity issue that is urgent for solution. If one has a history of past contributions, regardless of making of payment service at the airport, users greatly increased and the lump-sum claim rate has increased from 95.9% in 2012 to earnings or marital status, we prepared a plan for improvement to ensure to receive disability or survivor's pension to KRW 4.64 million people including women with career discontinuity. 98% in 2013. Also enhanced services for foreigners by expanding foreign language information service from 2 languages to 10 languages ​​and issuing receipts during wage counseling service in 5 languages. 20 21 Improved benefit for Silverloan 26% abolished joint surety and guarantee fee and lightened cost burden Best Practice National Pension Service Social Responsibility Management Report 2014 Overview We implemented national pension ‘Silverloan’ in 2012 to contribute to the livelihood of the beneficiaries’ old age. In 2013 innovative management, creative management customers’ feedback, complaint related to joint surety and guarantee fee accounted for 22.5% of the entire response. Through Sustainable Business the bank loan staff meetings and research service on improvement, we decided to abolish joint surety for people over 70 years and abolish guarantee fees for people less than 70. As a result, the application of elderly people over 70 years increased from 5.6% to 14.5% and the user cost burden is mitigated to 26%. In addition, the user satisfaction rose from 81.7 points in 2012 to 92.1 Presidential Award for the people focused civil administration innovation ensuring points in 2013 of 10.4 points. the minimum cost of living Material Issue Strengthened effort to collect money back 95.8% accumulated collection rate Due to economic downturn, people with low credit has increased to nearly 2.81 million people, 8.5% of population Problem with credit, and those pension beneficiaries receiving national pension are in trouble of minimum living as their Appendix Despite the change of beneficiary right ( expiry, change, cease ), no reporting was made to leave KRW 60 billion of refund in the pension receiving accounts are being seized. last 5 years. We collected and utilized official data (41 kinds from 19 organizations) to prevent fraud, and encouraging intensively by type for the refund already occurred, and operating the pension clinic monitoring to strengthen collecting activities. Accordingly, the collection rate for the last five years is 95.3% and cumulative collection rate of 95.8% putting us at the highest level compared to similar domestic institutions, also high compared to that of the Canada Pension Plan (CPP) of 84.5%. Introduction of seize-proof account : Since we regard the pension receiving account as not a personal asset Innovative but the last resort of life, to protect the beneficiary right of the people with low credit, we introduced seize-proof management 5.3 national pension dedicated account (‘national pension safe account’) in 2010. Mitigation of disability review standards Lightened economic burden of KRW billion Expansion of innovation via network : 6 financial institutions participated in 2012 however with rapidly growing social needs, a council composed by the Financial Supervisory Service, Korea Financial Telecommunications & As out of 260,000 of annual disability screening, 38% of 100,000 cases fall for re-examination and the disabled have appealed for Clearings Institute and The Korea Federation of Banks and expanded to entire 23 financial institutions in 2013. the economic burden and difficulty due from uneasy mobility in preparation and submission of review materials. Also the fact that 62% of the re-examination result is the same rating caused controversy of the effectiveness of the review. To solve these issues, we will collected various opinions from government, people with disability, system improvement promotion team together with In 2013, 74 thousand people used the dedicated account and guaranteed their minimum living and the figure is Creation of academic world, medical advisors, medical society by specialty, and greatly eased the review criteria. As a result, 40,490 people outcome a 29.8% increase over the previous year. A total of KRW 314.7 billion of minimum living cost of pension beneficiary were excluded from re-examination and relieved from the inconvenience and lightened economic burden of KRW 5.3 billion. In with low credit were protected. addition, 15.5% decrease in assessment workload enabled reduction of 41 administrative power saving. Improvement in disability assessment system to resolve inconvenience Presidential Award for civil administration leading multicultural society by trying to Awarded as the top prize from the best case for Government 3.0 contest secure beneficiary right of foreign workers 62.9% of total customer comments were complaints about grade assessment. Thus we agreed on the necessity for improvement in the disability assessment system, and implemented disability pension disability grade the system improvement of mitigation of requirement for disability pension and mitigation assessment (Dec. 2013) assessment (Nov. 2013) If a foreign worker leaves Korea, it is difficult to get a refund of national pension and if the foreign worker receives Problem of disability re-assessment standards. As a result, 49,293 people were newly registered as before revision the refund overseas, transfer fees is another problem. This results in complaints about inconvenience which gives disabled and became eligible for social welfare benefit of disability pension, activity support Korea a bad image. benefit worth KRW 960 million annually, and 2,288 people newly takes KRW 22.1 billion of • semi-permanent disability : • semi-permanent disability : reassessment in every reassessment in every disability pension annually, and from mitigation of re-assessment standards, 40,490 people 3~5 years 3~5 years • non-permanent disability : • non-permanent disability : annually were to benefit the solution of inconvenience. Also we are trying to minimize reassessment in every reassessment in every Innovative Approach by the process : We provided a step-by-step guide for foreign workers claiming refunds. the trouble of submitting necessary documents for the disability assessment. With the full 1~3 years 1~3 years management prior to arrive upon arrival during stay after departure implementation of disability assessment data sharing service according to ‘the National Pensions Act’ and ‘Welfare of Disabled Persons Act’, that is eliminating the discomfort of same person submitting twice, economic burden of KRW 2.63 billion from 19,971 after revision people have lightened annually, and by providing service of directly collecting assessment No claim of refund of national pension from foreign workers decreased to 12.5%. Furthermore, NPS contributes to Creation of documents from medical institutions for 20,427 disabled people annually, mitigated burden • semi-permanent disability : • semi-permanent disability : outcome improve national brand and make caring multicultural society by securing beneficiary right of foreign workers as for same grade, exempted of KRW 600 million. in principle, reassessment well. from reassessment for only once We identified the needs that are suitable for individual characteristics of newly • non-permanent disability : for same grade, extension • old age and very severe case, exempted in principle registered disabled people and guided services of 80 or so to associate with required of period services and we were awarded with the top prize of government service sector at the ‘best case for ‘Government 3.0’ contest’. 22 23 Implementation of Basic Pension National Pension Service Social Responsibility Management Report 2014 Overview The older generation worked hard to develop Korea and sacrificed for the betterment of their children but could not prepare for their retirement. to ease the hardship of the elderly and to distribute pension benefits fairly, the basic pension was Special NPS going to the world Issues Sustainable Business implemented in July 2014. For further information, call 129 for Ministry of Welfare or 1355 for NPS or visit basic pension homepage. Becoming a retirement design hub institute Material Issue Under the global economy, by the end of 2012, overseas Korean companies are in 82 To become a retirement design service hub institute by legislation, we prepared a systematic support base for preparation countries 10,487 place and citizens living abroad reached 7.01 million people and of retirement by proposing ‘a bill for retirement design support’ and partial amendments to ‘the National Pensions Act’. To foreign workers are continue to increase. Guaranteeing pension beneficiary right by strengthen the specialty for retirement design, we also installed ‘happy retirement design center’ and setup retirement design Appendix summing up the separate pension subscribed periods into two, and in order to reduce IT environment, and revamped the retirement design consultant certificate, CSA to reinforce professional human resource the double burden on workers, we signed Social Security Agreement to increase the fostering process. pension benefits of foreigners residing in Korea or expatriates. In addition, we are building a global network by conducting exchange with overseas related institutions and Enhancing retirement consulting service specialty and quality enhancement international cooperation activities to demonstrate the leadership as one of the world’s While promoting the retirement design guidance from the first time subscriber to the beneficiaries, still there is a blind spot. big four pension institutions. Thus we prepared the retirement design guidance system by life cycle, and brought diversification to counseling models based on individual needs. In addition, to enhance the counseling service quality, we improved through counseling staff education system and the best practices, and the counseling quality rose to 91.8 points in 2013, 3.3 points increase from the previous year, and staff expertise has risen to 91.8 points in 2013, 4.6 points increase compared to the previous year. Social security agreements reducing the burden of the people, Expansion of retirement design education and promotion enhancing the rights in a global era Considering the lacking awareness and education for retirement design, we conduct customized training by life cycle. Every Korean companies operating overseas and dispatched workers pay the social insurance fee twice to Korea and to hosting country which is becoming a big burden and for people staying short branch in the country operates the dedicated retirement design consultation system and provides financial counseling, as well period overseas are experiencing disadvantage of only paying the insurance fee and not getting as in connection with related institutions, employment and health, leisure, counseling on all around the life. You can visit your any pension. To solve this problem we signed social security agreement to mutually exempting nearest branch or schedule a consultation from retirement design internet site (http://csa.nps.or.kr). insurance fee or adding up to subscribing period of each country so that reducing the burden, and enhancing the rights of the people staying overseas. Social security agreement signed overseas transfer of national pension system and invigoration of 35 global exchange, global cooperation without borders To countries wishing to acquire system operating experience of NPS with high proportion countries of self-employed people and best practices, we operated a national pension system transfer program that contribute to the settlement of the Korean pension system to the country. In foreign subscribers December 2013, for the first time to the corporation, we successfully performed the national 1020 3050 over 60 230 pension system training course focused on the practice that is necessary for the introduction of future subscriber generation in dire need for retirement plan starting the 3 life rd the system to Cambodia which plans to introduce the pension system in 2015. education contents education contents education contents thousand people Services for foreign subscribers · at site education and employment · visiting education for workplace · provide necessary information for connected education subscribers retirement life · enhancing retirement design academy life · provide lecture schedule and information agreement pension beneficiary In the time of globalization and with growing number of foreign subscribers, we set up an 2,380 · easy to understand financial education for on the elderly college international cooperation center in 2011, dedicated to serving foreigners in various languages. social vulnerable class For the foreign subscribers we support with customized services such as operating of foreign accomplishments accomplishments accomplishments counseling call center, multi language home page, visiting mobile counseling service. Also at the · educated 1,051 times 29,000 people · 2,579 times of intensive education to potential · educated 776 times, 39,000 people people ‘Incheon International Airport Counseling Center’, located in Incheon International Airport, we · reflected to 14 new text books and 4 retirement amendments · educated 145,000 people social vulnerable provide service of at site payment service of refund for the foreigners. class 24 25 Core Issue 2 What is the most important core area for NPS? Is NPS stably operating WHAT necessary to maintain long term stability of the fund through profit maximization fund internal stakeholders Overview 89.7 points the fund? Sustainable Business growing investment risk due to financial market volatility expansion manageexternal stakeholders ment increase socioeconomic influence in domestic financial market 85.5 points Material Issue NPS is the world’s 4th largest and Korea’s major public pension fund with 20.74 million subscribers and KRW 427 trillion of fund as of December of 2013. Accumulated fund worth KRW 427 trillion that is 33.5% of GDP of Korea and investing KRW 83.9 trillion in Why is fund’s sustainability enhancement important? WHY Appendix stock, which takes up of 6.4% of Korean total market capitalization. Also we are investing In the stakeholder’s point of view, the biggest interest in national pension is long-term stability on KRW 6.3 trillion that is worth 73% of Korea’s responsible investment market to the social pension finance for the pension payment. The debate on depletion of the national pension due to responsibility fund. As fund size grows bigger, to prepare stable profit foundation in the introduction of basic pension, low profitability from economic downturn and financial environment, long term point of view, we are trying to improve efficiency of fund portfolio and reducing aging and low birth rate caused subscriber burden are still continuing. However, profitability focused bond to diversify risk, increasing overseas investment and alternative investments. operation policy cannot solve these problems. As the size of the fund grows, the weight and influence on domestic financial market is increasing and profit-focused operations can have a bad effect on the economy. In the end, when the national pension try to increase the profitability and at the same time provide the people of stability and induce affirmative social agreement, it becomes sustainable. Thus, NPS should always think about what is the fund management and focusing to find ways to increase sustainability. HOW We are reflecting stakeholders’ opinion to management stakeholder opinion reflected to management page fund management · to better communicate with people, necessary to disclose and · through adequate consultation with stakeholders, 32 committee explain the fund management information at the people’s eye level including representatives of each sector, fund management information to be expanded (Oct. 2013) · disclose company, amount invested for stocks with more than 5% of ownership and top 10 companies for bond, alternative investment KRW KRW · as a follow-up measure to expansion of information disclosure, opening of website (Jul. 2014) 427 trillion 82.6 trillion management assessment group · necessary to study the long-term method to secure stability and masterplan for expertise of fund management · further respond is necessary for management size per one fund management professional personnel · setup of mid to long-term fund management master plan and implement expertise reinforcement consulting · prepare mid-term human resource management 31 fund size(accumulated fund) overseas investment plan and employ 38 fund management expert staff Lee Un-ju, member · pointed out the problem of national pension that ignoring its · to promote effective responsible investment, install 31 of the National intrinsic meaning of social responsibility, sustainability but achieving dedicated department of ‘responsible investment Assembly maximum profitability of performance focused investment resulting team’ and continue to expand responsible making investment to companies doing unfair trade behavior investment · presence of short-term management goal such as 5 year · through benchmarking of overseas advanced profitability makes the pension fund pursuing near sighted cases, setup and promote mid to long-term profitability. If long-term management goal is set, invest in not too management direction KRW KRW much risk taking but true meaning of social responsible investment 83.9 6.3 should be possibile. Choi dong-ik, Opinion of necessity of strengthening stockholder’s right · promote to amend voting guidelines to strengthen 32 trillion trillion member of the exercise(‘12 government audit) voting right exercise in the direction of enhancing National Assembly · necessary to secure responsible management, transparent shareholder value inquiry management through strengthening of stockholder’s right exercise domestic investment in stock social responsibility fund external expert · necessary to expand social responsibility investment portion for · in 2013, newly established responsible investment 31 fund management team to prepare responsible investment foundation and exceeded social responsible investment of KRW 6.3 trillion 26 27 Expanding consignment management Enhancing the value of 5 year average profitability National Pension Service Social Responsibility Management Report 2014 Overview 6.48 2.1%p To enhance profitability and to decentralize the decision making for national pension by stable investment to bring down the influence of the fund to the financial market, Sustainable Business we adopted consignment management in parallel to direct management. Prepared separate standard for selecting management company and fund management % transparency of management and gradually inducing adoption of GIPS (The Global Investment Performance Standards). For 2013, we are maintaining total consignment increased compared to previous year Material Issue the level of previous year for percentage and allowance of consignment management per asset group, and total consignment increased 2.1%p compared to previous year and 35.4% compared to financial asset size. By the end of 2013 total consignment management amount is KRW 144.4 trillion and takes up 33.8% of Appendix accumulated fund. Investment diversification and securing overseas investment competitiveness Expanding alternative investment 40.3 Diversification of investment portfolio With an effort to discover new investment area such as infrastructure, real As the fund amount increases, to prepare stable profit foundation in the long-term and to improve effectiveness in fund estate, and overseas resources development in private equity fund etc, we are portfolio and risk diversification and profitability enhancement, we are promoting investment diversification in mid-long term raising the alternative investment rate 9.4% from KRW 33 trillion in 2012 to trillion operation direction. To do this, we performed in-depth analysis on change direction of global financial market and exercising KRW 40.3 trillion as the end of 2013, total alternative investment various investment strategies such as discovering new product by region and by asset and exploring new market. Foreign alternative investment status others 0.1% stock 30.1% short-term fund 0.3% UK US · HSBC building · Gatwick airport · HELMSLEY building · Macerich shopping mall alternative 9.4% · 40 Grosvenor Place · Colonial Pipeline Total investment London office New York office bond 60.1% (as of end of 2013) Expanding overseas investment To overcome the limitation of domestic market and to diversify risk and to prepare long-term profit foundation, we are promoting overseas investment since 2002. In 2012, we acquired QFII (Qualified Foreign Institutional Investor) to expand investment for mainland China for the first Korean pension-fund and were allocated additional QFII of USD 300 million in Germany 2013 and expanded the investment to the Asian emerging market of China, Taiwan, and Indonesia. Also we newly invested · SONY center in the overseas high profit bond and expanded consignment operation investable credit ratings and since 2009, through purchasing undervalued overseas major landmark assets, made exceptional achievement in overseas alternative investment Australia area. By the end of 2013, overseas investment amounts KRW 82.6 trillion which is twice grown compared to 2010 and 19.4% France · Aurora Place Brazil compared with accumulated fund amount. · O' Parino · Eastlink · mining company 28 29 Upgrading risk management of fund management to reinforce internal control function of fund management and trying for transparent management. Other than this, constant National Pension Service Social Responsibility Management Report 2014 audit is made through internal auditor and external auditor, the Board of Audit and Inspection of Korea, National Assembly. Overview In 2013, launched ‘investment management committee’, the post-investment management review organization, and deliberates Setup and operation of risk management system Sustainable Business major items of post-management of assets that the fund invested. NPS is preemptively recognizing market risk, credit risk, liquidity risk, legal risk and management risk in overall fund management task and asset management that can affect the stability and profitability of the fund and respond swiftly. We are Strengthening global management infra and support system systematically calculate major risks and setup and operate risk management system that are manageable, and on the ground of Material Issue strategic asset allocation and active risk diversification, setting up of risk limit by the asset type and total risk limit by the year. To recognize the possibility of risk occurrence, carefully monitoring various variables in financial market and reinforcing prior Strengthening management organization expertise risk management by adopting early alarming system in local companies. The management and operation of national pension fund is exclusively carried out by fund management division within head Appendix quarter. In November 1999, we reorganized and expanded the asset management expert organization, fund management problem improvement major achievement team into fund management division. In accordance with the growing overseas investment, to strengthen competitiveness and enhance expertise, reorganized overseas investment team into overseas stock team and overseas alternative team in February 2011, opened New York office in July 2011, opened London office in July 2012 to arrange base for overseas investment and to same status in fund management group upgraded risk management department systematic and comprehensive strengthen networking with global investors and takeoff to become global management expert organization. With growing that is different from risk management to control lower division within fund reinforcement of risk management fund scale, installed subordinate organizations to each risk management team, management strategy team, bond management group management headquarter in fund management team in 2013 to adjust and strengthen function and enhance management effectiveness and reinforced expertise. lacks systematic risk risk management center management Excellent management expertise workforce reinforcement Reinforcement of risk management for alternative investment per capita fund management size 2.3 trillion 2 trillion To strengthen global competitiveness, promoted systematically in accordance with mid-term personnel plan and recruited the For the alternative investment assets, that is high-risk assets, we are operating check system during investment review process most in history of 38 fund management people in 2013. Also employed superb workforce from fund management interns as by investment risk management department participation in the Due Diligence, and after the investment, through the asset personnel in charge of management to prepare internal fostering foundation for new recruits and experts. With continuous quality classification and fair value assessment, and we perform post-monitoring for changes in value of alternative investment recruit and fostering of human resources, decreased per capita management size from KRW 2.3 trillion in 2012 to KRW 2 at the portfolio levels. In 2010, alternative investment risk management system has been setup and in 2011, introduced KRI trillion in 2013 and secured specialty and stability. As the fund size grows and overseas and alternative investment expands, we (Key Risk Indicator) for quantitative risk management to standardize risk factor of alternative investment and high-risk will continue to try to increase expert personnel. commodities and streamlined risk management rules and analyzed various risk situation scenarios and prepared practical response plan by risk stages. In 2013, we expanded the KRI (Key Risk Indicator) to qualitative indexes and examination scope to not only real estate but debt ratio and rental rate to check various risk factors so as to grasp the risk situation of the asset. Strengthening social responsibility of fund Strengthening of overseas investment risk management Expansion of responsible investment scale To minimize the loss of fund in the global financial crisis, NPS developed and is operating risk response plan and national pension risk index since 2010. For instance, at the time of global financial crisis such as credit ratings degrading of the US scale of fund 6.3 trillion, accumulated annual average profitability 8.3% and financial crisis in Europe in 2011, credit ratings degrade of EURO 9 countries in 2012, we preemptively responded Responsible investment is a comprehensive investment strategy that considers not only financial aspect but non-financial and it proved the effectiveness. In 2013, for exchange risk management, shortened the management period from quarter to aspects such as environment (E), society (S), governance (G), reducing investment risk in the long-term perspective and month and currency for check expanded from G7 countries’ currencies to Australian dollar, Swiss franc. Also by setting up pursuing enhancement of stable profitability. To enhance long-term profit and to carry out social role, we are operating social of the country risk management plan and through grade assessment by country, investment limit double checking by grade, responsibility investment (SRI) fund. Since setting up of the SRI in 2006, the amount operating became KRW 6.3 trillion at the investment restriction on high risk countries, effectively manage risks differ from country to country. end of 2013 and accumulated annual average profitability marked 8.3%, which is excellent compared to total fund accumulated profitability of 6.35%, contributing to enhancement of fund profit. Moreover, to form companion relationship with domestic companies and induce synergy effect, we introduced and operating corporate partnership investment with domestic Strengthening risk dedicated team companies from 2011. In domestic stock consignment management area, introduced preliminary management company To effectively manage risks related to fund management, we installed risk management department within fund headquarters system in 2011 and select separate back-up management company other than regular consignment company to expand and to strengthen independence, upgraded to risk management center in January 2014. Also to consider the importance of the boundary of consignable management company and providing management opportunity to preliminary management the fund and to better control of the management risk effectively, installed and operating risk management committee that the company who is prominent to grow as an excellent management company. The preliminary management company system is NPS chairman takes up the committee chairperson and includes external experts. Also we have separate ‘compliance officer’ expanded and operating as social responsibility investment type in 2012 since its introduction limited to pure stock type in 2011. 30 31 Investment in SMEs (small and medium-sized enterprises) and social infrastructures National Pension Service Social Responsibility Management Report 2014 Overview NPS is investing in small and medium-sized venture companies through public and private equity market to enhance profitability of fund management, and on the other hand, contributing in fostering technically competitive, however Special Economic value creation and distribution Issues Sustainable Business financially insufficient venture companies. The amount of money in the pension fund reached KRW 5.5 trillion at the end of 2013 through direct and indirect investing in small-and medium-sized venture companies through venture capital investment fund and small-and-medium-capitalization stock fund investment. Moreover, we are promoting co-investment in smalland-medium-sized enterprises going overseas through Corporate Partnership Program to promote growth and to build Material Issue investment environment of affiliated industry, and continuously expanding investment in SOCs (social overhead capital) such as expressway, port and school. National pension is raised with pension insurance premium, management profit, accumulation and surplus from NPS income and expense settlement. Last year, in a difficult time of global delay in economic recovery and slow growth, with endless change and Appendix innovation, NPS pursued development of the system and fund. In 2013, we raised KRW 32.489 trillion from pension insurance Strengthening of voting right exercise premium and fund management profit and spent KRW 13.641 trillion to accumulate KRW 426.955 trillions of national pension fund which is KRW 34.987 trillion increase from the KRW 391.968 trillion of previous year. The value distribution of NPS is used As the importance of national pension grows in the domestic stock market resulting in growing influence, we specified at for only approved budget by the government and for 2013, the budget of KRW 13.6 trillion was approved to be used for customers, the guideline of voting right exercise of fund management committee in 2010 to consider ESG (Environment, Society, and employees, partners, local community, government and other businesses. Governance). in 2013, the voting right exercise of domestic holding stocks were made at 645 stockholders meetings for 2,601 issues, of which were 2,319 consents, (89.2%), 281 objections (10.8%), and 1 neutral/abstention. Compared to 2008 objections (5.4%), two times increased showing active voting right exercise. However, as national pension’s control over stock market grows, there exists voices of both welcome and concern related to strengthening of voting right exercise. There are stockholders expecting the role of support on responsible management of the company through active voting right exercise and in domestic corporate environment which is different from advanced countries who are famous for stockholders Status of fund accumulation management performance movements, concerns exist it might disturb corporate management right. NPS, as a trustee of fund management, is managing (unit: KRW billion) (unit: KRW million) fund in accordance with principle of faith and integrity to enhance long-term corporate value and investment performance 2013 2011 2012 2013 in the invested company and revised the guideline for voting right exercise in February 2014. In the guideline for voting right accumulation (market value) 426,955 total asset 612,429 675,210 861,788 exercise revision(draft), made it to consider responsibility investment factor upon exercise of voting right to enhance longinherent term profitability, and strengthened independent director’s participation rate for board meeting by increasing standard from total debt 709,472 780,731 965,311 increase in fund 32,489 business 60% to 75%. Also the term of service of independent directors to include both relevant company and affiliated companies to total equity -97,043 -105,521 -103,523 strengthen standard for appointment of independent director. From now on, we will gather various stakeholders’ opinions and income 46,130 total asset 350,458,141 392,924,343 427,670,377 try to enhance stockholder’s value and to exercise rational and consistent voting right. expense 13,641 fund total debt 1,590,449 956,675 715,854 business accumulation of previous year 391,968 348,867,692 391,967,668 426,954,523 disclosure of list of voting right exercise : NPS is providing reference service at our fund management division homepage to better review of our total equity (market vaue) voting right exercise results from 2013 domestic stock voting right exercises results. fund management division homepage : http://fund.nps.or.kr economic value distribution (unit : KRW 100 million) local community / social contribution expense Expanded level and scope for information disclosure government / tax customer / pension payment etc. In accordance with the promotion of domestic and foreign investment diversification of national pension fund and enhancement of global status, to help understand the direction and situation of fund management and to enhance 8 transparency of fund management, expanded and disclosed fund management information in October 2013. With participation and discussion with various stakeholders such as government and national assembly, we decided the level and 257 131,141 scope for disclosure and for domestic stock market, considering the distinctiveness of the national pension’s huge influence over domestic stock market, disclosing major management policy and investment details of investment status of items of more partners / product purchase amount employee / wages etc. than 5%, and annual top 10 bond and alternative investment items to strengthen credibility and transparency on fund. 748 3,084 (as of end of 2013) 32 33 Core Issue 03 What is the most important core area for NPS? Overview Is our ethics and compliance WHAT Sustainable Business internal stakeholders Stakeholders’ demand for anti-corruption and integrity 86.9 points system working to ensure a just Ethics Satisfying people’s right to know such as Government 3.0 and necessary to open information Compliance external stakeholders 81.9 points Material Issue Strengthen information protection following private information leak organization? Appendix Why ethics and compliance are important to national pension’s Recently stakeholders’ demand for transparency, morality and clean culture is expanding, WHY sustainable growth? and unfair trading with partners and post abuse are becoming ethical issues, business ethics are emphasized. We consider ethical business practices not optional but crucial As a public institution managing people’s precious retirement fund, we cannot survive without people’s factors for sustainable growth and development and to become transparent and right trust. Especially so when due to domestic and foreign change in financial environment, pension system and management’s extreme change is expected. organization, implementing various education and programs for employees. In 2013, we In this perspective, people are looking at us with expectations of more particular and accurate ethical achieved 93.8 points for NPS ethics awareness diagnosis index, ‘excellent’ from ACRC’s standard. Thus we have to meet this standard to gain people’s trust. However, this trust can only be (Anti-Corruption & Civil Rights Commission) anti-corruption competitiveness assessment, achieved with the integrity of the organization and its employees, transparency of fund management, ‘ZERO’ corrupt incident, 0% error for management disclosure. and fair partnership from strict internal control, and just one corrupt incident would make a crucial damage to trust. In this regards, we are self controlling with ethical management rule which is stricter than that of any other financial or public institution. We are reflecting stakeholders’ opinion to management HOW stakeholder opinion reflected to management page customer’s opinion · make it easy to find the post of NPS’s social responsibility related · reflected the request and posted 2 social 100 points on management disclosure improvement efforts responsibility management related disclosures management · To reflect management disclosure improvement opinions on · implement customer opinion gathering event, 36 Ministry of Health & Welfare's selected as excellent organization evaluation group homepages, supplement the system and reinforce feedback on the strengthen feedback such as revision of diagnosis on private information by UNGC anti-corruption disclosure monitoring results ‘management guideline and manual’ in accordance · efforts to improve anti-corruption competitiveness and integrity is with monitoring result protection management level international symposium necessary · look for integrity enhancing project and enterprise· expand disclosure of customer interested items (diversify fund wide promotion, strengthen employee integrity management related management disclosure such as fund education invested items and holding stocks) · expansion of continuous items reflecting customer interested items. 8.18 points 89.7 points diagnosis of internal control level · necessary to strengthen advanced risk assessment activity and to form sympathy of internal control · reflect to annual audit plan 37 external expert · plan for enhancing pension management transparency is the very · increase number of anti-corruption integrity 36 integrity assessment KoBEX SM first task for integrity management promotion group member and launch 97 (0.14 point increased compared to (5.2 points increase compared to branch integrity practice team, expand integrity previous year) previous year) ombudsman 230 people 34 35 Reporting our efforts to ethics awareness diagnosis index National Pension Service Social Responsibility Management Report 2014 Overview 93.8 internal audit management check's system disclosure realize transparent and clean ystem system Sustainable Business Installed and operating 3 tier internal organizational culture We are operating systematic audit process By executing advance information document points check system and established risk base and through ongoing monitoring system, from disclosure material generating department, audit activity system in connection with securing internal check adequacy. By in 2013, completed disclosure 100% in time Material Issue mid to long term audit strategy. In utilizing e audit system, reinforced to achieve disclosure adequacy. Also reinforced 2013, to upgrade internal check system, risk prevention function and with fund disclosure verification procedure from 4 times secured and educated CIA (Certified management ongoing monitoring, to 5 times to enhance disclosure accuracy and Executing value and principle of ethical management Internal Auditors) and ICA (Internal Control enhanced response capability and risk expanded approach to homepage by setting up Appendix Assessment) to enhance audit capability. management level. of mobile homepage. Starting from enactment of national pension service charter in 2000, presented employee code of conduct in 2003 to uphold as an ethical behavioral standard, and making a transparent corporate culture with a motto of ‘realization of Zero 2.9 9 KRW fund management saving cost utilizing no defects in transparent management through ethical culture expansion’. As a result of corruption experience of e-audit system consecutive disclosure integrity assessment result billion years reorganizing ethics charter, social responsibility management practical examples, special guidelines by rank and job function, selected as an excellent case at UNGC anti-corruption international symposium in 2013. ZERO UNGC anti-corruption international symposium (selected as excellent organization) Expansion of ethics and integrity practice organization Efforts to protect customer information cyber infringement accident To generally and comprehensively respond to ethics and integrity issues, with social responsibility management committee Due to personal information leak accidents and cyber terror, customer information protection and cyber security system is headed by the chairman, deciding direction and guideline for ethical management promotion. Also launched and operating ever important. With a goal of the best public institution of information protection leading agency, we setup an information enterprise practice dedicated organization of social responsibility management department, and to internalize ethics and security strategy system to prevent cyber infringement and response. To safeguard customer information and management integrity promotion organization, increased number of people in anti-corruption promotion group in 2013, newly established information, we upgraded information protection management system and setup cyber response system and reinforced 97 branch integrity practice teams and expanded integrity ombudsman to 230 people. capability of security personnel. As a result we were able to achieve ‘ZERO’ cyber infringement accidents and a score of 93.8 points (excellent) in an assessment for national foundation facility security level. Effort for internalizing ethics integrity culture ZERO 4 corruption cases With a judgement that the organization cannot be changed only with ethical Strengthened personal information protection selected as excellent institution for consecutive years management system, we are focusing to strengthen advanced prevention As NPS deals with lots of personal information to execute tasks such as pension payment, personal information protection function by routinizing ethics within the organization culture. For executing is very important. Enacted internal regulations and guidelines to stably execute personal information protection policy and education by job function and ranks, NPS operates ethics and integrity day for educating entire employees on personal information protection utilizing on-offline. Also in terms of preventive movement of every 3rd Monday. Also, through ‘clean letter’, informs our activities to financial personal information protection, proceeded personal information influence evaluation on every personal information files institutions and stakeholders since 2011 and requesting to become corruption and systems we possesses and setup and operating on-going monitoring system for personal information reading details. monitors to report any irregularity. Besides, installed printout management system and personal information management system within PCs to be selected as We achieved ZERO corruption cases in 2013 with these efforts. Also we had a Benchmarking excellent anti-corruption case of Siemens of ‘excellent’ organization as a result of personal information protection management level diagnosis for 4 consecutive years from time to share and benchmark advanced case of Siemens of Germany. Germany the Ministry of Health & Welfare, and took 1st place in 50 government affiliated institutions from the result of 2013 Ministry of Safety and Public Administration’s public institution personal information protection management level diagnosis. Improvement fund management anti-corruption system We reinforced system to prevent the fund management related corruption. To strengthen code of conduct for employees, Result of personal information protection management level diagnosis by the Ministry of Health and Welfare fund management division reviewed personal stock trading of employees and their families and checked inside classified information leaks and prohibited transaction with the institution for 6 months. Also, for fund management information 2010 2011 2012 2013 control, we reinforced checking of inside information leaks by operating dedicated personnel and limiting retired fund related score 91.9 92.0 97.9 100 employees’ reemployment to related companies. level excellent excellent excellent excellent 36 37 What is the most important core area for NPS? Core Issue 04 WHAT Overview How does social responsibility internal stakeholders intensifying job insecurity issues such as youth unemployment 78.8 points Sustainable Business local CSV requirement of public organization community external stakeholders activities promote for necessity for social contribution activity suitable for NPS characteristics 76.1 points Material Issue participation and development Why is local community important for sustainable growth? Appendix WHY of local community? Local community is the foundation of development of NPS and companion relationship that is important to grow together. The roles of NPS for local community development are largely the support for self support for the disabled and low income class, creation of direct and indirect jobs as an organization that has huge influence to national economy, and local community contribution activities. Not like most of other companies looking at local community as subject to help society and return, for us, local community is important issue related to future survival. With a reality of low birthrate, the disabled and low income class self supports economically, more people get jobs and more companies formed and operate, and with increase in subscribers NPS can sustainable. Thus, we see support for local community as an important investment. With a desperate mind that ‘if not invest now, we do not have a future’, we are trying for development of local community. We are reflecting stakeholders’ opinion to management HOW Grown as one of the world’s 4 largest pension funds, through advanced fund stakeholder opinion reflected to management page management and by expanding fund investment, created 3,937 private sector management · creating jobs at private sector is considered positively, and still · total inspection of job creation result for fund 40, 41 jobs in 2013. With a fund raised through voluntary support of employees evaluation group need to make objective standard for job record invested companies · avoid making social contribution as event program · find out businesses through change in paradigm and happy pension sharing campaign, pension support for low income class shift in support for customer self-supporting and sustainability increased KRW 450 million and our various trust building activities were government · strengthen service for entrepreneurship and corporate activity, fair · through cooperation with local governments host 41 recognized through selection as management excellent case and awards. trade with SMEs, and prepare for customized one-stop support cooperating company job fair, implement direct system payment system, introduce subcontractor payment · expand employing local candidates, compulsory employment of the system disabled (3%), expand new recruit within capacity, creation of jobs · setup goal for employment of local talent, reinforce utilizing temporary workers preference for the disabled and expand extra hours 12.4 766 8 KRW for short-hour workers hours million people Assembly audit · prepare guideline for expansion of social contribution · expand and establish social contribution committee that participates representative of labor union · establish recognition standard for concrete social volunteer hours per capita newly employed by cafe 36.5 service hour social contribution fund (4.6 hours increased than previous external expert · strengthen the role as a meeting place for neglected neighbors · Implementation of tour project for the disabled to 43 (KRW 89million increased than year) participate 748 severely handicapped people of 21 previous year) times in 2013 cafe 36.5 for economic self-supporting of vulnerable class 38 39 Reporting plan and effort job creation for the year Creating jobs through expansion of private partnership National Pension Service Social Responsibility Management Report 2014 Overview to create jobs for local community 3,937 people Job fairs utilizing existing infrastructure NPS participated in job fairs in connection with local governments and introduced prominent partner companies to job seekers and provided various chances to employment. By sending information letters to the excepted, employers and our Sustainable Business Material Issue outstanding partners and promoted to participate to the program so as to create jobs people can actually feel. In 2013, 10 branches of Seodaemun, Eunpyeong and others hosted job fairs and 1,567 people succeeded to get jobs. We are actively involved in the local community to solve problems beyond the level of simple charity donation. First, through Appendix job creation of domestic employment market and elimination of manpower shortage of SMEs, making a virtuous cycle by reduction in pension payments exceptions and expansion of pension beneficiary. Local community promotion strategy Goal Contribution to fund sustainability and national economy through job creation Strategy Contracting-out Investing business launch Partnership with private sector Execution task 1335 call center outsourcing expansion of fund investment increase of consortium with private sector Employment booth instant interview Local government joint job fair Employment interview of partner companies social welfare business relocation of new HQ in local area social job creation IT business extension ICT center establishment Link job opportunity to payment exceptional office building management * Low material issues among execution task are not depicted in this graph. Creating jobs for future subscribers Social job creation through supporting establishment of cooperatives To support future subscribers and to create long-term jobs, and as a participation to local community and employment education, providing job creation for vulnerable class, cafe 36.5 cooperative talent donation of economics in pro bono to Sung II information high school. By utilizing retirement design experts and employees with certificate, we are To help economic self-supporting, setup NPS cafe 36.5 in 2011 providing long-term mentoring education for 50 times a year of 150 hours. For and operating by employing the employment vulnerable class students, we provide chances to understand the principle of market economy such as the disabled, single parent with children, multicultural and enhance economic mind, and prepare employment for various finance family. We are expanding the project by establishing stores at the related public corporations and companies with TESAT(Test of Economic Sense NPS HQ, Gangnam, Daejeon, Daegu and enacted the articles of And Thinking) education, and 18 students were employed. Agreement ceremony on NPS Economics talent donation (May.2013) association as cooperative, and to expand through demand survey from NPS possessing buildings. By donating 10% of revenue With running cafe 36.5, creating 8 social work place for local community, purchasing raw material, and utilizing fair trading channel, NPS is to fulfill the global social responsibility. Improve the quality of employment through outsourcing substantiality Vitalizing local economy through small business support Operation of employment succession system for partner companies As a way to vitalize local economy and create jobs, we are promoting Mangwon market regular and employment succession given additional point distribution center vitalization project. Mangwon market was proving shopping and delivery service with a phone call as a government demonstration project, however having difficulty NPS is continuously creating private sector jobs through business outsourcing and cooperation with private. To support with reasons such as lack of sales channel. In 2014, we would contribute to vitalization of local partner companies’ employment stability, upon expiry of the contract and outsourcing company changes, new partner community with providing pro bono service in promotion, marketing, service as ‘Don't worry companies can hire successfully. If employs regular position or employment succession, we provide additional point. It is to Kim Daeri, Shopping Service’. If this project becomes successful, we can rehire 2 distribution safeguard the workers for SMEs with relatively unstable employment and provide quality service in stable condition, which is center employees of Mangwon market who were temporarily dismissed. good for accompanied growth benefiting NPS. ‘Don’t worry Kim Daeri, Shopping Service’ leaflet 40 41 subscriber For low income class that need stable retirement fund, provide ‘pension pension premium support in 2013 (people) Special 1,279 love plus National Pension Service Social Responsibility Management Report 2014 Overview premium support project for low income subscriber’ to help acquire NPS CSV Activity national pension benefit. Also deployed a ‘happy pension sharing Issues campaign’, national pension beneficiary voluntarily donates certain portion of the pension and making a society living together. Sustainable Business CSV strategy Material Issue Goal Practicing CSV(Creating Shared Value) Strategy internalization of NPS·society CSV expand pension subscribers through resolving contribute to vitalization of creative economy social issues through promotion of CSV diffusion beneficiary Appendix For living alone elderly who are in welfare blind spots, we engaged linking heart service accumulated (people) 4,611 Execution task promote integrated strategy between leading CSV promotion through love plus ‘heart linking social service’, ‘greeting calls of love’, ‘sympathy tour development of NPS’s own CSV budget and planning department and social representative model responsibility department (reflect CSV goal from planning stage) creating economy instructor jobs through fostering CSV specialists through social with living alone elderly’. Through this, we link our job with social ‘Firefly teacher fostering project’ responsibility management practice leader reflect CSV evaluation index for business creating economy instructor jobs through gathering stakeholders’ opinion through CSV contribution that assigning social responsibility function to our own report and assessment report ‘Visiting home crisis search cooperative’ division committee (CSV division committee establish CSV process through setting up of within social responsible management work to strengthen role as a stable pension management organization. enterprise CSV structure committee) Resolving social issues and creation of jobs disabled We are implementing various programs to help alleviate feelings of happy accompany fund accumulated amount (KRW million) 140 Where business opportunities of companies and needs of local community meet create social value and pursuing economic and social love plus alienation in severely disabled people. Besides a sympathy tour for benefit, CSV (Creating Shared Value) is becoming new growth engine for corporate. As a Y-CSR, a college students’ conference on social responsibility of company, NPS held contest for CSR ideas of college and graduate students, and employees supported as a mentor to the disabled which disabled people gave good reviews about, we realize the ideas. We are planning to promote the projects selected though this, ‘firefly teacher fostering’ and ‘visiting home crisis search are executing social contribution activities considering the disabled in cooperative’ from 2nd half of 2014. We will continue to create jobs only NPS can and at the same time actively support creating shared multiple angles, such as ‘sports sponsor’, ‘culture sponsor’, ‘wedding value activities that is resolving social issues. ceremony sponsor’, ‘happy accompany fund’. 'Firefly teacher fostering' project Through professional education to woman with discontinued career because of marriage or child birth, or single moms, turn them into after school economy instructor so that create jobs for career discontinued woman and resolve problem with children and youth who local To make local community healthy and happy, NPS is engaged in total volunteer hour of employees (hour) 60,000 have no one to take care of after school due to both parents working, and can increase pension subscribers, a win-win project. community various projects such as ‘NPS Cafe36.5°’, ’1 company 1 village love plus Visiting home crisis search cooperative sisterhood’, ‘1 company 1 market sisterhood’, ‘1 company 1 barrack sisterhood’. Also, to create proactive volunteer culture of the A social worker and new employee (mainly from vulnerable class) to form ‘national pension social welfare cooperative’ to create jobs and employees, we are continually engaged in ‘newly recruit volunteer’, utilizing related data from national pension to search for crisis homes suffering livelihood and support social welfare and educate them to ‘year-end meeting substitute volunteer’ and ‘holiday volunteer activity’. be reemployed by cooperative. Creating Creating Creating Shared Business Value Social Value Value Sympathy tour with the disabled Visit to bosa senior welfare center Home coming for multicultural families 42 43 What is the most important core area for NPS? Core Issue 05 WHAT Overview How is NPS practicing internal stakeholders intensifying gap between big companies and SMEs accom80.2 points Sustainable Business necessary for settlement of fair trade culture panied external stakeholders growth 80.6 points accompanied growth with demand for public organization’s leading accompanied growth Material Issue partner companies? WHY Why is accompanied growth important to national pension’s sustainable growth? Appendix NPS is to fulfill the responsibility on partner companies by realizing sustainable For the last 40 years the industrialization of Korea was led by the government and export and large accompanied growth. We are building system for accompanied growth with SMEs and companies’ centered, and after 90s, rapid changes in the economic environment, the gap of adaptability expanding system for cooperation with partner companies. Also to establish fair trade, we between the individual economic entities’ intensifying and expanding polarization between industries are trying to eliminate unfair trading factors from the root. and large companies and small and medium companies. Among industry companies, these gaps led to polarization of income, employment, and industry, companies and developed into social problem. As a public organization, NPS is to fulfill the social duties, continue to expand and strengthen accompanied growth with SMEs through cooperation. As one of world’s 4 largest pension fund organization, with 107 branches and 50 counseling centers in domestic only, NPS is to utilize this network to initiate accompanied growth culture and the culture is spreading. We are reflecting stakeholders’ opinion to management HOW stakeholder opinion reflected to management page government · strengthening fair trade tradition with SMEs · direct payment to prevent chain bankruptcy of 92 47 · prepare customized one stop company support system second, third partner companies 46 77.9 partner company · necessary to prepare rational unit price compensation plan · increased lowest price private contract accompanied · multiple-angle management consulting and company diagnosis · permanent FKI(Federation of Korean Industries) free % growth meeting · continuity necessary for mid-term product purchase management consulting · demand for product sales channel · expand SME product purchase · increase in small and medium companies suffering workforce · promote SME product on company bulletin purchase of SMEs product shortage · free booth for job fair (2.9% increase than previous year) · necessary to expand financial support due to economic slowdown · expand pension premium support for small · need to find out small and medium company coexistence policy businesses · loosen net capital ratio of stock companies external expert · active promotion is necessary on what effect SMEs can expect · through accompanied growth Dodream center, 46, 47 from coexistence cooperation permanent on-offline counseling system is ready · make periodic gathering and cooperation to increase partner · partner company workshop, CEO meetings to 5.5 100 91.4 KRW companies’ feel communicate through multi-layer channels · infrastructure is necessary of contract structure, sub-contractor · payment is made in cash within 15 days for trillion % points customs so that SMEs with special technology can grow together subcontractors and for special technology SMEs under discussion percentage of advanced payment partner company satisfaction SMEs cooperation investment for 23 cases (3.6% increase than previous year) entering overseas 45 We are supporting SMEs’ investment on SME Performance of accompanied growth with partner companies National Pension Service Social Responsibility Management Report 2014 Overview 5.5 KRW growth for better industry 360,000 new low income subscribers through pension premium support Sustainable Business supported total KRW 19.4 billion to 56,616 companies to stabilize small companies’ finance ecosystem trillion Since 2012, the support project of national pension and employment insurance for low income workers of KRW 1.35 million and working for small companies with less than 10 people, we are trying to promote continuing growth with SMEs. Material Issue Promoting coexistence by loosening entrance barriers for small and medium management Accompanied growth Appendix companies Goal On the base of coexistence and cooperation, continue to grow together with partner companies increased 8 competitive small and medium management companies, lowered capital reserve ratio eased eligibility requirement Strategy enhancement of competition of SMEs NPS's style of growing together by using capability reflected on business characteristic To find out competitive small and medium management companies and to provide equal transaction opportunity, introduced preliminary management companies system. Backup management companies, selected and managed separately by expanded Execution task Strengthening on capability of SMEs, applicable scope, increased to 19 in 2013 from 11 in 2012. Also we eased net capital ratio for stock company to contribute sales activation on benefit system with partner companies women and social enterprises activities and investment activation of stock companies. Extension of participation on goods, enhancement social role of fund services and ordering construction Increase of support for annuity insurance of small-scale business Cooperation for settlement of fair cooperation relation NPS support system for accompanied growth By removing financial stability and similar service result from quantitative evaluation from 2013, we promoted system improvement to enable fair competition between big companies and small and medium companies. Also held pre-briefing To settle accompanied growth and coexistent culture, we are operating internal dedicated organization ‘Dodream Center’ to fund management transaction related companies to reinforce transparency in the process of consignment management that promotes planning, executing, monitoring of accompanied growth, and external cooperation organization ‘accompanied company selection. growth counsel’ that listens to difficulties of partners, trying for coexisting management on the base of trust and harmony. large companies IT outsourcing 1st subcontractor bankruptcy for direct payment to 2nd and 3rd partners government support for strengthening Bankruptcy of our IT subcontractor stopped payment and to protect the other subcontractors activated Dodream center and affiliated organization reflect to policy contract department competitiveness implemented direct payment to prevent 92 partner companies from chain bankruptcy. Furthermore, we introduced a secondaccompanied growth MOU signed Dodream center small and medium enterprises and-third-partner-direct-payment-monitoring system to prevent further bankruptcies. 26 organizations project executing social responsibility management accepts difficulties advisory committee policy suggestion department Efforts to support partner companies’ sustainable management accompanied growth sub division overseas expansion companies Technology evaluation for Social responsibility of partner companies Technology evaluation assessment items Operation of accompanied growth programs reflecting partner companies’ demand (service : 2014 social responsibility management report published and CSR strategy rebuilding service) expansion of social responsibility to partner companies priority partner company needs system improvements 1. main business, revenue, organization structure, human resource need to make rational price compensation increased price for lowest price private For service order technology evaluating, introduced to reflect social responsibility 1. rational price plan contract evaluation of partner companies, and will expand enterprise wide to induce execution 2. appropriateness as service execution organization 2. support for multiple-angle management consulting and permanent FKI(Federation of Korean of partner companies and new companies of social responsibility. competitiveness company diagnosis Industries) free management consulting satisfaction for accompanied growth 3. social responsibility performance of the Unit: Point continuity necessary for mid-term product suggested company (creation of jobs, accompanied expand SME product purchase 3.6 growth, social contribution, ethical management etc.) 3. support for sales purchase channel demand for product sales channel promote SME product on company bulletin 91.4 Sustainable management education support for partners 4. proposing company’s strength when executing service 4. support for increase in small and medium companies 87.8 manpower suffering workforce shortage free booth for job fair perception on social responsibility changed 76.6% positively necessary to expand financial support due expand pension premium support for small For the coexistence with partners, held sustainable business education and workshop in first half and second half of 2013, out to economic slowdown businesses 5. support for finance of 40 attendants, over 76.6% answered big changes in perception on social responsibility and were to remind of the meaning of need to find out small and medium company 2012 2013 loosen net capital ratio of stock companies coexistence policy sustainable management and harden the will for practice. 46 47 Core Issue 06 We will provide fair work employee grievance acceptance rate Overview What kind of efforts is NPS doing to foster personnel? environment to make organizational culture that employees satisfy 73.5 % Sustainable Business Material Issue Appendix With uncertainty in global business environment and intensifying competition, the human Employee status high rank(rank 1~3) sex ratio (Unit : %) resource, in relation with our characteristics, is ever more important. female Number of employees of NPS is 4,709.5 as of end of 2013. male 73.4 To make a good workplace that executives and employee are respected and balance Out of regular employees female takes up of 42%, 1,978 70.1 71.8 of work and life is guaranteed is foundation of securing talents and essential factor for people, especially, management personnel above team leader mid to long-term growth. We would like to make an organization culture that seriously are 13.4% and keep growing. Also employment rate for considers people and fulfill the duty to employees. For the ongoing growth of people, we the disabled is above government standard 3.0% to mark 4.04%, and there is no discrimination when recruiting and 29.9 28.2 are strengthening talent fostering system and through communication between labor and 26.6 employing various capable workers of disabled, female, management, we are trying to gather opinions. local talent, high school graduates and special high school Also we prohibit discrimination in principle and through open employment, we are graduates. supporting the socially vulnerable class to achieve the potential capabilities. 2011 2012 2013 employment result of last 3 years 2011 2012 2013 regular 4,627 4,578 4,709.5 number of female and percentage 1,937 (41.9%) 2,022 (42.8%) 1,978 (42.0%) out of regular number of female and percentage above team leader 104 (11.2%) 103 (11.3%) 129 (13.4%) percentage of the disabled 4.4% 4.2% 4.04% 226 people 42.0 % Balance between generation and enhancing organization vitality new recruit in 2013 percentage of female employee The result of 2013 staff survey shows the percentage of over 45 age group is high and prepared to balance between generations and vitalize the organization. We are hiring new employees every year since 2011, and expanded full-time hiring of replacement workers of maternity leave and reinforcing the professional staff and expanding new recruits. Also activated early retirement for the elderly and high-wage person and secured new budget to increase youth hiring. As a result, average age is 41.25 which is 0.72 younger that predicted and 20s increased 8.2%. 4.04 % 42.5 % percentage of the disabled percentage of the local talent 49 (as of end of 2013) Open employment considers socially Efforts to protect employee rights National Pension Service Social Responsibility Management Report 2014 32 274 75 Overview disadvantaged (unit : people) To protect the right of employees, we are trying in various angles. We are operating grievance committee, composed of 1 Sustainable Business We entirely prohibit discrimination in recruitment, Disabled person from each labor and management to solve worries on working environment and other difficulties, and from laborRural talent employment, personnel affairs and abolished limitation Youth intern management committee that was held 4 times a year, the percentage of difficulty acceptance was 73.5%, 1.3% increase 39 705 108 of sex, age, education, specialty and pursuing ability and that previous year. Problems related to sexual harassment, systematically managed separately by gender equality grievance 4 96 15 capability centered employment. To consider socially Gyeonggi committee. Also to gather employee’s problem right away and discuss the issues at site, labor-management at sight discussion Material Issue disadvantaged class, we give preference to the disabled Gangwon and labor-management discussion is held and for major business changes, notify in advance to enhance work safety and trying Seoul and employment support applicants, and allocated certain 5 53 21 Incheon to buildup labor-management trust. percentage to high school graduate, and youth intern Appendix 1 85 13 experienced to expand social fair employment. Also to search 11 111 14 8 172 19 Maintaining balance between work and life local talents and application, introduced employment target Chungbuk Gyeongbuk system for Jeonbuk area where headquarter is supposed Chungnam Daejeon As working couple and female participation in social activity is growing, the government is preparing measures such as 14 122 17 to relocate. In 2013, number of staffs employed with social 6 158 19 time shift job creation, prevention of female career discontinuation. For NPS also the percentage of female staff is increasing fairness is 155 people of the disabled, which is 59 people 3 127 16 Daegu and demand for support for both of work and family, trying enterprise-wise to balance family and work. To prevent career increased than 2011, 2,775 people of rural talents which is Jeonbuk 11 229 23 2 64 7 discontinuation, changed promotion is possible during maternity leave and flex time is now available. In 2013, a total of 302 big increase compared to 341 of 2011 and 62 of 2012. Youth 5 140 14 Gyeongnam Ulsan 7 288 23 workers were on maternity leave, which was an increase of 34 people over the previous year. Also implementing ‘family love intern of 2013 were 399 people. Gwangju Busan day’, leaving the office on time to promote family relationship and expanding EAP(Employee Assistance Program) to resolve 3 108 11 4 33 4 problems of entire daily life from work and family such as psychology, health with expert. Strengthening job specialty education Jeonnam Jeju type detail 2012 2013 With a career value of ‘pension welfare specialist creating happy future with trust and passion’, we are trying to miscarriage leave 16~21weeks into pregnant 45days 2 people _ strengthen employees’ capability through systematic talent fostering. First we separated education and training from personnel maternity off child of less 3 years, 1 day per month 252 people 227 people affairs and newly established human resource development department and for job education substantiality, introduced job support for birth shortened working hour for pregnant period 1 day 1 hour per professor system reflecting core duty. Also we operate customized education reflecting the needs in accordance with capability and nurturing maternity protection time month 52 people 65 people diagnosis by staff and provide various educational opportunities by expanding educational areas such as leadership, job and maternity leave less 6 years old for less 3 years 268 people 302 people humanities. We installed ‘happy retirement plan center’, a dedicated organization for retirement plan to strengthen specialty, and supporting systematic retirement plan by concentrated arrangement of retirement plan lecturer. Also to strengthen global paternity leave paid 5 days 80 people 78 people asset management capability, we reinforced overseas investment workforce and implementing strategic alliance training with expanded and operation of family expansion of leave the office on time once a week once or twice a week overseas advanced fund management institutions such as World Bank and professional commissioned education related to love day finance. With this special workforce fostering by core duties, customer satisfaction increased to 90.0 points and overseas stock welfare point increase service year point (1.5 times up) 2~60,000 P 4~90,000P profitability enhanced to 21.3%. expansion of operating period summer high season anytime of the year enhancement family expansion of rest center operation condo membership 10 accounts Operation of performance and capability centered evaluation system relationship 97.12 summer high season(1.1 times up) 17 places 19 places performance management policy compliance points miscarriage leave (pregnant for expanded number of days(2.0 times up) 5 days 10 days 12~15 weeks) We are operating rational and fair personnel system employee’s evaluation result on achievement and capability are connected birth congratulation point over 3rd child(30 times up) 100,000 points 2~3 million points to promotion, position and remuneration and being evaluated. We strengthened performance evaluation and personnel group insurance expansion to hospitalization and discharge, 10million each 20million each management and the performance management policy compliance was 97.12 points, 1.69 point increased from previous year. For internalization of upright personnel culture, we cut off unfair factors such as special requests in advance and operate fair support for EAP expanded payment subjects trial operation (2nd time) all branch health care and transparent personnel system and improving after setting up of separate strategy with satisfaction measure on personnel supporting with muscular skeletal expanded payment subjects 1/2 of staff entire staff system operation. disease protection kit 50 51 Core Issue 07 We will fulfill the duty reduction rate compared to greenhouse goal Overview How is NPS responding to global climate change? for environment through participation and expansion 22.63 % Sustainable Business Material Issue Climate change and environment destruction that the whole world is facing, are becoming risk factors for corporate management activities such as increase in physical Appendix risk due to abnormal weather, increase in energy cost, strengthening of environmental Environmental management promotion strategy regulation. However, with growing awareness of crisis of environment within the society Goal With strengthening of green management, we would become a beloved NPS by the people and strengthening of environment regulation of government, expectation on public organization’s environmental management is also increases. To respond to these changes, Strategy reduce greenhouse gas and proliferation of environmental save resources and energy expand green purchase environmental pollution friendly living culture we would fulfill the duty for the environment by practicing environmental management to Execution task environmental friendly building minimize influence to eco-system. certification prevent environmental pollution induce partners to participate save resources reduce greenhouse gas purchase green product green management save energy reduce waste and increase comply with environmental recycling regulation issuance of sustainability report Reduce resources and energy reduce environment influence Energy consumption status 3,178 TOE To restraint from emitting greenhouse gas and to reduce wasted energy consumption, we established are practicing enterprise energy management promotion plan. ‘Energy saving promotion committee’ setups annual energy saving management plan in every related areas such as management of building and transportation, usage of products and analyses and evaluates halfyearly, and for winter and summer time, executes special checkup. Also energy consumption is systematically managed by the day, month, and quarter in every branch. In 2013, propagated ‘5 rules to save summer time energy and greenhouse gas’ of cool clothes (recommended not to wear ties and wear short sleeves), plug off standby power, install PC standby power saving 7,036 tCO2eq 3,178 TOE program, light out and turning off cooler for lunch hour, expansion of high efficiency fluorescent light to create energy saving culture in employee’s lives. greenhouse gas emission energy consumption water usage status Water saving and management 22.63% 15 % (Unit: TON) reduction to greenhouse reduction to energy Water management is measured at the level of total unit of the consumption building and by using basic unit data, managing monthly usage. Especially, for objective analysis, comparing ups and downs of KRW usage of previous month, usage of same period of previous year 19,333 19,600 20,518 269,800 pine trees planting impact 6,169 million continuously, and thoroughly analyzing and implementing the waste in water. Also installing water saver and attaching water saving slogan, green purchase trying to save water and optimize water usage. 2011 2012 2013 53 (as of end of 2013) Expansion of green purchase environmental friendly supply chain management Expansion of purchasing environmental friendly car National Pension Service Social Responsibility Management Report 2014 Overview purchase of small car and hybrid car 155% In accordance with the management and operation manual of official car of Ministry of Safety and Public Administration, Sustainable Business Expansion of green purchase increase trying to purchase energy saving small car and hybrid car. We indicated in automobile management guideline to purchase environmental friendly car when purchasing cars and out of 328 cars, we are possessing 150 small and 17 hybrid Green product purchase amount for 2013 is 95.8% of total purchase KRW 6.169 billion, a 155% increase from the previous environmental friendly cars. We would expand to purchase environmental friendly cars. year. Through green purchase, secured stability on human, saved maintains and waste cost and encouraging partner 380 Material Issue companies’ environmental friendly production activities. Especially, made ‘priority purchase preview system’ compulsory to create purchase base for green product from the planning stage and in signing stage, made the contract to reflect ‘green Strengthening of waste management waste emission (TON) product purchase contract special condition’. In 2014, upgraded green purchase result computing system to enhance speed and accuracy of purchase result statics. Opened CoP to knowledge system and made it possible to share experience and We are managing and treating domestic waste, food waste, and designated waste in accordance with legal procedures and trying to reduce emissions. Outdoor waste storage as well as in indoors installed waste boxes, paper cup, battery, fluorescent Appendix information between the purchase officers to come up with practical purchase support plan. Also we are planning to provide compulsory, recommended purchase practice education to purchase officers of entire branches so as to promote green light storage and collecting separately. Also through purchase and usage of pay-per-use waste bag, manage monthly waste purchase. emission and monitoring performance in accordance with reduction goal and continuously improving. Environmental friendly supply chain management Expansion of environmental friendly living culture eco-friendly paper Inducing participation of partner companies Evaluating environment performance of the company upon service contract To actively respond to climate change, we are inducing participation to green management through green investment. green product green product priority send information Expanded investment on green industry such as reusable energy, environment friendly facility, waste resource treatment of subscriber delivery purchase letter beneficiary 150% more than KRW 330 billion in 2010. Also took an idea from an interview of Lim Hyunjeon, head of environmental economy office of KEITI (Korea Environmental Industry & Technology Institute), ‘the necessity to put environmental friendly company first when contracting or investing the fund’, when evaluating technology for bidding, we reflected CSR (Corporate * NPS is implementing environmental friendly supply chain management by purchasing green products and send subscribers of information letters. Social Responsibility) performance including environmental performance to induce partner companies to participate in green In 2013, purchased KRW 2.124 billion worth of environmental friendly paper to send information letters. management. Reduction of greenhouse gas and environment pollution Environmental friendly building certification system use of sustainable resources 1st grade preliminary certification of new company building energy efficiency We are complying to regulations through periodic situation inspection against environment related laws. Also to actively Strengthened energy management through change into LED lighting 22.63% response to low carbon and green growth policy, for relocation reduction rate compared to greenhouse goal of headquarter office building, we are pushing for environmental friendly building certification and promoting energy usage NPS setup in 2011 of greenhouse emission performance management system to check and manage the emission of the entire efficiency of new building by constructing nature friendly branch and own buildings and cars and every sources of greenhouse emission. Especially in 2013, participated and selected for office building. As a result of using energy saving materials LED supply to public organization project and received KRW 100 million from Korea Energy Management Corporation and after reviewing of technology and economy, and high efficiency changed to 2,052 pieces of high efficiency LED lights. Also changed windows to double pane window and attached insulting insulators reflecting the system and insulated windows, acquired file to reinforce insulation capability of the buildings. Greenhouse emission for 2013 was 7,036tCO2eq to achieve total energy preliminary 1st grade in energy efficiency. Moreover, we are consumption reduction goal and created energy saving effect of about KRW 320 million. This is equivalent to planting 269,800 trying to save energy by taking energy diagnosis for every 5 years pine trees annually, and could be regarded as a big contribution to our country’s low carbon green growth. These efforts for building of more than 10,000m2 of total floor area and ESCO were recognized to receive highest score among related organizations for government greenhouse gas energy evaluation and project. Bird eye's view on new office building of NPS excellent organization for greenhouse gas and energy management. 54 55 64 page Memberships and principles Third party assurance Overview Sustainable Business 60 page Material Issue GRI G4, ISO 26000 Index To NPS’ Management THE CSR (“Assurance provider”) was requested by The National Pension Service to conduct an independent assurance of sustainability report for the year 2014 (“Report”). NPS wrote the report, and all activities and procedures for the report such as data acquisition and materiality tests were reviewed by NPS’ Appendix CSR committee, advisory committee, and working level committee. This statement will be only provided to NPS Management for the purpose of enhancing reliability of the report, but will not be provided to other organizations or other use. 57page Assurance Standards Assurance was performed by applying principles of AA1000AS (2008), GRI G4 Reporting Guidelines including Financial Services Sector Disclosures, ISO Third party assurance 26000 and the UN Global Compact. • AA1000AS(2008): Principles on Inclusivity, Materiality, and Responsiveness • GRI G4 Guidelines: Principles on Contents of Report and Quality • ISO 26000: Establishment of CSR management process • UN Global Compact: 10 principles of Human Rights, Labor, Environment, and Anti-Corruption Assurance Level Type 1 (moderate assurance level) was adopted which is mainly focused on adherence of the AA1000AS (2008) Principles. Data sampling and interviews were conducted under Limited Level with a primary focus on the internal stakeholders. During the assurance process, the following activities were conducted: • Internal document review: Reviewing GRI G4 application and finding errors on the report • Interview with CSR officers in charge: Reviewing CSR strategies and action plans • Inspection of stakeholder participation process: Reviewing stakeholder engagement strategy and activities Appendix • Review of evidences for CSR achievement: Checked computing system of CSR performance data • Review of the materiality assessment process: Traced rationality of materiality test processes 57 Third party assurance 60 GRI G4, ISO 26000 Index 64 Memberships and principles Assurance Limitation 65 Survey Since the assurance provider presents the information based on the limited scope of stakeholder’s participation and report review, the credibility for the contents of this report meets the requirements, but does not guarantee 100% of the credibility. 65 page Survey 57 National Pension Service Social Responsibility Management Report 2014 Overview Sustainable Business Material Issue Assurance Result Independence of Assurance The assurance provider submits the following assurance statements based on a series of processes for proving compliance with AA1000AS (2008) Assurance Provider does not have relations of interest, which may affect the assurance result, with NPS. As an independent assurance organization, the assurance standards and principles of international guidelines. independent and ethical status was secured to present this statement. Appendix • Inclusivity Has NPS conducted engagement with various stakeholders? Recommendation for Management Improvement The process of identifying NPS’ stakeholder groups was checked, and did not find intentionally excluded groups during the process. No evidence • NPS should reflect voices from stakeholders in the process of fund management, and stakeholders need to be managed in an integral manner in order was found showing that NPS did not apply inclusivity principles while performing social responsibilities. It is recommended that NPS should identify to strengthen connectivity of reporting contents. important stakeholders in detail and organize stakeholder engagement activities systematically based on priorities. • NPS should communicate more where details of commitments, action plans, and goals are required when responding to the expectations brought up by stakeholders. • Materiality Has NPS reported important information which is material to both stakeholders and NPS? • NPS should manage CSR KPIs by applying a quantitative approach and maintaining consistency. Working with the Government managerial evaluation The procedures of materiality assessment were reviewed to ascertain whether the procedure and the contents are duly described. No serious mistake or report will enhance the efficiency of reporting cycle. errors in applying the procedure for assessing materiality were found. It is recommended that NPS should manage different stakeholder communication • NPS should apply environmental index of GRI G4 guidelines more strictly, and apply Financial Services Sector Disclosures or framework of UNPRI (PRI: channels in an integrated manner. Also, more qualitative approach is recommended as it will allow to interview important stakeholder groups. Principles for Responsible Investment). • Responsiveness Has NPS reasonably responded to the demand of stakeholders? Assurance Team There was no serious problem in response activities and reports for key stakeholder issues. It is recommended that NPS should plan participatory THE CSR, requested by NPS to provide this assurance statement, was founded in 2013. Specializing both in the assurance of Sustainability Report and activities based on concrete engagement strategies. This will allow the issues brought up by stakeholders to be discussed during CSR committee consulting for CSR strategies and education, it is operated with a multi-national knowledge network of CSR experts in the UK and Germany as well as meetings or the existing CSR governance body. in Korea. The assurance team consists of the best experts in sustainability with sufficient knowledge and expertise in the area. Standard Disclosures It was checked that the report was written in accordance with the core option of GRI G4 Guidelines. It was verified that NPS provided DMA, general standard disclosures report index, 12 aspects of specific standard disclosures, and report index. All reviewed report indexes are the following: October 31st, 2014 ASSURANCE COMMITTEE Economy Environment Society THE CSR CO., LTD. • Economic Performance_EC1 • Energy_EN3 • Employment_LA3 • Indirect Economic Impacts_EC7 • Water_EN8 • Diversity and Equal Opportunity_LA12 • Procurement Practices_EC9 • Emissions_EN15 • Local Communities_SO1 • Effluents & Waste_23 • Anti-corruption_ SO4, SO5 • Supplier Assessment For Impacts on Society_SO10 Tawuya Katso, Ph.D Dae-Woong Lim CPA Young Kyun Kim Se Woo Jung University of Nottingham Sustainability Specialist Director of Sustainability Chairman Technical Advisor Assurance Committee Assurance Committee Assurance Committee 58 59 GRI G4, ISO 26000 Index National Pension Service Social Responsibility Management Report 2014 Overview Sustainable Business ● Fully ◐ Partially ○ Not reported Material Issue Level of ISO External Reason Level of ISO External Reason Category Indicators Core Contents disclosure Page 260000 assurance for Category Indicators Core Contents disclosure Page 260000 assurance for omission omission Strategy and Provide a statement from the most senior decision-maker of the Report the effect of any restatements of information provided in G4-22 ● ● 2, 4 Appendix Analysis organization (such as CEO, chair, or equivalent senior position) previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements. G4-1 ● ● 5 6.2 about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and the organization’s strategy for addressing sustainability. Report significant changes from previous reporting periods in the G4-23 ● ● 2 Scope and Aspect Boundaries. Organizational G4-3 ● Report the name of the organization ● 4 Stakeholder Profile G4-24 ● Provide a list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. ● 11 6.2 Engagement G4-4 ● Report the primary brands, products, and services. ● 4 Report the basis for identification and selection of stakeholders G4-25 ● ● 11 6.2 G4-5 ● Report the location of the organization’s headquarters. ● 4 with whom to engage. Report the number of countries where the organization operates, Report the organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, and names of countries where either the organization has including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder G4-6 ● ● 4 G4-26 ● ● 11 6.2 significant operations or that are specifically relevant to the group, and an indication of whether any of the engagement was sustainability topics covered in the report. undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process. G4-7 ● Report the nature of ownership and legal form. ● 4 Report key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has Report the markets served (including geographic breakdown, G4-27 responded to those key topics and concerns, including through 12-15 6.2 G4-8 ● ● 4 ● ● sectors served, and types of customers and beneficiaries). its reporting. Report the stakeholder groups that raised each of G4-9 ● Report the scale of the organization ● 4 the key topics and concerns. A. Report the total number of employees by and gender. Report Profile Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) for information G4-28 ● ● 2 B. Report the total number of permanent employees by provided. employment type and gender. G4-29 ● Date of most recent previous report (if any). ● 2 C. Report the total workforce by employees and supervised workers and by gender. G4-30 ● Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial). ● 2 D. Report the total workforce by region and gender. E. Report whether a substantial portion of the organization’s Provide the contact point for questions regarding the report or its G4-10 ● ● 49 6.4/6.4.3 G4-31 ● ● 2 work is performed by workers who are legally recognized contents. as self-employed, or by individuals other than employees A. Report the ‘in accordance’ option the organization has chosen. or supervised workers, including employees and supervised B. Report the GRI Content Index for the chosen option (see tables employees of contractors. below). F. Report any significant variations in employment numbers G4-32 ● C. Report the reference to the External Assurance Report, if the ● 2 (such as seasonal variations in employment in the tourism or report has been externally assured. GRI recommends the agricultural industries). use of external assurance but it is not a requirement to be ‘in 6.4, 6.4.3, accordance’ with the Guidelines. Report the percentage of total employees covered by collective G4-11 ● ● 51 6.4.4, 6.4.5 A. Report the organization’s policy and current practice with bargaining agreements. 6.3.10 regard to seeking external assurance for the report. G4-12 ● Describe the organization’s supply chain. ● 44, 46 6.6.6 B. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, report the scope and basis of any external Report any significant changes during the reporting period assurance provided. G4-33 ● ● 60-61 7.5.3 G4-13 ● regarding the organization’s size, structure, ownership, or its ● 6-7 C. Report the relationship between the organization and the supply chain assurance providers. D. Report whether the highest governance body or senior Report whether and how the precautionary approach or principle executives are involved in seeking assurance for the G4-14 ● ● 20, 21 6.2 is addressed by the organization. organization’s sustainability report. List externally developed economic, environmental and social Governance Report the governance structure of the organization, including G4-15 ● charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization ● 65, 66 6.2 committees of the highest governance body. Identify any subscribes or which it endorses. G4-34 ● ● 8-10 6.2 committees responsible for decision-making on economic, List memberships of associations (such as industry associations) environmental and social impacts. G4-16 ● and national or international advocacy organizations in which the ● 65, 66 6.2 Report the composition of the highest governance body and its organization: G4-38 ● 8-10 6.2 committees Identified A. List all entities included in the organization’s consolidated Report whether the Chair of the highest governance body is Material Aspects financial statements or equivalent documents. also an executive officer (and, if so, his or her function within and Boundaries G4-17 ● B. Report whether any entity included in the organization’s ● 33 6.2 G4-39 ● 8-10 6.2 the organization’s management and the reasons for this consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents is arrangement). not covered by the report. Report the nomination and selection processes for the highest A. Explain the process for defining the report content and the G4-40 governance body and its committees, and the criteria used for ● 8-10 6.2 Aspect Boundaries. nominating and selecting highest governance body members G4-18 ● ● 2, 16-17 B. Explain how the organization has implemented the Reporting Principles for Defining Report Content. Report the highest committee or position that formally reviews G4-48 and approves the organization’s sustainability report and ensures ● 8-10 6.2 List all the material Aspects identified in the process for defining that all material Aspects are covered. G4-19 ● ● 16-17 report content. Report the process for determining remuneration. Report For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary within the 19, 27, 35, 39, whether remuneration consultants are involved in determining G4-20 ● ● organization 45, 48, 52 G4-52 remuneration and whether they are independent of management. ● 8-10 6.2 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary outside the 19, 27, 35, 39, Report any other relationships which the remuneration G4-21 ● ● consultants have with the organization. organization, 45, 48, 52 60 61 National Pension Service Social Responsibility Management Report 2014 Overview Sustainable Business Material Issue Reason Category Indicators Core Contents Level of Page ISO External for Category Sub-category Aspect Core Aspect Contents Level of Page ISO External Reason for disclosure 260000 assurance omission disclosure 26000 assurance omission Ethics and 6.6, 6.6.1, Describe the organization’s values, principles, standards and Social Labor Practice Employment Appendix Integrity G4-56 ● ● 34-37 6.6.2, 6.6.3, ● DMA Disclosure on Management Approach by Aspect ● 48 norms of behavior such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics. and Decent Work 6.6.5 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not 6.4, Report the internal and external mechanisms for seeking 6.6, 6.6.1, ● G4-LA2 provided to temporary or part-time employees, by ● 51 6.4.3, G4-57 advice on ethical and lawful behavior, and matters related to ● 34-37 6.6.2, 6.6.3, significant locations of operation 6.4.4 organizational integrity, such as helplines or advice lines. 6.6.5 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by ● G4-LA3 ● 51 gender Diversity and Equal ● DMA General Disclosure on Management Approach ● 48 Opportunity 6.3.7, 6.3.10, External Reason Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of Level of ISO ● G4-LA12 ● 49-50 6.4, Category Sub-category Aspect Core Aspect Contents disclosure Page for 26000 assurance omission employees per employee category 6.4.3, 6.4.4 Economic Economic Society Local community ● DMA Disclosure on Management Approach by Aspect ● 38-39 ● DMA General Disclosure on Management Approach ● 26, 33 Performance 6.3.9, 6.8, Percentage of significant product and service categories 6.8, 6.8.3, ● G4-SO1 for which health and safety impacts are assessed for ● 40-43 6.8.5, ● G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed ● 33 6.8.7, improvement 6.8.7, 6.8.9 6.6.7 Indirect Economic Anti-corruption ● DMA Disclosure on Management Approach by Aspect ● 34-35 ● DMA Disclosure on Management Approach by Aspect ● 38-39 Impacts Communication and training on anti-corruption policies 6.6, 6.3.9, ● G4-SO4 ● 36-37 and procedures 6.6.3 6.8, 6.8.3, 6.6, Development and impact of infrastructure investments ● G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken ● 36-37 ● G4-EC7 ● 38-43 6.8.4, 6.6.3 and services supported 6.8.5, Supplier 6.8.7, Significant potential and actual negative impacts on Assessment for ● G4-SO10 ● 36 6.6.6 6.8.9 society in the supply chain and actions taken Impacts on Society 조달관행 ● DMA Disclosure on Management Approach by Aspect ● 44-45 6.6.6, Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant 6.8, ● G4-EC9 ● 46 locations of operation 6.8.5, 6.8.7 Environmental Energy ● DMA Disclosure on Management Approach by Aspect ● 52 6.5, ● G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization ● 53 6.5.4 6.5, ● G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption ● 53 6.5.4 Water ● DMA General Disclosure on Management Approach ● 52 6.5, ● G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source ● 54 6.5.4 Emissions ● DMA Disclosure on Management Approach by Aspect ● 52 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 6.5, ● G4-EN15 ● 53 (Scope 1) 6.5.5 6.5, ● G4-EN19 Reductions of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions ● 53 6.5.5 Effluent and waste DMA General Disclosure on Management Approach ● 52 6.5, G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method ● 54 6.5.3 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using G4-EN32 ◐ 55 6.6.6 environmental criteria 62 63 Memberships & Principles Survey We thank you for reading NPS social responsibility report. To make better report, we await your opinion. Your precious opinion and suggestions are to be reflected in our sustainable management activities and next issue. Thank you. National Pension Service Social Responsibility Management Report 2014 Please use mail or fax to send us. To : Social responsibility management department, NPS 13, Olympic-ro 35Da-gil, Songpa-gu, Seoul, Korea Tel. +82-2-2240-1908 Fax. +82-2-3485-9812 1. Which of the following best □ Customer □ Employee □ Investment institution and private investor describes you? □ Partner company □ Government agency □ Civic group and local resident Memberships □ Press and Academic □ Industry □ Others : Name of organization Name of organization 2. What made you to read this □ to acquire investment information □ to utilize as reference Korean Social Security Association Korea Insurance Research Institute report? □ to learn about social responsible management of NPS □ research and education purpose □ other : Social Security Network Korea Employers Federation □ CEO Message Korean Academy of Social Welfare Pacific Pension Institute, PPI 3. Which part of this report did you find most interesting? □ Sustainalbe Business Korean Association of Public Finance Korean Association for Survey Research (choose 2 □) △ Social responsibility △ Sound and transparent governance △ Stakeholder participation Korea Development Institute IPC (International Pensions Conference) management structure □ Social responsibility management core issue (choose 2) Korean Association of Social Welfare Policy Korean Economic Association △ pension system △ fund management △ ethics · compliance Russell 20-20 (20-20 Investment Association) Seoul Economist Club △ local community △ accompanied growth △ employment Korean Labor Economic Association Korea Institutional Finance Association △ environment Korea Labor Institute Korean Pension Association □ CEO Message 4. Which part(s) of this report needs supplementation? □ Sustainalbe Business (choose 2 □) △ Social responsibility △ Sound and transparent governance △ Stakeholder participation UN Global Compact & UN PRI Principles management structure □ Social responsibility management core issue (choose 2) △ pension system △ fund management △ ethics · compliance The National Pension Service obtained membership △ local community △ accompanied growth △ employment In October 2012, the National Pension Service signed of the UN PRI (Principles for Responsible Investment) △ environment up the ‘UN Global Compact’, an international agreement in 2009, and endeavors to improve its long-term on corporate social responsibility under a UN scheme. management performance of fund and enroot a Neither Now NPS supports and implements the UN GC’s ten 5. What do you think about this Strongly agree nor Strongly long-term investing culture in the capital market principles in the four areas of human rights, labour, the report. disagree Disagree disagree Agree agree with commitment to the following six principles for environment and anti-corruption. 1.1) easy to understand sentence description □ □ □ □ □ responsible investment of the United Nations. 1. content 1.2) easy to understand words □ □ □ □ □ Principle 1 : Businesses should support and respect the protection of We will incorporate ESG issues into investment analysis and 2. deals enough with core issues Human internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 1 ( core issues: pension system, fund management, Rights decision-making processes. □ □ □ □ □ Principle 2 : make sure that they are not complicit in human right abuses. ethics·compliance, local community, accompanied growth, employment, environment) Principle 3 : Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the We will be active owners and incorporate ESG issues into our Principle 2 3.1) appropriate color □ □ □ □ □ effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; ownership policies and practices. Principle 4 : the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Labour 3.2) easy to understand graphs □ □ □ □ □ Principle 5 : the effective abolition of child labour; and We will seek appropriate disclosure on ESG issues by the entities in 3. design Principle 3 Principle 6 : the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment which we invest. 3.3) appropriate character size □ □ □ □ □ and occupation. 3.4) easy to read font □ □ □ □ □ Principle 7 : Businesses should support a precautionary approach to We will promote acceptance and implementation of the Principles Principle 4 environmental challenges; within the investment industry. 4. trusting information □ □ □ □ □ Principle 8 : undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental Environment 5. overall satisfied □ □ □ □ □ responsibility; We will work together to enhance our effectiveness in implementing Principle 5 Principle 9 : encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally the Principles. friendly technologies. AntiPrinciple 10 : Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, We will each report on our activities and progress toward Principle 6 Corruption including extortion and bribery implementing the Principles. 6. Feel free to write down your opinion for our next report. Thank you. 64 65 NPS Social Responsibility Report 2014 Survey Stamp Social responsibility management department, NPS 13, Olympic-ro 35Da-gil, Songpa-gu, Seoul, Korea PO Box 138-725 E-mail. nps0621@nps.or.kr Tel. +82-2-2240-1908 Fax. +82-2-3485-9812 To those who want to send, please cut the paper along with dotted line, and send it in an envelope. Attach 13, OLYMPIC-RO 35DA-GIL, SONGPA-GU, SEOUL http://www.nps.or.kr Tel. 02-2240-1908 Fax. 02-3485-9812
