2014 Arkema Social Responsibility communication on progress Extract from 2014 Reference document ARKEMA IN 2014 Arkema has committed to the United Nations Global Compact, which together with the Responsible Care Initiative are the founding principles on which Arkema builds its sustainability approach Thierry Le Hénaff Chairman and CEO €5,952 m 13.2% 14,280 Presence Sales EBITDA margin Employees in 40 countries €784 m €470 m 89 EBITDA Capital expenditure Production sites Acrylic site in Taixing (China) II ARKEMA Communication On Progress 2014 MESSAGE OF THE CHAIRMAN AND CEO Dear stakeholders, Beyond the major steps achieved in the Group’s transformation in 2014 and beginning of 2015 with the start-up of our Thiochemicals platform in Malaysia and the acquisition of Bostik, the number 3 worldwide in adhesives, 2014 has been a positive year for the implementation of our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) vision and the commitments we have made in that respect. Our CSR vision is centered on 5 core commitments: be a top quartile performer in safety in the chemical industry, reduce the environmental footprint of our activities, place sustainable development solutions at the heart of our innovation policy, encourage openness and dialogue with all our stakeholders, promote the individual and collective development of our employees. This CSR vision has been further strengthened in 2014 with several new actions focused on the CSR management process and on product innovation for sustainable development which resulted in the following signiﬁcant achievements. First, Arkema has committed to the United Nations Global Compact, which together with the Responsible Care Initiative are the founding principles on which Arkema builds its sustainability approach. In line with the Global Compact Principles, the global implementation of human rights and labor rights policy and management system within the Group, Arkema also joined the “Together for Sustainability” supplier assessment and audit platform, thus conﬁrming its willingness to continuously improve the social responsibility within its supply chain. We have also achieved an outstanding breakthrough related to climate change with the reduction of our greenhouse gas emissions by 30% compared to 2012. Our innovation efforts are illustrated through two new examples of solutions dedicated to sustainable development. In the area of water treatment, we developed a new generation of Kynar® polymers for ultraﬁltration membranes purifying water by trapping particles from 1 to 10 micrometers more effectively. We also launched a new thermoplastic resin under the brand name Elium® which can replace metal parts in certain applications in the automotive industry, thus allowing savings in gas consumption and CO2 emissions. In addition, this thermoplastic resin, unlike thermoset composites, enables product recyclability. Beyond these examples, I ﬁrmly believe that implementing an ambitious Corporate Social Responsibility policy creates value for both stakeholders and the Group. This report presents our ambition and commitments in this ﬁeld and details the governance, policies, actions and performance of the Arkema Group in accordance with the principles of the United Nations Global Compact and the Responsible Care Initiative. I sincerely thank you for your continued support and for your interest in our sustainable performance. Thierry Le Hénaff Chairman and CEO ARKEMA Communication On Progress 2014 3 INNOVATION ARKEMA in 2014 THOMSON REUTERS 10 R&D centres TOP 100 GLOBAL INNOVATORS 1,200 for the 4th consecutive year researchers 186 patent applications €155 m budget R&D centre in Oise (France) Kepstan® PEKK Functionalized Kynar® Elium® New ultra high performance New binders for batteries complying First range of liquid thermoplastic polymer with applications in the with the new regulations for resins combining the resistance ﬁelds of carbon ﬁber composites electrical vehicles of a composite with the recycling and 3D printing possibilities of a thermoplastic 4 ARKEMA Communication On Progress 2014 SUSTAINABLE GROWTH 5 COMMITMENTS 2014 2013 2020 TARGETS Safety Total recordable injury rate (TRIR) 1.9 2.8 1.7 1 % of sites implementing peer observation 77 % 62 % 100 % % of AIMS* audited sites 78 % 62 % 100 %** Environment Base 1 in 2012*** Versus 2012 Emissions of greenhouse gases 0.70 0.93 -30 % Emissions of Volatile Organic Compounds**** 0.79 0.86 -20 % 2 Chemical Oxygen Demand 1.03 1.00 -20 % Net purchases of energy 0.99 1.02 -1.5 % / year on average Innovation in sustainable development Number of patent applications ﬁled during the year for solutions in 81 79 3 sustainable development % of sales from products made from renewable raw materials 13 % n.a Stakeholders 4 % of ARKEMA’s sites taking part in the Common Ground® programme 90 % 81 % Human ressources 5 Average number of training hours per employee 34 23 * Arkema Integrated Management System encompasses ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 requirements ** In the last three years *** Intensive indicators called EFPI (Environmental Footprint Performance Indicators) for which the computation procedure is described in the methodology note in section 2.6 of this reference document **** Excluding ﬁrst declaration of the Hengshui site in China 2014 HIGHLIGHTS SAFETY ENVIRONMENT INNOVATION STAKEHOLDERS HUMAN RESOURCES Integration Launch of the Strengthening Kynar® to the TFS Employee share Arkema Safety of Arkenergy development initiative ownership Academy Deﬁnition of a ARKEMA joins capital expenditure New generation Together for Successful share envelop speciﬁcally of Kynar® for Sustainability capital increase Safety training dedicated to ultraﬁltration conﬁrming reserved for for all Group’s projects improving membranes insuring its commitment employees with employees energy efﬁciency a stable and to sustainability an average in procurement and participation rate Implementation of perennial water strengthening the of 41% in the world ISO 50001 as a ﬂow and 63% in France management system selection process for energy in Europe of its suppliers and Asia ARKEMA Communication On Progress 2014 5 6 ARKEMA Communication On Progress 2014 2 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2.1 BE A TOP QUARTILE 2.4 ENCOURAGE OPEN DIALOGUE PERFORMER IN SAFETY IN WITH ALL ITS STAKEHOLDERS AFR 35 THE CHEMICAL INDUSTRY AFR 10 2.4.1 Territorial, economic and social impact 2.1.1 General industrial safety and environment policy 10 of the Group’s activity 35 2.1.2 Safety records 13 2.4.2 Relations with stakeholders 36 2.4.3 Fair practices, rejection of corruption 38 2.2 REDUCE THE ENVIRONMENTAL 2.4.4 Subcontracting and suppliers 40 FOOTPRINT OF THE GROUP’S ACTIVITIES AFR 14 2.5 PROMOTE THE INDIVIDUAL AND 2.2.1 General policy in terms of reducing COLLECTIVE DEVELOPMENT the environmental footprint 14 OF ALL ITS EMPLOYEES AFR 41 2.2.2 Managing products responsibly 2.5.1 Employment 42 (Product Stewardship) 27 2.5.2 Training and individual development 47 2.5.3 Organisation of the working week 49 2.3 PLACE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT SOLUTIONS AT 2.5.4 Dialogue with social partners 49 THE HEART OF ITS APPROACH 2.5.5 Health at work 51 TO INNOVATION AND IN ITS PRODUCT RANGE 30 2.5.6 Diversity and equal opportunities, Equal treatment 53 2.3.1 Develop products for new energies and 2.5.7 Promotion and compliance with the provisions therefore contribute to preserve fossil resources 30 of the core conventions of the World Labour 2.3.2 Fight against global warming 31 Organisation 56 2.3.3 Develop products for improving water quality and access to water 32 2.6 METHODOLOGY NOTE AFR 57 2.3.4 Use of renewable raw materials to preserve fossil ressources in the face of growing 2.6.1 Methodology note on environmental population needs 33 and safety indicators 57 2.3.5 Development of recycling, reuse and 2.6.2 Methodology note on social and societal extended product life solutions to preserve information/indicators 59 fossil fuel resources in face of growing population needs 34 2.7 INDICATORS AFR 61 2.8 FAIRNESS OPINION OF AN INDEPENDENT THIRD PARTY PURSUANT TO ARTICLE L. 225-102-1 OF THE FRENCH COMMERCIAL CODE AFR 65 The different parts constituting the Annual Financial Report are identiﬁed in the content by the pictogram AFR ARKEMA Communication On Progress 2014 7 2 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY In a world that faces several economic, environmental and social • Promoting the individual and collective development of all its challenges, Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) contributes to employees creating value both for the society in which we live and in which The Group’s employees, unique in their know-how, profession, future generations will live, as well as for the Group. nationality, role and personality, together make up a CSR objectives fulfil the expectations of the Group and its community. The Group’s employment policies around the stakeholders. They are true guarantors of sustainable and world are focused on two major concerns: the individual and responsible growth for the Group. collective development of its employees and social development through actions that focus on improving conditions for all in ARKEMA’S CSR ambition and commitments the workplace. ARKEMA’s CSR commitments concern ﬁve major areas: Every Group entity aims to contribute to achieving the Group’s CSR ambition on the basis of the above-mentioned areas as part • Being a top quartile performer in safety in the chemical industry of a continuous improvement initiative. The rules relating to the The Group’s industrial safety initiative is rolled out around the collection and consolidation process for the CSR data featured world and involves three complementary themes: technical, in this chapter are set out in particular in section 2.6 of this organisational and human. Hence, the introduction of a reference document. common “safety culture” throughout the Group and the priority By carrying through these commitments, the Group will achieve given to safety have enabled the continuous improvement of its ambition to be a recognised contributor to the sustainable the Group’s safety performance since its spin-off. development of the world around us, and to stand among • Reducing the environmental footprint of its activities the best chemical producers in the world not only through its Reducing the Group’s environmental footprint is an objective economic performance, but also through its social, societal and shared by all Group employees. This objective depends on environmental performance. three types of actions: limiting the emissions of the various business segments, reducing consumption of natural resources CSR players and governance and developing the use of renewable resources. To deliver on its CSR ambition, the Group set up on 2 April The Group also ensures that its products do not harm the health 2012 a Sustainable Development division comprising the Product or the safety of people, or their environment. Safety and Environment and Sustainable Development functions. This division reports directly to the Group Industry Executive • Placing sustainable development solutions at the heart of its Vice-President, a member of ARKEMA’s Executive Committee approach to innovation and in its product range (“Comex”). The Group puts its R&D products and marketing teams at the Moreover, a CSR steering committee was set up in October 2012, service of sustainable development and the challenges that chaired by the Industry Executive Vice-President, and which the planet faces. Accordingly, the Group creates innovative includes the Human Resources and Communication Executive solutions in support of new energies, lightweight materials, the Vice-President as well as various functional directors, all actively ﬁght against climate change, access to water, and the use of involved in the Group’s CSR policy. This committee is charged biosourced raw materials. The Group’s R&D policy is described with overseeing actions conducted as part of the Group’s CSR in section 1.4 of this reference document. policy as well as setting out proposed CSR action plans which are • Encouraging openness and dialogue with all its stakeholders put forward to Comex. The steering committee meets twice a year. The Group endeavours to dialogue with all its stakeholders ARKEMA’s CSR goals, proposed actions and those already on its activities and products. Accordingly, the Group has implemented, the main indicators and the 2020 targets in terms developed its Common Ground® initiative in order to establish of safety and environment were deﬁned and validated in the relationships based on mutual understanding and trust with course of four Comex meetings held since December 2011. people living near its facilities, various associations, and the The Sustainable Development Vice-President also presented the world of education, to get to know each other better. The Group’s CSR organisation and ambition to the Audit and Accounts Group, with its suppliers, also adopts a responsible behaviour Committee at the end of 2012. This presentation in particular based on the desire to develop balanced sustainable relations was an opportunity for reviewing the procedures in place to relying on trust. ensure the Group’s compliance with the regulatory requirements of extra-ﬁnancial reporting, in particular the mandatory social and environmental information which the Company is required to provide, as well as CSR data on extra-ﬁnancial reporting 8 ARKEMA Communication On Progress 2014 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY not required by French regulations, and for presenting the These four environmental objectives complement the three 2020 Independent Third Party Body charged with veriﬁcation of the safety objectives set by the Group in 2012, the main one being data as appointed by Arkema’s Chairman and Chief Executive a reduction in TRIR (total recordable injury rate). In view of the Ofﬁcer. continuous progress being made by the Group, and conﬁrming All 2014 indicators featured in chapter 2 of this reference its ambition in the area of operational excellence, the TRIR target document were subject to conﬁrmation by the Independent Third for 2020 has been reduced from 2.0 to 1.7. Party Body, as indicated in its advisory notice provided by this body featured in section 2.8 of this reference document. Standards and fundamental charters Every year, the head of Sustainable Development, and where As a participant in its international initiative, ARKEMA supports the necessary, the representative of the Third Party Body, presents to the Audit and Accounts Committee the content of its extraten principles of the United Nations Global Compact on Human Rights and International Labour Standards, on the protection of 2 ﬁnancial data audit, as well as the body’s ﬁndings to be included the environment and on ﬁghting corruption. in the advisory notice provided to the Company’s annual general ARKEMA values correspond to the fundamental principles meeting at the same time as the Board of Directors’ report. This contained, in addition to the Global Compact, in the 1948 presentation is given just before the Board of Directors’ meeting Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Labour called to draw up its report to the general meeting, which includes Organisation and the guiding principles of the OECD for all social and environmental information as well as the Third Party multinational companies. Body’s advisory notice. ARKEMA also complies with the principles of the Responsible Care® Global Charter adopted by the International Council of 2020 targets Chemical Associations (ICCA) globally, and for which it signed In 2013, ARKEMA decided to bolster its sustainable development the declaration of support on 16 November 2006. commitments, and so set out four new environmental objectives for These principles are included in the Group’s standards, such as its 2020. These objectives, which concern reductions in emissions to Code of Ethics and Business Conduct, its Health, Safety, Quality air, greenhouse gas emissions, emissions to water and net energy and Environment Charter and its Energy Policy. purchases, reﬂect ARKEMA’s resolve to minimise its environmental footprint and boost its operational excellence. ARKEMA Communication On Progress 2014 9 2 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Be a top quartile performer in safety in the chemical industry 2.1 BE A TOP QUARTILE PERFORMER IN SAFETY IN THE CHEMICAL INDUSTRY 2.1.1 GENERAL INDUSTRIAL SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENT POLICY Safety and the protection of health and the environment are In view of the continuous progress being made by the Group central to the Group’s objectives in conducting its operations, with and confirming its ambition in the area of operational a permanent focus on improving its performance in these areas. excellence, the long term TRIR objective has been reduced The Group’s Health, Safety and Environment policy (HSE) has from 2.0 to 1.7; been continuously strengthened since its creation in order to • to extend its peer observation programme to 100% of its sites incorporate the applicable regulations as well as the Group’s own by 2020; and requirements. The Group has formally expressed its fundamental • to audit 100% of its sites in accordance with its AIMS integrated requirements in the Health, Safety, Environment and Quality master framework by 2020. Charter and in a global reference resource, the HSE manual, set up by the Group at the time of its creation, which form the basis for HSE management systems in all Group entities. 2.1.1.1 GROUP ORGANIZATION TO TAKE ACCOUNT OF INDUSTRIAL SAFETY The Group’s HSE policy is also an integral part of its approach AND ENVIRONMENT ISSUES to sustainable development, which is based on the ﬁrm belief that its long-term growth partly depends on the way it assumes The Group’s environment and industrial safety policy is rolled out its responsibilities in the areas of social relations, safety, security, around the world and applies to all Group subsidiaries as well and the environment. as in every country in which the Group is present. Accordingly, the Group has adopted the Responsible Care® Direction Sécurité Environnement Groupe (DSEG), the Group’s Global Charter as defined by the International Council of Safety Environment division based at the Group’s headquarters, Chemical Associations (ICCA) globally and supported by the has a global remit, and operates through safety and environment Association of International Chemical Manufacturer (AICM) experts in every region. in China, the European Chemical Industry Council (CEFIC) in Europe and adopted by the majority of national associations, 2.1.1.2 AN INITIATIVE BASED ON THREE including the Union des industries chimiques (UIC) in France. The PRIORITY AREAS Responsible Care® initiative is a voluntary initiative undertaken The Group’s approach to safety revolves around three areas: by the global chemical industry that extends beyond regulatory Prevention of safety, environment and pollution risks, and compliance. The initiative was ﬁrst launched in the 90s in the ﬁeld guidelines regarding management as well as safety and of health, safety, and industrial environment; it was subsequently environmental culture. extended to product stewardship. In 2006, the ICCA launched the Responsible Care® Global Prevention of safety, environment and pollution risks Charter, to enhance the provisions of Responsible Care®, by strengthening sustainable development, product stewardship, The assessment of risks on the Group’s industrial sites is carried out measurable performance, and audit of procedures by third-party. through systematic studies of (i) the manufacturing processes, (ii) operating conditions on the existing sites, (iii) transport operations ARKEMA signed the original declaration of support for the (particularly those involving hazardous products), (iv) the design Responsible Care® Global Charter on 16 November 2006 and and construction of new installations, (v) changes to existing the new Responsible Care® Global Charter on 10 December installations, and (vi) health and safety in the workplace, and 2014. (vii) the impact on the environment, while respecting applicable In order to achieve its sustainable development commitments, regulations. ARKEMA decided to set three 2020 safety objectives primarily The identiﬁcation of these risks, their ranking through a qualitative reflecting its resolve to improve its safety performance and and quantitative approach based on simulation models and a strengthen its operational excellence. These objectives are as network of experts, and preventive measures designed to reduce follows: the effects of these risks and the likelihood of them occurring, are • to reduce its total recordable injury rate (TRIR) to 1.7 by 2020; all covered by the technical and organisational resources put in place for the Group’s industrial sites, as well as for the transport of hazardous substances. 10 ARKEMA Communication On Progress 2014 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Be a top quartile performer in safety in the chemical industry The Group pays careful attention to the analysis of risks connected levels govern certain speciﬁc aspects of the storage of chemical with its business activities, particularly in the case of Seveso-rated products, the safety of workers when handling stored products, sites (or their equivalent) for which the Group demands that the and the storage of highly hazardous products. level of safety requirements increases in line with the identiﬁcation The crisis management procedures in place in Group facilities of potential risks. Similarly, the Group lends much importance are broadly based on the Group Crisis Management directive to feedback (both within and outside the Group) regarding in covering the management of potentially critical situations in the particular the level of incidents and accidents as well as best area of Health, Safety and the Environment. These procedures practice in industrial risk management. provide responses to crises and potential crises. They include At the time of the design of a new production unit or when a a year-round on-call system that makes it possible to react to signiﬁcant extension to an existing production unit is made, the a potentially critical incident and its causes and to constitute best options for improving industrial safety are sought. In addition, a crisis management team. Furthermore, the Group runs “crisis 2 the Group regularly makes improvements to its existing production management and communication” training courses as well units. Therefore, the Group’s capital expenditures allocated to as exercises to simulate crises and the constitution of crisis safety and the environment and to maintaining the plants up to management teams. standard totalled €211 million in 2014 (against €195 million in 2013). Management reference master resource: AIMS, the all-in-one In Europe, at the date of this reference document, 32 of the Group’s audit production sites were being monitored with extra vigilance, and The Arkema Integrated Management System (AIMS) reference were subject to European directive (EC) 96/82 of 9 December master resource brings together within a single audit all the 1996, which deals with the control of hazards related to major audits conducted by the Group concerning safety, environment accidents involving hazardous substances, and called the “Seveso and quality. It includes the Group’s own requirements as well as II directive”. This directive requires, in particular, the introduction those featured in standards endorsed by the Group (ISO 9001, of safety management systems and the regular updating of risk ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001). This “all-in-one” approach has assessment surveys, whose conclusions can lead to additional a dual beneﬁt: being part of the Group’s culture, and ensuring risk-prevention requirements for the companies operating the sites. consistency for all its safety, environment and quality management Law No. 2003-699 of 30 July 2003 and its implementing initiatives. In order to obtain external certiﬁcations, AIMS audits decrees have strengthened the obligations imposed in France on are conducted by mixed teams made up of Group auditors as companies operating Seveso sites, by laying down the principle well as auditors from a third party accreditation body. They are that the government draws up and implements “plans for the conducted every three years and complemented by follow-up prevention of technological risks” (PPTRs), the aim of which is audits every year. This new audit method will be extended to to control urban development around risky sites and limit the all of the Group’s European sites. In the United States, the ﬁrst effects of accidents that could occur there. At the end of 2014, audits based on this reference master document were conducted 16 sites operated by the Group in France were subject to PPTRs. in 2011, and in China, in 2012. The Group will be required to contribute to the funding of any In 2014, 78% of the Group’s sites had an AIMS audit, versus measures related to these PPTRs. Furthermore, the ministerial 37% of sites in 2012 and 62% in 2013. decree of 29 September 2005 concerning the evaluation and The target by 2020 is for 100% of the sites to have had an AIMS consideration of the probability of occurrence, the kinetics, the audit in the last three years. intensity of the effects, and the severity of the consequences of potential accidents in hazard studies for classiﬁed facilities Now, 60% of Group sites are OHSAS 18001-certiﬁed (compared subject to authorisation, will also entail by 2018 the introduction to 34% in 2012 and 54% in 2013), on a global basis. The of additional risk control measures at the 16 sites mentioned ﬁgures are 62% in Europe, 63% in America and 50% in Asia. above for which a PPTR is required. Meanwhile, every year the Group conducts a large number of As regards the reliability of its industrial facilities, the Group audits other than the AIMS audits, including: has fully endorsed the risk management objectives relating to • operational safety audits: construction site audits within the past industrial equipment (plants and pipes) as part of the nationwide three years, pre-startup reviews, operational safety audits on industrial facilities upgrading plan. Furthermore, ARKEMA has topics such as Mechanical Integrity and Explosive Atmosphere been contributing to the work of the various working parties in issues, and simpliﬁed AIMS for smaller sites; this regard. • process safety audits: these audits include, among other things, In the United States, the control of risks of industrial accidents is ﬁre safety, post-incident audits and the review of risk analyses; regulated, in particular, within the framework of the Superfund Reauthorisation Act (SARA), Risk Management Process (RMP) • supplier and logistics audits: transport companies and offand the Emergency Planning and Community-Right-to-Know Act site warehouses are visited and assessed. These audits are (EPCRA). The latter, in particular, requires companies to inform in addition to the evaluations conducted by third parties such the government authorities when hazardous products, above as the Safety & Quality Assessment System (SQAS) for land a certain quantity, are being handled or stored, and requires transport, the Chemical Distribution Institute (CDI) for maritime companies storing such products to have emergency plans and transport, and the European Barge Inspection Scheme (EBIS) procedures in place. Other regulations at federal, state or local for river transport. Some packaging is also veriﬁed; and ARKEMA Communication On Progress 2014 11 2 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Be a top quartile performer in safety in the chemical industry • safety support action: this action is conducted with a number courses on “Personal Protective Equipment” (PPE), “Security”, of sites and entails sharing their analysis of their accident “Root cause analysis” and “Work permits”. records and HSE activities with the sites’ management teams. 2014 was also the year that the Arkema Safety Academy The initiative also includes work on drawing up and following programme will be launched and will be gradually rolled out. This up action plans. programme is intended for all Group employees. Its objective is The Feedback programme entails the sharing of experience to help share safety issues and challenges, policy and tools at regarding relevant incidents in order to prevent their recurrence. Group level. For further details, see paragraph 2.5.2.4 in this This sharing of experience takes place on a global scale, through reference document. various networks (geographical, professions, technologies). Through these networks, any signiﬁcant incident triggers a safety The Safety in Action programme alert and the implementation of corrective actions on Group sites The Group is committed to achieving an ambitious programme that might encounter a similar incident. to inform and mobilise its personnel to encourage and support changes in behaviour. This programme reﬂects a will to establish Safety Culture: training, information for employees and tools for relentless vigilance as regards safety. It emphasises individual and safety and industrial environment collective commitment to taking action at individual team and workstation level. The programme is based in particular on two The behaviour-based approach represents a key component areas targeting exchange and communication, namely: in risk prevention. The development of a safety culture raising everyone’s awareness of their responsibility and the importance • the production of “Site Safety” films which help deliver of their behaviour lies at the heart of the Group’s initiative. To information on safety instructions applicable on the site develop a safety culture shared by all employees, the Group systematically, to all visitors; and makes use of various tools: The “Safety in Action” programme, • the organisation of “Safety High Points” which help generate the “Essentials” and ﬁeld activities (cross-matching observations, regular debates on topics related to safety and conclude with ﬂash audits, planned general inspections, safety tours, ﬁeld safety the construction of action plans speciﬁc to each work context, audits etc.) and “human and organisational safety factors” and as well as the deﬁnition of areas for improvement at a team “Safety Culture and Leadership” training courses. level. The Group also strengthens its safety culture by running training The Essentials courses as part of the “Arkema Safety Academy”, which include modules for HSE managers or relating to crisis management, The 14 “Essentials” are simple and clear safety rules corresponding behaviour and the human factor. to everyday situations and derived from feedback. They must be known and applicable to everyone in an exemplary manner, HSE general training with no allowance for compromise, across all Group sites. As part of the induction of new recruits, general induction on site, Employees are invited to suggest improvements that facilitate the and workstation training plans, as well as training initiatives for application of a rule, and to report all substandard situations. existing employees, HSE training is a priority. HSE managers Any employee can intervene with anyone else, whatever their attend specialist training, country by country, within or outside position, whenever they encounter a breach of the rules. Three the Group. They also regularly take part in HSE conventions. “Essentials” are rolled out per year, and each includes a speciﬁc campaign and actions over a three-month period to help every In 2014, the number of training hours recorded in entities in employee become familiar with the rules. which the Group has a minimum 50% stake and which employ over 30 people, which accounts for 93.9% of ARKEMA’s total Field activities workforce, amounted to 150,158 hours, i.e. 17 hours of training The principle of peer observation involves observing the behaviour per year per safety trained employee. The number of employees of others in risky situations in order to raise awareness of risks having attended at least one safety training session over the year and therefore reduce the number of occupational accidents. (excluding e-learning) is 8,776, representing 65% of ARKEMA It capitalises on positive experiences and a collective search for employees in entities in which the Group has a minimum 50% solutions to improve practices. Using a structured observation stake and which employ over 30 people. method, each site implements the initiative in a way that best In addition, 4,263 people have taken an e-learning course on suits their own specific features (type of risks and nature of safety, representing 32% of ARKEMA employees in entities in the activities). Personnel with similar qualifications are then which the Group has a minimum 50% stake and which employ encouraged to observe each other while carrying out their over 30 people. duties on the site. The peer observation method helps identify best practice and deviations from these practices, as well as risky These e-learning courses deal with safety related topics such situations. This principle has been implemented successfully in the as “Gestures and postures”, “Moving on foot”, “Explosive United States and is being rolled out in Asia and in the major Atmospheres (ATEX)”, “Legionella”, “Equipments under pressure”, European countries in which the Group operates; it is gradually “Regulations for labelling hazardous products” and “Transporting being developed at every Group production site. hazardous substances”. They will be followed by other e-learning 12 ARKEMA Communication On Progress 2014 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Be a top quartile performer in safety in the chemical industry In 2014, 77% of the sites put in place this programme intended under development, this tool has given satisfaction on the sites in to improve safety through peer observation, against 47% in 2012 which it has been tested. and 62% in 2013. Planned general inspections are conducted regularly with a The target by 2020 is for the programme to be extended to 100% frequency that varies from site to site (monthly or quarterly) to of the Group’s sites. help check the technical conformity of the plant and equipment To move on from a safety discipline culture to a safety commitment relative to predeﬁned standards and levels of requirements. culture, ARKEMA has taken up the development of an initiative in The safety round is a field activity designed to show the place in the United States that was ﬁrst devised in Canada. Called commitment and support of the management to a plant’s Health “SafeStart®”, this initiative consists of observing oneself and other Safety Environment Quality (HSEQ) policy. It also provides an people to identify critical states (rushing, frustration, fatigue and complacency) that can lead to critical errors (eyes not on task, opportunity for the management and the site personnel to meet. It is neither an audit nor a check, but rather a communication tool 2 line of ﬁre, mind not on task, loss of balance, traction or grip) for risk prevention and greater safety awareness. transforming minor risks into major risks. Critical error reduction Field safety audits to appraise external companies help evaluate techniques are used to continuously improve accident prevention. continuously and over the long term in situ external companies in Flash audits or mini-audits are short (in general 20 to 30 minutes terms of their safety culture and commitment. This monitoring tool long), and are a new Group-wide tool designed to facilitate the is also used to check HSE recommendations on major projects and collection of safety data. They must include a discussion between promote a safety and risk prevention mindset during turnarounds. the auditor and the audited in order to encourage commitment to As part of the Group’s safety policy and the improvement of changing safety behaviour. They help review speciﬁc problems, its safety records, communication on the subject has been including a review of compliance with the “Essentials”, an emphasised to reafﬁrm ARKEMA’s commitment, through a slogan evaluation of a problem speciﬁc to a production plant and an and the displaying of safety records on each site. examination of the implementation of a Group priority action. Still 2.1.2 SAFETY RECORDS The Group’s safety policies, based on the three areas described man-hours, established according to the methodology featured in in paragraph 2.1.1.2 of this reference document, enable the section 2.6 of this reference document, for all Group employees Group to improve its safety record. and the personnel of sub-contractors present on ARKEMA sites The following table presents the frequency of occupational for the years 2012, 2013 and 2014. accidents within the Group in number of accidents per million 2014 2013 2012 Lost-time accidents* 1.1 1.6 1.9 Total recordable accidents 1.9 2.8 3.4 * “Lost-time accident” refers to any event causing bodily injury or psychological shock to an employee in the course of his/her duties and resulting in time off work. The Group’s target is to achieve a 1.7 TRIR rate (total recordable The severity of accidents is established by the rate of total injury rate) by 2020. In view of the continuous progress being recordable accidents with lost time. made by the Group, and conﬁrming its ambition in the area of Concerning only ARKEMA employees, 46 of them were victims operational excellence, the long-term TRIR objective has been of accidents recorded for the purposes of calculating the TRIR in reduced from 2.0 to 1.7. 2014, 25 of which with lost time, out of a total global headcount As of 2014, the number of accidents had been reduced to less of 14,280. This number should continue to decrease over the than two per million man-hours. coming years. For the record, the Group’s frequency rates in 2005 were 5.3 for lost-time accidents, and 11.3 for accidents with and without lost time. ARKEMA Communication On Progress 2014 13 2 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Reduce the environmental footprint of the Group’s activities 2.2 REDUCE THE ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT OF THE GROUP’S ACTIVITIES 2.2.1 GENERAL POLICY IN TERMS OF REDUCING THE ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT Committed to continuous improvement, and over and above These targets refer to the intensive indicators mentioned above, essential compliance with regulations, ARKEMA has included so that they reﬂect the Group’s efforts to reduce its environmental environmental protection in its management system. Accordingly, footprint regardless of any changes to its business base or its reducing its footprint on the environment is one of the ﬁve objectives production volumes. that the Group has set itself as part of its CSR initiative. To achieve Published for the ﬁrst time in the 2013 report, these targets were this, the Group adapts its industrial practices in order to minimise set by the Comex in 2013, with 2012 as the baseline. The its emissions, while optimising and reducing its consumption of progress of these indicators, expressed as intensive ﬁgures, for energy, water and non-renewable raw materials. Therefore the the 2006 to 2012 period, is also featured in paragraphs 2.2.1.2 vast majority of the Group’s industrial sites rigorously monitor and 2.2.1.3 of this reference document. their wastes and emissions. Over and above the evolution of these four speciﬁc intensive Since its creation, every year the Group has published the indicators, ARKEMA will continue to publish the progress of absolute/extensive values of its emissions and consumption of extensive values for all the parameters monitoring its environmental resources. footprint. In order to oversee its environmental performance more precisely and provide a consolidated Group data report better suited 2.2.1.1 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT to describe the evolution of this performance, ARKEMA has SYSTEM adopted a methodology enabling its plants to report on intensive indicators. This methodology limits the impact of any changes to its business base, its plants’ productions, as well as any Environmental certiﬁcations change to the method used to assess or compute environmental The Group has put in place environmental management systems footprint variables. The computation procedure for these intensive on its industrial sites, most of which have been granted an external indicators, Environmental Footprint Performance Indicators (EFPI), environmental certiﬁcation in accordance with the ISO 14001 is described in the methodology note featured in section 2.6 of standard. Based on the local context, certain sites have adopted this reference document. other standards, e.g. the Responsible Care® Management System In 2013, ARKEMA decided in order to achieve its sustainable (RCMS) in the United States. development commitments to set four new objectives for 2020 The environmental management system implies that each of the primarily translating its resolve to reduce its environmental Group’s industrial site identiﬁes its environmental impacts (water, footprint and strengthen its operational excellence. air including greenhouse gases (GHGs), wastes, noise, odours, These 2020 targets, with 2012 as the baseline, focus on: and soil), and deﬁnes the priority areas which represent its action plan. A periodic environmental analysis of the sites is used to • concerning the climate: a reduction of its greenhouse gas measure the progress achieved and deﬁne new improvement emissions (GHG) of 30%; objectives. Each site rigorously monitors its emissions (including • concerning emissions to air: a reduction of its volatile organic CO2 and GHGs indexes) and wastes. compound (VOC) emissions of 20%; and In addition to the audits conducted by the Internal Audit • concerning emissions to water: a reduction of its Chemical department, Group sites undergo two other types of audit: Oxygen Demand (COD) emissions of 20%. certiﬁcation by external bodies and audits conducted by experts from the Group Safety, Environment department (DSEG). Furthermore, as regards resource consumption, ARKEMA has set a target to reduce its net energy purchases by 1.5% on average The number of ISO 14001 – or RCMS (in the United States) – per year in volume terms. certiﬁed sites was 70% in 2014 (versus 55% in 2012 and 59% in 2013) across the global business base. These ﬁgures are 68% in Europe, 84% in America and 50% in Asia. 14 ARKEMA Communication On Progress 2014 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Reduce the environmental footprint of the Group’s activities Environmental reporting The Group also ensures, through regular conference calls and circulating monitoring reports, that the European Community The Group conducts its reporting, for environmental indicators, regulations, such as EU ETS Phase III (European Union Greenhouse including GHGs, in accordance with its environmental reporting Gas Emissions Trading Scheme) and the Industrial Emissions directive and the guidelines made available to all its subsidiaries. Directive (IED), as well as the rules for environmental reporting This reporting is based on the principles of relevance, are properly understood by the network of HSE managers through representativeness, and consistency. The methodology used by awareness raising days. The Group has also implemented audit the Group for this reporting is described in section 2.6 of this programmes. Environmental audits have thus been conducted reference document. at the Group’s American sites to verify regulatory compliance. As part of the reception of new recruits, general reception on site, Management involvement Reporting on the actions undertaken to reduce the environmental the workstation training plans, as well as training initiatives for 2 existing employees, HSE training is a priority. The HSE managers footprint of the industrial entities’ activities are the subject of attend a specialised training programme country by country, multiple presentations and discussions within the Group at the either run in-house or by outside parties, and they also regularly corporate level: take part in HSE conventions. • an annual review during individual meetings between the ViceIn 2014, the number of environment-related training hours Presidents of each BU, the Industrial Vice-Presidents, and the recorded in entities in which the Group has a minimum 50% Group Safety, Environment and the Sustainable Development stake and which employ over 30 people, which accounts for Vice-Presidents, on the full environmental footprint of the BU, 93.9% of ARKEMA’s total headcount, amounted to 15,837 hours, including the energy footprint; i.e. 7.6 hours of training per year per environmentally trained • ARKEMA produces annual environmental and energy reports employee. The number of employees having attended at least presenting the results of the reporting year and comparing one environment-related training session over the year (excluding them with the data for the previous ﬁnancial year, along with e-learning) is 2,070, representing 15.4% of ARKEMA employees the historical environmental footprints (excluding energy) for in entities in which the Group has a minimum 50% stake and the past six years. The reports are sent to the members of the which employ over 30 people. Executive Committee and all of the departments concerned; • a presentation by the Group Safety, Environment Vice-President 2.2.1.2 MANAGEMENT OF DISCHARGES to all members of the Comex of a summary of the Group’s ARKEMA conducts an active policy to control and reduce the environmental results; and impact of its activities on the environment. • a presentation of a summary of the Group’s results on the Accordingly, discharges of substances are identified and four key ARKEMA environmental footprint indicators for which quantiﬁed by discharge type (air, water, wastes) so that suitable objectives for 2020 have been deﬁned. This presentation measures can be implemented to control them. is made to all members of the Comex by the Sustainable Development Vice-President. Preventive measures Environmental culture: training and information for employees For the Group’s industrial sites, the reduction of environmental and regulatory monitoring impacts consists in particular in optimising the use of raw materials, energy and natural resources like water. Discharges In the ﬁeld of the environment, ARKEMA employees are trained into the natural environment and other waste production are thus in and acquainted with the main characteristics of their site, the also reduced. Against this background, the Group has developed tangible outcome of their everyday actions or activities as well as an environmental analysis methodology to analyse any signiﬁcant the operational control of emissions of every nature, the quality of environmental issues and impacts related to the activities of any operations during plant shutdown or start-up in terms of emissions, given site and to undertake corrective programmes should they and the sorting of wastes. prove necessary. For ISO 14001 certiﬁed sites (70% of total sites), a speciﬁc The Group also carries out regular improvements to its production environmental training programme is currently under development facilities, such as the modiﬁcation of processes to reduce waste based on environmental risk analysis carried out for each volumes or the installation of waste treatment units. workshop and monitoring of the main aspects of feedback about environmental incidents provided by the Impact Safety reporting A number of regulations place strict limits on emissions from system about their activities. This training programme is repeated the Group’s manufacturing facilities, including, for example, the on a regular basis to maintain awareness of the control of critical European framework directive on water no 2000/60 (“WFD”) parameters. as regards water emissions. The Group has also taken part in a national campaign in France on research into hazardous As part of the “Essentials” programme described in substances in water fulﬁlling the WFD objectives. paragraph 2.1.1.2 of this reference document, an “Essential” concerning the recycling of waste was rolled out in 2014 across Furthermore, in accordance with European directive no 2010/75/ ARKEMA. UE on industrial emissions transposed into national law in the ARKEMA Communication On Progress 2014 15 2 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Reduce the environmental footprint of the Group’s activities various countries, the industrial sites to which the directive applies For emissions of VOCs to air, a number of Group plants may be are subject to authorisations to operate including emission limit cited as an example for the initiatives they led in 2013 and 2014 values in agreement with the said values mentioned in the to minimise these emissions. “BREF Conclusions” documents published following BREF (Best Thus, in 2014, the ARKEMA site in Marseilles (France) began REFerence) revisions. BREF documents are reference documents installing additional collection points and connecting vents to a drafted, revised and published under the aegis of the European thermal oxidiser; this has already reduced VOC emissions by IPPC Bureau, itself a branch of the Institute for Prospective 11 tonnes, a ﬁgure put into perspective when compared to a long Technology Studies. They identify and describe the effectiveness of term objective of 15 tonnes announced in the 2013 reference the best available techniques (BATs) in various sectors of activity. document. Similarly, the United States Clean Air Act (CAA) sets federal At the ARKEMA site in Changshu (China), the installation of standards relating to air pollution from ﬁxed and mobile sources, breather valves and knock-out pots in December 2012 has helped and establishes national emission standards for 200 hazardous to limit emissions of VOCs due to storage vents by approximately substances, based in particular on Maximum Achievable Control 38 tonnes per annum. Technology (MACT). Arkema Inc. in the United States has invested in a programme at European directive no 2003/87/EC, amended by European its Franklin site to improve the mechanical integrity of its plants, directive no 2009/29/EC of 23 April 2009, established a GHG process controls and maintenance practices, which helped to trading system within the European Union. Under this scheme, in reduce its VOC emissions by 15% in 2014. accordance with the provisions of amended ministerial decree of 31 May 2007, the Group was allocated annual allowances The Group also reduces its emissions of substances contributing of 723,450 EUAs (EU Allowance Units) from 2012 onward to to air acidiﬁcation: take into account the inclusion of the resins business sites into the • by using fuels with low or very low sulfur content, or natural Group’s business base. These quotas were reviewed downwards gas instead of fuel oil in its boilers; and to 620,811 EUAs at end 2012 following the divestment of the vinyl activities sites. • by putting in place new technology with low nitrogen oxide burners. For the 2013-2020 period, the Group has ﬁled applications for quota allocations for phase III of the European Union Emissions For emissions of substances that contribute to the acidiﬁcation of Trading Scheme. Four new sites have been added to the scope of air, a number of Group plants may be cited as an example for the this new phase. As Group sites belong to sectors and subsectors initiatives they led in 2013 and 2014 to minimise these emissions. deemed to be exposed to a signiﬁcant risk of carbon leakage, Thus, the various investments made into boilers at some sites, they will beneﬁt from free allocations based on their emissions either by switching from the burning of fuel oil to the burning of performance compared to relevant reference data. Annual quota natural gas (La Chambre, France), or by installing equipment allocations amount to some 718,560 EUAs. The Group does not for processing exhaust products (Carling, France), helped expect that it will need to make signiﬁcant purchases of additional significantly reduce emissions of substances contributing to CO2 allowances. acidiﬁcation in 2013 and 2014. In the United States, the Houston, Texas site has invested in a Emissions to air sophisticated ultrasound system to detect leaks, which has enabled ARKEMA is committed to minimising its emissions of the most it to identify emissions of Sulfur Dioxide (SO2) from several valves polluting compounds, in particular volatile organic compounds –emissions that could not previously be detected. This investment (VOCs), substances responsible for air acidiﬁcation (nitrogen has helped to reduce emissions of SO2 by around half in 2014. oxides and sulphur dioxide) as well as dust, and accordingly From now on, a measurement campaign is carried out every conducts a large number of actions to minimise them. quarter by members of the on-site personnel who have been specially trained to use the ultrasound system. This monitoring The Group therefore reduces its VOC emissions: will help to avoid any mishaps and, over the years, to maintain • by collecting and processing efﬂuents that contain them (the SO2 emissions at the reduced levels achieved in 2014. most widely used technology is based on the installation of a In China, the Hengshui site changed the type of coal burned in thermal oxidiser, or the scrubbing of vents); and its boilers, which made it possible to reduce its Sulfur Dioxide • through regular campaigns to locate leaks and eliminate any emissions by 360 tonnes, equivalent to more than half of the emissions identiﬁed. emissions declared in 2013. 16 ARKEMA Communication On Progress 2014 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Reduce the environmental footprint of the Group’s activities Emissions to air extensive indicators For 2012, 2013 and 2014, the levels of environmental indicators corresponding to quantiﬁed emissions to air generated by the Group’s activities are shown in the table below. These have been drawn up in accordance with the methodology described in section 2.6 of this reference document. Emissions to air 2014 2013 2012 All substances contributing to acidiﬁcation (t eq SO2) 4,750 5,330 5,760 Carbon monoxide (CO) (t) 3,030 8,850 9,220 Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC) (t) 4,600 4,460 4,150 2 Dust (t) 430 400 460 As regards volatile organic compounds (VOCs), a review of the As for emissions of dust, the capital expenditure put into a new methods used to evaluate emissions to air had led to an upward transport system and a closed silo resulted in a reduction of ﬁve review of emissions from a European site for 2012, which should tonnes in the emissions of dust from the Changshu site (China). have led to the reporting of 4,420 tonnes. Additional expenditure planned for the end of 2015 should make Casda Biomaterials Co. Ltd. acquired in 2012 conducted its it possible to save a total of 30 tonnes in 2016 (equivalent to ﬁrst reporting of volatile organic compounds (VOCs) emissions. more than 80% of emissions from the site), as announced in the VOC emissions from this site signiﬁcantly increased in 2014 due 2013 reference document. to improved measurement techniques and reached 742 tonnes. The significant reduction of CO emissions is related to the These ﬁgures offset improvements made in other entities through cessation of activities at the Chauny site in France (in the order the actions given above as examples. of 5,100 tonnes). In 2014, emissions of substances contributing to the acidiﬁcation of air were reduced by 580 tonnes compared to 2013 thanks in particular to the impact of the actions given above as examples. Emissions to air intensive indicator For 2012, 2013 and 2014, the EFPI values corresponding to intensive VOC emissions to air generated by the Group’s activities, calculated as per the methodology note featured in section 2.6 of this reference document, are given in the table below. Emissions from the largest VOC emitters among the Group’s sites used for these computations account for over 80% of the Group’s emissions. Emissions to air 2020 target 2014 2013 2012 EFPI Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs) 0.80 0.79 0.86 1 The intensity of ARKEMA’s emissions does not take into account ARKEMA’s objective is to reduce by 20% its VOC emissions by the ﬁrst declaration made by the Hengshui (China) site in 2014, 2020 compared to 2012. as described in section 2.6 of this reference document, due to By 2012, the Group had already cut down its intensive VOC the uncertainty over the data in the ﬁrst annual declaration made emissions (EFPI) by 28% compared to 2006 based on a in 2013. This intensity, after the signiﬁant improvement in 2013, comparable methodology for assessing VOC emissions. The further improved across all other ARKEMA sites in 2014, thanks 2006 extensive ﬁgures have been corrected to allow for greater in particular to the actions described above. reliability for the EFPI computation exercise. Without modiﬁcations to the extensive ﬁgures reported and audited in 2007 for 2006, the reduction mentioned above would be around 10% smaller. ARKEMA Communication On Progress 2014 17 2 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Reduce the environmental footprint of the Group’s activities Emissions to water Accordingly, a signiﬁcant investment for the installation of an efﬂuent treatment plant was made in 2014 at the Pierre-Bénite Reducing its emissions to water is one of the Group’s major site (France). This plant started operations at the end of 2014 environmental objectives. It lends particular importance to the and is currently undergoing optimisation. issue of efﬂuents with high chemical oxygen demand (COD) and the discharge of suspended solids. ARKEMA also uses original water treatment techniques such as phytoremediation or phytodepuration, a natural puriﬁcation ARKEMA conducts a large number of actions to minimise its system that re-establishes the ecological balance of aquatic emissions to water, in particular by reducing its efﬂuents with high environments and wetlands. Such a treatment system has been COD and suspended solid contents by systematically processing put in at the Boretto site (Italy) with ﬁnal treatment after ﬂoculation, its efﬂuents: microﬁltration and passing over activated carbon of the water • by building its plants on inter-company platforms equipped used to rinse the reactors and production lines. This system with treatment plants; makes use of treatment by the roots of macrophytes like reeds • by gradually setting up physico-chemical and/or biological (Phragmites communis) followed by an arrangement consisting treatment plants to process efﬂuents on remote sites; and of a short stream and a pond. This natural treatment increases elimination of COD and the surfactants present in the waste water. • by optimising treatment at efﬂuent plants or controlling more effectively the efﬂuents sent to the plants. Emissions to water extensive indicators For 2012, 2013 and 2014, the levels of environmental indicators corresponding to quantiﬁed emissions to water generated by the Group’s activities, drawn up in accordance with the methodology note in section 2.6 of this reference document, are shown in the table below. Emissions to water 2014 2013 2012 Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) (O2 t) 3,870 3,800 3,430 Suspended solids (t) 3,030 2,950 2,840 Improvements made to the operation of efﬂuent treatment plants at discharges from the total site made by this line in 2014. At Rho, the Spinetta site (Italy) and the Rio Claro site (Brazil) have helped in Italy, the implementation of the off-site treatment of the waste reduce COD discharges overall by some 300 tonnes between water from the site resulted in a signiﬁcant reduction in COD 2011 and 2013. However, these efforts had been completely emissions from the plant into the environment. masked by the arrival of a new contributor (the Hengshui site Despite these efforts, total Group COD discharges increased in (China) of Hebei Casda Biomaterials Co. Ltd. acquired in 2014. This was due to changes in the conditions for the production 2012), as well as the quantiﬁcation of this emission from 2012 of organic peroxides in Europe related to the implementation of to 2013 by American sites, which did not exhaustively declare a growth strategy. These changes, which helped to optimise the this emission in previous years. consumption of raw materials and energy at the site, conversely Between 2013 and 2014, several initiatives helped to reduce led to a two thirds increase in COD emissions by this activity COD emissions from certain sites. Accordingly, at the Carling site in 2014. In view of this impact, ARKEMA is studying ways to (France), improvements made at the end of 2013 on a sensitive optimise its processes through the recycling of its liquid waste stage of the production process on an acrylate line, combined with the objective of bringing over time COD emissions from this with the improved technological reliability of the equipments, activity back to the levels seen in 2013. helped to significantly decrease the proportion of the COD 18 ARKEMA Communication On Progress 2014 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Reduce the environmental footprint of the Group’s activities Emissions to water intensive indicator For 2012, 2013 and 2014, the EFPI values corresponding to COD intensive emissions to water generated by the Group’s activities, drawn up in accordance with the methodology note in section 2.6 of this reference document, are shown in the table below. Emissions from the biggest COD emitters among the Group’s sites used for these computations account for over 80% of the Group’s emissions. Emissions to water 2020 target 2014 2013 2012 EFPI Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) 0.80 1.03 1.00 1 ARKEMA aims to reduce by 20% its COD emissions by 2020 • using waste as an energy source, where possible. 2 compared to 2012. The following are examples of the latest progress achieved By 2012, the Group had already reduced by 23% its COD regarding reducing or valorising the waste, consistent with intensive emissions (EFPI) compared to 2006. ARKEMA’s commitments: The worsening of the ARKEMA EFPI COD ﬁgures in 2014 was • seeking new ways of recycling and reusing waste: using certain due to increased emissions from organic peroxide production, types of waste as replacement fuels in the boilers, instead of which more than offset efforts made elsewhere. traditional fuels; • recycling cleaning solvents and optimising cleaning cycles; and Waste production • installing ﬁlters to reduce the volume of sludge. Waste production is inherent to ARKEMA’s industrial activities. However, the Group makes every effort to control waste The table below shows, for 2012, 2013 and 2014, the amounts production at every stage of its activities. of hazardous and non-hazardous waste generated by the Group’s activities, calculated as per the methodology note in section 2.6 This commitment is reﬂected in a number of areas: of this reference document. • reducing waste at the source, by designing products and processes that generate as little waste as possible; • increasing the value of waste by turning it into by-products; and Waste (in kt per year) 2014 2013 2012 Hazardous waste excluding material recovery 149 160 160 including landﬁll disposal 2.1 2.7 2.4 Non-hazardous waste 219 210 157 In 2013, a special focus on the traceability of exceptional waste Accordingly, in 2014, 16% of hazardous waste produced by produced by demolition or excavation related to capital projects ARKEMA in the world was recycled on or off the site where they resulted in it being included in the report, thereby explaining a were produced (recycled into materials), and 46% were utilised worsening of the indicator for non-hazardous waste. for energy recovery by combustion. In 2014, the shutdown of activities at the Chauny site made For 2012, 2013 and 2014, the quantities of hazardous waste a significant contribution to the reduction in the tonnage of recycled into materials and those utilised for energy recovery hazardous waste and masked increases related to the start-up of by combustion, calculated in accordance with the methodology units such as the methyl acrylate unit at Clear Lake (United States). note in section 2.6 of this reference document, are shown in the ARKEMA’s objective is not only to reduce its overall waste table below. production, but also to recycle it into materials or recover their energy potential through their combustion. Hazardous waste (in kt per year) 2014 2013 2012 Waste recycled into materials 29 26 27 Waste utilised for energy recovery by combustion 79 88 94 Total Waste (including recycled into materials) 178 186 187 ARKEMA Communication On Progress 2014 19 2 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Reduce the environmental footprint of the Group’s activities In 2014, improvements to materials recycling are to be noted for Work is also carried out regularly on the plants’ operating several sites: Günzburg (Germany), Nansha (China) and Feuchy methods, while development investments are made to reduce (France); often related to different production methods to 2013. the consumption of water, energy resources and raw materials The reduced tonnage for waste utilised for energy recovery by of the Group’s facilities. combustion is the result of the shutdown of activities at the Chauny site. Water consumption Additionally, many by-products from manufacturing processes The Group uses water in the course of its industrial activities for: which are not the purpose of the production are sold as products requiring no processing other than normal industrial practice, and • its manufacturing processes in reaction medium, the need to cool the production equipment, or to scrub products or are not reported as waste in accordance with current regulations. equipment; Other pollutions • the production of steam; and ARKEMA’s addressing the pollutions related to its activities with • the use of hydraulic barriers intended to process groundwater regard to the people living near its industrial sites is a major contaminated by historical pollutions (case of old sites). point of the Group’s environmental policy. Every year, work is The Group wishes to make its contribution to an optimised undertaken to reduce these pollutions, such as: consumption of fresh water both from surface water and from • reducing odours: groundwater. • modiﬁcations to incinerators to minimise SO2 emissions, and It adapts its production practices to consume less water by using devices that reduce consumption and by developing closed • modiﬁcations to demisters; circuits. • reducing noise levels, Based on local constraints and the sites’ activities, the actions • improvements to acoustic protection devices in air taken over the years can concern a wide variety of issues, compressors and including better monitoring of consumption, installation of ﬂowmeters, introduction of leak detection programmes, changing • one example of reducing visual pollution is the La Chambre (France) plant where the replacement of the fuel oil used in a the technologies, upgrading ﬁre-ﬁghting circuits, recovering boiler by gas resulted in a noticeable improvement from the rainwater, and recycling water from scrubbing or boiler second half of 2014. condensates. ARKEMA has also put in place real-time communication with its Accordingly, in October 2013, Arkema Inc. (United States) stakeholders on any event with a sound, visual or odour impact commissioned a new cooling tower at its Memphis site, which outside the boundaries of its production sites. Moreover, most reduced water consumption at the site by 1.5 Mm3 in 2014 sites now have a system in place for compiling and processing compared to the 2012 benchmark, close to the objective complaints from local people, and so, where possible, addressing announced in the 2013 reference document for the reduction of them and minimising the nuisance concerned. its water consumption by nearly 2 Mm3 on an annualised basis compared to an average annual consumption of 5.8 Mm3 over the 2012-2013 period. 2.2.1.3 MANAGEMENT OF RESOURCES For 2012, 2013 and 2014, the levels of environmental indicators For the Group’s industrial sites, the reduction of environmental corresponding to the pumping and use of water by the Group, impacts consists in particular in optimising the use of raw calculated according to the methodology note in section 2.6 of materials, energy and natural resources like water. this reference document, are given in the table below. From the moment of their design, new manufacturing units incorporate the environmental footprint in the choice of process and equipment. Use of water 2014 2013 2012 Total water pumped (in Mm3) 120 130 130 The quantities of water pumped by the Group, which had Consumption of raw materials not changed in 2013, decreased considerably in 2014, due The Group wants to play a part in optimising the consumption of mainly to the investment made in Memphis (United States) and to non-renewable raw materials used in its manufacturing processes. adjusting pumping to the needs of the Pierre-Bénite site (France). 20 ARKEMA Communication On Progress 2014 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Reduce the environmental footprint of the Group’s activities It aims to save on the raw materials it consumes by initiatives to Following a period spent raising awareness and setting up a control its processes and develop operating best practice as part performance indicator, the Arkenergy programme, since it was of a programme to minimise the variability of processes, or by further strengthened in 2014, now relies on the application of adapting its processes’ operating conditions such as excessive the following decisions: amount of reagent, stirring conditions within reactors, and • the roll-out of energy efﬁciency evaluations on a global scale temperature conditions. focusing on the plants that contribute the most to net energy Furthermore, the Group develops, alone or in partnership with its purchases. In 2014, 20 energy efﬁciency evaluations were suppliers, actions such as the recycling of reaction solvents used begun or completed by the Group, including 14 in Europe, 5 in its manufacture, or offering the recycling of spent activated in North America and 1 in China; carbon to its customers. Finally, the Group develops the use of renewable raw materials • the implementation of ISO 50001 as the energy management system in Europe and Asia. At the end of 2014, ﬁve Group sites 2 by using biosourced raw materials. ARKEMA is in fact the world’s had been ISO 50001-certiﬁed in Europe and ten had begun largest producer of specialty polyamides derived from castor the process, including nine in Europe and one in Changshu oil. A long-standing producer of polyamide 11 from castor oil (China); in Europe, in 2012 the Group acquired in China the companies • the allocation of a corporate capital expenditure budget Hebei Casda Biomaterials Co. Ltd., a producer of sebacic acid specifically for initiatives taken as part of the Arkenergy from castor oil, and Suzhou Hipro Polymers Co. Ltd., a producer programme. In 2014, 47 capital projects were funded by this of polyamides 10.10 and 10.12 from this sebacic acid. central Group budget, including 31 in Europe, 12 in North As stated in paragraph 2.3.4 of this reference document, these America and 4 in Asia. products accounted for approximately 13% of Group sales in The total savings expected as a result of these investments are 2014. estimated at around 109 GWh on an annualised basis. Energy consumption These investments made to reduce the Group’s energy consumption concern capital projects as diverse as new compressors or The Group uses various sources of energy mostly as part of more efﬁcient motors, changing the joints on pumps, variable its manufacturing operations, but also to maintain some of its frequency drives, new boilers, pre-heaters, condensate heat buildings at certain temperature levels. recovery systems, the revamping of boilers, eliminating leakage The Group wants to play a part in optimising the consumption of of compressed air, changing steam traps, renewing insulation on energy used in its manufacturing processes and facilities. the steam and boiler circuits and risers or internal modiﬁcations to the risers. As part of its Energy Policy that has been widely communicated within the Group, ARKEMA reafﬁrms the emphasis it places on Initiatives taken with the instrumentation and the implementation improved energy use. With this in mind, the Group has set an of control systems to optimise the consumption of various sources objective of reducing its energy consumption by an average of energy will also generate savings by optimising operating 1.5% per annum over the 2012 to 2020 period. This objective methods and handling instructions or through minor expenditure. is substantially greater than the reductions reported over previous The signiﬁcant investments made in the French sites at Lacq, La years. Chambre and Jarrie that began in 2014 have already had a To reach this objective, Arkema has strengthened its Arkenergy favourable impact on energy consumption in 2014. programme and rolled it out to all of it subsidiaries with the help Total, SOBEGI and ARKEMA, with the support of the French of a network of Energy Leaders in the BUs and the plants, as well government as well as local authorities, invested over €150 million as in the relevant purchasing and technical departments. in Lacq Cluster Chimie 2030, a project to transform the Lacq This programme, which also helps to make the Group’s industrial (France) platform into an industrial centre of excellence. This sites more competitive, meets the following imperatives: project enables ARKEMA to continue operating its thiochemicals activities from the hydrogen sulphide (H2S) provided by the last • the continuous drive to optimise the consumption and cost of gas resources in Lacq, and represents an environmental beneﬁt in energy from the design and purchasing of equipment to daily terms of energy and transport compared to H2S production from operations in the plants; sulfur. Furthermore, investments made by ARKEMA have helped • the setting up of an energy management system to systematically to reduce energy consumed during manufacturing operations on embed best operational practices, deﬁne targets speciﬁc to a like-for-like and annualised basis by 40 GWh, in line with the each site and to periodically review them; and objective announced in the 2013 reference document. • compliance with laws, regulations and other applicable The La Chambre (France) site saw the launch of an energy-saving requirements in terms of energy efﬁciency. plan based on process modifications, operating parameter optimisation and enhanced recovery of vapour condensates or hot water, spread over 2013 and 2014, which has already helped to save 9% of energy consumed at the site, and is well ARKEMA Communication On Progress 2014 21 2 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Reduce the environmental footprint of the Group’s activities on the way to achieving the expected longer term saving of 14% the Jarrie plant. In 2014, this major capital expenditure helped announced in the 2013 reference document. to reduce the energy used for chlorine production, leading to a A net investment of approximately €40 million was made by reduction of around 9 GWh in the overall consumption of the ARKEMA at its Jarrie (France) site in 2012 and 2013 into the site, despite increases in production at other facilities at the site. production of chlorine, with ﬁnancial support from the French Many other initiatives are also underway at the Group’s sites. government. All mercury electrolysis cells were dismantled, and For example, in the United States, a major modiﬁcation of the a new electrolysis facility was built, based on the membrane way in which a production facility operates at the Bayport site process. This restructuring of the Jarrie industrial facilities will has reduced energy consumption in the facility by 20 GWh. In enable the use of mercury to be discontinued at the site and will France, the recovery of steam from an incinerator, combined with thus prevent risks of emissions related to its use ahead of the end the optimisation of production facilities, has resulted in savings of 2019 deadline set forth by French law. Furthermore, an investment more than 10 GWh at the Saint Auban site and the installation of into new air compressors in the hydrogen peroxide production a more efﬁcient boiler at the CECA site in Parentis has reduced facilities has helped to further optimise energy consumption at energy consumption by 5 GWh. Energy purchases extensive indicator For 2012, 2013 and 2014, the Group’s net purchases of energy, drawn up as per the methodology note in section 2.6 of this reference document, are shown in the table below. Net purchases per year 2014 2013 2012 Total net purchases of energy (in TWh) 8.36 8.50 8.50 Net purchases of energy for 2014, which do not yet beneﬁt from the impact of most of the Arkenergy capital expenditure in 2014, but are positively affected by the investments made in the sites at Lacq, La Chambre and Jarrie, were down by 1.6%, but would have fallen by 3% with production equivalent to 2013. The breakdown of net purchases of energy by region and by type of energy, is as follows: Net purchases by region Europe Americas Rest of the world Total net purchases of energy (in TWh) 4.65 2.78 0.93 Net purchases by type Fuels Electricity Steam Total net purchases of energy (in TWh) 4.52 2.44 1.40 90% of TWh produced by fuels are from gas. 17% of the net purchases of TWh by the Group, including all sources of energy, come from low carbon emission electricity. Energy purchases intensive indicator For 2012, 2013 and 2014, the values of intensive EFPIs corresponding to net energy purchases generated by the Group’s activities, calculated as per the methodology note in section 2.6 of this reference document, are provided in the following table. Purchases by the biggest energy net purchasers among the Group’s sites used for these calculations account for over 80% of the Group’s net purchases. Net purchases of energy 2014 2013 2012 EFPI net purchases of energy 0.99 1.02 1 ARKEMA’s objective is to reduce by on average 1.5% per year its energy net purchases expressed as intensive values (EFPI) by 2020 compared to 2012. 22 ARKEMA Communication On Progress 2014 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Reduce the environmental footprint of the Group’s activities Usage of soils Restoration of these sites entails ﬁrstly a partial backﬁlling phase for those sections of the quarries that are no longer mined as ARKEMA wants to minimise its footprint on and use of soils. mining progresses, by limiting the slope of remodelled land, and The ﬁrst type of actions conducted by the Group in this regard in some cases re-establishing tributaries of streams, wetlands, and concerns the remediation of soils. other features. Backﬁlling only uses barren soil from the prior Some of the Group’s industrial sites, particularly among those mining of the quarry. This remediation work is then completed whose manufacturing activity goes back a long time, have with a ﬁnal backﬁll when topsoil is added to this remodelled land. been, or are, responsible for environmental pollution, notably The ﬁnal restoration is very often earmarked for agricultural use. of soil or groundwater, and have been the subject of actions described in paragraph 2.2.1.6 of this reference document on 2.2.1.4 CLIMATE CHANGE the management of historical pollutions. 2 In this regard, ARKEMA develops new soil remediation techniques Direct emissions of greenhouse gases through stimulation of bacteria naturally present in the soil in order Direct emissions to air, known as Scope 1 Greenhouse Gases to help with the degradation of chlorinated solvents historically (GHGs), by ARKEMA are due to: present, as is the case, for example, with the Saint-Auban and Mont sites in France. The pilot undertaken at the Mont site since • operations requiring the input of energy (burning of fuel oil 2013 has produced conclusive results and will continue in 2015 and gas); once authorised by the administration, which is expected in the • emissions from processes that generate CO2, N2O or CH4 as ﬁrst half of 2015. product, by-product, co-product, waste or gas discharges like, The second type of actions conducted by the Group concerns for example, thermal oxidation used to process VOCs into CO2; the management of part of some of its sites which are not or • HFC emissions from its production plants for these products; no longer taken up by production facilities, in order to allow and the development of certain animal species. These actions are described in paragraph 2.2.1.5 of this reference document on • fugitive emissions from cooling circuits using GHGs. biodiversity. Finally, the last type of actions conducted by ARKEMA concerns the regulatory restoration of diatomite quarries, post mining, of its CECA subsidiary. These quarries are located in Virargues and Saint-Bauzile in France. Direct emissions of greenhouse gases extensive indicator For 2012, 2013 and 2014, quantiﬁed direct emissions to air of greenhouse gases (GHGs) generated by the Group’s activities are shown in the table below. They were drawn up as per the methodology note in section 2.6 of this reference document. Direct emissions of greenhouse gases (GHGs) 2014 2013 2012 GHGs (kt CO2 eq) 3,430 4,710 5,120 including CO2 1,380 1,470 1,460 including HFC 2,010 3,200 3,610 The breakdown of these direct emissions of GHGs by region is as follows: Direct emissions of greenhouse gases (GHGs) Europe Americas Rest of the world GHGs (kt CO2 eq) 1,050 2,040 340 In 2006, the Group’s direct emissions were 9,240 kt CO2 eq. ARKEMA takes action in terms of climate change by reducing The following examples illustrate this initiative: GHG emissions from its own production plants. • the replacement of boilers with more efficient equipment To reduce its impact on global warming, the Group has (Carling site in France) and the ﬁrst effects at the end of the undertaken a number of actions and deployed effective means year of the work done on steam traps and the insulation of to minimise direct GHG emissions. ARKEMA was already one of steam circuits undertaken at a number of sites as part of the the French companies within the association of companies for the Arkenergy programme and described in paragraph 2.2.1.3 reduction of greenhouse gas emissions (AERES), which has made of this reference document concerning energy consumption; a voluntary commitment to achieving GHG reduction targets. ARKEMA Communication On Progress 2014 23 2 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Reduce the environmental footprint of the Group’s activities • the replacement of air-conditioners and cooling units with thermal oxidisers in the plants at Calvert City (United States), more efficient models, as well as enhanced preventive Pierre-Bénite (France) and Changshu (China). maintenance work, have helped reduce emissions from this In 2013, the sites that contributed the most to a reduction in GHG type of equipment; and emissions were notably Calvert City (United States) where a vent • the implementation of equipment to process emissions generated was connected to a thermal oxidizer. by the installations such as the thermal processing units in the In 2014, the investments made at the Calvert City site at the end plants or the later connection of recovery column vents to these of 2013 generated an additional reduction in its GHG emissions of 1.2 Mt CO2 eq. Direct emissions of greenhouse gases intensive indicator For 2012, 2013 and 2014, the EFPI values corresponding to the direct GHG intensive emissions generated by the Group’s activities, computed as per the methodology note in section 2.6 of this reference document, are given in the table below. Emissions from the biggest GHG emitters among the Group’s sites used for these calculations account for over 80% of the Group’s emissions. Direct emissions of greenhouse gases 2020 target 2014 2013 2012 EFPI greenhouse gases (GHGs) 0.70 0.70 0.93 1 ARKEMA’s objective of reducing its direct emissions of GHGs by 30% by 2020, as compared to 2012, was achieved in 2014, largely thanks to the investments made in Calvert City (United States). By 2012, the Group had already reduced its GHG intensive emissions (EFPI) by 52% compared to 2006. Indirect emissions of greenhouse gases The indirect emissions to air of greenhouse gases (GHGs) analysed by ARKEMA are: • emissions of CO2 known as Scope 2, related to the production • emissions of CO2 known as Scope 3, due to the transportation by its suppliers of the electricity and the steam purchased by of all the Group’s products. the Group; and For 2012, 2013 and 2014, the values of Scope 2 and Scope 3 CO2 emissions generated by the Group’s activities, calculated as per the methodology note in section 2.6 of this reference document, are given in the tables below. These emissions were audited for the ﬁrst time for the 2013 and 2014 ﬁnancial years. Indirect emissions of greenhouse gases (GHGs) 2014 2013 Scope 2 CO2 (kt) 1,067 1,053 In 2014, Scope 2 CO2 emissions were up by 1.3% compared to 2013. The breakdown of these of Scope 2 CO2 emissions by region is as follows: Indirect emissions of GHGs by region Europe Americas Rest of the world Scope 2 CO2 (kt) 284 545 239 The Group is reducing its Scope 2 CO2 emissions through actions • reducing its purchases of steam thanks to investments in such as those described under paragraph 2.2.1.3 of this reference condensate heat recovery systems, the revamping of boilers, document to limit its energy consumption, particularly by: changing steam traps, renewing insulation on the steam and boiler circuits and risers; • reducing its purchases of electricity thanks to investments in new compressors or more efﬁcient motors, variable frequency • putting in place additional instrumentation and control systems drives and by eliminating leaks of compressed air; to optimise purchases of steam and electricity while also optimising ways of working and operating methods. 24 ARKEMA Communication On Progress 2014 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Reduce the environmental footprint of the Group’s activities The reduction of Scope 2 CO2 emissions by the Group will be rooms, earth-filled dams, or concrete walls around storage directly related to ARKEMA’s objective to reduce its net purchases facilities. of energy by an annual average of 1.5% expressed as intensive Response to these events is described in the emergency response values (EFPI) by 2020 as compared to 2012. procedures, for those sites that are potentially impacted. In In 2014, Scope 3 CO2 emissions, due to the transportation of all cases of alert, the sites comply with instructions from the all the Group’s products, are estimated to be in the order of 0.2 authorities. million tonnes at more or less 20%. Emergency procedures are implemented to shut down and The Group reduces its Scope 3 CO2 emissions by actions such maintain the facilities safe in order to minimise the risk of as those described under paragraph 2.4.4. of this reference emissions of chemical substances into the environment when these document, particularly by: extreme events occur. 2 • making maximum use of bulk sea vessels combined with bulk Stocks of some products are also maintained in external storage storage for local deliveries rather than shipping in containers; facilities that are not potentially impacted in order to prevent 26% of the volume of ARKEMA’s products shipped by sea from shortages in supplies to ARKEMA’s customers. Europe are shipped in bulk; The Group also indicates the exposure of its sites in some • developing the use of rail and mixed road/rail or rail motorway regions that are particularly exposed to this type of events. These types of transport, which now represent 44% of all land extreme weather events do not include seismic risks, described in shipments made by the Group within Europe; paragraph 1.7.2.3 of this reference document. • maximising the load ratios for bulk transportation by road; for Eighteen Group sites are exposed to the risk of severe storms example, the average load in Europe is 23 tonnes per truck (tornadoes and cyclones) and ﬂooding, eleven of which are on for bulk shipments, which represents 76% of volumes carried the American continent. This data is based on both the 2014 by road; and update of reports compiled by ARKEMA’s property damage insurers as well as information on climate related risks provided • by limiting airfreight to 0.07% of its total shipments, using it only for shipping samples or in exceptional circumstances by a reinsurance company. where there is a risk of a customer on another continent running out of stock. 2.2.1.5 PROTECTION OF BIODIVERSITY Adaptation to the extreme consequences of climate change Measures taken to protect fauna and ﬂora including biodiversity The Group operates a number of sites in the United States, In the course of its operations, the Group places the protection of in particular near the Gulf of Mexico, and in Asia which can the environment at the core of its objectives, and is committed to experience extreme weather events such as tornadoes, tropical constantly improving its performance in these areas. cyclones (typhoons, hurricanes), and ﬂooding, the frequency The protection of biodiversity first implies the protection of and intensity of which could be exacerbated by climate change. environment, fauna and ﬂora and of all species that could be ARKEMA lends particular attention to the potential impact of these impacted by emissions due to the Group’s activities. extreme weather events. Actions concern discharges from every site into water, the soil, The Group therefore analyses the potential impacts of these and the air. weather events when acquiring new businesses. Where the potential climate impact is regarded as liable to have a particular A periodic environmental analysis of the sites helps measure the incidence on the safety of people or on the economic aspects of progress achieved, identify its impacts, and deﬁne the priority the acquisition, it may then be the subject of a speciﬁc study by areas for their action plans concerning the protection of the third party experts. environment and therefore all the species that their activities might impact. When designing new production plants, ARKEMA applies the HAZID (HAZard IDentiﬁcation) method to be able to take account Additionally, from their design stage, new production plants of the impact of external events such as natural disasters on the include the environmental footprint in the choice of process and mechanical strength of the construction. equipment. The standards used for the construction of ARKEMA’s plants The actions conducted by ARKEMA in particular within the comply with local regulations and data. framework of laws and regulations to minimise chemical oxygen demand (COD) in its efﬂuents discharged into rivers are designed The design of facilities therefore includes extreme values of wind to protect the dissolved oxygen gas that is key to all animal speed as well as data on ﬂood risks (100-year ﬂood) in the aquatic life. conditions of the sites housing new plants. The actions conducted by ARKEMA inter alia within the framework The measures implemented on sites potentially subject to such of laws and regulations in order to minimise volatile organic extreme events concern for example raised plants or control compound (VOC) emissions to air are designed to reduce the ARKEMA Communication On Progress 2014 25 2 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Reduce the environmental footprint of the Group’s activities formation of ground-level ozone, a super-oxidant harmful to Meanwhile, as described in paragraph 2.2.1.3 of this reference fauna and ﬂora. Similarly, reducing SO2 and NOx emissions document, CECA, a subsidiary of the Group, takes care of the helps prevent the formation of acid rain which, in addition to its regulatory post-mining remediation of its diatomite quarries in direct effect on plant life, can also alter the characteristics of soils. France. Accordingly, CECA has commissioned the Fédération de The actions conducted by ARKEMA within the framework of laws Protection de la Nature Ardèche (FRAPNA) to carry out an expert and regulations on the remediation of the soil on its sites where survey of the fauna and ﬂora on its Saint-Bauzile site. This survey former industrial activities were or are the cause of environmental is part of a ﬁve-year plan, launched during an inventory in 2000. pollution, also help protect the various species which depend on The second study carried out in 2011 highlighted the presence their soil or groundwater. in the quarry and its immediate surroundings of a wealth of everimproving ﬂora and fauna. These ﬁndings conﬁrmed the beneﬁt of restoring vegetation with local plant species as recommended Measures taken to develop biodiversity by FRAPNA in 2007, in terms of herbaceous as well as short Although the land it occupies is limited, the Group conducts a and tall woody plants. Such studies help redeﬁne and adjust plant number of actions in Europe to contribute, on its scale, to the species, in line with FRAPNA recommendations, for the replanting development of biodiversity on the sites where some of the land of embankments and slopes in zones being remediated. The work is not allocated to industrial activities. in progress therefore helps redevelop the biodiversity of the land In France, the Pierre-Bénite site, in partnership with the NATURAMA being restored. environmental education association, initiated a programme to Equally, when the authorisation to mine our quarry in Virargues refurbish areas that had been wasteland since 2010. A survey of (France) was renewed and extended on 26 July 2013, CECA the fauna and ﬂora present on the site highlighted the importance concluded two agreements with two relevant regional bodies in and remarkable aspect of an existing reed bed. Accordingly, the order to implement measures to safeguard and boost the local initial action of the management plan spanning several years ecosystem. was the restoration of this reed bed, with appropriate plantations The ﬁrst convention, signed for a duration of 25 years with and the elimination of invasive plants, followed by its extension Union Régionale des Forêts d’Auvergne (URFA) and its Mission with the creation of a second basin in 2012. In 2013, ﬂower Haies Auvergne, is designed to reinforce the functionality for the meadows and ponds were landscaped within the boundaries of bird fauna of the local ﬁelds and woods on the land belonging the platform where demolished old buildings used to stand. These to CECA. Work overseen by URFA will help the creation of ﬂower meadows have above all an aesthetic appeal, by offering hedgerows stretching over 2,475 metres, and the annual colourful and fragrant spaces. They also have ecological beneﬁts monitoring of the hedgerows so created. insofar as these environments abound with biodiversity, being home to many varieties of plants, insects and birds. The second convention, signed for a duration of ﬁve years, with the Syndicat Interdépartemental de Gestion de l’Alagnon et de The Carling (France) site called upon the services of consultants ses afﬂuents (SIGAL), aims to put in place a speciﬁc programme specialising in the environment (Atelier des Territoires) for the for the refurbishment, management and oversight of the most remediation and enhancement of the ecological status of a former severely spoilt sections of the streams within the watershed of the wastewater treatment lagoon with a surface area of 3.5 hectare, river Alagnon in order to promote the development of protected while rehabilitating the landscape. The project began in 2012 species of freshwater crustaceans. with an analysis of species potentially present and therefore to be nurtured to allow ecological diversity to develop. 2012 and These concrete examples do show that industrial activity and 2013 saw the restoration of hedgerows and ponds judiciously biodiversity can coexist. positioned for harmonious cohabitation with the surrounding industrial facilities, on the one hand, and the improvement of 2.2.1.6 MANAGEMENT OF HISTORICAL open meadows as well as landscaped boundaries favourable to POLLUTION AND RELATED fauna and ﬂora biodiversity, on the other. These refurbishments PROVISIONS yielded the ﬁrst noticeable beneﬁts in spring 2013. Some of the Group’s industrial sites, particularly those whose The Boretto site (Italy) uses phytoremediation or phytodepuration, manufacturing activity goes back a long time, have been, or as described under paragraph 2.2.1.2 of this reference are, responsible for environmental pollution, notably of soil or document, a natural system of puriﬁcation that re-establishes the groundwater. Under these circumstances, a number of sites ecological balance of aquatic environments and wetlands. To do currently being operated by the Group, or that were operated by so, the ﬁrst part of the ground at the site was transformed into a the Group in the past and subsequently sold, as well as adjoining marsh partially planted with common reeds, and a short stream sites or sites where the Group stored waste or had waste and a pond were created in the second part. It is in this second eliminated, have been, still are, or could be in the future subject part that aquatic species have become established (crayﬁsh, frogs to speciﬁc demands for remediation from the relevant authorities. and water snakes). Similarly, this peaceful environment serves as Where there is a problem of soil or groundwater contamination a refuge for bird life, such as pheasants, magpies and sparrows, on a site, investigations are launched to establish the extent of and has encouraged the development of a colony of ducks and the area concerned and ascertain whether the pollution is likely provides a nesting habitat for wild geese. to spread. The Group cooperates with the authorities to deﬁne 26 ARKEMA Communication On Progress 2014 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Reduce the environmental footprint of the Group’s activities the measures to be taken when the risk of an impact on the The amount of provisions for environmental risk as at environment or a danger to health has been identiﬁed. 31 December 2014 is provided in Note 20.3 of the notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements in paragraph 4.3.3 of this reference document. 2.2.2 MANAGING PRODUCTS RESPONSIBLY (PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP) 2 2.2.2.1 POLICY AND GENERAL • Registration: 151 substances were registered with ECHA ORGANISATION following the initial registration deadline set for 30 November The Group ensures that it markets products that are useful to 2010, and 123 substances were registered for the second society at large, are safe, and do not harm human health or the registration deadline set for 31 May 2013. The Group expects environment. to register a total of 480 substances (excluding BOSTIK acquired early 2015), of which ten or so are potentially subject To this end the Group has an organisation, teams of experts, to authorisation, a ﬁgure that was reﬁned following these two IT resources and databases to enable it to meet regulatory registration periods, now closed, completed by a survey of the requirements on product safety. BUs on the evolution of their portfolios. The Group estimates Product Stewardship requires constantly improving knowledge that compliance with this new regulation will cost it around of the characteristics of the products and their conditions of 45 million euros over the 2012 to 2020 period. use. Accordingly, the Group has for many years relied on a • Evaluation: ARKEMA is involved in four cases for which the team of expert toxicologists and ecotoxicologists who conduct evaluation has now been completed. They pertain to three the necessary studies to characterise the hazards presented by substances manufactured by ARKEMA: Carbon Tetrachloride products, and work in close collaboration with regulatory experts (CTC) manufactured by ARKEMA until 1 July 2012 then carrying out risk evaluation in conditions of use. used at the Mont site (France), Diphenyl Guanidine (DPG), The Group expresses its commitment by complying with for which ARKEMA is acting as leader of the registration REACH, the European regulations covering the processes for the case, and Methyl Chloride manufactured at the Jarrie site, registration, evaluation, authorisation and restrictions on chemical and another substance used by ARKEMA as a raw material products. These are probably the most ambitious regulations of (Bisphenol A – BPA), which is the subject of European risk the past twenty years. They aim to make profound changes to the studies and national bills, particularly concerning its use in way in which the chemical substances produced, imported and materials in contact with food products. No particularly binding distributed in the European market are managed, by improving conclusions are anticipated for CTC, DPG or Methyl Chloride knowledge, analysing environmental and health risks, and at the European level, except for a few additional tests and risk by deﬁning ways of managing the risks that may result from analyses. By contrast, BPA and indirectly its derivatives may be their manufacture or use. The Group endorses the objectives of subject to restriction measures in certain markets, in particular REACH which represents an additional means to the continuous the food market. At French level, a law was published in the improvement of knowledge of its substances and their safe use, Journal Ofﬁciel of 24 December 2012 aiming to suspend from thereby meeting the legitimate expectations of civil society. 1 January 2013 the manufacture, importation and sale on the market of any packaging, container or article comprising To be in a position to conduct the major workload corresponding BPA and used to enter directly in contact with foodstuffs for to the obligations of this regulation, the Group has set up a projectbabies and small children. This ban has been extended to all type organisation overseen by a steering committee at Executive categories of people from 1 January 2015. ARKEMA has little Committee level. The core of this setup is centralised at Group exposure to the market for food containers and, in addition, it level within the Safety Environment Product division (DSEP) in works closely with its customers to substitute products derived charge of the health, environment and safety issues of products as from BPA. In addition, three other cases underwent evaluation well as regulatory implications, and based on a team of experts in in 2014. They pertain to three substances manufactured by the toxicology, ecotoxicology and regulations. These various experts Group (Isophorone produced at the La Chambre site), Butyl ensure the implementation of the REACH regulations centrally, by Acrylate produced at Carling and Bisphenol A Propoxylate relying on a network of correspondents that take part in drafting (BPA-4OP) produced by CECA. The draft decisions suggest that parts of the cases concerning the BUs, the industrial sites, the further data is necessary before being able to decide whether subsidiaries and R&D for operational issues, and the Purchasing, or not community wide measures might be necessary; Information Systems, Legal, and Communication departments for functional issues. This organisation has enabled the Group to fulﬁl the requirements of the REACH regulation. ARKEMA Communication On Progress 2014 27 2 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Reduce the environmental footprint of the Group’s activities • Authorisation: in the phase to register substances on the These experts are in constant contact within their own network. candidate list, ARKEMA follows the proposals for registration Every year, a seminar is held over several days in Asia devoted and responds to the consultations organised by ECHA for to discussions between product HSE Managers in the Asian substances whose use(s) may be subject to authorisation (given subsidiaries and their head ofﬁces and American counterparts. that substances used as synthesis intermediates are not subject The product HSE roadmaps are decided on during this seminar to authorisation). The potential implications are estimated from by country depending on changes in the local situation and which action plans could be drawn up, including such measures regulations. as: the consideration of alternative substances for the envisaged In 2015, three new sets of regulations similar to REACH will uses, ﬁling an application for authorisation when falling under be put in place in Asia in Korea, in Taiwan and in Turkey, Annex XIV, conversion of the plant, planned cessation of the concerning the obligation to register existing substances on activity. As at 31 December 2014, the candidate list contained one hand, and on the other hand, in Malaysia and Turkey, the 161 substances. Of these substances, those concerning the Globally Harmonised System of Classiﬁcation and Labelling for Group were (i) Hydrazine produced at the Lannemezan site Chemicals (GHS), set up by the United Nations Economic and (France), (ii) 2-Imidazolidinethione (ETU) produced by MLPC, Social Council, will be further rolled out. (iii) Nonylphenol Ethoxylates produced by CECA, (iv) Dioctyltin bis (2 Ethylhexyl Mercaptoacetate) produced at Vlissingen on In many countries, the Group records knowledge of the products’ behalf of another company, and (iv) Sodium Dichromate, which characteristics and conditions of use in a (Material) Safety Data is used as a processing aid at the Jarrie site (France). Sodium Sheet ((M) SDS), a document prepared to be able to market Dichromate is the subject of registration under Annex XIV, and chemical products classiﬁed as hazardous to human health and/ ARKEMA will ﬁle an authorisation dossier, as the search for an or the environment. The (M) SDS must feature the necessary alternative solution has yet to yield results. prevention and safety data for the use of a hazardous product. These (M) SDSs are prepared in some forty languages thanks • Restriction: Cobalt Chloride should go from a recommendation to a high performance IT infrastructure and the information for registration under Annex XIV with a view to authorisation, compiled from a global database grouping together all product to a recommendation for restriction that would, in theory, compositions as well as their toxicological, ecotoxicological only target metal coatings, an application that does not and physico-chemical data, thereby ensuring consistency of affect ARKEMA, which uses it as a processing aid at its Jarrie information wherever the Group’s products are marketed. site. Nevertheless, pending a formal proposal for restriction The Group releases (M) SDSs in accordance with regulatory and as a precautionary measure, ARKEMA is studying a requirements, and/or makes them available on its website and/ substitution solution. or via the QuickFDS internet platform. ARKEMA does not manufacture Persistent Organic Pollutants The organisation of the Group, the resources allocated, and (POPs). the motivation of all personnel have enabled extended safety During the ﬁrst quarter of 2014, ARKEMA stopped production data sheets to be made available (extended (M) SDSs, the latest of Diethylhexyl Phthalate (DEHP) and, during the course of format established by REACH), which now include a description 2014, closed down the site at Chauny, which produced DEHP. of exposure scenarios for identiﬁed uses, therefore allowing This product is the subject of an authorisation process leading improved risk management. to registration under Annex XIV of REACH. ARKEMA does not The Group has a high performance IT system to draft its regulatory produce or sell Bisphenol A (BPA). ARKEMA uses BPA as a raw documents, and adapts it as required in order to include the latest material, which is then transformed into other products. DEHP and formats and data related in particular to the implementation of BPA are subject to various national regulations that restrict their GHS in the countries that endorse this system, which deﬁnes a use due to suspected endocrine disrupting properties. common classiﬁcation and labelling method. Outside Europe, the Group markets its chemicals in accordance The Group has also developed a system for publishing labels with the mandatory inventories in the various countries or regions which uses validated data from its central database to print labels which use them. Due to its history and global presence, the Group within a consistent classiﬁcation, regardless of the country in has products that are already notiﬁed in many inventories. Should which the product is manufactured and/or marketed. a need arise for a new product notiﬁcation, the Group has a major database on the characteristics of its products, which means that Thanks to its organisation, its scientiﬁc and regulatory expertise, it can ﬁle dossiers in an optimum time scale. Notiﬁcations are its teams of experts assisted by efﬁcient information technologies, executed thanks to the work of experts at Group level who rely the Group shows its commitment, over and above these regulatory on the product HSE Managers in the country subsidiaries and/ requirements, to marketing its chemical products in a safe and or a network of local specialist consultants. responsible manner, by informing its customers and the public in complete transparency. 28 ARKEMA Communication On Progress 2014 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Reduce the environmental footprint of the Group’s activities 2.2.2.2 HEALTH, SAFETY AND In the interest of Product Stewardship for its own products, ENVIRONMENT FOR CONSUMERS ARKEMA goes beyond its regulatory obligations and supplies Product Stewardship, which goes beyond regulations, consists (M) SDSs even for its products that are not rated hazardous. in ensuring that the products have no effect on the health and In order to inform its customers of the environmental performance safety of people, or their environment. This approach involves of its products, ARKEMA also carries out Life Cycle Analyses every player in the product chain, from raw material supplier to (LCAs) on certain products; these multicriteria analyses in end-customer. The Group ensures that it markets products that particular help convert the full inventory of ﬂows related to a are useful to society, are safe, and do not endanger health, the product’s production into environmental impacts. environment, or the safety of users and consumers by taking ARKEMA focuses as a priority on LCAs for the ranges of products actions that go beyond mere compliance with the regulations described in paragraph 2.2.2.1 of this reference document, in for which its customers use such LCAs in their respective industries. This mainly concerns the Rilsamid®, Rilsan®, Pebax®, Kynar® and 2 accordance with the undertakings set out in its Safety, Health, Forane® product ranges. Environment and Quality Charter. These analyses help evaluate the impact of the products following The Group has already translated its commitment to Product such parameters as emissions of carbon dioxide, ozone depletion Stewardship by endorsing the Responsible Care® Global Charter potential, contribution to acidiﬁcation, consumption of energy and of the International Council of Chemical Associations (ICCA), as water, and the use of soils during their production. part of international programmes such as High Production Volume (HPV) lead by the latter and the Environmental Protection Agency The Group has developed in-house competence within its (EPA) in the United States. Rhône-Alpes Research Centre in France in order to apply this global approach, recognised and standardised as part of its The Group remains committed in this regard by participating in customer relations. the Global Product Strategy (GPS) programme. This commitment entails the creation of a speciﬁc web page dedicated to GPS and The Group follows the recommendations of the International the regular publication of information sheets in the form of Safety Reference Life Cycle Data System (ILCD) in conducting Summaries on the ICCA website as well as on its own website, these analyses. as and when the REACH registration dossiers are ﬁled. At the end of 2014, ARKEMA published 145 GPS information sheets corresponding to ARKEMA’s ﬁnished products registered with REACH in 2010 or 2013. ARKEMA Communication On Progress 2014 29 2 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Place sustainable development solutions at the heart of its approach to innovation and in its product range 2.3 PLACE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT SOLUTIONS AT THE HEART OF ITS APPROACH TO INNOVATION AND IN ITS PRODUCT RANGE Within the context of its compliance with the United Nations ARKEMA strives to develop and market products that are useful Global Compact and Responsible Care® principles, the Group to the general public and which are safe and respectful of the has committed to developing and promoting technologies which environment, as described in paragraph 2.2.2 of this reference are respectful of the environment and to making a contribution document. to sustainable development through an offering of innovative To complement these actions, as described in section 2.3 of this technologies and products meeting future challenges (also known reference document, ARKEMA places its process and products as “mega trends”). R&D at the service of sustainable development and the challenges As presented in paragraph 2.2.1 of this reference document, of the planet by offering innovative solutions in favour of new ARKEMA is developing new processes and innovative production energy sources, the ﬁght against climate change, access to water, technologies for its chemical products to reduce the environmental the use of renewable raw materials, recycling and the extension risks associated with the activities of its industrial sites and their of product life cycles. potential emissions of pollutants. ARKEMA ﬁled 81 patent applications for innovative solutions ARKEMA is also having its service providers develop and test new in 2014 to meet the challenges described in section 2.3 of this treatment equipment for its efﬂuents, which are more respectful reference document. It ﬁled 79 patent applications in 2013 and of the environment. This is done as part of new development nearly sixty a year since 2010. carried out by suppliers and within the framework of ARKEMA collaborations with innovative companies. 2.3.1 DEVELOP PRODUCTS FOR NEW ENERGIES AND THEREFORE CONTRIBUTE TO PRESERVE FOSSIL RESOURCES New energies are one of the Group’s major research areas. 2.3.1.2 NEW DEVELOPMENTS IN SOLAR AND WIND POWER AND ENERGY STORAGE 2.3.1.1 CURRENT USES IN SOLAR ENERGY AND ENERGY STORAGE ARKEMA is developing new products for these sectors. They include: ARKEMA develops applications for its products, notably for solar energy, which helps to conserve fossil fuels, and for energy • New-generation lithium salts, still at the exploratory stage, storage, which is all the more crucial for alternative energy sources which should make lithium-ion batteries safer thanks to their with discontinuous ﬂows. The two priority areas are photovoltaics thermal and chemical stability; and and lithium-ion batteries, which saw the following developments: • Elium thermoplastic composites, which could be used for wind ® • Kynar , polyvinylidene ﬂuoride (PVDF), potentially grafted or ® turbine blades. co-polymerised, is an excellent binder for battery electrodes ARKEMA maintains partnerships with a number of different and an excellent “separator” material (polymer ﬁlm separating stakeholders as part of its research into the potential contribution the two electrodes); of existing and future products for new energy applications. For • Ethylene vinyl acetates (EVA) and organic peroxides, which are example: used as an encapsulation material for photovoltaic cells; and • in 2011, ARKEMA and INES (National Institute for Solar • PVDF is used as a backsheet for photovoltaic cells. Energy) teamed up to build a shared research laboratory for photovoltaic polymers in France; • in 2013, ARKEMA signed a research agreement with the English SME Oxys Energy to develop and produce lithium sulphur batteries; 30 ARKEMA Communication On Progress 2014 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Place sustainable development solutions at the heart of its approach to innovation and in its product range • in 2014, ARKEMA and IREQ (Hydro-Québec Research Institute) ARKEMA also participates in various ADEME (French Environment announced an R&D collaboration to develop a new and very and Energy Management Agency) projects such as the Isocel safe electrolyte from ﬂuoride salts produced by ARKEMA for photovoltaic and Efﬁwind wind turbine projects, both future the electric batteries used in public transport and cars. investment projects. 2.3.2 FIGHT AGAINST GLOBAL WARMING 2 The Group develops and manufactures technical products and • Kepstan polyetherketoneketone (PEKK) as a metal substitute ® solutions which contribute indirectly to reducing the greenhouse for extreme application conditions. gases responsible for global warming. The products reduce the PEKK is an ultra high-performance polymer. Known as fuel consumption of various means of transport and decrease the the “extreme polymer”, it is exceptionally resistant to high energy consumption of heating and cooling systems installed by temperatures (up to +260°C), chemical agents, abrasion the construction and public works industries. The Company also and fire, and has excellent mechanical properties. These provides chemical substances with low global warming potential. characteristics make it ideal for highly specialised applications, notably in offshore oil and aerospace by replacing metal in 2.3.2.1 LIGHTER MATERIALS FOR fastening components, insulating parts and interior ﬁttings; TRANSPORT • Thermoplastic acrylic and polyamide composites to replace The Group develops light, resistant materials which, when traditional composites. used in vehicles, reduce their weight and, therefore, their fuel ARKEMA launched its ﬁrst line of liquid thermoplastic resins consumption. They also contribute to minimising CO2 emissions under the brand name Elium® in early 2014. These resins are in the transportation sector. made using the same equipment and processes as thermoThe Group’s main innovations in this area include: set composites. Composite resins made with Elium® reduce at least half of the weight of parts traditionally made in metal at • Polymethyl methacrylate (PMMA) nanostructured Altuglas ® equal strength. ShieldUp to replace glass. ARKEMA is looking for partners who are also in this ﬁeld to share Nanostrength® technology based on acrylic copolymers, which expertise and accelerate the innovation process for the beneﬁt of can organise themselves on a nanometric scale, increases the sustainable development. impact resistance of certain transparent polymers. ShieldUp® technology is used in car windows as a replacement for ARKEMA has teamed up with Pôle de Plasturgie de l’Est in France glass and helps make vehicles lighter. The introduction of and is coordinating the Compofast project, which brings together the Altuglas® ShieldUp roof to replace glass could result in a ﬁfteen European partners to develop thermoplastic composites 0.4 litre decrease in fuel consumption per hundred kilometres suitable for vehicles. By replacing metal parts with lighter plastic and a 7 kg decrease in CO2 over the same distance. Assuming ones, the thermoplastic composite will reduce vehicle weight and that 100,000 vehicles driving 20,000 kilometres per year thereby reduce fuel consumption and CO2 emissions. were equipped with this innovation, CO2 emissions would be • ARKEMA also worked collaboratively with several partners reduced by 140,000 tonnes per year; to develop its Altuglas® ShieldUp, a polymer twice as light • 11 Rilsan HT polyamide used as a substitute for metal. ® as glass. It is currently being used for panoramic roofs in partnership with Renault, and for Peugeot’s Onyx concept car. ARKEMA won the Pierre Potier award in 2013 for its Rilsan® HT, a high-performance polyamide made from non-food plant matter. The annual prize rewards innovations in chemistry that 2.3.2.2 SOLUTIONS TO REDUCE further sustainable development. With its unique combination of GREENHOUSE GASES ﬂexibility and stability at very high temperatures, this material The Group also develops evolutions or new applications for its can aptly replace metal and rubber in the automotive industry products contributing to minimising GHG emissions. in under-hood ﬂuid piping. Six times lighter than steel and three times lighter than aluminium, it lightens vehicles and contributes ARKEMA is pursuing the development of low global warming to decreasing fuel consumption and CO2 emissions; potential refrigerant gases such as the 1234yf, a new-generation ﬂuorinated gas to meet the needs of automotive air-conditioning. Generally, as a world leader in refrigerant ﬂuorogases, ARKEMA continues its strategy to constantly adapt to changes in global ARKEMA Communication On Progress 2014 31 2 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Place sustainable development solutions at the heart of its approach to innovation and in its product range regulations, and develops competitive solutions to be part, on which has a much longer life than traditional paints. This product a world scale, of the drive to reduce greenhouse gas (GHGs) helps decrease cooling needs in high-sunlight regions. emissions. The use of reﬂecting roofs with Kynar Aquatec® bases reduces the In another field, CECA has developed a line of warm mix energy consumption of buildings that use the roofs in high-sunlight technique bitumen additives (Cecabase RT®), which provides regions by 20%, i.e., 20 KWh/m2/year. For 10 buildings with energy savings of 20% to 30% when applying bitumen to roads. a roof area of 15,000 m2, the result would be a total annual ARKEMA also developed the Kynar Aquatec® PVDF resin, a reduction of 1,500 tonnes of CO2 emissions based on an water-based formula for white paint used on reﬂecting roofs, emission coefﬁcient of 0.5 tonne of CO2 per MWh. 2.3.3 DEVELOP PRODUCTS FOR IMPROVING WATER QUALITY AND ACCESS TO WATER Water treatment solutions, another Group research area, also paragraph 2.3.5 of this reference document, CECA also offers have implications for sustainable development. its customers a service to regenerate saturated activated carbon. 2.3.3.1 DRINKING WATER FILTRATION 2.3.3.2 OTHER WATER TREATMENT PRODUCTS FUNCTIONS The main products and solutions developed for this purpose are The Group also markets a variety of products for water treatment: ﬂuorinated polymer membranes and CECA’s ﬁltering agents. • acrylic acid, used to manufacture polyacrylates used in water Membranes made with ARKEMA’s PVDF Kynar®, which consist of treatment plants to ensure the ﬂocculation of suspended solids; hollow ﬁbres, treat water via micro-ﬁltration. They trap particles • hydrogen peroxide used as an agent to decrease Chemical from 1 to 10 microns more effectively than traditional sand Oxygen Demand (COD). A clean reagent, hydrogen peroxide percolation ﬁltration systems. ARKEMA has been developing only has water and oxygen as by-products, and offers the this microﬁltration for several years. ARKEMA’s Kynar® provides beneﬁt of generating neither wastewater sludge nor toxic bybetter resistance to the chlorinated products used for cleaning products; membranes. • Bactivel bleach preserves water quality until its consumption ® ARKEMA also works with innovative companies in a collaborative thanks to its bactericide power, which protects drinking water effort to develop ultraﬁltration water treatment solutions. ARKEMA distribution networks; entered into a partnership with POLYCHEM during the ﬁrst half • Rilsan ﬁne powders have been chosen by many cities to coat ® of 2014. The medium-sized French company specialises in manufacturing hollow-ﬁbre membrane ﬁltration modules. The goal their drinking water pipe networks and waste water treatment of the partnership is to develop new hydrophilic ultraﬁltration plant equipment because of their strength, durability and ﬂow membrane technology using a new Kynar® nanostructured properties. polymer perfected by ARKEMA. This innovation increases the ARKEMA rounded out its line of PVDF Kynar® resins in 2014 performance and energy efﬁciency of membrane water treatment. with the launch of a grade suited for multilayer pipes used to The partnership will make the technology accessible to water transport drinking water without affecting its taste. It also delays treatment players more quickly. the growth of thin layers of bacteria due to its purity and the fact Another ﬁltration step, which uses activated carbon sold by that it doesn’t need any additives to be implemented. Kynar® the Group’s CECA subsidiary under the Acticarbone® and 740 E was approved in 2014 with the KTW certiﬁcate from the Anticromos® brands eliminates micro-contaminants, odours and German water and gas agency. tastes in the waste water used for drinking water. As noted in 32 ARKEMA Communication On Progress 2014 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Place sustainable development solutions at the heart of its approach to innovation and in its product range 2.3.4 USE OF RENEWABLE RAW MATERIALS TO PRESERVE FOSSIL RESSOURCES IN THE FACE OF GROWING POPULATION NEEDS By developing products based on renewable raw materials, the 2.3.4.2 NEW DEVELOPMENTS Group is contributing to the conservation of non-renewable fossil ARKEMA R&D is constantly working to develop the use of fuels thanks to innovations resulting from its own research and renewable raw materials in current and future Group products. from research with partners. 2 One of the preferred methods is to work with research partners ARKEMA’s ongoing commitment is confirmed by the fact as part of major collaborative projects that include customers, that nearly 13% of the Group’s sales is generated in full or suppliers and university laboratories. The examples below in part (more than 20%) from renewable raw materials. This illustrate this point. commitment was recognised in 2013 with the EUBIA award (European Biomass Industry Association) presented to ARKEMA ARKEMA took part in the European Biocore research programme in Copenhagen for its work in the ﬁeld of biosourced materials. from 2010 to 2014. It focused on analysing the potential These products accounted for approximately 11% of the Group’s development of new production concepts using biomass. total sales in 2011. ARKEMA formed a partnership with Elevance Renewable Sciences in 2012 to develop speciality biosourced polymers. 2.3.4.1 CURRENT SOLUTIONS IN THE ARKEMA also partnered with the start-up Global Bioenergies GROUP’S PRODUCT LINE in France in 2013. The company is developing isobutene ARKEMA has been manufacturing the monomer used to produce manufacturing from plant carbohydrates. its 11 Rilsan ® polyamide from castor oil in Marseilles (France) ARKEMA has been active in a number of bioreﬁnery projects, for over 50 years. notably as part of the European Eurobioref project which brought The Group acquired two companies in China in 2012: Hebei together 29 partners and ended in February 2014, and for which Casda Biomaterials Co., Ltd., a producer of sebacic acid derived ARKEMA was responsible for coordinating the industrial aspects. from castor oil, and Suzhou Hipro Polymers Co. Ltd., which ARKEMA also co-partners the Mines Paristech bioplastic chair produces polyamide 10.10 and 10.12 using this sebacic acid. in France and is one of the six founding members of the Fimalin The Group also operates three other bio-plants: association. The goal of the association is to create, structure and promote a technical flax industry in France to develop • The Parentis plant in the Landes region (France) produces eco-designed materials using high-performance ﬂax ﬁbres. The activated carbons from local pine wood. They are used in ambition is to eventually position technical ﬂax as a strengthening ﬁlters by the agro-food and pharmaceutical industries, for ﬁbre in composites to replace glass and carbon ﬁbres, opening micro-contaminant ﬁlters in wastewater treatment and as a the way for eco-polymers, eco-composites and the creation of a catalyst support; new agro-industrial business. • The Blooming Prairie plant (United States) manufactures ARKEMA also develops new products in collaboration with its terpenes and limonenes as well as various additives for the customers. As part of its Coating Resins business, ARKEMA cosmetics industry and lubricants via epoxidation of ﬂax seed is studying the use of partially biosourced raw materials as oil; and a substitute for fossil fuel-based raw materials for polyester • The Feuchy plant (France) converts plant fatty acids into production (Oil Free Polyester). surfactants for fertilisers and warm mix asphalt for bitumen. As part of its Coating Resins business, the Group also develops and sells alkyd resins derived from plant oils and diamide-type rheology additives for which a signiﬁcant portion of raw materials are biosourced fatty acids. ARKEMA Communication On Progress 2014 33 2 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Place sustainable development solutions at the heart of its approach to innovation and in its product range 2.3.5 DEVELOPMENT OF RECYCLING, REUSE AND EXTENDED PRODUCT LIFE SOLUTIONS TO PRESERVE FOSSIL FUEL RESOURCES IN FACE OF GROWING POPULATION NEEDS The Group contributes to the conservation of non-renewable ARKEMA has developed technologies to protect glass bottles fossil fuels by using the by-products of its industrial processes, by (Kercoat®) and hide scuffs (Opticoat®). The products signiﬁcantly helping to recycle its products and the products of its customers improve the appearance and life span of bottles by increasing the and by extending the life of its customers’ products. number of times returned bottles, notably those of beer producers, can be recycled threefold. 2.3.5.1 USING THE GROUP’S CECA, a Group subsidiary, has developed a solution that BY-PRODUCTS increases the recycling rate of products from roadwork. Using Cecabase RT® additives in bitumen increases the aggregate ARKEMA sells many of the deadly by-products created by the recycling rate by 10% to 15% compared to traditional techniques. production of its main products by ﬁnding applications related In addition, the additives lower the heating temperature required to their inherent properties. for bitumen, as noted in paragraph 2.3.2.2 of this reference However, in addition to selling by-products, which is a normal document. part of every chemical company’s business, whenever possible, After being used for drinking water treatment, CECA’s activated the Group transforms the wastes, which would otherwise become carbons are saturated with micro-contaminants, as described in industrial waste, into products that can be used by other industrial paragraph 2.3.3.1 of this reference document. Instead of sending sectors. them to waste, CECA customers can use the recycling service As mentioned in paragraph 2.2.1.2 of this reference document, implemented by this ARKEMA subsidiary. The used activated 62% of hazardous waste produced by ARKEMA worldwide in carbons are processed in high-temperature ovens, which 2014 was recycled on-site or off the production site (made into completely eliminate the pollutants absorbed by their porosity. raw materials). Thanks to the expertise developed by CECA, the absorption For example, the soda water produced at the Mont (France) properties of the activated carbon are reactivated. This is crucial plant as part of the puriﬁcation process of a monomer produced for their reuse in the same processing systems. at the plant has been recycled for many years. They are used by the paper industry as part of the manufacturing process for Kraft 2.3.5.3 EXTENDING THE LIFE OF ITS paper and cardboard. These basic waters are rich in organics CUSTOMERS’ PRODUCTS and are used by paper manufacturers to minimise sulphur loss in their process regeneration loops. Generally speaking, ARKEMA works to increase the performance of its products over time. At the site of Casda in Hengshui in China, the ﬂow of residual sulphuric acid generated by the manufacturing process for For example, ARKEMA has developed a line of organic peroxides sebacic acid is neutralised to obtain a sodium sulphate solution. for cross-linking rubber. The rubber cross-linked using the The ﬂow is then directed to a sodium sulphate concentration organic peroxides is used to manufacture parts, typically for the and crystallisation unit which recycles 50,000 tonnes of sodium automotive industry. They meet manufacturer requirements for sulphate a year into solid form instead of treating the ﬂow of ageing and extended use. diluted sulphuric acid as a waste product. The Group has also developed new polymer grades which increase the lifespan of its customers’ products. 2.3.5.2 GROUP AND CUSTOMER PRODUCT For example, Kynar® provides a coating with a particularly long RECYCLING lifespan. Kynar Aquatec® is used for the reﬂecting roofs described in paragraph 2.3.2.2 of this reference document. The product The Group is developing different solutions that facilitate the ensures that the whiteness of the coating remains virtually intact recycling of its customers’ products. A few examples are found for a particularly long time without maintenance. Kynar 500® below. was used to coat the aluminium roof of Wimbledon’s court no 1 Elium® liquid thermoplastic resins are processed using the same in an olive green matching the grass courts. It protects the roof equipment and processes as the thermo-hardened composites for nearly twenty years without losing any of its original qualities. mentioned in paragraph 2.3.2.1 of this reference document. Thanks to the properties of these innovative resins introduced by ARKEMA in 2014, the parts made from them are easy to recycle as opposed to parts made from thermo-hardened epoxy. 34 ARKEMA Communication On Progress 2014 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Encourage open dialogue with all its stakeholders These examples clearly show that ARKEMA contributes to The Group’s research policy and actions are described in greater optimising the consumption of non-renewable raw materials in detail in section 1.4 of this reference document. a number of different ways far upstream of the chain leading to end-consumers. 2.4 ENCOURAGE OPEN DIALOGUE 2 WITH ALL ITS STAKEHOLDERS 2.4.1 TERRITORIAL, ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL IMPACT OF THE GROUP’S ACTIVITY ON EMPLOYMENT AND REGIONAL On a broader level, ARKEMA implements a policy of support to DEVELOPMENT innovative small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) that are ARKEMA’s social responsibility is embodied in the support connected to its activities, through joint projects or by acquiring provided to the development of the territories in which the Group a stake in them. This entails, for example, individual research is present or is involved. centres establishing a close cluster unit with a neighbouring school or laboratory, while putting in place the conditions of a The Group’s activity generates tens of thousands of direct and partnership with local SMEs. indirect jobs around the world. Therefore the Group plays a role in the economic and social development of the regions in which ARKEMA is indeed one of the founding members of Axelera, it operates. a world-scale competitiveness cluster which brings together and coordinates in the Rhône-Alpes region (France) players Group investment in 2014 made a direct and indirect contribution from industry, research and education around a chemistry and to employment of around 1,900 full-time equivalent (FTE) environment related theme. employees. In addition, the effect of these investments on the economic fabric of the industrial areas concerned is equivalent ARKEMA is also a founding member of IDEEL (Institut des to 4,500 jobs (FTE). énergies décarbonées et écotechnologies de Lyon). In June 2013 IDEEL signed its ﬁrst triennial convention for the funding of its In this respect, the major investment projects completed in 2014 programmes to develop innovative solutions at the service of – notably the thiochemicals platform in Malaysia – had an the factory of the future. This institute aims to make chemical economic impact on those areas that was signiﬁcantly greater manufacturing processes cleaner and more cost-efﬁcient and to than the investments the Group undertook elsewhere due to their transform industrial wastes into products that can be recycled or size. into new sources of energy. Additionally, in France, when it has to redeploy some of its ARKEMA further extended its partnership commitment at the activities, the Group strives to compensate for job losses, where end of 2014 by signing the foundation charter of the Campus applicable, and contributes to revitalising those economic regions industriel de la Vallée de la Chimie launched by Le Grand Lyon. that have been impacted. These actions are laid down in the This ambitious “industrial ecology” project is a continuation of revitalisation agreements legal framework signed with public Aexlera and IDEEL to develop new activities in the “cleantech” authorities, and take the form of a variety of measures, including: and chemistry ﬁelds in line with the national energy transition • Financial support for company creation or takeovers; and/or programme and it also aims to develop synergies and inter-site sharing as part of the 2030 coordinated regional planning and • Prospecting for the set-up of new activities and supporting their development efforts. development. These partnerships have a dual dimension for ARKEMA, namely This was notably the case when the Chauny site in the Aisne foster innovation and strengthen its local integration, thereby department in France was shut down. making the Group a key player upstream of certain strategic ARKEMA provides technical assistance to young, innovative industrial sectors of the future (thermoplastic composite materials, companies in certain industrial areas. For example, it provided renewable raw materials, etc.). assistance to companies set up in the “Chemstart’up” chemicals business incubator in Lacq (France). ARKEMA Communication On Progress 2014 35 2 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Encourage open dialogue with all its stakeholders 2.4.2 RELATIONS WITH STAKEHOLDERS 2.4.2.1 CONDITIONS OF DIALOGUE their concerns a top priority. Surveys conducted with local populations carried out in 2002 and in 2008 indicate that the For the past several years, changing regulations have encouraged climate is more favourable now with decreasing concern about the creation of a consultation, dialogue and information industrial and chemical risks, in particular. A new wave of opinion process about Group activities with a signiﬁcant impact on the surveys is planned by 2016. environment. In the United States, 60% of the Group’s sites are involved • Discussing and explaining the company’s activities in regulatory Community Advisory Teams or with Community Industrial site mangers open their plant’s doors on a regular basis Advisory Panels in order to share information about site activities and maintain contact with elected ofﬁcials, local residents, local with local residents and provide answers to their concerns. associations and academia. Participants have an opportunity These can be monthly, annual or biannual meetings. Among the to ﬁnd out about site’s activities, such as which products and ARKEMA plants taking part in these initiatives on a regular basis processes are used. They are also informed of signiﬁcant events in 2014 were Bayport, Blooming Prairie, Bristol, Calvert City, occurring at the site, about its projects, its performance in matters Chatham, Clear Lake, Geneseo, Louisville, Mobile, Memphis, of industrial safety and its environmental footprint. St. Charles and West Chester. The Beaumont (Texas) “Community • Preventing risk and progress Advisory Team” is the oldest committee in the region and the ARKEMA site has been interacting with local authorities and Ongoing improvements in industrial safety and environmental and residents for over 24 years. health protection, including the development of a risk prevention culture, is a priority for all ARKEMA sites. As a result, the Group In France, after actively participating in the meetings of many has perfectly implemented the “real-time communication” local information and dialogue committees (CLIC) and, more approach initiated by the chemical industry in France, and it speciﬁcally, in the information and exchange meetings for the consistently informs the media of all incidents, including minor implementation of Technological Risk Prevention Plans (PPRT) at ones, at its Seveso-category industrial plants. As part of a the Pierre-Bénite, Jarrie, Saint-Auban, Marseilles and Carling sites, proactive initiative, ARKEMA regularly organises the simulation ARKEMA has been monitoring the implementation of the PPRT and of incidents or accidents in order to test the complementarity taking part in the meetings held by local resident associations and of emergency response resources on the site and from outside local authorities on a regular basis to monitor work progress. In emergency services, as well as alert and information procedures addition, the industrial site managers take an active part in the and methods for the protection of local people. permanent secretariats for the prevention of industrial pollutants (SPPPI). Quantitative assessment of Common Ground® actions The Common Ground® approach In 2014, 985 Common Ground® initiatives were carried out worldwide and 90% of sites actively participated in the events, ARKEMA goes beyond the scope of the regulatory framework, including: and puts in place conditions for dialogue with all stakeholders. For over ten years now, ARKEMA has taken an innovative approach • 516 in the United States, at 93% of sites; to relations with the stakeholders of its industrial sites via a • 336 in Europe, at 85% of sites. In Europe, France and Italy programme called “Common Ground®” (Terrains d’Entente®). took an active part in organising the events; The approach is used in all of the countries in which the Group operates. It focuses on three main areas: • 105 in Asia, at 94% of sites. In Asia, China was the country most involved in organising events. • Listening to understand expectations One of the objectives of Common Ground® is to make listening to local residents, evaluating their expectations and understanding Breakdown of initiatives by region 2014 2013 2012 North America 540 362 53 Asia 105 50 66 Europe 336 213 155 Rest of the world 4 19 6 TOTAL 985 644 280 36 ARKEMA Communication On Progress 2014 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Encourage open dialogue with all its stakeholders 2.4.2.2 EXAMPLES OF COMMON GROUND INITIATIVES ® Breakdown by type of initiative 2014 2013 2012 Initiatives involving local residents 546 296 100 Educational initiatives 309 196 126 Initiatives involving associations 130 152 54 TOTAL 985 644 280 2 Initiatives involving local residents and the public Actions for education To promote local interaction, the Group’s employees at the plants Throughout the world, ARKEMA is boosting its relations with the and subsidiaries committed to increasing local contact by meeting world of education. The Group works with educational teams and with residents and the general public to show the beneﬁts of helps promote the chemical industry to young people. chemicals in everyday life. In Italy, Rho plant employees took part in the “chemistry” In the United States, in addition to taking part in information programme at Institute Cannizaro, the Rho secondary school. meetings organised by local resident associations, many sites From February to May 2014, they provided 200 students with opened their doors to explain their activities and plant operations. training modules on different themes such as the production of ARKEMA is a partner of the Palais de la découverte in France. acrylic monomers and polymers and industrial safety. In addition This partnership, which was launched in 2011, will run through to their involvement with the schools, several of the students were 2015. An ultra-modern chemistry laboratory was set up to hosted by the ARKEMA plant for a three-week internship. provide a programme of experiments and presentations called In the United States, Arkema Inc. has been running a teaching “Étonnante Chimie” (Amazing Chemistry). Nearly ten thousand module called “Science Teacher Program” since 1996. Hundreds visitors come every year for a fun and interactive discovery of of researchers and teachers have already attended. They have the contribution chemistry makes toward sustainable progress. been able to share their experience with tens of thousands of Group employees boarded the Nouvelle France industrielle (New students. This program receives funding from the Arkema Inc. Industrial France) train between 7 April and 27 April 2014, Foundation, and is offered in particular to young people on for the fourth occurrence of the Semaine de l’industrie (Industry scholarships or registered with social programs. Week). Over the span of 15 days, this train exhibit introduced In Asia, the sites in China and Japan provide their support to the innovative industrial sectors for which France’s expertise is schools near plants such as, for example, donated computers, recognised around the world. ARKEMA represented the chemical school materials or a ﬁnancial contribution to improve educational industry. ARKEMA participated in seven stops, introducing infrastructure. chemical industry innovations and spoke with many different In France, ARKEMA participated in the 18th Mondial des métiers, audiences. More than twelve thousand visitors boarded the train a job discovery and career choice fair. Attendance increased and thus learned more about this industry. again this year, with more than 119,000 visitors. During the entire In 2014, as for more than ten years now, many sites in France fair, Group employees from the Rhône-Alpes region (ARKEMA took part in the 23rd edition of the Fête de la science (Science plants in Jarrie and Pierre-Bénite, Coatex, and the CETIA and Celebration) organised by the Ministry for Post-Secondary CRRA technical research centres) introduced the diversity and Education and Research. Many employees got involved to help modernity of jobs in the ﬁeld of chemistry. A highlight of the event visitors discover the extraordinary diversity of disciplines, led was the meeting between skipper Lalou Roucayrol and young discussions with the general public and shared their knowledge secondary school students. He showed them how innovations with young people. The Serquigny, La Chambre and Marseilles developed by ARKEMA researchers have helped improve the Saint-Menet sites welcomed several secondary school classes for performance of his new class 50 multi-hull boat. visits of their plants. Demonstrations and experiment workshops Arkema France also took part in the Village de la chimie were provided by our engineers at Jarrie, the Science Village (Chemistry Village), which welcomed 7,500 visitors in 2014. in Pont de Claix and La Chambre and at the Eureka Gallery They spent two days discovering that chemistry, already very in Chambery, to introduce visitors to the contribution chemistry much a part of their daily lives, continues to develop in all ﬁelds, makes to their daily lives. and that it uses highly advanced scientiﬁc and technical resources ARKEMA was a partner of the Voyage au cœur de l’innovation which require workers from many backgrounds with all levels of industrielle (Journey to the Heart of Industrial Innovation) expertise. exhibition held from 4 to 7 December 2014, in the main hall of the Grand Palais in Paris. The exhibition was dedicated to the most signiﬁcant discoveries of French industry. ARKEMA presented its “green chemistry” plastics made from biosourced materials. ARKEMA Communication On Progress 2014 37 2 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Encourage open dialogue with all its stakeholders ARKEMA has been a partner of the Chemical World Tour since In the United States, in addition to their traditional fund-raising at 2010. It was launched by the Union des industries chimiques the end of the year, the employees of the Louisville, Bristol and and the Fondation de la maison de la chimie (Chemistry House Torrance sites mobilised to collect funds to purchase toys. Several Foundation) in cooperation with the French Ministry for National thousand poor children from neighbouring communities were the Education and the French Ministry for Secondary Education beneﬁciaries of these gifts. and Research. The purpose of this Chemical World Tour is to Employees from the Memphis plant and their families took part introduce chemistry and the chemical industry to students. Every in the race organised to beneﬁt the American Heart Association year, ﬁve chemistry students and ﬁve journalism students are and gathered funds for heart disease research. selected to make up pairs who then set off across the world to investigate the vital role of chemistry in the innovations that Employees in ARKEMA Bayport and Clear Lake took part in drive everyday life forward. The reports prepared by the pairs the annual river and park cleaning event known as the “Bayou of students are put forward to the public’s vote via the internet Trash Bash“. and the social networks. The 2014 edition of the innovation In India, the employees of the Mumbai plant took part in the world tour focused on chemistry in energy. It led the pairs to International Coastal Clean-up day and partnered with a local investigate, with ARKEMA’s support, recent Group developments marine scout group for the operation organised in Kolshet Creek. in China applied to the development of new batteries to meet the challenges of energy transition. In China, the Changshu site made a ﬁnancial contribution for the renovation of the Fushan primary school so that students could Created in October 2008 under the aegis of Fondation de France receive improved conditions of safety and comfort. and ARKEMA, Fondation ENSIC (École nationale supérieure des industries chimiques) aims to promote access to the school’s In Italy, the Altuglas plant in Rho and the ARKEMA plant in curricula by granting scholarships to students experiencing Spinetta provided ﬁnancial support for associations helping financial hardship. The foundation provided full support to people with autism and children with disabilities. 22 students in 2014. In France, the employees of several sites (Carling, Colombes and Pierre-Bénite) renewed their participation in sports events and Initiatives for associations raised funds for associations ﬁghting cancer and disabilities and for the ELA (European Leukodystrophies Association). ARKEMA Faithful to the Group’s values of solidarity and responsibility also made cash donations to the associations and matched the toward local residents, ARKEMA sites and their employees work pledges made by employees. with associations in the regions in which they are located. Many examples around the world attest to the volunteer work done by the men and women of ARKEMA to help those who are most in need and to actively participate in local life. 2.4.3 FAIR PRACTICES, REJECTION OF CORRUPTION ARKEMA is committed to complying with antitrust regulations THE ARKEMA CODE OF CONDUCT and to rejecting all forms of corruption and fraud. Accordingly, AND BUSINESS ETHICS ARKEMA condemns and strives to prevent fraud and corruption ARKEMA implemented a new Code of Conduct and Business also in its business dealings with its partners. Ethics in November 2013, which replaced the ﬁrst version of Compliance with these rules and the rejection of corruption is May 2006. It states the rules, based on the Group’s ethical based on two principles in particular: (i) The inclusion of these values, and includes the ten principles of the United Nations rules in the Group’s Code of Conduct and Business Ethics, and Global Compact, one of which covers combating corruption. (ii) the implementation of control procedures for potential fraud The rules are also based on the principles of other fundamental and corruption risks. international laws (1), which all employees of the Group must commit to following. Moreover, ARKEMA observes international conventions as well as laws in force in the countries in which the Group operates. Hence ARKEMA and its employees are guided in their actions by rules and principles of conduct. This code may be accessed on the Group’s internet and intranet websites. (1) Universal Declaration of Human Rights, principles of the International Labour Organization, guiding principles of the OECD with regard to multinational companies. 38 ARKEMA Communication On Progress 2014 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Encourage open dialogue with all its stakeholders Essentially, the Code of Conduct and Business Ethics sets out that: This programme is implemented by the Compliance Committee and the Ethics Mediator, who are responsible for monitoring its • Employees may not offer, provide, or accept, directly or indirectly, any unfair advantage, be it pecuniary or otherwise, application within the Group. and whose purpose is to secure business relations or any other • The Compliance Committee, whose members are appointed by business advantage. Those partners particularly concerned are the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer of Arkema, consists of the Director people holding public authority, customer agents or employees, of Internal Audit and Internal Control, a Human Resources ﬁnancial or banking organisations, and political parties; and department representative, the director for Sustainable Development, the Director of Group Safety Environment • Employees must follow the competition laws applicable in all of the countries in which the Group operates at all times. Industry, a representative of the Legal department and a representative of the Finance/Treasury/Tax department. The Compliance Committee is responsible for monitoring 2 EMPLOYEE SUPPORT ARKEMA’s compliance in the following areas: Competition ARKEMA has created a roadmap to assist employees in ensuring law, commercial intermediaries, fraud, commercial practices their compliance with all of the requirements of its Code of and business integrity, work environment integrity and respect Conduct and Business Ethics. It covers the following: for the environment. • The new version of the Code, published on the Group’s intranet The Compliance Committee reports to Comex; sites in November 2013; • The Ethics Mediator is appointed by the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer • Employee awareness-raising via information regarding of Arkema. He is fully familiar with the Group’s activities and ARKEMA’s compliance with the principles of the United Nations professions, and his career situation ensures the independence Global Compact and the Code, added to the Group intranet of his judgement. site in November 2014; The Ethics Mediator is generally and at all time bound by • Preparation, at the end of 2014, for the implementation of confidentiality towards third parties on the identity of the an e-learning course on the Code during the 1st quarter of people raising issues with him, and maintains secrecy on 2015 in parallel with the annual signing by employees of any information that might help identify them; however, this their commitment to comply with the rules and principles of obligation may be tempered, as regards the sole people the Code. required to be aware of this information, as strictly required to address and solve the question raised or to handle the case PROCESSES TO CONTROL AND REDUCE concerned, these people being then also bound by the same RISK OF CORRUPTION AND FRAUD obligation. ARKEMA has put in place a compliance and business ethics In regions where ARKEMA conducts its activities, the regional programme comprising the Code of Conduct and Business Ethics managers are appointed correspondents of the Ethics Mediator. as well as the various rules and procedures applicable within For all practical questions regarding an ethical issue in general, ARKEMA. and particularly any problem in applying the ARKEMA Code of The resources employed to ensure the correct operation of this Conduct and Business Ethics, the Compliance Committee and program are: the Ethics Mediator may be called upon either by the Senior Management or by any employee. • Awareness-raising activities about the rules of competition in each BU to increase the accountability of employees, regardless In order to minimise the risk of situations arising that may lead to of their level, with respect to competition rules; corruption, ARKEMA also takes steps to select reliable partners, through a process to appraise its commercial intermediaries, • The implementation of speciﬁc procedures in the BUs; and conducted in particular by the Compliance Committee. • Information about the rules and behaviours to be followed via Finally, as part of the global risk management measures put a “practical competition guide” provided to employees. in place by ARKEMA, the Internal Audit and Internal Control division conducts regular audits in the Group’s subsidiaries, when it analyses the various management processes in place in these subsidiaries, to help identify possible risks of fraud, and set out, where appropriate, the necessary corrective actions (refer to paragraph 1.7.1 of this reference document for the global risk management measures). ARKEMA Communication On Progress 2014 39 2 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Encourage open dialogue with all its stakeholders 2.4.4 SUBCONTRACTING AND SUPPLIERS SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES IN of Conduct and Business Ethics described in paragraph 2.4.3 of THE PROCUREMENT POLICY this reference document. In order to build long-term relations with its suppliers, ARKEMA Suppliers are encouraged to comply with principles that are adopts a responsible behaviour towards them. It establishes equivalent to those set out in ARKEMA’s Code of Conduct and balanced and durable relations, based on trust. Business Ethics. A Supplier Code of Conduct was implemented ARKEMA’s approach is based on the ethics principles set by ARKEMA in September 2014 for this purpose. The Supplier out in its Code of Conduct and Business Ethics described in Code of Conduct is available online on ARKEMA’s website. paragraph 2.4.3 of this reference document. Relations with ARKEMA implemented an information process for its new suppliers must be based on trust and develop transparently and suppliers, and gradually for its existing suppliers, covering in compliance with fairly negotiated contractual terms, including its requirement that they not only comply with the laws and those related to intellectual property and Responsible Care® regulations applicable to them, but also share the principles principles. described in the Supplier Code of Conduct. ARKEMA is also a signatory to the French national inter-company As at 31 December 2014, 16,200 ARKEMA suppliers had charter of the buyers professional organisation (CDAF) as well received the Supplier Code of Conduct; 83% are in the Goods as Médiation Inter-Entreprises, which holds out ten responsible and Services supplier category, 6% are logistics providers and procurement commitments. 11% are raw materials providers. This Code will gradually be The procurement policy of the Group’s Goods and Services included in all new consultations. Purchasing division provides for all employees to be aware of The principles of the Supplier Code of Conduct are based on the procurement ethics rules and the need to conduct their duties Global Compact, which ARKEMA has made a commitment to both in terms of ethics principles and a sustainable development support. They cover Human Rights and Labour, namely, freedom approach. These requirements are systematically recalled to the of association, child labour, forced labour, discrimination, health, buyers during training and information events. safety, hygiene, harassment and violence. These requirements also In some cases, goods and services buyers also approach suppliers include the environment, quality and the safety of products and of services or equipment that promote energy savings as well as services provided. Within the context of business integrity and the optimisation of waste treatment and recycling activities. transparency, suppliers must also comply with the principles of law and competition, the prevention of corruption, the prevention As regards raw material procurement, the Group favours a of conﬂicts of interest, conﬁdentiality and the transparency and collaborative approach with certain strategic suppliers, and honesty of the information provided. engages in the joint improvement of the supply chain in terms of safety and the environment. Supplier selection is based on meeting a need under the best performance, cost and quality conditions, and in compliance with In its logistics purchases, ARKEMA includes inter alia a “carbon Responsible Care principles® and the Supplier Code of Conduct. footprint” dimension when selecting its suppliers and transport methods. Generally speaking, when the technical and economic The Group’s Goods and Services Purchasing department has conditions are met, the choice of supplier and transport method analyses the performance of its main suppliers since its creation, will favour slow and low-emission methods such as rail, barge, particularly in regards to safety. The safety of personnel of maritime bulk or container rather than road and air. These external companies present on its sites is just as important for concerns also converge with the need to control transportation risks ARKEMA as the safety of its own personnel. Accidents involving as mentioned in paragraph 1.7.2.2 of this reference document. personnel of external companies present on ARKEMA’s sites are included in the computation of ARKEMA’s accident rate. TAKING INTO ACCOUNT OF THE SOCIAL ARKEMA selects its logistics services taking into account carrier AND ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITIES performances in terms of safety, security and the environment. The OF SUPPLIERS AND SUBCONTRACTORS procedures used to select road hauliers for hazardous materials are based on evaluations conducted by organisations such In order to build long-term relations with its suppliers, ARKEMA as SQAS (Safety and Quality Assessment System) in Europe. also expects a responsible behaviour from its suppliers. ARKEMA has been using the same evaluation criteria in China Its approach is guided by the ethics principles set out in its Code which has been gradually implemented since 2013 as part of the 40 ARKEMA Communication On Progress 2014 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Promote the individual and collective development of all its employees RSQAS (Road Safety and Quality Assessment System). Likewise, It enables pooling with other chemical companies to have supplier the vessels used worldwide for the bulk transport of ARKEMA assessments conducted by Ecovadis and the sharing of evaluation products are ﬁrst assessed (Vetted) by a third party. results which Ecovadis puts online on its internet site. Ecovadis For its raw materials purchases, ARKEMA generally uses analyses the documents and answers provided by suppliers pre-homologation questionnaires to evaluate its suppliers. These regarding CSR criteria in line with international standards and questionnaires are designed to assess their management system ensures a 360° watch on information provided by external and/or their compliance with the principles of the Responsible stakeholders. Care® programme, or their certification based on ISO-type It also enables other chemical companies to conduct supplier standards. audits together through independent audit companies and to share the audit results, which Ecovadis posts online on its internet The Supplier Code of Conduct requires that suppliers comply with ARKEMA’s expectations in terms of CSR from the time of site for the members of the TfS programme. 2 implementation. Over the coming years, ARKEMA will regularly rely on its supplier They commit to cooperating with audits on compliance with this risk analysis to choose those that will be assessed and audited Code. as part of the TfS programme. In order to base its requirements on accepted standards and In addition, ARKEMA’s Internal Audit and Internal Control to avoid its suppliers having to answer specific ARKEMA department has been conducting audits of Group subsidiaries questionnaires and audits on top of the many requests from their every year. During the audits, it conducts a range of tests on other customers, on 21 November 2014, ARKEMA publicly supplier approval and assessment processes as well as on the announced that it had joined the Together for Sustainability (TfS) practices and risks associated with the raw materials and goods initiative founded by six European chemical companies. and services purchasing functions. This global programme is intended to develop social responsibility throughout the entire chemical industry service chain. It is based, in particular, on the principles of the United Nations Global Compact and Responsible Care®; 2.5 PROMOTE THE INDIVIDUAL AND COLLECTIVE DEVELOPMENT OF ALL ITS EMPLOYEES ARKEMA conducts its operations through various industrial sites complements these actions by providing the necessary theoretical located essentially in Europe, America and Asia, as well as sales and practical knowledge to take up a post or to change career subsidiaries in some forty countries. path. Individual development internally relies on a policy of ARKEMA’s human resources policy is based on individual recognition and fair compensation. Benchmarking studies against development actions and on actions centred on collective working other companies are conducted at regular intervals. conditions. Actions based on collective working conditions are based on Individual development includes recruitment, training and career a continuous improvement rationale. They include all actions path. Its end-purpose is to consolidate everyone’s competences that improve working environment and prevention with the and know-how. Accordingly, a career management policy employees’ health in mind. They also endeavour to foster a good should help build career paths that consolidate the skills of the social climate, while reinforcing diversity of origin, proﬁle and employees and, consequently, of the Company. The training policy background of the Group’s employees and safeguarding the quality of corporate open dialogue in house. ARKEMA Communication On Progress 2014 41 2 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Promote the individual and collective development of all its employees 2.5.1 EMPLOYMENT The figures given in the following paragraphs concern the In September 2013, an agreement was signed with trade unions ARKEMA headcount. CFDT, CFE-CGC and CGT on jobs and skills management Every company records personnel employed under an planning (GPEC) and on intergenerational management in the employment contract. Trainees/interns and temporary workers Group’s companies in France. This agreement lays down in are not included in the headcount. Personnel numbers are particular new targets in terms of recruitment of young people recorded regardless of their working hours on the basis of the (under the age of 30) and “seniors” (50 years old and over), as “one-for-one rule”. well as the volume of people on work-study programmes within overall staff numbers (see paragraph 2.5.1.2 of this reference Further details on the data collection and computation methods document). used and on the constraints they might present are given in section 2.6 of this reference document. 2.5.1.1 TOTAL HEADCOUNT AND EMPLOYEE BREAKDOWN BY GENDER, AGE, AND REGION Changes between 2012 and 2014 The evolution of headcount over the last three years and its geographical breakdown are as follows: Total headcount by geographical region 31/12/2014 31/12/2013 31/12/2012 France 6,716 6,665 6,722 Rest of Europe 1,839 1,916 1,954 North America 2,609 2,566 2,574 Asia 2,874 2,402 2,332 Rest of the world 242 359 343 ARKEMA TOTAL 14,280 13,908 13,925 Of which permanent (1) 13,832 13,434 13,349 incl. ﬁxed term contracts 448 474 576 (1) See methodology note for section 2.6 of this reference document. Total worldwide headcount increased by 372 people between 2013 and 2014, particularly due to the acquisition of Taixing Sunke Chemicals Co., Ltd. in China. Breakdown by category and sex As of 31 December 2014, managers accounted for 25.1% of Group employees, compared to 26.3% in 2013. Women accounted for 23.7% of Group employees for the same year, compared to 23.3% in 2013. Geographical region Managerial Non Managerial Male Female France 1,439 5,277 5,090 1,626 Rest of Europe 476 1,363 1,456 383 North America 1,111 1,498 2,053 556 Asia 484 2,390 2,109 765 Rest of the world 76 166 192 50 ARKEMA TOTAL 3,586 10,694 10,900 3,380 Of which permanent (1) 3,531 10,301 10,645 3,187 incl. ﬁxed term contracts 55 393 255 193 (1) See methodology note for section 2.6 of this reference document. 42 ARKEMA Communication On Progress 2014 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Promote the individual and collective development of all its employees Breakdown by age range, category and sex Managerial Non Managerial Total Age range Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total Under 25 years 28 12 40 523 218 741 551 230 781 From 25 to 29 129 81 210 892 333 1,225 1,021 414 1,435 From 30 to 34 250 120 370 909 294 1,203 1,159 414 1,573 From 35 to 39 299 159 458 1,073 292 1,365 1,372 451 1,823 2 From 40 to 44 391 172 563 1,273 348 1,621 1,664 520 2,184 From 45 to 49 440 155 595 1,180 312 1,492 1,620 467 2,087 From 50 to 54 479 139 618 1,206 292 1,498 1,685 431 2,116 From 55 to 59 393 84 477 933 236 1,169 1,326 320 1,646 60 to 64 years 192 28 220 250 100 350 442 128 570 65 years and above 34 1 35 26 4 30 60 5 65 TOTAL 2,635 951 3,586 8,265 2,429 10,694 10,900 3,380 14,280 2.5.1.2 CHANGES IN THE NUMBER OF Relations with the world of education EMPLOYEES: RECRUITING AND DEPARTURES FROM THE GROUP Mindful of optimising recruitment, the Group fosters special relations with the best educational and training structures for all The recruitment policy is designed to secure the highest level of its activities. skills for the Group in order to underpin its development. In France, ARKEMA takes part in many school events, such as In keeping with its founding values (simplicity, solidarity, recruitment forums, presentations, and site visits. These initiatives performance and accountability), ARKEMA attaches a great deal are intended to promote and discuss ARKEMA and its business of importance to cultural openness in applicants, their ability to lines with the students of generalist engineering schools (Mines work in teams and bring solutions, and their entrepreneurial skills. de Paris, Centrale Paris, Polytechnique), chemistry schools (ESPCI, ARKEMA has drawn up a recruitment charter to help promote Chimie Paris, ENSIC, ENSIACET, etc.), post-secondary business the principles of fairness and non-discrimination in the selection schools, notably ESSEC and ESCP-Europe, and with technical of job applicants. schools in the ﬁelds of safety and maintenance. This led to Arkema France’s decision in 2014 to sponsor the students of the Ecole To facilitate the job application process and standardise Polytechnique for three years. The ofﬁcial sponsorship programme recruitment procedures, ARKEMA uses a dedicated tool on launch took place on 23 October, with a speech by the Chairman its website (www.arkema.com). Used by every Group entity and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer of ARKEMA and with former students worldwide, this tool under the Careers heading of the Group’s of the school now working for the Group in attendance. The website helped receive a large number of job applications in sponsorship will be implemented for three years through various 2011, 2012 and 2013. Interfaced with the AGEFIPH website activities intended to increase the Company’s visibility among (French association for management of funds for disabled people students. Sponsorship of ENSIACET students was also launched in work), it compiles applications in response to vacancies in the in 2014 in the same spirit. Arkema France has also maintained Group that fulﬁl the Group’s diversity and equal opportunities its commitment to the University of Aix Marseilles by participating commitments. in the steering committee for the industrial site inspector licence. In 2013, ARKEMA decided to update its “employer brand” by It initiated the programme a few years ago jointly with several devising a global campaign to attract the best talents. The project other companies. was taken up by the human resources function of every country To further strengthen its relations with schools and give them in which the Group operates, and led to a positioning that puts greater visibility, in October 2013 ARKEMA launched the forward ARKEMA’s project to the applicants being sought. “Campus” programme that pairs second-year students (Campus As regards recruitment, the agreement on jobs and skills students) from the above target schools with Group employees management planning (GPEC) and on intergenerational (Campus managers) who graduated from those schools. The role management signed in September 2013 provides that across of the Campus Student is to inform the Campus Manager of the the Group’s companies in France young people under the age expectations of students and organise events with the Manager of 30 must represent every year 30% of permanent recruits and and the ARKEMA recruiting unit such as: Visits to industrial sites, that “seniors” (50 years old and over) must represent 10% of the round tables on careers with the Group and presentations on annual quota of permanent recruits. ARKEMA R&D. The ENSIC Campus Manager and Campus ARKEMA Communication On Progress 2014 43 2 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Promote the individual and collective development of all its employees Student organised a visit to the Carling plant for students of the In the United States, every year the Developing Engineer school. Program enables ARKEMA to take on four to six engineering The Arkema-Région Aquitaine boat took part in the “Route du undergraduates from the top American universities for concrete Rhum” sailing race providing an opportunity to strengthen existing training internships on its industrial sites over ﬁve years. bonds with the target schools by enabling Campus Managers and Every year, ARKEMA also offers many opportunities for training, Campus Students and people responsible for company relations apprenticeship contracts, graduation projects, and international in these schools to attend the start of the race in November 2014. volunteer internships (volontaire international en entreprise, VIE). ARKEMA is one of the industrial partners of the “Sino-French Graduation internships, international volunteer internships and Programme in Chemical Sciences & Engineering” of the graduation projects are managed at corporate level to ensure Fédération Gay Lussac and East China University of Science and closer monitoring of the Group’s recruitment pool. Technology in Shanghai (ECUST). These programs aim to train In 2012, Arkema France adopted a proactive policy regarding chemical engineers with a dual French and Chinese culture, and work-study trainees, for both managerial and non-managerial so help fulﬁl ARKEMA’s expectations in terms of its development positions. This policy was conﬁrmed in an agreement on jobs in Asia, in particular in China. In 2012, ARKEMA hosted students and skills management planning (GPEC) and on intergenerational from the ﬁrst ECUST/Gay Lussac graduating class twice, ﬁrstly at management in Group companies in France, signed in the Shanghai site in China, and later at the PierreBénite site in September 2013, which includes an undertaking to increase France. This partnership continued in 2013 with the preparation the number of work-study trainees so that it exceeds the legal of a day-long meeting on the Pierre-Bénite site, on 18 February threshold of 5% of the workforce by 2015. 2014. As at 31 December 2014, the number of students in a workstudy programme at Arkema France accounted for 4.6% of its headcount, compared to 4.5% on 31 December 2013. Change in permanent employee recruiting between 2012 and 2014 The Group recruited 1,022 permanent employees in 2014, compared to 864 in 2013. These recruits concerned all of the Group’s worldwide activities. Permanent recruits by geographical region 2014 2013 2012 France 376 187 278 Rest of Europe 47 41 42 North America 293 279 254 Asia 277 303 265 Rest of the world 29 54 44 ARKEMA TOTAL 1,022 864 883 The number of hires increased in France in 2014. On the other hand, 2013 was noticeable for its limited hiring. Geographical breakdown of permanent recruits by category and sex In 2014, 27.6% of new hires were management, compared to 32.5% in 2013. Women accounted for 25% of total new hires, compared to 20% in 2013 and 30.9% of management hires, versus 24.2% in 2013. By geographical area in 2014 Managerial Non Managerial Male Female France 88 288 272 104 Rest of Europe 16 31 35 12 North America 117 176 224 69 Asia 55 222 213 64 Rest of the world 6 23 23 6 ARKEMA TOTAL 282 740 767 255 44 ARKEMA Communication On Progress 2014 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Promote the individual and collective development of all its employees Breakdown of permanent recruits by age, category and gender in 2014 Managerial Non Managerial Total Age range Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total Under 25 years 11 8 19 119 36 155 130 44 174 From 25 to 29 25 23 48 158 44 202 183 67 250 From 30 to 34 33 23 56 109 30 139 142 53 195 From 35 to 39 30 10 40 59 25 84 89 35 124 2 From 40 to 44 21 8 29 49 15 64 70 23 93 From 45 to 49 30 6 36 41 9 50 71 15 86 From 50 to 54 24 4 28 25 6 31 49 10 59 From 55 to 59 17 4 21 12 2 14 29 6 35 60 to 64 years 3 1 4 0 1 1 3 2 5 65 years and above 1 0 1 0 0 0 1 0 1 TOTAL 195 87 282 572 168 740 767 255 1,022 In 2014, the share of permanent new recruits under 30 was 41.5% (compared to 39.5% in 2013) and the share of seniors (50 and over) was 9.8% (compared to 8.2% in 2013). Disposals In 2014, ARKEMA recorded 1,905 staff departures, compared to 1,352 in 2013. Rest of North Rest of the Leavers by geographical region France Europe America Asia world Total All leavers 624 302 489 333 157 1,905 of which resignations 49 39 109 173 9 379 of which redundancies 64 93 74 10 11 252 Of which, left due to a divestment* 86 127 213 * Divestments of tin stabilisers in China and of coating resins in South Africa. 2.5.1.3 COMPENSATION AND CHANGES The compensation structure comprises a number of components: ﬁxed part, individual variable part, collective variable part which Overall compensation is a key element of the Group’s human are applied differently based on the posts and the countries. resources policy. It aims to valorise and reward fairly the It fulﬁls a number of objectives: contribution of every employee to the Group’s success. Implemented by the management, it represents a key tool in • compensate individual and collective performance; allowing recognition of the performance and commitment of • develop a sense of responsibility in each employee and involve employees in areas that are essential to the Group’s development all employees in the achievement of goals; such as growth, innovation, safety, industrial reliability, and • ensure competitiveness in the market place; competitiveness. • provide fair compensation and ensure consistency internally; To strengthen the link between contribution and compensation, and all executive posts are rated in accordance with the Hay method. This initiative is being gradually rolled out to all non-executive • manage costs. posts, in particular in France. In the majority of the Group’s companies, 18% of employees receive some form of individual variable compensation the amount of which depends on personal performance and the contribution to the collective performance of a BU, a country or the Group. ARKEMA Communication On Progress 2014 45 2 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Promote the individual and collective development of all its employees Collective variable compensation associates 65% of all employees They led to the signature of amendments on 17 April 2014 by with the Group’s growth and to its economical and ﬁnancial the CFDT and CFC-CGC union organisations, which state that performance. In France, proﬁt-sharing and incentive agreements the sums paid will be matched by the employer up to a maximum are part of this framework. annual amount of 1,000 euros (instead of 800 euros before) for Over and above ﬁxed and variable compensation elements, the PEG and 400 euros (instead of 250 euros previously) for Group employees also benefit from deferred compensation the PERCO. elements in the form of employee shareholding, employee savings The investment structures available are the Arkema Actionnariat schemes, and, for some of them, performance shares. France company mutual fund (Fonds Commun de Placement Nearly all of the Group’s employees (99%) benefit from d’Entreprise – FCPE) (PEG) entirely invested in the Company’s guarantees in respect of minimum compensation. shares, a range of multi-company FCPE funds offering the choice of investment in different asset classes (equities, bonds, money market), and structured funds offering capital guarantees. Incentives and proﬁt sharing In addition to the proﬁt-sharing scheme required by law in France, Performance shares the Group’s French companies have set up an incentive scheme giving all employees a share of proﬁts and incentives to meet These measures, set up in 2006, complement the deferred certain performance objectives, so as to promote the Group’s compensation packages described previously. growth. These schemes are speciﬁc to each subsidiary, but based Performance share award schemes are compensation and on the same principles. The proﬁt-sharing consists of two items: A retention tools for the beneﬁt of employees with responsibilities bonus on results based on economic results and a performance whose exercise influences the Group’s results, as well as bonus defined by each facility and taking into account the employees whose performance, or participation in a project, achievement of goals speciﬁc to each one of them. has been outstanding. In application of these principles, Arkema France renegotiated Each year, 800 people, or about 6% of the global workforce, the proﬁt-sharing agreement via a collective agreement signed on receive performance share rights. 17 April 2014 with CFDT and CFE-CGC union organisations. It Following a vesting period of four years, for the performance is in place for three years and covers the 2014, 2015 and 2016 share plan decided in 2014, the beneﬁciaries are granted the ﬁnancial years. The total amount of proﬁt-sharing available is Arkema shares deﬁnitely, subject to a presence condition and maximum 5.7% of the wage bill. performance conditions. In accordance with the provisions of social security amending Further information on these compensation tools may be found ﬁnance law n° 2011-894 of 28 July 2011 for 2011, management in section 3.5 and paragraph 5.2.6, as well as in note 28 of the and trade unions met at Group level in order to negotiate the notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements as at 31 December terms of the proﬁt-sharing bonus for employees. Given that the 2014, in paragraph 4.3.3 of this reference document. parties were not able to reach an agreement, a proﬁt-sharing bonus of 75 euros was implemented unilaterally for all employees of the Group in France. 2.5.1.4 RETIREMENT AND WELFARE BENEFITS Employee shareholding In most countries in which the Group is present, employees beneﬁt Since its spin-off in 2006, ARKEMA has been conducting a from a mandatory public scheme covering risks related to death, dynamic employee share ownership policy, and every other disability, work incapacity, pension, and health costs. year offered its employees in twenty or so countries, representing Additionally to these legal requirements, the various entities of the some 95% of its personnel, the opportunity to subscribe for the Group, both in France and abroad, are responsible for putting Company’s shares under preferential terms. in place and keeping up to date social security and employee Further details may be found in paragraph 5.2.7 of this reference beneﬁt provisions within the constraints of the agreed annual document. budgets, and in keeping with their needs and local practices. Therefore, over 95% of Group employees receive complementary death and disability cover. Employee savings schemes As regards death cover, the aim is to put in place a guarantee A Group Savings Plan (Plan d’Épargne Groupe – PEG) and a representing at least 18 months’ salary. Nearly 80% of the global Collective Pension Savings Plan (Plan d’Épargne pour la Retraite headcount has this level of cover. Collective – PERCO) allow employees of Group companies in France to make voluntary contributions and invest their proﬁtAs regards retirement pension, the Group’s policy is to favour sharing and incentive income. deﬁned contribution schemes rather than deﬁned beneﬁt schemes, and to limit very long term liabilities. Accordingly, the entities Negotiations got under way at the beginning of 2014 to review the procedures for matching the sums paid into these systems. 46 ARKEMA Communication On Progress 2014 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Promote the individual and collective development of all its employees concerned have gradually closed their deﬁned beneﬁt schemes to More recently, deﬁned beneﬁt schemes in the United Kingdom new entrants, replacing them with deﬁned contribution schemes. have been closed to the acquisition of new rights with effect This is the case in the United States, the United Kingdom and on 1 August 2013. Employees beneﬁting from these plans also Germany where deﬁned beneﬁt schemes have been closed to beneﬁt from existing deﬁned contribution schemes. employees hired between 2002 and 2006 and where deﬁned For more information, please refer to note 19.3 of the notes to contribution schemes have been put in place since. the consolidated ﬁnancial statements as at 31 December 2014 in paragraph 4.3.3 of this reference document. 2 2.5.2 TRAINING AND INDIVIDUAL DEVELOPMENT 2.5.2.1 POLICIES IMPLEMENTED FOR • help employees build their careers. The purpose is to enable TRAINING AND INDIVIDUAL them to increase their skills and implement their projects, based DEVELOPMENT on the potential and opportunities available in the Group. Professional training concerns every employee, whatever their Employee career management is provided by career managers profession, level of responsibility or age. It is designed to develop organised as follows: or acquire the necessary skills to hold a position, facilitate moves to a new post, and fulﬁl the Company’s expectations in terms • career management piloted at the Corporate level for management in France and for Level 15 and higher of technical expertise or management practice. Accordingly, internationally; ARKEMA afﬁrms its commitment to providing every employee with access to training throughout their career. • they network with the career managers in each country and at each site for the OETAM (employees, technicians, supervisory Within the Group, 95.6% of companies carry out Annual management). Performance Reviews (APR). The meetings provide an opportunity for discussions between employees and managers to set objectives There is a single career management policy within the Group, for the coming year and to review the employee’s career path and i.e. it is based on the same principles, whatever the employee’s the training completed during the year. The joint analysis provides status (managerial or non-managerial), country, age or sex. These a starting point to decide on training for the year to round out the principles are as follows: employee’s know-how and expertise. • provide each employee with the resources needed to manage In 2014, the number of training hours (excluding e-learning) their career and provide assistance necessary at each step; recorded in companies at least 50% held by the Group and • implement a proactive internal promotion policy; with more than 30 employees, the case for 93.9% of ARKEMA’s workforce, was 457,578 hours, that is, 34 hours of training per • identify and develop the potential to promote accountability employee per year (compared to 307,206 hours, or 23 hours per and career development; employee in 2013). The number of permanent employees taking • promote functional and geographical mobility; and at least one training course during the year (excluding e-learning) was 11,534, that is, 86% of ARKEMA staff (compared to 10,082 • enable each person to advance in the Company and enrich their experience and skills while ensuring organisational in 2013, or 75% of the ARKEMA workforce). ﬂexibility. In addition, 4,442 people took e-learning courses, that is, 33% The Annual Performance Review (APR) described in of the staff (3,585 people in 2013, or 26% of the workforce). paragraph 2.5.2.1 of this reference document provides management with an opportunity to consider the advancement 2.5.2.2 CAREER MANAGEMENT wishes of employees. In addition to the APR, meetings with career Career management is one of the cornerstones in the development managers provide an opportunity to review the employee’s career of human resources at ARKEMA, as it helps diversify the path, their expectations and the Group business lines towards experience of employees, as part of their career path, and so which they could progress. ensure that they improve their skills on a regular basis, which is In addition to the objectives to recruit young people and seniors essential to the Group’s development. (see paragraph 2.5.1.2 of this reference document), the GPEC The mission of career management is therefore twofold: (jobs and skills management planning) and intergenerational agreement signed in September 2013 for Group companies • ensure that the Company has the expertise that it needs to meet in France includes the recognition of experts through skills/ its development needs today and in the medium-term; and business line grids which complement the Hay classiﬁcation. The agreement also covers speciﬁc measures such as knowledge transfer, the retirement advice centre, and 80% part-time work paid at 85% during the 24 months preceding retirement also in place to facilitate the end of seniors’ careers. ARKEMA Communication On Progress 2014 47 2 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Promote the individual and collective development of all its employees 2.5.2.3 INTERNATIONAL EXPERIENCE to knowledge of the Group and induction into the Group, taking up a managerial post, and raising management knowledge and The Group conducts its activities essentially in Europe, North skills, the prevention of stress at work, and the development of America and Asia. The Company has implemented an new professional skills in changing environments. international mobility policy. Its goals are to guarantee that the level of expertise required in all locations is met and to enhance In terms of safety, ARKEMA is currently developing an international the skills of employees by posting them in different environments. training programme: Arkema Safety Academy. The programme is intended for all Group employees. Its objective is to help share This policy consists of four programmes suited to the different safety issues and challenges, policy and tools at Group level. In international mobility objectives. 2014, programme development focused on: Expertise • a “Facteur Humain et Organisationnel de la Sécurité” (human and organisational factors of safety) module for a management Applicable to Group employees who develop strategic projects audience: This programme specifically focuses on the for the Group in a foreign country that does not have the required components of safety culture and enables the management of skills locally and which actively participates in skills transfers to a site to work on the vision and implementation of the safety local employees. culture. The module involved 80% of the executive committees of Arkema France industrial sites and research centres in 2014, Development and the programme will gradually be rolled out throughout Applicable to Group employees who develop their careers for a Europe in 2015. It will then be rolled out to the United States speciﬁc period of time (on average three years) by taking on a job and Asia in 2016; in their area of expertise in another country where there is similar • a “safety culture” module intended for all Group employees, local expertise in order to round out their knowledge, then return which was completed in 2014: The goal of the programme to the original country with their newly acquired experience. is to share a single vision of the Group’s safety challenges, policy and tools with all Group employees. Its deployment International began in 2014 with the Executive Committee, the Business Applicable to ARKEMA employees whose career is exclusively Unit Managers, the Functional Managers and the managers international with no further reference to the country of origin. on the major continents. The roll out includes the identiﬁcation and training of 300 internal facilitators/relays. In early 2015, 192 facilitators/relays were identiﬁed and trained and 1,678 Expatriation in Europe employees studied the module. All ARKEMA employees will Applicable to French employees of the Group who develop have completed this module by the end of 2015. strategic projects or develop their careers in another European ARKEMA is also designing e-learning modules for international country. deployment covering our major safety risks and the stakes involved in sustainable development. Several new developments 2.5.2.4 SPECIAL CAREER TRAINING were initiated in this area in 2014: PROGRAMMES FOR EMPLOYEES • the wearing of Individual Protection Equipment; ARKEMA’s training policy aims to boost its employees’ skills • the behaviour observation approach; in safety, health, the Group’s professions and activities, and management. • the Code of Conduct and Business Ethics; To fulﬁl this ambition, new Group-wide programs are constantly • the CSR policy; being developed or updated, and various initiatives are • the energy policy. implemented. These programs and actions relate in particular 48 ARKEMA Communication On Progress 2014 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Promote the individual and collective development of all its employees 2.5.3 ORGANISATION OF THE WORKING WEEK 2.5.3.1 ORGANISATION OF WORKING Bearing in mind the speciﬁc features of the Group’s industrial HOURS activities, the organisation of the working week involves, for some In every country, the Group implements working hours that comply employee groups, continuous, discontinuous or semi-continuous with legal and professional requirements in this regard. work regimes. Employees work full time, and to a lesser extent part time. As an In the event of additional workload or particular problems, the example, within Arkema France, working time amounts to 1,575 Group can, based on local current legislation and on the local hours per year for a full-time employee, while the number of working hours for part-time employees ranges from 50 to 80% of job market, resort to ﬁxed-term employment contracts, overtime, subcontracted work, or temporary staff agencies. 2 the full-time quota. In the United States, working time amounts to 1,960 hours per year for a full-time employee, while the number 2.5.3.2 ABSENTEEISM of working hours for part-time employees ranges from 50 to 90% The number of hours lost to absenteeism in the Group in 2014 of the full-time quota. For the Group overall, part-time employees (excluding authorised holidays) was 3.5% of hours worked, accounted for 3.7% of the total workforce on 31 December 2014, compared to 3.4% in 2013. Medical absences accounted for compared to 3.3% in 2013. 70.7% of the total number of absence hours, compared to 73.5% in 2013. 2.5.4 DIALOGUE WITH SOCIAL PARTNERS ARKEMA is committed to developing listening to and consultation • from an organisational standpoint: Significant changes with its employees, either directly in the form of internal surveys concerning Group organisation, changes in its activities, or via personnel representatives. In countries where the law does the creation or termination of activities affecting at least two not provide for personnel representation, speciﬁc bodies can be European Union countries. set up locally. An exchange and dialogue structure has been The 2014 plenary session was held on 1 October at ARKEMA’s implemented at the European level with the European Group head ofﬁce. Committee. The European Group Committee’s liaison ofﬁce, consisting of eleven members appointed among employee representatives 2.5.4.1 ORGANISATION OF DIALOGUE within this committee, meets with management for updates on WITH SOCIAL PARTNERS the Company’s progress. A liaison ofﬁce meeting was held on As part of its labour relations policy, the Group is developing 19 March 2014. an ongoing dialogue with employee representatives, across all In the United States, employees of union sites are covered by Group entities, in accordance with cultural speciﬁcs and local collective agreements negotiated with local and central trade laws and regulations. unions. With an average three-year term, these agreements cover The Group Human Resources policy note is accessible on the in particular compensation, the safety of people and processes, intranet. It explains the principles for implementing dialogue with and the quality of life at work. social partners, which is in full compliance with the provisions of In the People’s Republic of China, the first “Employee the Code of Conduct and Business Ethics. Representatives Congress” (ERC) of Arkema China Investment, The social dialogue body at the European level is the European ARKEMA’s main structure in China, was elected on 20 December Group Committee, which consists of 23 members. It holds a 2007 and put in place in January 2008. This body comprises at one-day plenary meeting once a year to discuss issues within its present 34 members who elected among them the four members remit, in particular: of the “Presidium”. The prerogatives of ERC are many, ranging from pay negotiations to safety and to training. This body • from an economic standpoint: Changes in the markets, the complements the “Labour Unions” already in place at ARKEMA’s commercial situation, the activity level, the main strategic industrial facilities in China. sectors, development prospects and goals; • from a ﬁnance standpoint: Review of the Group’s consolidated Employee relations in relation to the Group’s development ﬁnancial statements, annual report and investments; The Group’s action is consistent with a structured permanent • from a social standpoint: The Group’s social policy and the consultation approach with the personnel representative bodies, status and changes in employment; in order to accommodate changes in the Group. • from an environmental standpoint: The Group’s policy and changes in European regulations; and, ARKEMA Communication On Progress 2014 49 2 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Promote the individual and collective development of all its employees In particular, the various reorganisation projects decided and A consultation process with the employee representatives of implemented within the Group involve in-depth discussions the Stallingborough facility (United Kingdom) was initiated with the personnel representative bodies as part of information on 28 April 2014 regarding the plan to shut down the site’s and consultation procedures, both centrally and locally. Much Coating Resins workshop, leading to the elimination of 58 jobs. attention is paid to the treatment of the social consequences of The negotiation phase was completed on 20 June 2014 with these changes. The social support measures implemented during a consensus on the conditions for employee departures which restructuring are focused on enabling internal and external included, in particular, a voluntary system, an individual training redeployment of employees whose position has been eliminated budget and redeployment assistance services. under the best possible conditions and in line with national As at 31 December 2014, 94% of the employees affected by regulatory provisions. the elimination of their job had found a redeployment solution or The Chauny (France) site shutdown in 2014 resulted in the were able to take early retirement. elimination of 71 jobs. An Employment Preservation Plan with a On 9 September 2014, ARKEMA presented a plan to close its number of different measures was implemented to ensure internal site in Zaramillo (Spain) to the plant’s representative bodies. The redeployment (functional and/or geographical) and external plan was initiated as part of a project to improve the proﬁtability mobility (search for an external position, company takeover or of ﬂuorinated gases and would result in the elimination of 59 jobs. creation). The material and ﬁnancial resources implemented were In addition, the transfer of Arkema Quimica, SA central services intended to enable each employee affected by job loss to ﬁnd a to the Arkema Coating Resins site at Sant Celoni was announced solution suited to their personal situation. An employment mobility and would result in the Madrid ofﬁces being closed. unit assisted by a specialised redeployment agency selected with management and the trade unions was implemented to assist Negotiations were led with the local works council for several employees seeking new positions. months to review the plan’s economic data and the assistance measures to be implemented. As at 31 December 2014, solutions had been found for 97% of the employees in question, of which more than 50% were redeployed within the Group in France. 2.5.4.2 OVERVIEW OF WORKFORCE REPRESENTATION IN 2014 Percentage of Group employees, by geographical area, beneﬁting from personnel representation and/or trade union representation 2014 France 100% Rest of Europe 98.07% North America 98.22% Asia 73.39% Rest of the world 49.73% ARKEMA TOTAL 94.19% 2.5.4.3 COLLECTIVE AGREEMENTS and other company beneﬁts), job and skills management, quality SIGNED IN 2014 of life at work, safety and health at work and dialogue with Since ARKEMA’s creation, the contractual policy developed within social partners. the Group has been implemented via the signature of several The main agreements signed in France in 2014 were the agreements. following: In France, some agreements are signed at the Group level and • Arkema France: are, therefore, applicable to all Group companies in France. • agreement on Arkema France proﬁt-sharing for the 2014, They are completed by company and establishment agreements 2015 and 2016 ﬁnancial years, signed on 17 April 2014, negotiated within the entities. • agreement on the renewal of the Plan on the Dispensation Outside France, collective bargaining within Arkema and its from Work for Shift Workers signed on 22 April 2014, afﬁliates is carried out based on the national practices applicable to staff representation, and relations with management and trade • agreement on measures taken for the employment and unions. integration of disabled people, renewal agreement signed on 2 July 2014, The main topics for negotiation relate to overall compensation (salaries, provident schemes, health coverage, employee savings 50 ARKEMA Communication On Progress 2014 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Promote the individual and collective development of all its employees • agreement on the allocation of seats in the Central Workers • MLPC International: Council signed on 4 September 2014, agreement on representative elections on 29 January 2014, • • agreement on the Central Workers Council signed on proﬁt-sharing agreement on 13 June 2014, • 8 September 2014, • agreement on gradual work dispensation for shift workers • framework agreement on the principles for implementing on 1 July 2014. teleworking signed on 26 November 2014, Outside France, the employee relations policy within the Group • agreement on compulsory annual collective bargaining and its afﬁliates is carried out based on local practices applicable signed on 15 December 2014; to staff representation and employee/management relations: • Coatex: packaging sector agreement on 1 March 2014, • in Germany: the agreements reached with the Central Works Council and the Works Councils of the various Arkema GmbH 2 • manufacturing agreement on 24 June 2014, sites covered, in particular, compensation, safety, health at • work, and work time; • agreement on representative elections on 17 November 2014; • in Italy: Arkema Srl signed a total of twelve collective agreements in 2014, in particular, on compensation, working conditions • CECA: and training. CECA Srl signed an agreement regarding the • agreement on CECA proﬁt-sharing for the 2014, 2015 and move of employees from Pioltello (CECA site) to Rho (Arkema 2016 ﬁnancial years signed on 21 May 2014, site); • agreement on compensation for number of days worked • in Korea: Arkema Korea signed two agreements on signed on 31 October 2014, compensation and employee working conditions; • agreement on the renewal of the Plan on the Dispensation • in the Netherlands: ARKEMA BV and ARKEMA Rotterdam BV from Work for Shift Workers signed on 25 July 2014; both signed company agreements on personnel representation and pension schemes; • Altuglas International: • in the United States: ARKEMA Inc. signed two agreements. They • proﬁt-sharing agreement on 2 April 2014, covered compensation, working hours and working conditions, • agreement on compulsory annual collective bargaining retirement and disabilities. signed on 19 December 2014; 2.5.5 HEALTH AT WORK 2.5.5.1 HEALTH AT WORK CONDITIONS: • the development of internal expertise and qualiﬁcations in the AGREEMENTS AND ACTIONS ﬁeld of ergonomics. In this respect, training ergonomics/work In matters of protecting health at work, ARKEMA has undertaken analysis actions were deployed throughout all sites in France continuous progress actions for the prevention of harsh working to increase employee expertise in this area. Benchmarks were conditions, stress, and risks at the workstation. established for each site; • efforts to raise awareness of sleep issues for shift operators; Agreements and actions initiated to prevent harsh working • actions to improve working conditions; and conditions • preliminary work in the design phase of new plants. In January 2012 Arkema France concluded an agreement on the prevention of harsh working conditions. This agreement marks Additionally, other agreements and action plans on the prevention ARKEMA’s resolve to engage in an initiative for the continuous of harsh working conditions signed by the French subsidiaries and measured improvement of working environments. It is valid Sunclear (16 December 2011), Altuglas International (16 January for three years from 1 February 2012. 2012), Coatex (31 January 2012) and CECA (22 June 2012) embody in practice this desire to roll out the initiative across all The key points of the agreement are as follows: Group companies in France. • the setting of internal harsh working conditions thresholds; • a diagnosis of harsh working situations across all ARKEMA France sites; • the implementation of concrete measures to adapt workstations and develop skills and qualiﬁcations; ARKEMA Communication On Progress 2014 51 2 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Promote the individual and collective development of all its employees Following the signature of these agreements, many actions were rolled out to the central observatory for the prevention of stress taken both locally and cross-company. In 2014, they included: at work, two local observatories (head ofﬁce and Cetia) and to site managers at Cetia. In all, 600 people were trained; • studies in the field related to shift work. ARKEMA shift organisation guidelines were established to create an action • in addition, communication initiatives continue on a regular plan. An awareness-raising module for operators and plant basis. An awareness-raising week on the use of Information supervisors was designed and is currently being deployed; and Communication Technologies (ITC) was also held in 2014. It covered the following topics in particular: The use of email, • the technical department has been involved in work to integrate ergonomics upstream of facilities design. This work has led the impact of social networks on the organisation and on to the design of a library of work situations. The work will management methods, changes in work due to ITC; continue in 2015 and will result in the deﬁnition of guidelines • a new mapping of Omsad (Observatoire français médical du for working conditions that will be taken into account when stress, de l’anxiété et de la dépression) results will be carried building new facilities (workshops, plants and R&D centres). out in early 2015; • creation of a work group at head ofﬁce to study the synergies • the risk areas identiﬁed were analysed locally to highlight the between the Accident Prevention through Observation (PAO) stress risk factors present. Once they were identiﬁed, ad hoc and Prevention of harsh working conditions approaches; action plans were deployed locally. • a shared assessment with management and trade unions on the concrete actions taken in the ﬁeld with respect to workstation Actions for health protection at the work station set up, the development of maintenance aids and adjustments In order to consolidate its health actions at the workstation level, to work organisation and working conditions; ARKEMA is developing a health-safety risk assessment tool for • awareness-raising about people who travel extensively and workstations called the STARMAP project. It is the successor to their health via the creation of a module and information the Franco-American MRT (Management of Risks and Tasks) tool. brochure. It will promote risk prevention worldwide through the sharing of data and best practices. Agreements and actions initiated for stress prevention Agreements on early employee retirement from sites with Arkema France launched a voluntary individual and medical asbestos prevention initiative for stress at work in 2008. It is based on a diagnosis of employee stress levels established at a medical In France, ﬁve operating sites belonging to the Group were check-up (OMSAD). In 2009, ARKEMA also launched a voluntary included by ministerial decree on a list of sites qualifying for early group prevention initiative for stress at work designed to take retirement provisions for asbestos workers available to people action on the work environment when it is identiﬁed as an “at-risk still in employment. The Group cannot exclude the possibility that area” based on relevant indicators such as an overly elevated other sites may be added to this list in future. rate of “excess-stress”. Accordingly, on 30 June 2003 Arkema France concluded This collective stress prevention approach was included in an with all trade unions an agreement aimed at improving the agreement with Arkema France signed by four out of ﬁve unions retirement terms of its employees as part of these measures, in May 2010. Through the agreement, Arkema reafﬁrmed its goal and at accommodating the retirement date for those employees of providing all of its employees with a working environment that concerned in order to facilitate the transfer of skills and knowpromotes well-being at work. how within the Group. These measures were extended to all Group companies in France by a Group agreement concluded on This agreement covers collective preventive actions (such 1 September 2007 with all trade unions. For more information, as training, communication and support to people) and the please refer to note 20 of the notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial introduction of a procedure for identifying risk areas, analysing statements as at 31 December 2014 in paragraph 4.3.3 of this them with a view to identifying stress factors, and putting in place reference document. corrective actions. The following have been implemented over the past four years: 2.5.5.2 MEDICAL CARE • a large number of training courses were organised on the Medical check-ups were available in 95.5% of the Group’s prevention of stress at work, intended for occupational health companies in 2014, representing 83% of the Group’s employees. services, managers, human resources managers, and HSE managers. Training on preventing burnout was provided to managers and site directors in 2014. The training was then 52 ARKEMA Communication On Progress 2014 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Promote the individual and collective development of all its employees 2.5.5.3 OCCUPATIONAL ILLNESSES to minimise exposure risks, and personal protective measures adapted to each task, the Group requires the implementation In manufacturing its products, ARKEMA uses and has in the of assessments of exposure risks at the workstation, and ensures past used toxic or hazardous substances. Despite the safety and the use of regular metrology for residual exposure to hazardous monitoring procedures that have been instituted at Group level chemical products for its employees. The aim of these measures is and for each production site, Group employees may have been to prevent future risks of occupational pathologies where possible. exposed to such substances and may develop speciﬁc pathologies Metrological data are kept in conditions that will guarantee their as a result of such exposure. long-term integrity. In this respect, like most industrial companies, in the past, the In 2014, 33 occupational illnesses were reported at the Group Group has used a variety of insulating or heat-prooﬁng materials level, of which 23 were related to exposure to asbestos and none containing asbestos in its production facilities. Consequently, certain employees may have been exposed to such materials to exposure to chemical products. 2 before these were gradually phased out and replaced with In France, the Group is also developing a policy of traceability substitute products by the Group. of potential exposure to factors of harsh working conditions identiﬁed on its sites, including chemical risks, as part of its single Claims for occupational illness related to past asbestos exposure risk assessment document, in accordance with French regulations. have been ﬁled against the Group, mostly for periods before The Group has been working since 2012 at the computerisation 1980. Risks related to occupational illness are described in of these data, while including the requirements of the 2010 and paragraph 1.7.2 of this reference document. 2014 legal texts on harsh working conditions. The STARMAP As regards industrial hygiene, in addition to the introduction tool (see paragraph 2.5.5.1) will manage internal traceability of enclosed industrial processes limiting emissions as much as and track harsh working conditions perfectly consistent with the possible, collective protective measures such as source capture Group’s international dimension. of residual emissions, general improvement work designed 2.5.6 DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES, EQUAL TREATMENT Equal opportunities represent, with the prevention of discrimination 2.5.6.1 MEASURES TAKEN TO PROMOTE in general, a strong vector of ARKEMA’s human resources policy. GENDER EQUALITY The Group therefore takes steps in particular to ensure gender The Group has developed over recent years a policy of gender equality, promote the inclusion of disabled employees, and equality and equal pay. observe the principle of non discrimination as regards age and nationality. The actions identiﬁed concern the following four areas: The various measures put in place to ensure equal opportunities • strengthening the principle of non-discrimination in access to and obtain measurable results include: employment; • a programme of periodical review of job descriptions to • ensuring that the principle of equal pay is implemented; ensure that they accurately reflect the related duties and • promoting and facilitating career development; and responsibilities, as well as an annual review of the posts, their titles and the proﬁles required, department by department, • promoting parenting within the Company. in order to safeguard equality and consistency within the An agreement on equality at work was signed for Arkema France. professions; and Through the roll-out of this agreement, the agreements mentioned previously are also followed up through an analysis of the main • a recruitment policy based on the single criterion of relevance indicators. A recruitment charter restating our commitment to non of the proﬁle with the position. In the United States for example, discrimination was also drawn up and distributed. Arkema Inc. provides training to the people involved in the recruitment process, provides them with the descriptions of the Arkema France also signed in April 2013 a Corporate Parenting posts and the proﬁles required, and remedies any situation Charter, thereby implementing its commitment to the issue of showing a lack of employment of minorities or women within gender equality within the Group. the company’s sites. A guide will in fact be drafted for managers to provide them with the necessary information on interviews to be conducted as part of gender equality in the workplace. ARKEMA Communication On Progress 2014 53 2 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Promote the individual and collective development of all its employees ARKEMA ensures that female employees enjoy the same career The commitment of local Coordinators, with support from the development opportunities as their male counterparts. At Arkema CSP (Centre de Services Partagés) Recruiting and Mission France, of nine promotions to management positions in 2014, Handicap, helped to achieve all of the commitments made in the two, that is, 22% (compared to 33.3% in 2013), involved ﬁrst agreement in terms of hiring and meet or exceed many of women. On 31 December 2014, women accounted for 22.1% the objectives of the second one. of the permanent, non-management salaried workforce (21.8% The overall employment rate, which was to be maintained at in 2013) and 24.07% of all employees (compared to 25.2% 3.13% for the ﬁrst agreement, reached 4.18%, for a goal of in 2013). 4.10%, by the end of the second agreement. In the United States, Arkema Inc. created an Afﬁrmative Action • 19 permanent contract hires were completed over the 2011Plan supporting gender and pay equality between all employees 2013 period. The objective was 18; and job applicants, given similar qualiﬁcations and regardless of race, ethnicity, country of origin, religion or sex. The Afﬁrmative • 18 work-study contracts were signed out of a planned 20. The Action Plan is updated annually for the period of 1 June through goal of 20 couldn’t be reached because it wasn’t possible to to 31 May. ﬁnd candidates that were medically apt to meet the training requirements of the sites, notably, with respect to manufacturing Group-wide, in 2014, women held 17% of level 15 management operator training; positions and higher, according to the Hay classification, compared to 19% in 2013. However, this change is not signiﬁcant • 42 interns were hosted out of a projected 40 to 45; over a year, as the time needed to acquire the skills required for • 7.18 full-time equivalent ﬁxed-term contracts (FTE) and 15.63 this type of position can take several years of focused experience. FTE temporary workers were employed out of a planned 20 FTE for 2011-2013. 2.5.6.2 MEASURES TAKEN TO PROMOTE In addition, 74 actions to maintain employment, train and provide THE EMPLOYMENT AND career development were completed. Eight facility accessibility INCLUSION OF PERSONS WITH projects were also initiated independently of the agreement DISABILITIES budget. Management and the trade unions at Arkema France signed Development of relations with the protected sector also continued: an initial company agreement on 9 June 2008 in support of While the goal was to invoice €283,125 by the end of the maintaining disabled people in employment or helping them agreement, that is, growth of 12% in the number of labour hours ﬁnd employment covering 2008-2009-2010. The agreement invoiced compared to the average recorded for the 2008-2010 was renewed unanimously on 16 June 2011 by the unions period, €365,163 were spent in 2013. and approved on 8 July 2011 by DIRECCTE Hauts-de-Seine (Direction régionale des entreprises, de la concurrence, de la A new agreement for the 2014-2016 period consommation, du travail et de l’emploi). The agreement renewal was for 2011 through 2013. An overall assessment of the agreement ending on 31 December 2013 was presented to management and the unions on 17 April Assessment of the two ﬁrst agreements (2008 to 2013) 2014. Executive management, management and the unions agreed to continue the policy and a new agreement was signed The first agreement resulted in the implementation of an with unanimous support on 2 July 2014. The agreement was operational organisation in February 2009, with the creation approved by DIRECCTE Hauts-de-Seine on 16 October 2014. of Mission Handicap within the DRHCI (Department of Human Resources and Internal Communication) and trained local The new agreement covers 2014, 2015 and 2016. It conﬁrms Coordinators and/or Disability Ofﬁcers at each Arkema France the commitments made by the Company to: site. This accelerated implementation of the process. • maintain disabled people in employment and guarantee them A significant amount of work was done to build a network access to training and career development; of specialised partners involved in training and recruiting, • conduct an open recruitment and integration policy; workstation ergonomics and subcontracting. The work led to the creation and regular updating of a directory distributed to • host young people in training; the local Coordinators and to the DABS (Goods and Services Purchasing Department). 54 ARKEMA Communication On Progress 2014 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Promote the individual and collective development of all its employees • develop partnerships with the protected sector; and partnership with the INTERFORA training organisation and other industry companies ended in 2014. Nine people with a disability • raise awareness within the Company. on a work-study programme took the course via a professional It includes new hiring objectives: training contract, including three at Pierre-Bénite and Jarrie. All • achieve an overall employment rate of 4.45%; received their CQP (professional qualiﬁcation certiﬁcate). A new class began in April 2014 following a period of Préparation • hire at least 16 people under permanent contracts; Opérationnelle à l’Emploi (preparation for employment). Of the • train at least 16 people in a work-study programme; original eight people on work-study, seven are now continuing their apprenticeship. Three are at Arkema France sites (one at • bring in 14 people on full-time equivalent permanent contracts Pierre-Bénite and two at Jarrie). As a result of the experience 2 or temporary assignments; gained in the ﬁrst session, the tutors and INTERFORA education • sign 40 trainee agreements; team were provided with a special training day in preparation • increase the total labour cost of subcontractor contracts by for the new class. They also received support throughout their 5% excluding taxes, compared to the average amount over training from a company specialised in dealing with disabilities. 2011-2013. The entire programme is ﬁnanced via a three-way agreement between INTERFORA, ARKEMA and Solvay, which wanted to The new agreement achieved the following by the end of 2014: become involved. • 5 disabled persons were hired under permanent contracts since 1 January 2014; 2.5.6.3 ANTI-DISCRIMINATION POLICY • 6 ﬁxed-term contracts were signed; The action plan to employ seniors, which took effect on 1 January • 10 temporary work assignments were completed; 2010 for a period of three years, ended on 31 December 2012. It resulted in the recruitment of 697 employees under permanent • 13 work-study contracts were signed, including 12 professional training contracts and one apprenticeship contract; contracts, 54 of which were over 50, i.e. 7.74%. In 2013, the issue of senior employment was included in the jobs • 5 interns were hosted. and skills planning and intergenerational management agreement In addition, a number of different actions to maintain employment, with the Group’s companies. The agreement was signed on train and provide career development were completed in 2014. 12 September 2013 by the CFDT and CFE-CGC unions (see These include the continuation or start-up of ergonomics studies paragraph 2.5.2.2 of this reference document). (Lannemezan, Carling), corresponding changes to workstations and funding assistance for personal equipment: Hearing People 50 and older are considered to be seniors for the purposes prostheses (Saint-Auban, head ofﬁce) and occupational training of this agreement. ARKEMA committed to the following actions actions for employee redeployment (GRL). 2014 marked the end in the agreement: of a programme to provide an employee with psychological • a hiring objective: 10% of permanent contract recruiting must assistance after their return to work after a long absence (head be of people 50 and older; ofﬁce). It began two years ago and led to the redeployment of the • keeping people employed; employee in a position suited to the constraints of their disability. • end-of-career assistance; Continuing the deployment of a network of disability ofﬁcers at the facilities, the Jarrie site held a training session for 12 disability • retirement planning; ofﬁcers and Pierre-Bénite trained two additional disability ofﬁcers. • knowledge sharing. Nearly 50 disability ofﬁcers have been trained to date. In 2014, there were 376 permanent contract hires in the Group in France, 42 of which were people 50 or older, i.e. 11% of all The implementation of suitable training programmes recruiting (compared to 13.5% in 2013). Employability through specialised training is one of the leading Taking into account legislative changes in France covering commitments of the ARKEMA policy to promote persons with retirement and keeping seniors employed resulted in a disabilities. Both executive management and management and modiﬁcation to corresponding employee-related liabilities as the unions support this fully: the first qualifying “Opérateur described in note 19 of the notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial de Fabrication des Industries Chimiques” (chemical industry statements as at 31 December 2014 in paragraph 4.3.3 of this production operator) training session, designed in 2012 in reference document. ARKEMA Communication On Progress 2014 55 2 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Promote the individual and collective development of all its employees 2.5.7 PROMOTION AND COMPLIANCE WITH THE PROVISIONS OF THE CORE CONVENTIONS OF THE WORLD LABOUR ORGANISATION Generally speaking, ARKEMA scrupulously complies with the Among the fundamental principles and rights at work, the right constitutional texts, treaties, conventions, laws and regulations to freedom of association and to collective bargaining is a factor in force in the countries or territories in which the Group conducts of social progress which ARKEMA encourages to put in place its business. wherever the Group operates. Accordingly, ARKEMA conﬁrms its adherence to: Accordingly, over and above compliance with legal and regulatory provisions in the countries in which it conducts its • the principles of the Universal Declaration and of the European Convention on Human Rights; business, ARKEMA facilitates and promotes the creation of employee representation in order to put in place a suitable • the fundamental conventions of the International Labour collective bargaining process. Organisation; and The organisation of dialogue with social partners and a review • the guiding principles of the OECD for multinational companies. of the collective agreements within the Group are given in Through its ofﬁcial participation in the United Nations Global paragraph 2.5.4 of this reference document. Compact, ARKEMA supports the ten principles, particularly those related to respect for human rights and international labour 2.5.7.2 ELIMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT standards. AND CAREER DISCRIMINATION To confirm this adherence, ARKEMA has put in place an As part of its policy of non-discrimination and promotion of ARKEMA Code of Conduct and Business Ethics which sets out gender equality and diversity, ARKEMA is committed to promoting the requirements imposed on the Group wherever it operates, the banning of discrimination of all kind. vis-à-vis its shareholders, customers, employees and any other stakeholders. It also lays down the individual behaviour principles ARKEMA is committed to promoting diversity, which is an asset and rules which employees are required to observe within the for its global business, and to recruiting employees solely based Group. on its needs and their qualiﬁcations, as deﬁned in its Code of Conduct and Business Ethics. As indicated in paragraph 2.4.3 of this reference document, ARKEMA has implemented a number of different actions to raise The policy of diversity, equal opportunities and equal treatment the awareness of, and train, its employees to ensure that they of employees within the Group is covered in paragraph 2.5.6 comply with the rules and principles of the Code and, notably, that of this reference document. they respect the right to freedom of association and expression, and human rights, that they oppose all forms of forced labour 2.5.7.3 ELIMINATION OF FORCED and child labour and that they reject all forms of discrimination. OR COMPULSORY LABOUR, ABOLITION OF CHILD LABOUR 2.5.7.1 RESPECT FOR FREEDOM OF ARKEMA fully supports the elimination of forced labour and ASSOCIATION AND THE RIGHT TO opposes any type of labour which involves forcing people to COLLECTIVE BARGAINING work against their will or in violation of their personal freedom, ARKEMA is committed to respecting the fundamental freedoms of as deﬁned in the Code of Conduct and Business Ethics. its employees, such as the freedom of association and expression, ARKEMA commits to never using child labour under any of protecting the personal data of its employees and of respecting circumstances, regardless of the country ARKEMA is operating their privacy, as deﬁned in the Code of Conduct and Business in, as deﬁned in its Code of Conduct and Business Ethics. Ethics. 56 ARKEMA Communication On Progress 2014 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Methodology note 2.6 METHODOLOGY NOTE 2.6.1 METHODOLOGY NOTE ON ENVIRONMENTAL AND SAFETY INDICATORS 2.6.1.1 ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING TOOLS AND SCOPE The consolidation scope for EPFI reporting covers Group sites for which operations (and emissions) permits were in the name of 2 ARKEMA or a majority-held subsidiary on 31 December 2014 Extensive data and which are among the sites making the greatest contribution to the Group. All emissions or consumptions at these sites account The Group’s extensive quantitative environmental data are for at least 80% of the Group’s in year Y-1. compiled by its environmental reporting system, REED (Reporting of Environmental and Energy Data), accessible globally via the The activities sold or terminated in 2014 are not included in the web platform of a service provider. EFPI 2014 reporting, but are still in the EFPI reports of previous years. The values of extensive indicators, once published after veriﬁcation by the Independent Third-party Body, are not amended in the Businesses acquired during 2014 will be included in the EFPI REED system. Any subsequent retroactive modiﬁcation due to a 2017 reporting for the entire 2017 year as compared with the change in the estimation method or to a correction is the subject 2016 performance. of a commentary in the text of section 2.2 of this reference The Hengshui site (China) of Hebei Casda Biomaterials Co. Ltd. document. and the Zhangjiagang site (China) of Suzhou Hipro Polymers The data are input by the HSE (Health Safety Environment) Co. Ltd. acquired in 2012 will only be included in the EFPI departments of the Group’s sites, and validated on two levels – reporting from the 2015 EFPI onwards as compared with the geographical then Group. 2014 performance. The consolidation scope for environmental reporting covers Activities started up in the course of 2013 will be included in the all Group sites for which operations (and emissions) permits 2015 EFPI reporting as compared with the 2014 performance. were in the name of ARKEMA or a majority-held subsidiary on The American sites which began reporting their emissions to water 31 December 2014. expressed as chemical oxygen demand (COD) in 2013 will only The activities sold or terminated in 2014 are not included in the be included in the EFPI COD reporting from 2014 or 2015 as 2014 reporting, but are still in the reports of previous years. compared with the previous year’s performance as soon as their emissions estimates are deemed reliable. The entire 2014 production of businesses acquired during 2014 is included in the 2014 report. The EFPI calculation methodology allows the inclusion of new reporting sites within ARKEMA’s previous performance. Should Activities started in 2014 are reported from their start-up date. the inclusion of a large number of new sites result in a signiﬁcant change to the conﬁdence interval in this calculation of ARKEMA’s Intensive data (EFPI) EFPI, consideration will be given to whether an adjustment factor In order to oversee its environmental performance more should be applied or whether the use of a new baseline year is accurately and provide a Group consolidated data report that proving necessary. better describes the evolution of this performance, ARKEMA has adopted a methodology allowing its plants to report intensive 2.6.1.2 SAFETY REPORTING TOOLS AND indicators, called EFPIs (Environmental Footprint Performance SCOPE Indicators). This methodology for computing intensities of emissions or consumptions of resources relative to production Quantitative data concerning safety: volumes, compared with a baseline year, as used by the Group, • are recorded in the Safety Log application accessible on the minimises the impact of any changes to its business base and the Group’s intranet; productions from its plants, as well as any changes to the method used to estimate or calculate environmental footprint variables. • are entered by the sites and validated by the head ofﬁce; The Group’s intensive quantitative environmental data are compiled by the same REED environmental reporting system, accessible globally via the web platform of a service provider. EFPI data are input by the HSE (Health Safety Environment) departments of the Group’s sites, and validated on two levels – industrial director then Group. They are subject to a large number of consistency tests. ARKEMA Communication On Progress 2014 57 2 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Methodology note • cover all industrial sites operated by ARKEMA or by its majorityEmissions from American sites are therefore obtained by adding held subsidiaries, head ofﬁces and research and development to the national reported data products such as ﬂuorinated organic centres; and compounds. • did not include vinyl-producing sites sold in 2012 in the 2012 data. Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) COD emissions reported are those emitted into the 2.6.1.3 CHOICE OF INDICATORS, natural environment. MEASUREMENT METHODS AND In cases where water from a Group facility is treated in an USER INFORMATION external treatment plant, the reported data takes account of the The Group has deﬁned these indicators in order to monitor various effectiveness of treatment by the external treatment plant. emissions and consumptions that are relevant to its activities In cases where a Group site takes in external COD-laden water, and in accordance with French law on Nouvelles Régulations ARKEMA’s reported data concerns the COD load effectively Économiques (NRE) and its decree of 20 February 2002. introduced by ARKEMA (outgoing minus incoming). These indicators were set out at the Group’s creation, and have been followed up since the 2006 reporting year. Waste They also comply with the regulatory requirements of article 225-I Segregation of hazardous waste and non-hazardous waste may of the French “Grenelle II” law no 2010-788 published on 12 July vary from one geographical region to another. The deﬁnitions 2010 and its implementing decree dated 24 April 2012. used by the Group are those of the Basel Convention on the Environmental reporting is covered by an “Environmental control of transboundary movements of hazardous waste and Reporting” directive, an “EFPI Reporting” directive, and an their disposal. “Energy Reporting” directive, issued by the Group Safety By-products that are recycled without processing at an ARKEMA Environment (DSEG), Sustainable Development (DDD), and site by being sold to third parties are not included in the Energy Purchasing (DAMPE) divisions, and accessible to all computation of waste. personnel on the ARKEMA intranet. The computation and estimation methods used may evolve, Water consumption for example because of changes to national or international All sources of water are included in the reported data, namely regulations, for the sake of consistency between geographical groundwater/well, river, sea, public or private networks, drinking regions, or in the event of problems in their application. water, excluding rainwater collected in separate networks. The directives may then be adapted into guides which are accompanied by training sessions per geographical region, Energy consumption where required. Reported consumption corresponds to net purchasing of energy. Safety reporting is the subject of a “Monthly Safety Reporting” Autoproduction corresponding to the energy produced by directive issued by DSEG and accessible to all personnel via the exothermic chemical reactions which do not amount to withdrawal ARKEMA intranet. from the planet’s energy resource is not included. Sales of energy are deducted from purchases of energy. This is 2.6.1.4 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ABOUT for example the case with the sites ﬁtted with steam and electricity ENVIRONMENTAL AND SAFETY cogeneration from purchased gas (reported) which sell electricity INDICATORS back (deducted). The following information is provided by way of clariﬁcation of In cases where sites do not have any December data due to the deﬁnition of the indicators applied by the Group. late reporting by energy providers, the values for the year are extrapolated from the data at end November. Total substances contributing to acidiﬁcation This indicator is calculated using SOx and NOx emissions Direct greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) converted into equivalent tonnes of SO2. Direct declared emissions of GHG gases covered in the Kyoto Protocol Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs) Their impact is calculated in equivalent tonnes of CO2. The list of products regarded as VOCs may vary from country to country, and in particular between Europe and North America. In this reporting, 2012 emissions have been computed using the Global Warming Potential values published in 2007 by the IPCC The VOC deﬁnitions used by the Group are those recommended (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change). in Europe by directive 2010/75/EU on industrial emissions (IED). For intensive data, the GHGs of ﬂuorogases not listed in the Kyoto Protocol but listed in the Montreal Protocol are included in the EFPI computation. 58 ARKEMA Communication On Progress 2014 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Methodology note Indirect greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) This data, consisting of tonnes transported, number of shipments, weight transported per shipment and average mileage for each In this report, indirect scope 2 CO2 emissions were calculated type of transport, were then converted to tonnes of CO2 emitted using the electricity and steam consumption and emissions during the transports using coefﬁcients per mode of transport coefﬁcient in tonnes per KWh or tonnes of steam provided by the deﬁned in the “Guidelines for Measuring and Managing CO2 suppliers of ARKEMA sites, or using the amounts provided by local Emissions from Freight Transport Operations” published by authorities such as the EPA-2012 database in the United States, the European Chemical Transport Association (ECTA) and the the 2013 Baseline Emission Factors for Regional Power Grids European Chemical Industry Council (CEFIC) in March 2011 from the China NDRC (National Development & Reform Council) and prepared based on the work of Professor Alan McKinnon for China, SERMANAT data (Mexico’s Federal Environmental of Heriot-Watt University in Edinburgh in the United Kingdom. Agency) for Mexico and data from ADEME (Agence française de l’environnement et de la maîtrise de l’énergie), which publishes 2 information for several countries. Accidents In this report, indirect emissions of scope 3 CO2 were estimated Total recordable injury rates (TRIR) and lost-time injury rates (LTIR) using internal Group company logistics data, accounting for are computed for all of the Group’s own personnel as well as for 99% of Group shipments. It should be noted that the kilometres subcontracted personnel working on ARKEMA sites on the basis travelled for transport per customer are only available for 54% of standard USA 29 CFR 1904. of scope 3 emissions. Average mileage per zone was used in the other instances. 2.6.2 METHODOLOGY NOTE ON SOCIAL AND SOCIETAL INFORMATION/INDICATORS 2.6.2.1 SCOPE AND REPORTING TOOLS 2.6.2.2 CHOICE OF INDICATORS, DETERMINATION METHODS AND The Group’s quantitative social data are from several different USER INFORMATION reporting processes. The Group has deﬁned relevant indicators relative to its activities Data concerning headcount: and its social policy. • are recorded in the AREA 1 application accessible on the Indicators concerning the personnel and the safety records were Group’s intranet; put in place at the time of the Group’s creation, and have been • are entered by the Human Resources directors (DRH) or the followed up since the 2006 reporting year. managers of Group companies (depending on their size); Additional social, as well as societal, information and indicators • are validated at the Arkema, Altuglas International, CECA, are the subject of new reporting for 2012 via the AREA 2 Coatex and Sartomer group levels; and compilation system. Their use was gradually extended in 2013, in particular with the monitoring of training hours recorded. • cover all companies in which the Group has a holding of 50% or more. This information and these indicators also comply with the The quantitative and qualitative data concerning the other social regulatory requirements of article 225-I of French law “Grenelle and societal information: II” n° 2010-788 published on 12 July 2010 and its implementing decree of 24 April 2012. • are recorded in the AREA 2 application accessible on the Group’s intranet; Social reporting is covered by different procedure documents in the form of AREA 1 and AREA 2 guides, which were distributed • are entered by the human resources employees of regional to all of the report contributors and validators. companies and subsidiaries; The computation methods may have limitations and may evolve, • are validated by the regional DRHs or subsidiary managers; for example because of national social regulations or practices and that vary from one region to another, difﬁculties in reporting back • cover all companies in which the Group has a 50% holding certain information in some areas, or the availability of certain or more and which have over 30 employees, which accounts information based on the countries. for 93.9% of the Group’s total headcount. ARKEMA Communication On Progress 2014 59 2 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Methodology note 2.6.2.3 DETAILS ON SOCIAL INFORMATION Compensation AND INDICATORS Collective variable components are those variable components that depend on global economic criteria as well as the economic Headcount and ﬁnancial results of the company which the employee reports Reported headcount includes employees on the Group’s payroll to. In France, these are incentive bonus and profit-sharing (employees present and employees whose employment contract payments. – of whatever nature – has been suspended) at 31 December of the year being reported. Social security Permanent employees are those beneﬁting from an employment Social security cover refers to beneﬁts from a collective or mutual contract for an indefinite period of time. Outside France, insurance scheme providing coverage for incapacity/disability/ employees engaged on fixed-term contracts exceeding 12 death risks. months and renewed more than once are also included among permanent employees. Training The training hours counted do not include e-learning. Categories of personnel Data are presented by professional category. In France, Absenteeism employees have the executive status (cadre) as deﬁned in the collective agreements governing the companies concerned. The absenteeism rate corresponds to the total number of hours of Outside France, employees have the executive status (cadre) absence in the year (sickness, accident, maternity, strike, unpaid if their Hay post level is 10 or above. leave, excluding paid leave) relative to the total number of manhours in the year. Recruitment These data cover the recruitment of employees on permanent contracts (permanent headcount) only. 60 ARKEMA Communication On Progress 2014 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Indicators 2.7 INDICATORS 2014 2013 2012 SAFETY Total recordable injury rate (TRIR) (1) 1.9 2.8 3.4 Lost-time injury rate (LTIR) (1) 1.1 1.6 1.9 2 Quota of AIMS-audited sites (2) % 78 62 37 Quota of sites implementing peer observation % 77 62 47 Safety, environment and maintenance capital expenditures €M 211 195 189 Quota of OHSAS 18001-certiﬁed sites % 60 54 34 Quota of OHSAS 18001-certiﬁed sites in Europe % 62 Quota of OHSAS 18001-certiﬁed sites in the Americas % 63 Quota of OHSAS 18001-certiﬁed in Asia % 50 ENVIRONMENT Quota of ISO 14001-audited sites (3) % 70 59 55 Quota of ISO 14001-audited sites (3) in Europe % 68 Quota of ISO 14001-audited sites (3) in the Americas % 84 Quota of ISO 14001-audited sites (3) in Asia % 50 Emissions to air Substances contributing to acidiﬁcation t eq SO2 4,750 5,330 5,760 Carbon monoxide t 3,030 8,850 9,220 Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC) (4) t 4,600 4,460 4,420 Dust t 430 400 460 Emissions to water Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) t of O2 3,870 3,800 3,430 Suspended solids t 3,030 2,950 2,840 Waste Hazardous waste excluding material recovery kt 149 160 160 including landﬁll disposal kt 2.1 2.7 2.4 Hazardous waste recycled into materials % 16 15 Hazardous waste utilised for energy recovery % 46 49 Non-hazardous waste kt 219 210 157 Resources Water withdrawn Mm3 120 130 130 Net purchases of energy TWh 8.36 8.50 8.50 • In Europe TWh 4.65 • In the Americas TWh 2.78 • In the rest of the world TWh 0.93 Net purchases of energy by type • Fuel TWh 4.52 • Electricity TWh 2.44 • Steam TWh 1.40 ARKEMA Communication On Progress 2014 61 2 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Indicators 2014 2013 2012 Share of net fuel purchases from gas % 90 Share of net energy purchases from low-carbon emissions electricity % 17 Direct greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) (5) kt eq CO2 3,430 4,710 5,120 • Of which, CO2 kt eq CO2 1,380 1,470 1,460 • Of which, HFC kt eq CO2 2,010 3,200 3,610 Direct greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) (5) by region • In Europe kt eq CO2 1,050 • In the Americas kt eq CO2 2,040 • In the rest of the world kt eq CO2 340 Indirect greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) scope 2 CO2 kt 1,067 1,053 • In Europe kt 284 • In the Americas kt 545 • In the rest of the world kt 239 Indirect greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) scope 3 CO2 at more or less 20% Mt 0.2 Quota of the volume of products bulk shipped as a share of maritime shipments from Europe % 26 Quota of rail and intermodal shipments as a share of land shipments in Europe % 44 Average bulk shipment load rate per truck in Europe t 23 Quota of truck shipments done by bulk in Europe % 76 Quota of air shipments % 0.07 Number of energy diagnostics in progress or completed 20 • In Europe 14 • In North America 5 • In Asia 1 Number of Arkenergy investments 47 • In Europe 31 • In North America 12 • In Asia 4 Number of ISO 50001-certiﬁed sites 5 Numbers of sites where ISO 50001 certiﬁcation is in progress 10 Adaptation to the consequences of climate change Number of sites exposed to a severe risk of storms and/or ﬂooding 18 Share of sales from products obtained in full or in part from renewable raw materials % 13 SOCIAL Headcount Total headcount on 31 December (6) 14,280 13,908 13,925 • including permanent employees 13,832 13,434 13,349 • including ﬁxed-term employees 448 474 576 62 ARKEMA Communication On Progress 2014 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Indicators 2014 2013 2012 % managerial positions % 25.1 26.3 24.9 % female employees % 23.7 23.3 23.4 % of women in management positions (7) % 17 19 18 Recruiting (8) 1,022 864 883 % of female recruits % 25.0 20.0 23.2 % of 50 years old and over recruits % 9.8 8.2 8.9 % of below 30 years old recruits % 41.5 39.5 42.8 2 Departures (9) 1,905 1,352 4,092 • Of which, resignations 379 362 405 • Of which, redundancies 252 224 191 • Of which, left due to a sale/merger 213 0 2,679 Part-time employees % 3.7 3.3 3.3 Training Number of training hours (10) thousands 458 307 Training hours per employee 34 23 Number of permanent employees receiving training (11) 11,534 10,082 Number of employees who beneﬁted from e-learning 4,442 3,585 Number of safety training hours thousands 150 Number of safety training hours per employee 17 Number of employees receiving safety training (excluding e-learning) 8,776 Number of employees taking safety-related e-learning courses 4,263 Number of environment-related training hours 15,837 Number of environment-related training hours per employee 7.6 Number of employees receiving environment-related training (excluding e-learning) 2,070 Share of work-study students (12) % 4.6 4.5 3.1 Share of Group companies conducting Annual Performance Reviews % 95.6 Health and welfare Absenteeism (13) % 3.5 3.4 3.8 Hours off work on medical grounds % 70.7 73.5 69.4 Quota of employees beneﬁting from medical follow-up % 83 84 84 Quota of employees beneﬁting from work incapacity supplementary cover % 95 95 89 Quota of employees beneﬁting from additional life cover % 95 95 81 Quota of employees beneﬁting from death beneﬁt coverage (14) % 80 80 73 Compensation Quota of employees beneﬁting from minimum compensation guarantees % 99 98 98 Quota of employees beneﬁting from collective variable compensation elements % 65 60 Quota of employees beneﬁting from individual variable compensation elements % 18 15 Representation Quota of employees beneﬁting from personnel and/or trade union representation (15) % 94.2 94.9 94 ARKEMA Communication On Progress 2014 63 2 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Indicators 2014 2013 2012 SOCIETAL Number of “Common Ground”® initiatives (16) 985 644 280 Share of Group sites taking part in Common Ground ® % 90 81 Share of European sites taking part in the Common Ground® programme % 85 Share of American sites taking part in the Common Ground® programme % 93 Share of Asian sites taking part in the Common Ground programme ® % 94 Subcontractors and suppliers Suppliers receiving the ARKEMA Supplier Code of Conduct 16,200 • Of which goods and services suppliers % 83 • Of which logistics providers % 6 • Of which raw materials providers % 11 Responsible product stewardship Number of substances with REACH registration 274 Number of voluntary GPS sheets published on ﬁnished products 145 INNOVATION Number of patent applications ﬁled for solutions to sustainable development challenges 81 79 (1) Number of accidents per million hours worked. (2) AIMS audit (Arkema Integrated Management System) which combines ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 requirements. (3) Or RCMS (Responsible Care® Management System) in the United States. (4) 2012 data revised as indicated in paragraph 2.2.1.2 of this reference document. (5) GHG emissions concerning gases covered in the Kyoto Protocol. (6) Breakdown by region, age, category of position and gender, as detailed in paragraph 2.5.1.1 of this reference document. (7) Position level 15 or above according to the Hay classiﬁcation. (8) Breakdown by region, age, category of position and gender, as detailed in paragraph 2.5.1.2 of this reference document. (9) Breakdown by region, as detailed in section 2.5.1.2 of this reference document. (10) Recorded in companies held 50% or more by the Group and employing over 30 people, which accounts for 93.9% of the total headcount. (11) Excluding e-learning. (12) Share of work-study students compared to headcount (scope: Arkema France). (13) Total number of hours off work (excluding authorised leave of absence) relative to the total number of man-hours worked. (14) Guarantee representing at least 18 months’ salary. (15) Breakdown by region, as detailed in paragraph 2.5.4.2 of this reference document. (16) Initiative launched by ARKEMA as part of its relations with its manufacturing site stakeholders. 64 ARKEMA Communication On Progress 2014 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Fairness opinion of an independent third party pursuant 2.8 FAIRNESS OPINION OF AN INDEPENDENT THIRD PARTY PURSUANT TO ARTICLE L. 225-102-1 OF THE FRENCH COMMERCIAL CODE BUREAU VERITAS SA 67/71, boulevard du Château, 92571 Neuilly-sur-Seine 2 RCS Nanterre B 775 690 621 VERIFICATION REPORT ON THE SINCERITY OF THE INFORMATION RELATIVE TO THE TRANSPARENCY REQUIREMENTS ON THE DISCLOSURE BY COMPANIES OF ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL TOPICS The reviewed information is relative to year ended December 31, 2014. REQUEST, RESPONSIBILITIES AND INDEPENDENCE At the request of the Arkema group, and in accordance with the requirements of article L.225-102-1 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce), we performed, as independent third party, an independent veriﬁcation of the social, environmental and societal information contained within the 2014 Arkema reference document. The preparation and presentation of the qualitative and quantitative information for the publication required by the article R.225-105-1 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce) is the sole responsibility of Arkema group. The collection and management of this information has been coordinated by the Sustainable Development Direction of Arkema group in accordance with: • the reporting tools REED (environment) and Safetylog (health & safety) as well as the environmental and health & safety linked procedures; • the reporting tools AREA 1 and AREA 2 for the social information as well as the linked guidance. This is further named “the reporting methodology”, available at the corporate level, and a summary of which is included under the form of a methodological note in the reference document section 2.6, which will be available on Arkema group’s website. It’s our role, in accordance with the requirements of the article R.225-105-2 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce), to conduct the veriﬁcation pursuant to the issuing of this veriﬁcation report. The conclusions of this report include: • an attestation of completeness of the social, environmental and societal information required by the article R.225-105-1 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce); • a reasoned opinion on the sincerity of the published information as well as a limited assurance opinion of the quantitative information, and if any, a reasoned opinion on the explanation given in case of the omission of certain consolidated information. This opinion is independently stated, and without partiality. Our work has been conducted according to the professional practices. Bureau Veritas has implemented its Code of Ethics which is applied by its staff. NATURE AND SCOPE OF OUR WORK We conducted our works from the beginning of October to the signature of the present report, for a period of about 13 weeks, by a team of 7 veriﬁers. We conducted around 95 interviews during this mission. We veriﬁed that the social, environmental and societal information covers the consolidated perimeter as deﬁned in the articles L 233-1 and L 233-3 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce). The perimeter’s adjustments for the social and environmental information are clariﬁed in the methodological note of the reference document For the attestation of completeness of the information we undertook the following work: • taking note of the Group policy relative to sustainable development, according to its social and environmental impacts and its societal commitments; • comparison of the information presented in the reference document 2014 with the list as provided for in article R 225-105-1 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce); • veriﬁcation of the explanation given in case of omission of consolidated information. For the reasoned opinion on the sincerity of the information, we conducted our work in accordance with the French legal order, published on the 13th May 2013 determining the methodology according to which the independent third party conducts its mission, and with our methodology. ARKEMA Communication On Progress 2014 65 2 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Fairness opinion of an independent third party pursuant We conducted the following procedures in order to provide limited assurance that nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the produced information contains any material misstatements likely to call into question its sincerity, in all material aspects according to the “reporting methodology”: • review of the “reporting methodology” with regard to relevance, reliability, completeness, understandability of information; • identiﬁcation of the persons, within the Group, who are in charge of the collection, and if any, those who are responsible for the procedures of internal control and risk management; • veriﬁcation of the implementation of a process for the collection, treatment, compilation, internal control of the information to guarantee their completeness and consistency; • examination of the internal control and risks management procedures relative to the preparation of the information; • interviews with persons in charge of the social, environmental and societal reporting; • selection of consolidated information to be tested and deﬁnition of the nature and the scope of the tests, taking into consideration their (1) importance with regard to the social and environmental consequences related to the Group’s activities as well as to its societal commitments. • Regarding the quantitative information we recognized as to be the most important we have: • performed an analytical review of the information and check for a sample of information the calculations and the compilation of the information at the corporate level and the controlled entities; • selected a sample of sites based on their activities, their contribution to the consolidated information, their localization, the (2) results of the previous veriﬁcation exercises and a risks analysis. • Regarding each selected entity we performed the following work: • interviews to check that the “the reporting methodology” is correctly implemented; • performance of detailed tests, checking, based on sampling, the calculation applied and reconciling the information with supporting evidences. The entities selected accounted for an average of more than 20% of the consolidated information, recognized as the most important, for each topic environment and social. • Regarding the qualitative information, for the information we believe to be the most important we have conducted interviews, exanimated source documents and, if any, public information; • Regarding the explanations relative to the missing/omitted information, we assessed their relevance. COMMENTS ON THE “REPORTING METHODOLOGY” AND ON THE INFORMATION The procedures and process for the reporting of the Group lead us to make the following comment: Even though it is speciﬁed in the reference document, it is relevant to mention that some information doesn’t cover the whole consolidated perimeter (review of agreements on matters of occupational health, measures taken for the employment and integration of disabled people). ATTESTATION OF COMPLETENESS OF THE INFORMATION Based on our work, within the perimeter deﬁned by the Group, we attest to the completeness of all the required social, environmental and societal information. SINCERITY OPINION AND LIMITED ASSURANCE Based on our work, nothing has come to our attention to suggest that the social, environmental and societal information communicated by Arkema group in its 2014 reference document is not fairly presented in all material aspects in accordance with the reporting methodology. Puteaux, February 16 2015 Bureau Veritas Jacques Matillon Agency Director (1) Social information: total headcount breakdown by gender, age, status category, employees recruitments and departure, individual variable compensation elements, number of training hours, % of companies performing annual performance reviews, part of the workforce working part-time, absences for medical reasons, part of the workforce beneﬁting from personnel representation or/and trade union representation, Collective agreements signed in 2014; part of the workforce receiving routine medical care/monitoring, part of women in executive posts. Environmental: consumption of energy, GHGs emissions breakdown by par zones, VOC emissions, COD emissions to water (4 major indicators), as well as substances contributing to acidiﬁcation, dust emissions, water withdrawn, suspended solids, hazardous waste, non-hazardous waste, total CO2 emissions, HFC emissions, CO2 emissions of scope 2 breakdown by zones, estimation of products transport related CO2 emissions of scope 3, part of the various modes of transport that emit less greenhouse gas, loading ratio of road bulk shipment, part of sites ISO 14001 certiﬁed breakdown by par zones, number or environment training hours, number of performed energy assessments breakdown by zones, number of ISO 50001 certiﬁed sites; number Akenergy investments made by the group breakdown by zones, expected gains related to Akenergy investments, net purchase of energy breakdown by zones, net purchase of energy breakdown by category, part of gas within the purchase of energy, part of the purchase of energy coming from low-carbon electricity, number of patent applications related to innovative solutions, part of the Group turn-over obtained in whole or part from renewable raw materials. Health & safety information: TRIR, LTRIR ; part of the sites OHSAS 18001 certiﬁed breakdown by zones, number of health and safety training hours, number of employees who have beneﬁted from at least one health and safety e-learning training course. Societal information: number of “Common Ground®” initiatives and part of the companies taking an active part in these events, number of suppliers who received the Supplier’s Code of Conduct. (2) For social information the companies: CECA SA; Coatex SAS; Arkema Inc, those entities represent around 22% of the total headcount. For environmental and health & safety information, the following sites : Riom, Saint Bauzile, Carling, Lannemezan, Marseille, Jarrie et Balan EVA in France and Beaumont, Calvert City, Clear Lake in the USA, the contribution of those sites to each of the 4 major indicators represents: 63% of GHGs; 46% of energy consumption; 32% of VOC and 30% of COD. 66 ARKEMA Communication On Progress 2014 Investor Relations 420, rue d’Estienne d’Orves 92700 Colombes France www.arkema.com arkema société anonyme au capital de 728,226,950 € 445 074 685 rcs nanterre designed cover: Vincent Olivaud
