ASPIRE Tomorrow Begins Today Sustainability Report 2014 ASPIRE VISION A leading real estate Tomorrow Begins Today company, shaping the best for future generations. We aim to become a leading global company, respected for innovative solutions in our businesses MISSION Guided by our operating and for touching lives wherever we operate. principles and core values, In doing so, we create sustainable value for all we will create value for our stakeholders as we continually improve on all stakeholders through our operating efficiency and resource stewardship. innovative real estate solutions. OPERATING PRINCIPLES 1 Best value propositions to customers Contents 2 Tapping and developing best talents from our global workforce 01 About this Report EMPOWERING LIVES 02 Letter to Stakeholders 3 Cultivating a spirit of 74 Health and Safety 08 About Keppel Land innovation and enterprise 86 People Matter 10 Sustainability Report 4 Executing our projects well 11 Commitment to Stakeholders NURTURING COMMUNITIES 12 Managing Sustainability 98 Community and Society 5 Being financially disciplined to 18 Awards and Accolades earn best risk-adjusted returns 22 Aspire 106 GRI G4 Content Index for 6 Clarity of focus and operating – Tomorrow Begins Today ‘In Accordance’ – Comprehensive within our core competence 114 United Nations Global Compact SUSTAINING GROWTH 115 Independent Assurance Statement 7 Being prepared for the future 24 Financial Highlights 119 International Network 30 Corporate Governance 34 Risk Management 38 Environment 66 Innovation and Product Excellence About 01 this Report* Keppel Land reaffirms its commitment towards sustainability with the publication of its Sustainability Report 2014. GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE Keppel Land’s Sustainability Report 2014 is prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines at the Comprehensive level. In response to GRI G4’s emphasis on materiality, this Report focuses on aspects that have been identified as material to Keppel Land’s businesses and its key stakeholders, which are detailed in the section on Managing Sustainability. This Report has also successfully completed the GRI Materiality Disclosures Service which verifies that the General Standard Disclosures G4-17 to G4-27 were correctly located in both the GRI Content Index and in the text of this Report. REPORTING PERIOD AND SCOPE This is Keppel Land’s seventh Sustainability Report since 2008. It details the Company’s approach and initiatives taken in integrating sustainability into its policies, structure and daily operations. It provides an account of Keppel Land’s sustainability performance as well as its strategies and practices, while highlighting the economic, environmental, and social impact of the Company’s activities and developments across its properties in Singapore and overseas. The Report is based on Keppel Land’s fiscal year from 1 January to 31 December 2014, and covers the significant changes during the reporting period in terms of the Company’s size, structure, supply chain and other related aspects. Where possible, the Report provides up to five years of historical information so that there is sufficient basis for comparison. Keppel Land’s approach in aligning its sustainability strategy and business practices to the ISO 26000:2010 Guidance on Social Responsibility is also detailed in this Report. The Company continues to support the United Nations Global Compact and its 10 universal principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. The Report also includes the Company’s progress in these areas in 2014. This Report supplements Keppel Land’s Annual Report 2014, which can be found at its corporate website at www.keppelland.com. The Sustainability Report demonstrates Keppel Land’s commitment to keep its stakeholders, including employees, customers, investors, business partners, partner agencies and community members abreast of the Company’s efforts and developments in Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR). Limited copies of this Report have been printed to minimise the impact on the environment. The Report can be accessed and downloaded at Keppel Land’s corporate website. FEEDBACK Your feedback is valued INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE to help us improve on An independent CSR consulting company, Ere-S Pte Ltd, was appointed to our future reporting. provide external assurance on this Report. The content of this Report was Please send us your reviewed and the accuracy and reliability of all statements validated. The feedback and comments assurance standard includes the evaluation of the Company’s sustainability to csr@keppelland.com. behaviour and performance, based on the AA1000 Assurance Standard. All underlying systems and processes that support the Company’s sustainability framework were reviewed in adherence to the AA1000 AccountAbility * G4-17, G4-18, Principles of inclusivity, materiality and responsiveness. The independent G4-28, G4-29, G4-30, assurance statement provides a summary of the audit report findings. G4-31, G4-32, G4-33 About this Report 02 Letter to Stakeholders ANG WEE GEE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER In 2014, Keppel Land scaled new heights in our sustainability journey. We rank 4th in Corporate Knights’ Global 100 Most Sustainable Corporations in the World 2015, the first Asian company to make it into the top ten for the first time in the ranking’s history. We will continue to align ourselves to best practices and international benchmarks to achieve a sustainable future for generations to come. KEPPEL LAND LIMITED Sustainability Report 2014 03 Dear Stakeholders, I am pleased to present Keppel Land’s Sustainability Report for 2014. During the year, we scaled new heights in our sustainability journey. The Company ranks 4th in Corporate Knights’ Global 100 Most Sustainable Corporations in the World 2015, the first Asian company to make it into the top ten for the first time in the ranking’s history. This is a significant improvement of 13 positions from 17th in 2014. We retained our position as the highest in Asia and among real estate companies worldwide. Our inclusion in the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index for the fourth consecutive year ranks us among the top 10% of global companies based on long-term economic, environmental and social criteria. Keppel Land is also a component in the Dow Jones Sustainability Asia-Pacific Index and retains its position in the RobecoSAM Sustainability Yearbook for the fifth year. In addition, the Company continues to be a constituent of both the Morgan Stanley Capital International (MSCI) Global Sustainability and Socially Responsible Indices since 2012 and 2013 respectively, as well as the MSCI World Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Index. Regionally, Keppel Land was named the Most Admired ASEAN Enterprise under the corporate excellence category (large-size company) at the ASEAN Business Awards 2014. This is the third time the Company has been recognised for its contribution to the growth of the ASEAN economy, having won in the corporate social responsibility category in 2013 and 2010. It was also named one of the winners at the Asia Pacific Regional Network Leadership Awards in Green Building under the Business Leadership in Sustainability category by the World Green Building Council. In Singapore, Keppel Land was ranked 7th amongst the 100 largest listed companies in the ASEAN Corporate Governance Scorecard 2014 Singapore Rankings by the Singapore Institute of Directors and the National University of Singapore’s Business School’s Centre for Governance, Institutions and Organisations. ADVANCES IN SUSTAINABILITY In 2014, the world saw increased momentum in the sustainability arena as governments and businesses worldwide took significant steps towards implementing sustainable development policies and strategies. At the United Nations Climate Summit 2014, leaders from government, business, finance and civil societies took actions to crystallise a global vision for low-carbon economic growth and to advance climate action. The United States and China, the world’s biggest emitters of greenhouse gases, also announced plans to reduce emissions by 26-28% below 2005 levels by 2025, and to cap global warming pollution by 2030 respectively. In Singapore, the Sustainable Singapore Blueprint (SSB) 2015 was unveiled in November. Stretching the targets set in the first SSB in 2009, SSB 2015 will build on ongoing efforts to achieve the vision of “A Liveable and Endearing Home, A Vibrant and Sustainable City, An Active and Gracious Community”. This entails a multi-stakeholder approach involving the government, regulators, corporations and individuals as we build “eco-smart” towns, aim for a “car-lite” Singapore, and strive to become a leading green economy and a zero-waste nation. The Building and Construction Authority of Singapore (BCA) also launched Singapore’s third Green Building Masterplan in 2014. The first two masterplans have succeeded in greening over a quarter of Singapore’s built-up area, Letter to Stakeholders 04 Letter to Stakeholders 01 01 placing it well on track to achieve its 80% target by 2030. The third masterplan Keppel Land’s will build on these efforts to guide the country’s green building strategy residential project, for the next five to 10 years. The Glades, incorporates innovative and Among the key initiatives is a $52 million fund for the Green Buildings eco-friendly features Innovation Cluster, an integrated research, development and demonstration throughout the hub. Keppel Land is one of eight pioneer partners of the Cluster, which will development. develop, test, monitor and showcase new green building solutions specific to tropical climate. This five-year programme seeks to push the envelope and accelerate the adoption of energy-efficient technologies and solutions within the industry. At the corporate level, companies are increasingly propelled to include sustainability considerations in their decisions, implement responsible business practices and communicate their efforts to stakeholders. The Singapore Exchange will mandate sustainability reporting after a one-year lead time for companies to review the guidelines. Recognising the benefits in terms of stakeholder engagement, risk management and resource efficiency, Keppel Land has been at the forefront of ESG disclosure. In our current seventh Sustainability Report, we continue to adopt the latest Global Reporting Initiative G4 Guidelines at the Comprehensive level, focusing on key material issues that matter most to our businesses and stakeholders. KEPPEL LAND LIMITED Sustainability Report 2014 05 ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP Benchmarking our business practices against global standards, Keppel Land attained the ISO 9001 quality management certification for projects in Singapore. It also received re-certification for ISO 14001 environmental management system in Singapore, China, Vietnam and Indonesia as well as OHSAS 18001 occupational health and safety management system in Singapore in 2014. These attest to our commitment to quality delivery, as well as protection of the environment as well as the health and safety of the people involved in our development projects. An Integrated Management System which combines these standards into a single framework has also been implemented in Singapore and will be expanded overseas. Keppel Land has set the goals of achieving at least the BCA Green Mark GoldPLUS and Gold ratings, or their equivalent, for all our new projects in Singapore and overseas respectively. To-date, Keppel Land has a total of 47 BCA Green Mark Awards in its portfolio, of which six are of the highest Platinum rating. Total energy savings from these developments amount to 125 million kWh or $30 million per annum, in addition to water savings of 1.5 million m3 and carbon reduction of 65,000 tonnes. The Company’s strong commitment and continual improvement in environmental performance has garnered it the BCA Green Mark Champion Award 2014 as well as the BCA Built Environment Leadership Award (Gold Class) and the BCA Quality Excellence Award (Quality Champion, Gold) in 2015. It also earned recognition at the Sustainable Business Awards 2014 for energy management. INNOVATIVE CULTURE We believe in actively engaging our stakeholders including tenants, homebuyers, employees, business partners and the wider public in our sustainability journey. In doing so, we seek innovative solutions and collaborate with like-minded partners. This reflects the Company’s brand philosophy of ‘Thinking Unboxed’, and our unwavering approach to think and see things from a different angle. One such initiative is our collaboration with Royal Philips to replace all existing conventional office lamps with energy-efficient Light-Emitting Diode (LED) lamps on a zero capital expenditure scheme. Cost savings is estimated at up to 60% of current lighting expenditure. A first in Singapore, the scheme has been extended to tenants of Bugis Junction Towers and Keppel Towers. It will eventually be rolled out to all the buildings in the Keppel Land Group. Applying the ‘Thinking Unboxed’ philosophy when designing our properties, we have incorporated creative and thoughtful innovations in our developments. Keppel Land’s residential project, The Glades, features a zero-energy clubhouse as well as a Sliding Integrated Multi-function movable wall system which provides homebuyers the flexibility to configure room space based on their needs. Our newest residential project in Singapore, Highline Residences, features rooftop dining rooms with adjoining bedrooms for residents to host guests, while the LEED-Platinum Ocean Financial Centre is home to one of the world’s largest vertical gardens as conferred by the Guinness World Records. We continually foster an open, collaborative, innovative and entrepreneurial culture within the Company. The Innovation Culture Taskforce and the Product/Service Innovation Team focus on improving the Company’s innovative culture and developing new products and services respectively. A quarterly lecture series, K’onversations was launched in June 2014, featuring speakers from within the Company as well as industry experts who share their experiences on innovation and championing change. Our relentless efforts towards driving innovation and sustainability have gained us recognition regionally. Ocean Financial Centre won the Gold award for Best Innovative Green Building at the 8th MIPIM Asia Awards 2014. Keppel Land also bagged the Channel NewsAsia Innovation Luminary Award 2014. Letter to Stakeholders 06 Letter to Stakeholders 01 SAFETY MANAGEMENT The Company Recognising the importance of fostering a culture of safety in our supply chain, seeks to nurture our two Safety Awareness Centres in Johor Bahru, Malaysia and Ho Chi Minh City communities (HCMC), Vietnam provide safety training to contractors’ employees before wherever it operates. In 2014, Keppel Land they are allowed to work on site. To-date, we have trained a total of more than extended the Words 16,000 workers. We are also one of only 10 BizSAFE Mentors appointed by the on Wheels initative Workplace Safety and Health Council in Singapore to lead and guide contractors to Ho Chi Minh City, following the success in developing and implementing safety initiatives at worksites as well as provide of the programme stewardship and support to meet regulatory safety standards. in Hanoi since 2011. In 2014, we adopted an online safety reporting system, to augment the reporting of non-conformance of health and safety practices on site for Singapore residential projects including The Glades, The Luxurie and Corals at Keppel Bay. In recognition of our commitment to uphold high safety standards, we were conferred the prestigious International Safety Merit Award by the British Safety Council in 2014. EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT Recognising that people are our greatest asset and key to the execution of our strategy, we are committed to nurturing a diverse, competent and dedicated talent pool that will drive further growth and create value for the Company. Focused on talent management and succession planning, we continue to 01 KEPPEL LAND LIMITED Sustainability Report 2014 07 improve our bench strength and develop our staff to their fullest potential through job rotations and role enlargement, mentoring by senior staff, as well as attracting and recruiting talents to complement existing capabilities. Localisation is an important pillar of our people strategy for overseas offices, with its progress reviewed by top management twice yearly. The Career Review Committee also identifies and grooms promising employees for leadership roles as part of talent retention and management. Strong emphasis is placed on employee engagement with multiple platforms put in place to foster an open and collaborative environment. These range from CEO sharing at staff communication sessions to informal avenues such as afternoon teas, Mid-Week Chill-Out, festive celebrations, as well as Breakfast with CEO sessions and lunch with senior management. A new staff lounge named Kloud was also launched in May 2014 for staff to interact and exchange ideas. In addition, opportunities are created for staff across business units to work together in taskforces. COMMUNITY OUTREACH We strive to positively impact and contribute back to communities wherever we operate and at the same time, seek to empower lives for sustainable change and improvement through the focus areas of education and environment. Strategic partnerships with like-minded organisations help us extend our reach and provide opportunities for our employees to serve as volunteers. Volunteerism rate in 2014 increased by 60% as compared to last year, with employees clocking in a total of 2,254 hours of community service. Following the success of the Words on Wheels project in Hanoi, Vietnam in 2011, Keppel Land extended the initiative to HCMC, in May 2014. With the help of a mobile library equipped with books and multimedia facilities, Words on Wheels HCMC reached out to 3,000 village children in the Binh Chanh district. Five trips involving volunteers from our Singapore and Vietnam offices were conducted during the year, to promote a culture of reading and self-learning in the villages, thereby opening doors through education. In Myanmar, we supported the Water for Life project in Yangon, to provide more than 7,000 villagers in two cyclone-hit districts with access to clean drinking water. Staff from Singapore and Myanmar participated in four volunteer trips in 2014 to install tube wells as well as conduct community education workshops on basic hygiene and healthcare to the villagers. The journey towards sustainability is a continuous one. As we align our business practices to international benchmarks, including the ISO 26000 Guidance on Social Responsibility and the United Nations Global Compact’s universal principles, we strive to achieve a sustainable future for generations to come. ANG WEE GEE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 9 June 2015 Letter to Stakeholders 08 About Keppel Land 01 Keppel Land is the property arm of in the World 2015. The Company To strengthen Keppel Land’s retail the Keppel Group, one of Singapore’s ranks fourth, placing it first in Asia capabilities, the Group has acquired largest multinational groups with key and in real estate companies worldwide. a 75% stake in retail management businesses in offshore and marine, Keppel Land is a component of the Dow company, Array Real Estate. infrastructure as well as property. Jones Sustainability World and Asia Pacific Indices. It retains its position Keppel Land is Asia’s premier home One of Asia’s premier property in the RobecoSAM Sustainability developer with world-class iconic companies, Keppel Land is Yearbook for the fifth year as one of waterfront residences at Keppel Bay recognised for its sterling portfolio the top 15% of companies worldwide and Marina Bay in Singapore. The of award-winning residential in sustainability leadership. The Group has also ventured into the developments and investment-grade Company is also a constituent United States with a residential commercial properties as well of the MSCI Global Sustainability development in Manhattan, New York. as high standards of corporate and Socially Responsible Indices. governance and transparency. With a pipeline of over 70,000 homes A leading prime office developer in in Singapore and overseas as well as The Company is geographically Singapore, Keppel Land contributes an increasing commercial presence diversified in Asia, with Singapore and to enhancing the city’s skyline with in the region, Keppel Land is wellChina as its core markets as well as landmark developments such as positioned to meet the growing Indonesia and Vietnam as its growth Marina Bay Financial Centre, Ocean demands for quality residential, markets. It focuses on a two-pronged Financial Centre and One Raffles Quay. office and mixed-use developments. strategy of property development for sale and property fund management. The Company is committed to grow An established property fund its commercial portfolio in key manager, Keppel Land has two Keppel Land is one of the largest Asian cities. Its portfolio of overseas property fund management vehicles, listed property companies by total commercial properties includes Keppel REIT, a pan-Asian commercial assets on the Singapore Exchange. Park Avenue Central and Life Hub @ real estate investment trust, and The Group’s total assets amounted to Jinqiao in Shanghai, a Grade A office Alpha Investment Partners (Alpha). about $14.5 billion as at 31 December development in Beijing and Seasons City 2014. It is also a component of in the Sino-Singapore Tianjin Eco-City, As at 31 December 2014, Keppel REIT several stock indices including the China, Saigon Centre in Ho Chi Minh and Alpha’s total assets under FTSE ST Real Estate Index, FTSE ST City, Vietnam, International Financial management have grown to China Top Index, FTSE All-World Centre Jakarta in Indonesia as well as an $18.7 billion, when fully leveraged Index, FTSE Asia Pacific ex-Japan office development in Yangon, Myanmar. and invested. Index, FTSE EPRA/NAREIT Global Real Estate Index and EPRA/NAREIT Index. The Company is also commencing on 01 Phase 2 of the SM-KL development in Keppel Land was listed in the Manila, the Philippines. Beyond Asia, Keppel Land aims to create sustainable liveprestigious Corporate Knights’ Global the Group has acquired an office work-play environments 100 Most Sustainable Corporations building in London, United Kingdom. of enduring value. KEPPEL LAND LIMITED Sustainability Report 2014 09 Delivering Value GREW NET ASSET VALUE HIGHER PROPOSED PER SHARE TO DIVIDEND OF $4.95 as at end-2014 compared 14 cents per share for 2014 compared with $4.52 as at end-2013 with 13 cents for 2013 DOUBLED CASH IMPROVED ECONOMIC POSITION TO VALUE ADDED TO $2.6b as at end-2014, $417.1m in 2014 compared with from $1.3 billion $126m in 2013 as at end-2013 INCREASED EMPLOYEE MOVED UP TO 4th position PARTICIPATION WITH 2,254 from 17th position in hours Corporate Knights’ Global 100 Most Sustainable Corporations 2015 of community outreach activities in Singapore and overseas ACHIEVED TOTAL ENERGY SAVINGS OF 125m kWh per annum ACHIEVED zero which is equivalent to fatalities the amount of energy needed to power 22,000 HDB apartments for a year in 2014 Trained 16,000 ACHIEVED 47 BCA Green workers to-date Mark Awards at Keppel Land’s Safety Awareness Centres in Vietnam to-date for properties in and Malaysia Singapore and overseas About Keppel Land Sustainability Report Keppel Land is committed to delivering value to all our stakeholders through Sustaining Growth in our businesses, Empowering Lives of our people and Nurturing Communities wherever we operate. SUSTAINING EMPOWERING NURTURING GROWTH LIVES COMMUNITIES PAGES 24 – 73 PAGES 74 – 97 PAGES 98 – 105 Our commitment to People are the cornerstone As a global citizen, business excellence of our businesses. we believe that as is underpinned by an communities thrive, unwavering focus on As an employer of choice, we thrive. strong corporate we are committed to governance and prudent growing and nurturing We give back to financial management. our talent pool through communities wherever continuous training and we operate through Resource efficiency is development to help our multi-faceted not only our responsibility, our people reach their approach towards but also makes good full potential. corporate social business sense. responsibility. We instil a culture of We will continue to safety so that everyone We cultivate a green distinguish our properties who comes to work mindset among our with strong value offerings goes home safe. employees to spur them and hallmark quality for towards adopting a greater competitive edge. sustainable lifestyle. Commitment 11 to Stakeholders* As a leading real estate company, shaping the best for future generations, we are guided by our operating principles and core values to create value for all our stakeholders through innovative real estate solutions. In determining the key stakeholder groups, we assessed the significance and impact of stakeholders’ interests in sustainability issues as well as the potential impact these stakeholders have on the Group’s businesses. The following six key stakeholder groups have been identified: OUR BUSINESS OUR CUSTOMERS PARTNERS To develop quality To integrate our strong homes and products regional network and with good investment knowledge with the value and build on the strengths of our Keppel Land brand partners to capitalise equity to enhance our on opportunities. competitive edge. OUR INVESTORS OUR PARTNER To build on strong AGENCIES fundamentals to deliver continued VALUE FOR To team up with regulatory and nonearnings growth ALL OUR governmental agencies STAKEHOLDERS and maximise to further the cause shareholder return. of achieving higher environmental, health and safety standards. OUR EMPLOYEES To help employees realise OUR COMMUNITY their full potential and To be a committed cultivate knowledge-based and responsible corporate employees with good work-life citizen, contributing to balance for a motivated and communities where dedicated workforce. we operate. * G4-24, G4-25 Commitment to Stakeholders 12 Managing Sustainability Keppel Land is ranked 4th in the Keppel Land is committed to sound BENCHMARKS OF EXCELLENCE prestigious Global 100 Most corporate governance practices and Recognising that sustainability Sustainable Corporations in the robust enterprise risk management is an ongoing journey, Keppel Land World 2015, making it the first Asian processes. It also actively builds a aligns itself with internationallycompany to make it to the top ten strong safety culture to achieve a recognised standards, including positions for the first time in the zero-harm workplace. International Organisation for ranking’s history. This is a significant Standardisation (ISO) standards improvement of 13 places from The Company strives to be an such as ISO 9001 on quality 17th position last year. It continues employer of choice, nurturing a management, ISO 14001 on to retain its place as the first in competent and engaged workforce environmental management and Asia and in real estate worldwide in to drive sustainable growth. OHSAS 18001 on occupational corporate sustainability. The Global health and safety management, 100 list was released by Corporate SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT as well as ISO 26000 Guidance Knights in January 2015 at the World Driving Keppel Land’s sustainability on Social Responsibility and Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland. efforts is the Corporate Social the United Nations Global Responsibility (CSR) Committee. Compact (UNGC). As a leading Asian developer Comprising representatives from with global presence, Keppel Land different departments, the Committee GRI G4 GUIDELINES believes in doing well and doing good. is responsible for formulating In terms of sustainability reporting, It continues to sharpen its focus the Company’s CSR framework, Keppel Land is among the first on sustainability and innovation. By implementing initiatives and in Asia to adopt and align its operating in an economically, socially monitoring sustainability performance. reporting with the latest Global and environmentally responsible Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 manner, the Company aims to achieve The CSR Committee reports to guidelines at the Comprehensive positive and sustainable outcomes the Board of Directors, which has level. Its reports are also externally for its businesses, the environment oversight of sustainability initiatives assured in accordance with the and the community at large. and efforts. AA1000 Assurance Standard. CSR COMMITTEE STRUCTURE Board of Directors CSR COMMITTEE SINGAPORE RISK MANAGEMENT CSR CHAMPIONS INVESTOR RELATIONS & KEPPEL LAND CHINA CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY FINANCE & REGIONAL INVESTMENTS ADMINISTRATION WORKPLACE SAFETY & HEALTH HUMAN RESOURCES PROPERTY MANAGEMENT & GROUP INTERNAL AUDIT KNOWLEDGE MANAGEMENT PROJECT MANAGEMENT & SUSTAINABLE DESIGN KEPPEL LAND LIMITED Sustainability Report 2014 13 DEFINING REPORT CONTENT* – Sustainability Context exercise and in consultation This Report has been prepared in Presenting performance in the with stakeholders. accordance with GRI’s G4 reporting wider context of sustainability; framework and its principles for These comprise the key material defining report content, including: – Completeness issues of economic performance, Including all information that health and safety, and compliance; – Materiality are of significant economic, as well as the highly critical issues Focusing on issues that impact environmental and social impact, of environmental impact, labour long-term business growth and are of to enable stakeholders to assess practices and social responsibility. utmost importance to stakeholders; the Company’s performance. The Company will continue to focus – Stakeholder Inclusiveness MATERIAL ISSUES on these material issues as it charts Responding to stakeholders’ Keppel Land has identified key and leads the path as a leading expectations and interests; material issues through a materiality sustainable corporation. The table below defines the aspect boundary and impact of the Company’s key material issues. KEPPEL LAND’S MATERIAL ISSUES** MATERIAL ASPECTS ASPECT BOUNDARY AND IMPACT LEVEL 1: KEY MATERIAL ISSUES Economic performance Sustainable financial performance; occupational and customer health and safety; Health and Safety as well as compliance with national or international standards in areas including Compliance corporate governance, environment, safety, product responsibility and society, are material to both internal (employees) and external (customers, investors, business partners, partner agencies and community) stakeholders. This applies to the Group’s operations in Singapore and overseas. LEVEL 2: HIGHLY CRITICAL ISSUES Environmental Impact Environmental aspects including the use of environmentally-friendly materials, • Materials use energy and water conservation, reduction in carbon emissions, efficient effluents • Energy efficiency and waste management as well as sustainable performance of products and • Water management services are important elements in addressing climate change. These aspects • Reduction in carbon emissions are relevant to the Company’s internal and external stakeholders. Environmental • Effluents and waste management guidelines relating to these areas apply in all geographical locations where • Sustainable products and service the Company operates. Labour Practices Positive employment practices are critical in attracting, retaining and developing • Employment staff as the Company strives to be an employer of choice, committed to nurturing • Training and education a diverse, competent and dedicated talent pool. They impact employees in the • Labour-management relations Group’s offices in Singapore and overseas. Social Responsibility The Company strives to be a responsible corporate citizen, contributing to • Community engagement and enriching the lives of local communities wherever it operates. Community • Business ethics engagement as well as business ethics are material to all internal and external stakeholders, and apply to the Group’s operations in Singapore and overseas. LEVEL 3: EMERGING OR MODERATELY MATERIAL ISSUES Market presence As Keppel Land seeks to integrate sustainable policies, strategies and practices Marketing communications into its business operations, its market presence as well as adherence to standards Anti-child labour relating to marketing communications, prohibition of child labour and policy of Non-discrimination non-discrimination are important and relevant to all its operations. These aspects have an impact on all six of the Company’s stakeholder groups. * G4-18 ** G4-19, G4-20, G4-21, G4-23 Managing Sustainability 14 Managing Sustainability SUSTAINABILITY-RELATED KEY This is part of a long-term plan to PERFORMANCE INDICATORS support operational needs, promote (KPIs) collaboration amongst staff and Keppel Land has put in place systems build organisational effectiveness. to link the remuneration of senior executives and relevant employees SUSTAINABILITY DATA to the achievement of pertinent MANAGEMENT sustainability-related goals Keppel Land, together with other and performance. business units within the Keppel Group, has invested in a data For staff from the Project Management management system to streamline and Sustainable Design unit as the management and reporting well as project managers across of sustainability metrics across its the Group, between 5% and 30% Singapore and overseas operations. of their individual performance appraisal is linked to environmental The system has been implemented targets covering multiple aspects for the Company’s projects in such as improving energy efficiency Singapore, China, Indonesia, and reducing carbon emissions. Vietnam and Myanmar. Environment– as well as workplace health and All employees have 2% of their KPIs safety-related data are collected linked to corporate sustainability, every month. including safety. For project managers, safety accounts for an additional Streamlining data collection, 10% to 20% of their KPIs. Any fatality analysis and reporting processes at the end of the supply chain will reduce manpower costs will also affect the bonuses of as well as improve business key staff. intelligence. Regular measuring and monitoring will also enable Innovation and change, collaboration Keppel Land to better manage its and teamwork as well as risk sustainability performance. management form part of executives’ competency assessment in UNITED NATIONS staff appraisal and performance GLOBAL COMPACT management framework, which Since 2011, Keppel Land has carry a 30% weightage. been a signatory to the UNGC, a United Nations initiative to KNOWLEDGE MANAGEMENT encourage businesses worldwide Keppel Land has in place processes to adopt sustainable and socially to build organisational intelligence, responsible policies, as well as to develop new projects or work report on their implementation. programmes based on best practices, harness the vast experience and Sharing the same conviction knowledge of employees as that business practices which well as prevent the loss of are rooted in universal principles critical knowledge caused by help the global marketplace to staff attrition. be more socially and economically inclusive, Keppel Land has pledged A Steering Committee, chaired its commitment to the UNGC’s by the CEO, oversees the vision, 10 universal principles in the areas strategy and effectiveness of of human rights, labour standards, Knowledge Management initiatives. environmental protection and anti-corruption. The implementation of a Knowledge Sharing Portal to facilitate appropriate The Company reports on its sharing and protection of knowledge progress in implementing these assets by business units in Singapore, principles in its Communication was fully implemented in 2014. on Progress to the UNGC annually. KEPPEL LAND LIMITED Sustainability Report 2014 15 Keppel Land is also a Gold member of the Singapore Compact for CSR, 10 PRINCIPLES OF the national focal point for the THE UNITED NATIONS UNGC and platform for promoting GLOBAL COMPACT CSR in Singapore. A member since its formation in 2005, Keppel Land supports the society’s Human Rights belief in the importance of integrating social values and mission with business Principle 1 decision-making to achieve positive Businesses should support and respect and sustainable outcomes. the protection of internationallyproclaimed human rights. To raise awareness of UNGC’s Principle 2 principles among stakeholders, Make sure that they are not complicit in Keppel Land shared insights on human rights abuses. sustainability and green supply chain management with contractors and suppliers from China at the Keppel Group Safety Convention Labour in November 2014. Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of ISO 26000 GUIDANCE ON association and the effective recognition SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY of the right to collective bargaining. Keppel Land is among the first companies in Singapore to proactively Principle 4 align itself with ISO 26000, a voluntary Elimination of all forms of forced and international standard which guides compulsory labour. organisations in their efforts to operate Principle 5 in a socially responsible manner. Effective abolition of child labour. The Company seeks to integrate Principle 6 the ISO 26000 standard with its Elimination of discrimination in respect wide coverage of issues ranging of employment and occupation. from policy, reporting and assurance to social and ethical, environmental and financial or economic aspects, into its business practices. Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally-friendly technologies. Anti-corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Managing Sustainability 16 Managing Sustainability ISO 26000 GUIDANCE ON SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CORE PRINCIPLES OF SUBJECTS SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ORGANISATIONAL GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTABILITY The way an organisation makes and Accountability by an organisation implements decisions to achieve for its impact on society, the its objectives. environment and the economy, and takes appropriate actions to HUMAN RIGHTS prevent repetition of unforeseen Respect for human rights including civil negative impacts. and political rights as well as economic, social and cultural rights. TRANSPARENCY Transparency in an organisation’s LABOUR PRACTICES decisions and activities that impact Policies and practices relating to society and the environment. work performed within, by or on behalf of the organisation, including ETHICAL BEHAVIOUR sub-contracted work. Ethical behaviour by an organisation based on the values of honesty, THE ENVIRONMENT equity and integrity. Impact of an organisation’s decisions and activities on the environment. RESPECT FOR STAKEHOLDER INTERESTS FAIR OPERATING PRACTICES Respect, consideration and response Ethical conduct in dealings with other by an organisation to the interest organisations such as anti-corruption, of its stakeholders. fair competition and respect for property rights. RESPECT FOR THE RULE OF LAW Acceptance that respect for CONSUMER ISSUES the rule of law is mandatory and Responsibilities to customers including compliance with legal requirements having fair and transparent marketing in all jurisdictions where the processes as well as designing products organisation operates. that are accessible by all including the less privileged. RESPECT FOR INTERNATIONAL NORMS OF BEHAVIOURS COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT Respect for international norms of AND DEVELOPMENT behaviour, while adhering to the Support for and building relationship principle of respect for the rule of law. with the community. RESPECT FOR HUMAN RIGHTS Respect human rights and recognise their importance and universality. KEPPEL LAND LIMITED Sustainability Report 2014 17 ALIGNMENT WITH ISO 26000 Keppel Land continues to align its practices with the ISO 26000 standard and bridge gaps in the areas of human rights, community involvement and development as well as respect for stakeholder interests, while bolstering existing areas of strength such as organisational governance, environment and labour practices. PRINCIPLES AND CORE SUBJECTS PERFORMANCE IN 2014 The Environment • Implemented the Integrated Management System in Singapore, which combines ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 standards on quality, environmental as well as occupational health and safety (H&S) management respectively into a single framework. Community Involvement and Development • Obtained ISO 9001 certification for property development and project management services in Singapore. • Partnered Royal Philips to replace conventional office lamps in Respect for Keppel Land’s offices with energy-efficient Light-Emitting Diode lighting Stakeholder Interests on a zero-capital expenditure scheme, and extended the scheme to tenants of Keppel Land and Keppel REIT’s office buildings. This has achieved cost efficiencies of up to 60%. • Invited safety consultants to share on safety best practices and cultural transformation at Keppel Land’s Annual Contractors and Consultants H&S Meeting held in August 2014. Human Rights • Shared on diversity at workplace by Keppel Land’s Director of Workplace Safety and Health at the World Congress on Safety and Health at Work held in Germany in August 2014. Labour Practices • Engaged contractors and suppliers on integrating H&S into work practices through a sharing session by the Institute of Occupational Medicine at Keppel Land’s Annual Contractors and Consultants H&S Meeting in November 2014. • Trained a total of more than 16,000 workers to-date at Keppel Land’s two Safety Awareness Centres in Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam and Johor Bahru, Malaysia. • Enhanced performance management, staff engagement platforms as well as training and development programmes to encourage greater interaction with employees and improve talent retention. Community Involvement • Extended Words on Wheels, a mobile library project, to Ho Chi Minh City, and Development Vietnam, providing some 3,000 village children with access to books and educational materials. • Keppel Land supports the Singapore International Foundation-led Water for Life (Yangon) project in Myanmar. In 2014, Keppel Land volunteers completed a total of 16 tube wells, providing more than 7,000 villagers with better access to clean drinking water. Managing Sustainability 18 Awards and Accolades 01 CORPORATE SOCIAL THE SUSTAINABILITY YEARBOOK EUROMONEY REAL RESPONSIBILITY Keppel Land is listed in The ESTATE AWARDS Sustainability Yearbook 2015 for Keppel Land garnered eight awards GLOBAL 100 MOST the fifth year, placing it among the at the Euromoney Real Estate Awards SUSTAINABLE top 15% of companies worldwide 2014, including Best Developer, CORPORATIONS in sustainability leadership. Best Residential Developer and IN THE WORLD Best Office/Business Developer in Keppel Land is ranked SUSTAINABILITY INDICES Singapore and Vietnam as well as fourth in Corporate Knights’ Keppel Land is a component of the Best Leisure/Hotel Developer in Global 100 Most Sustainable Dow Jones Sustainability World and Singapore and Best Mixed-use Corporations in the World 2015, Asia Pacific Indices 2014/2015 for Developer in Vietnam. placing it first in Asia and the fourth and fifth year respectively. in real estate companies The indices follow a best-in-class SINGAPORE HR AWARDS worldwide. This is also the approach and measure the The Company was recognised first time an Asian company performance of sustainability for Leading HR Practices in has made it to be among the leaders worldwide. Learning and Human Capital Top 10 positions. Development, and accorded The Company also retains its special mentions in the Talent TOP 10 ASEAN COMPANIES position on both the MSCI Global Management, Retention and IN CHINA Socially Responsible and Sustainability Succession Planning as well as Keppel Land China is listed Indices since 2012 and 2013 Compensation and Rewards among the Top 10 ASEAN respectively, and is listed on the Management categories. Companies in China by MSCI World Environmental, Social the China-ASEAN Business and Governance Index of large and SINGAPORE HEALTH AWARDS Council in 2015. It is the mid-cap developed market companies. Keppel Land was conferred a only company that has won Platinum Award at the biennial the accolade for three BCI ASIA AWARDS Singapore HEALTH Awards 2014 consecutive years. Keppel Land is listed among the Top 10 for the first time, in recognition of developers in Singapore and Vietnam its exemplary efforts in promoting ASEAN BUSINESS AWARDS at the BCI Asia Awards 2014 and 2015. workplace health. The award Keppel Land was named the recognises organisations that region’s Most Admired ASEAN CNA INNOVATION LUMINARY have achieved at least two Gold Enterprise under the corporate Recognised for its excellence in Awards consecutively and have excellence category (large-size innovation, Keppel Land was conferred demonstrated tangible benefits company) at the ASEAN Business the Channel NewsAsia Innovation from their workplace health Awards 2014. Luminary Award 2014. promotion programme. KEPPEL LAND LIMITED Sustainability Report 2014 19 CORPORATE TRANSPARENCY BIZSAFE MENTOR BY At the inaugural Asia Pacific WORKPLACE SAFETY AND Regional Network Leadership ASEAN CORPORATE HEALTH (WSH) COUNCIL Awards in Green Building by the GOVERNANCE SCORECARD 2014 Keppel Land is one of only nine World Green Building Council, Keppel Land was ranked 7th among companies in Singapore to be Keppel Land was named the 100 largest listed companies in named bizSAFE Mentor (2013-2015) one of the winners under the the ASEAN Corporate Governance for its exemplary WSH management category of Business Leadership Scorecard 2014 Singapore Rankings and performance. in Sustainability. by the Singapore Institute of Directors and the NUS Business School’s WORKPLACE SAFETY Tanah Sutera, the management Centre for Governance, Institutions AND HEALTH AWARDS company of Taman Sutera, and Organisations. One Raffles Quay (ORQ) and MBFC Keppel Land’s integrated won the Safety and Health Award township development in SIAS INVESTORS’ Recognition for Projects (SHARP) for Johor, Malaysia, clinched the CHOICE AWARDS two consecutive years for their good Merit Award (Regional) at the The Company was runner-up for the safety and health performance as Singapore Environmental Most Transparent Company Award well as WSH management systems. Achievement Awards for for real estate companies in 2014. its contributions towards BCA DESIGN & ENGINEERING environmental sustainability. GOVERNANCE AND SAFETY EXCELLENCE AWARD TRANSPARENCY INDEX Marina Bay Suites (MBS) clinched The Sino-Singapore Tianjin Keppel Land was ranked sixth out of the BCA Design & Engineering Eco-City was named National 644 companies in the Governance Safety Excellence Award in the Green Building Base by the and Transparency Index 2014, Residential category for excellence China Green Building Council organised by The Business Times in safety performance as well as while its Low Carbon Living Lab and Centre for Governance, design and engineering works. was conferred the 3-star award Institutions and Organisations. by China’s Green Building Design Label. ENVIRONMENTAL SAFETY RESPONSIBILITY SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENTS INTERNATIONAL SAFETY AWARDS LEADING IN BEST PRACTICES Ocean Financial Centre (OFC), Keppel Land’s excellence in workplace Keppel Land was named Winner in ORQ and Prudential Tower safety management was recognised the Energy Management category were awarded the Water Efficient at the International Safety Awards at the Sustainable Business Building (Silver) certification held in London on 25 April 2014. Awards 2014. by PUB. 02 01 For its economic and social contributions, Keppel Land China was ranked among the Top 10 ASEAN Companies in China for the third consecutive year. 02 Keppel Land was ranked 6th in the Governance & Transparency Index 2014 as one of the best governed and most transparent companies in Singapore. CFO Mr Lim Kei Hin (right) received the award on behalf of the Company. Awards and Accolades 20 Awards and Accolades Highline Residences and The commitment to workmanship while Sedona Suites Ho Chi Minh Glades attained the Landscape excellence through quality assurance City won the title of Vietnam’s Excellence Assessment programmes and delivering high Leading Serviced Apartments at Framework certification by quality projects consistently. the World Travel Awards 2014. the National Parks Board for their outstanding green landscaping. BCA BUILT ENVIRONMENT At the Asian Golf Awards 2014, LEADERSHIP AWARD Ria Bintan Golf Club was named BCA GREEN MARK AWARDS Keppel Land was conferred Best Golf Course in Indonesia and Keppel Land swept a total of 12 the BCA Built Environment second runner-up for Best Golf awards at the annual Building Leadership Gold Class Award Course in Asia Pacific. Spring City and Construction Authority of 2015 in recognition of excellence Golf & Lake Resort (Spring City) Singapore (BCA) Awards 2014, and leadership in shaping a safe, clinched second runner-up for including the prestigious BCA high quality, sustainable and Best Golf Course in China. Spring Green Mark Champion Award, friendly built environment City was also named Top Golf BCA Green Mark Platinum Award in Singapore. Course in China by Golf Magazine and BCA-IDA Green Mark Platinum (China Edition). Awards for Keppel Datahub 2, BCA GREEN MARK PEARL AWARD BCA Green Mark Platinum MBFC Tower 3 won the inaugural Marina at Keppel Bay was re-accredited Awards for Keppel Bay Tower BCA Green Mark Pearl Award with the 5 Gold Anchors in 2014, and Bugis Junction Towers as in 2015. the highest accreditation under well as BCA Universal Design the International Rating Scheme Mark GoldPLUS Award for Corals at for Marinas by the Marina Industries Keppel Bay. Marina Bay Financial HOSPITALITY Association (Australia). Centre (MBFC) Phase 2 and Madison Residences were ASIA BOATING AWARDS GOLDEN DRAGON AWARDS conferred BCA Construction Marina at Keppel Bay was conferred Sedona Suites Hanoi bagged the Excellence Awards. Green Maritime Company of Best Serviced Residence Award the Year at the Asia Boating at the 14th Golden Dragon Awards BCA QUALITY Awards 2014. 2014, an annual award presented EXCELLENCE AWARDS by the Vietnam Economic Times Keppel Land bagged the BCA EXCELLENCE IN HOSPITALITY to honour the achievements of Quality Champion Gold Award Sedona Hotel Yangon’s Royal foreign-invested enterprises and (Developer) at the BCA Quality Sedona Suite was named recognise their contributions Excellence Awards 2015 for its Myanmar’s Leading Hotel Suite, to the community. 01 KEPPEL LAND LIMITED Sustainability Report 2014 21 01 02 Keppel Land garnered a total of 12 awards at the BCA Awards 2014, including the prestigious BCA Green Mark Champion Award. 02 Ocean Financial Centre clinched the Gold Award for Best Innovative Green Building at the MIPIM Asia Awards 2014. CHINA GOLF WEEKLY The Awards recognise real estate Development at the South East 2013/2014 LANDMARK GOLF projects around the world that Asia Property Awards 2014. COURSES AWARDS display distinction in various At the 5th China Gold Weekly 2013/2014 aspects including concept, MIPIM ASIA AWARDS Landmark Golf Courses Awards, architecture and design, development OFC clinched the Gold Award for Spring City Golf & Lake Resort and construction, financial and Best Innovative Green Building was named Kunming’s Landmark marketing, environmental impact at the 8th MIPIM Asia Awards 2014. Golf Course, while Eco-City and community benefit. International Country Club was YAZHOU ZHOUKAN listed as China’s Top 10 New Courses. SINGAPORE GOOD DESIGN MARK ASIA EXCELLENCE The General Managers for both Keppel Land was conferred the BRAND AWARDS resorts also received the Outstanding Singapore Good Design Mark 2014 Keppel Land was conferred the General Manager award. Gold Award for the Vertical Garden at Asia Excellence Brand Award 2014 OFC and the Standard Mark Awards by Yazhou Zhoukan (亚洲周刊), for the building’s architecture as the only company representing PRODUCT EXCELLENCE well as the multi-touch interactive Singapore to have won the award. media screen and Sliding Integrated FIABCI SINGAPORE Multi-function Movable wall system BCA UNIVERSAL DESIGN PROPERTY AWARDS at The Glades. MARK AWARD OFC and Marina Bay Suites (MBS) Highline Residences and The Luxurie were conferred the FIABCI Singapore Reflections at Keppel Bay was won the 2015 BCA Universal Design Property Awards under the Office awarded the Singapore Good Mark Mark GoldPLUS Award and Gold and Residential (High Rise) categories Award 2015 for its architectural Award respectively for exemplary respectively at the FIABCI Singapore excellence, a desirable living efforts in embracing Universal Property Awards in 2014. environment and an exemplary Design in the development in its desire for innovative, and incorporating user-friendly FIABCI WORLD PRIX sustainable, and creative design. features at the onset of project D’EXCELLENCE AWARDS conceptualisation and design. MBS won the World Silver Awards SOUTH EAST ASIA 2015 in the prestigious FIABCI PROPERTY AWARDS World Prix d’Excellence 2015 under International Financial Centre the Residential (High Rise) category, Jakarta Tower 2 was conferred the following its win in the FIABCI Best Commercial Development Singapore Property Awards 2014. in Indonesia and Best Green Awards and Accolades ASPIRE Tomorrow Begins Today We believe in actively engaging all our stakeholders in our sustainability journey as we deliver on our ‘Thinking Unboxed’ brand promise, innovating quality and enduring solutions in real estate. We are committed to nurturing a diverse, competent and dedicated talent pool to optimise value. At the same time, we strive to positively impact communities wherever we operate. KEPPEL LAND LIMITED Sustainability Report 2014 SUSTAINING VALUE NURTURING COMMUNITIES We align our business practices to We empower lives of the communities international best-in-class standards where we operate, at the same time, which spur our commitment to quality, seek to implement sustainable change governance, health and safety and improvement while caring for the as well as environmental protection. underprivileged and environment. Aspire Tomorrow Begins Today 24 SUSTAINING GROWTH Financial Highlights 01 The Company continued to perform 01 creditably in 2014 despite headwinds China remains Keppel Land’s strongest overseas in the property sector. market. Sales came mostly from Central Park City in Wuxi, The Botanica in Chengdu, The Springdale in Shanghai and Stamford City in Jiangyin (in picture). $1.5b $4.95 02 Keppel Land has launched a new condominium development, Estella Heights, located in Revenue rose by 2.5% year-on-year Net Asset Value per share increased Ho Chi Minh City’s to $1.5 billion. to $4.95 as at end-2014 compared popular District 2. with $4.52 as at end-2013. KEPPEL LAND LIMITED Sustainability Report 2014 25 Keppel Land performed creditably TOTAL ASSET DISTRIBUTION BY COUNTRY in 2014 despite the property cooling as at 31 December 2014 measures affecting home sales in Singapore and China. % Singapore 46 Revenue increased by 2.5% yearon-year (y-o-y) to $1.5 billion in 2014, China 44 due primarily to higher sales from the Vietnam 6 property trading segment. Indonesia 2 Others 2 Pre-tax profit before fair value gain on investment properties grew by 9.5% Total 100 y-o-y to $733.1 million during the year, driven mainly by one-off gains from several divestments in Singapore and overseas such as the one-third stake in Marina Bay Financial Centre (MBFC) Tower 3, the 65% stake in Equity Plaza, TOTAL ASSET DISTRIBUTION BY SEGMENT 30% interest in two data centres as at 31 December 2014 and a 51% stake in Al Mada Towers, a residential development in Jeddah, % Saudi Arabia. Property Trading 57 Net profit fell to $752.5 million, due Property Investment 26 mainly to a lower fair value gain on Fund Management 1 investment properties and a lower Hotels & Resorts 1 tax write-back. As a result, earnings Others 15 per share for 2014 were also lower at 48.7 cents compared with 57.3 cents Total 100 in 2013. 02 Sustaining Growth Financial Highlights Financial 26 SUSTAINING GROWTH Highlights % Increase/ 2014 2013 (Decrease) For the year ($’000) Sales 1,497,177 1,461,048 2.5 Pre-tax profit Before fair value gain on investment properties 733,111 669,712 9.5 After fair value gain on investment properties 953,325 1,000,773 (4.7) Net profit 752,486 885,892 (15.1) Funds from/(used in) operations 200,443 (1,308,680) nm Capital expenditure on investment properties and fixed assets (81,003) (87,692) (7.6) Proposed dividend 216,323 200,956 7.6 Economic value added 417,100 126,000 231.0 At year-end ($’000) Shareholders’ equity 7,655,537 6,989,419 9.5 Non-controlling interests 489,401 496,168 (1.4) Long-term borrowings 3,147,338 3,869,749 (18.7) Short-term borrowings 1,055,670 283,275 272.7 Other non-current liabilities 66,181 59,112 12.0 Total funds invested 12,414,127 11,697,723 6.1 Per share Earnings (cents) (Note 1) After taxation but before fair value gain on investment properties 35.7 37.8 (5.6) After taxation and fair value gain on investment properties 48.7 57.3 (15.0) Dividend (cents) 14.0 13.0 7.7 Net asset value ($) 4.95 4.52 9.5 Financial ratios Return on equity (%) (Note 2) After taxation but before fair value gain on investment properties 7.9 9.3 (15.1) After taxation and fair value gain on investment properties 10.7 14.1 (24.1) Dividend cover (times) (Note 3) 2.6 2.9 (10.3) Interest cover (times) (Note 4) 8.4 8.9 (5.6) Net debt-equity ratio (times) (Note 5) 0.20 0.38 (47.4) Notes: 1. Earnings per share are calculated by reference to the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year. 2. In the calculation of return on equity, the weighted average basis has been used. 3. In the calculation of dividend cover, fair value gain on investment properties and related taxation have been excluded. 4. In the calculation of interest cover, fair value gain on investment properties has been excluded. Net interest cost, comprising net interest expense taken to the profit and loss account and interest capitalised under investment properties, properties held for sale and fixed assets, has been used. 5. In the calculation of the net debt-equity ratio, net debt includes borrowings net of cash and equity includes non-controlling interests in subsidiaries. KEPPEL LAND LIMITED Sustainability Report 2014 27 GROUP SALES ($ million) 1,500 1,250 1,000 750 500 250 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 685.4 949.0 938.9 1,461.0 1,497.2 GROUP PROFIT ($ million) 1,500 1,250 1,000 750 500 250 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Pre-tax profit after fair value gain on investment properties/impairment 1,170.7 1,477.0 987.3 1,000.8 953.3 Net profit 1,068.2 1,374.7 838.4 885.9 752.5 With the divestment proceeds, Keppel Land has declared a final Contribution from property investment Keppel Land’s net debt-equity ratio one-tier tax exempt dividend was also lower at $114.4 million compared improved to 0.2x as at end-2014 of 14 cents per share, compared with $124.7 million in the previous year. from 0.38x as at end-2013 with 13 cents for 2013. The and its cash position doubled dividend, amounting to about Net profit from fund management to $2.6 billion, putting it in $216.3 million which is equivalent business continued to increase by 19.4% a strong financial position to to a dividend payout of about y-o-y to $55.8 million, contributing 14% seize investment opportunities. 39% of net profit before fair value of net profit before divestment, fair value gain on investment properties, and other gains in 2014. This was due Total assets grew by 5.1% y-o-y will be paid on or about mainly to the acquisition fee of $12 million to $14.5 billion as at end-2014, of 20 May 2015. earned by Keppel REIT Management which about 54% were held overseas. Limited in relation to the MBFC Tower 3 China remained the largest overseas EARNINGS REVIEW transaction as well as higher acquisition market, accounting for about 44%, Net profit from property trading and divestment fees recorded by followed by Vietnam and Indonesia, fell to $188.9 million in 2014 Alpha Investment Partners (Alpha). which made up about 6% and on lower contributions from 2% of total assets respectively. Singapore and China projects. Total assets under management Net asset value per share rose to Property trading contributed 48% by Keppel REIT and Alpha, when fully $4.95 as at end-2014, compared of net profit before divestment, leveraged and invested, rose 5.6% with $4.52 in the previous year. fair value and other gains. y-o-y to $18.7 billion as at end-2014. Sustaining Growth Financial Highlights Financial 28 SUSTAINING GROWTH Highlights EARNINGS AND DIVIDEND PER SHARE (cents) RETURN ON EQUITY (%) 100 35 80 30 60 25 40 20 20 15 0 10 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 5 Earnings per share 0 after taxation but before fair value 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 gain on investment properties/impairment 44.7 53.8 31.6 37.8 35.7 Return after taxation but before fair value Earnings per share gain on investment after taxation and properties/impairment 18.9 18.4 8.4 9.3 7.9 fair value gain on investment properties/ Return after taxation impairment 74.3 93.8 55.5 57.3 48.7 and fair value gain on investment properties/ Dividend per share 18.0 20.0 12.0 13.0 14.0 impairment 31.4 32.1 14.8 14.1 10.7 NET ASSET VALUE PER SHARE ($) ECONOMIC VALUE ADDED ($ million) 6.0 600 5.0 500 4.0 400 3.0 300 2.0 200 1.0 100 0 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2.95 3.74 3.99 4.52 4.95 394.5 511.2 70.3 126.0 417.1 KEPPEL LAND LIMITED Sustainability Report 2014 29 SINGAPORE to curb speculation. On top of in Yangon’s central business district Excluding divestment, fair value and the muted market sentiments, (CBD). It is also redeveloping other gains, net profit from Singapore Keppel Land’s townships and International Financial Centre Jakarta operations was $257.6 million in 2014 large-scale developments such Tower 1 as Tower 2 nears completion compared with $289.5 million in 2013. as The Botanica in Chengdu and and is expanding the SM-KL project in While contribution from property The Springdale in Shanghai were Ortigas, Manila with an office-cum-retail trading was lower, profit was also reaching the tail-end of their development under Phase 2. supported by higher contribution sales. As such, the Group sold about from fund management and gain 1,900 units in 2014, slightly less than To further strengthen its capability from the divestment of the Group’s half the 3,870 units sold in 2013. in retail management, Keppel Land 30% stake in two data centres to Despite a drop in sales volume, acquired a 75% stake in retail Keppel DC REIT. the Group achieved higher average management company, Array selling prices as new projects with Real Estate (Array), which has The property tightening measures higher price point were launched an experienced team involved in continued to impact residential and sold during the year. the development and management demand in Singapore. Keppel Land of three million sf of office space. sold 304 units during the year, Keppel Land will continue to deepen This will allow the Group to leverage lower than the 370 units sold its presence in its key markets in Asia. Array’s experience and network in 2013. Almost half of the In Indonesia, the Group is acquiring to capture opportunities in the 304 units sold were contributed a second residential site in West development and management of by Highline Residences. Jakarta. Coupled with the upcoming commercial and mixed-use projects launch of West Vista, the Group in Singapore and overseas. OVERSEAS is well-poised to meet the city’s The Group’s overseas operations demand for well-located homes. While Keppel Land focuses on Asia, recorded net profit of $133 million In Vietnam, the Group increased its it also invests opportunistically in in 2014, lower compared with stake in Estella Heights, located at the key global cities with good growth $141.1 million in 2013, due mainly popular District 2 in Ho Chi Minh City, potential. The Group invested in a to lower contributions from from 55% to 98%. residential development in Manhattan, residential projects in China. United States, in July 2014 as well as Contribution from overseas In line with its strategy to expand a freehold office building in London, operations to the Group’s net its overseas commercial presence, United Kingdom in February 2015. profit was stable at 34% in 2014 the Group is developing new Both investments will be managed compared with 33% in 2013. commercial projects in Indonesia, by Alpha. Vietnam, Myanmar and Philippines. The residential market in China It is developing an office tower at For more details on the Company’s was also affected as the Chinese Saigon Centre Phase 2 in Ho Chi financial performance, please refer government restricted home Minh City and has acquired a 40% to the Financial Review section of purchases and tightened mortgages stake in a Grade A office development Keppel Land’s Annual Report 2014. Sustaining Growth Financial Highlights 30 SUSTAINING GROWTH Corporate Governance 01 Keppel Land is committed to achieving 01 high standards of corporate governance Results briefings are chaired by CEO Mr Ang Wee Gee and transparency to ensure the sustainability (left) and CFO Mr Lim Kei Hin, of its businesses as well as safeguard who provide media and analysts updates shareholders’ interests. on the Company’s strategy and business operations. 30 170 days meetings Financial results are disclosed within About 170 meetings were held in 30 days from the end of each quarter Singapore and overseas to engage and financial year. analysts and fund managers. KEPPEL LAND LIMITED Sustainability Report 2014 31 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE Shareholders BOARD OF DIRECTORS AUDIT COMMITTEE MANAGEMENT NOMINATING COMMITTEE Group Internal Audit Property Development and Investment REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Property Fund Management Property Services BOARD RISK COMMITTEE Hotels, Serviced Apartments and Resorts BOARD SAFETY COMMITTEE STRONG GOVERNANCE To further improve its corporate Company’s objectives. Every Board The Company’s Directors and governance, the Company made meeting includes an update on Management firmly believe the following changes in 2014: sustainability issues. that full commitment to high standards of corporate • As part of Board renewal INVESTOR RELATIONS* governance is essential to ensure process, Professor Huang Jing PROACTIVE ENGAGEMENT the sustainability of the Company’s was appointed as an independent Keppel Land continually strives businesses and performance, as and non-executive Director to engage and further strengthen well as to safeguard shareholders’ with effect from 1 January 2014. relationships with its shareholders interests and maximise long-term He was also appointed as and the investment community. shareholder value. a member of Board Risk Committee with effect from A dedicated Investor Relations (IR) The Company has adhered to the 17 April 2014. Mr Chan Hon team supports Management principles and guidelines of the Chew was appointed as a in providing balanced insights Code of Corporate Governance non-independent and noninto the Group’s strategic 2012 (the “Code”). executive Director with effect directions, financial performance from 1 July 2014, and was and key developments to These standards include having appointed as a member of its shareholders and the clear policies, best practices, and the Audit and Board Risk investment community. sound internal controls as well as a Committees with effect from system of continuous improvements. 16 August 2014. The Company aims to balance • Mr Lim Ho Kee, Professor Tsui investor engagement throughout Effective corporate governance Kai Chong, Mrs Lee Ai Ming and the year by providing a two-way supports the Company’s belief Mr Heng Chiang Meng retired communication opportunity in transparency, and helps it to be from the Board and did not seek with investors and analysts. forward-looking with fresh ideas, and re-election at the Company’s It takes a proactive approach to be more decisive in the execution Annual General Meeting (AGM) through various platforms of strategies and initiatives. on 30 April 2014. such as the AGM, combined results briefings with media and The Company has received many The Board has included in its oversight, analysts, investor meetings with awards for achieving high standards consideration of sustainability issues analysts and fund managers, in corporate governance and such as environmental, social and non-deal roadshows and investor transparency. Information on these governance factors in the strategic conferences, newsletters as well awards is set out on pages 17 and 18. formulation and execution of the as its corporate website. * G4-26, G4-27 Sustaining Growth Corporate Governance Corporate 32 SUSTAINING GROWTH Governance The nature of the Directors’ appointments on Board and the details of their memberships in the Board Committees for the year ended 31 December 2014 are set out below: COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP Board Committee Memberships Board Directors Membership Audit Nominating Remuneration Board Risk Board Safety Loh Chin Hua Non-executive – Member Member – Member Chairman Non-ID Ang Wee Gee CEO – – – – Member Non-ID Lim Ho Kee 1 ID – Chairman Member – – Tsui Kai Chong 2 ID Chairman – – Member – Lee Ai Ming 3 ID Member – – Member – Tan Yam Pin ID – – Chairman – Chairman Heng Chiang Meng 4 ID Member – – – Member Edward Lee Kwong Foo 5 ID – Chairman Member Member – Koh-Lim Wen Gin 6 ID – – – – Member Yap Chee Meng 7 ID Chairman Member – Member – Huang Jing 8 ID – – – Member – Oon Kum Loon 9 Non-ID Member – – Chairperson – Chan Hon Chew 10 Non-ID Member – – Member – 1 Lim Ho Kee retired from the Board and did not seek re-election at the Company’s AGM on 17 April 2014. He also ceased to be Chairman of the Nominating Committee and a member of the Remuneration Committee. 2 Tsui Kai Chong retired from the Board and did not seek re-election at the Company’s AGM on 17 April 2014. He also ceased to be Chairman of the Audit Committee and a member of the Board Risk Committee. 3 Lee Ai Ming retired from the Board and did not seek re-election at the Company’s AGM on 30 April 2015. She also ceased to be a member of the Audit Committee and Board Risk Committee. 4 Heng Chiang Meng retired from the Board and did not seek re-election at the Company’s AGM on 30 April 2015. He also ceased to be a member of the Audit Committee and Board Safety Committee. 5 Edward Lee Kwong Foo was appointed as Chairman of the Nominating Committee with effect from 21 April 2014. 6 Koh-Lim Wen Gin ceased to be a member of the Board Risk Committee with effect from 17 April 2014. 7 Yap Chee Meng was appointed as Chairman of the Audit Committee and a member of the Nominating Committee and Board Risk Committee with effect from 21 April 2014, 25 February 2014 and 17 April 2014 respectively. 8 Huang Jing was appointed as an independent and non-executive Director with effect from 1 January 2014. He was appointed as a member of the Board Risk Committee with effect from 17 April 2014. 9 Oon Kum Loon ceased to be a member of the Nominating Committee with effect from 25 February 2014. 10 Chan Hon Chew was appointed as a non-independent and non-executive Director with effect from 1 July 2014. He was appointed as a member of the Audit and Board Risk Committees with effect from 16 August 2014. In 2014, Management and the IR affect the price or value of its shares, information to shareholders on a timely team held about 170 meetings with on a timely basis. and non-selective basis. Should an investors which included one-on-one inadvertent disclosure be made to meetings, conferences and non-deal The Company has put in place a selected group, the Company will roadshows in Singapore, Malaysia, an IR Policy which sets out the make the same disclosure publicly Hong Kong, Japan, UK, Europe principles to provide shareholders as soon as practicable. The Company and US. These meetings focused and prospective investors with disseminates all announcements, on the issues of strategy, and the timely, accurate and fair disclosure press releases and presentation operational and financial performance of information which will allow slides through the SGX-ST via of the Company. them to make well-informed SGXNET and its corporate website. investment decisions. The IR Policy The Company acknowledges its is published on the Company’s The corporate website keeps the duty to treat all of its shareholders corporate website. investment community up to date, fairly and equitably, and keeps all its providing, inter alia, key corporate shareholders and other stakeholders FAIR DISCLOSURE OF and financial information, press informed of its corporate activities, INFORMATION releases and stock information. including changes in the Company The Company continues to commit Queries received via the website or its business which could materially to its practice to disclose material are also duly addressed. KEPPEL LAND LIMITED Sustainability Report 2014 33 DIALOGUE WITH SHAREHOLDERS Committees and the external auditor proposed at the general meeting. The AGM and/or the Extraordinary are required to be present at the Votes cast for and against and General Meeting are the principal meetings to address relevant queries the respective percentages, on forums for dialogue with shareholders. from shareholders. each resolution will be displayed The Company encourages attendance ‘live’ to shareholders or proxies by shareholders in such meetings. Each item of special business immediately after each poll is Shareholders are informed of these included in the notice of the meeting conducted. The total number meetings three weeks in advance is accompanied by an explanation for of votes cast for or against the through notices published in the the proposed resolution. Additional resolutions and the respective newspapers and annual reports or resolutions are proposed for separate percentages are also announced circulars sent to them. Shareholders issues at the meeting, and the in a timely manner after the general are also encouraged to ask relevant Chairman declares the number meeting via SGXNET. questions or seek clarification on the of proxy votes received for and motions to be debated and decided against the resolutions. The The Company is not implementing upon during such meetings. Company also prepares detailed absentia voting methods such minutes of general meetings, which as voting via mail, e-mail or If any shareholder is unable to attend, include queries and comments from fax due to concerns over the he/she is allowed to appoint up to shareholders and responses from security and integrity of the two proxies to vote on his/her behalf the Board and Management. These information as well as other at the meeting through proxy forms minutes are available to shareholders pertinent issues involved. sent in advance. upon request. For more details on the The Chairman and, where appropriate, To ensure transparency, the Company Company’s corporate governance the CEO and other Directors, will conducts electronic poll voting for and investor relations, please respond to shareholders’ questions. shareholders or their proxies present refer to the respective sections of The chairmen of the various Board at the meeting for all the resolutions Keppel Land’s Annual Report 2014. 01 01 The Company hosts regular project and site visits for analysts and fund managers. Sustaining Growth Corporate Governance 34 SUSTAINING GROWTH Risk Management 01 Keppel Land’s steadfast approach towards 01 enterprise risk management ensures that The Company has a holistic risk management the Company is ready to respond and framework to ensure that potential risks are meet challenges. identified ahead of time and appropriate mitigating actions are taken. 02 Business continuity 3 12 management plans are tested and enhanced for operational principles key risks preparedness. The Board Risk Committee has As part of its risk management adopted three risk tolerance framework, the Company has guiding principles which determine identified a set of 12 key risks the nature and extent of significant and put in place appropriate risks the Board is willing to take to mitigating measures. achieve its strategic objectives. KEPPEL LAND LIMITED Sustainability Report 2014 35 Keppel Land maintains a robust and extent of the significant risks that system of Management Controls, risk management system which the Board is willing to take in achieving provides the Group with a holistic enables it to meet challenges its strategic objectives. These three and systematic approach in risk and seize business opportunities risk tolerance guiding principles are: management. It outlines the reporting in a dynamic business environment. 1. Risk taken should be carefully structure, monitoring mechanisms, evaluated, commensurate with specific risk management processes ROBUST RISK rewards and in line with the and tools in addressing key risks, as MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK Group’s core strengths and well as Group policies and limits. Keppel Land’s Board of Directors strategic objectives. (the Board) is responsible for governing 2. No risk arising from a single The Group’s five-step risk management risks and ensuring that the management area of operation, investment process consists of risk identification, maintains a sound system of risk or undertaking should be so risk assessment, formulation of risk management and internal controls huge as to endanger the mitigation measures, communication to safeguard shareholders’ interests entire Group. and implementation as well as monitoring and the Company’s assets. Assisted 3. The Group adopts zero tolerance and reviews. The assessment process by the Board Risk Committee (BRC), towards safety incidents, takes into account both the impact the Board provides valuable advice non-compliance with laws and and likelihood of the risks occurring to the management in formulating regulations, as well as acts such and also covers the financial, risk policies and guidelines. as fraud, bribery and corruption. operational and reputational aspects. A set of key risk indicators, which are Comprising five Directors, the BRC Ongoing improvements are made to closely monitored by the business held a total of four meetings in 2014. strengthen the existing risk governance. units and risk owners, serve as early In addition, the BRC visited various Our risk governance framework is warning signals. Risk plans and ongoing projects in Yangon and set out on page 105 of Keppel Land’s key risk indicators are regularly Mandalay, Myanmar, as well as Annual Report 2014. In 2014, the reviewed to ensure risks identified Bangkok, Thailand, during the year Board has assessed that the risk remain relevant and mitigating to understand and review the risks management system is adequate actions continue to be adequate, that may affect Keppel Land. and effective in addressing the key timely and effective. risks of the Company. Since 2013, Keppel Land has adopted An ERM Committee, comprising three risk tolerance guiding principles The enterprise risk management (ERM) all business unit and functional which serve to determine the nature framework, a component of Keppel’s department heads, drives and 02 Sustaining Growth Risk Management Risk 36 SUSTAINING GROWTH Management 01 01 Round-the-clock vigilance ensures timely response to potential safety and health risks. coordinates Group-wide risk MANAGING KEY RISKS as well as systems and processes. management initiatives. The risk Keppel Land has identified 12 key The management is committed registers of the individual business risks and put in place appropriate to foster a strong risk-centric units and functional departments mitigating measures as listed culture in the Group, which are reviewed regularly to ensure the on page 37 of this Report. encourages prudent risk-taking risks identified and accompanying in decision-making and business mitigating measures remain BOLSTERING OPERATIONAL processes. A survey was carried relevant in view of the dynamic READINESS out during the year to gauge the business environment. Keppel Land is committed to enhance Group’s risk centric culture. its operational resilience through the As part of the control assurance process, establishment of a robust business Risk management workshops Keppel Land has also implemented the continuity management (BCM) plan are conducted to enhance Control Self-Assessment and Groupthat will allow it to respond effectively risk management competency wide information technology (IT) to potential crises and external threats and awareness of staff. In 2014, risk assessment. while minimising any impact on its six risk management workshops people, operations and assets. were conducted for staff based in Risk management is an integral Singapore. The Group also seeks part of strategic, operational and Led by the BCM committee, business to raise senior staff accountability financial decision-making processes units in various locations conduct a for risk management through the at all levels of the Group. The Group’s range of simulations under a broad performance evaluation process. holistic approach to identifying spectrum of disruptions such as and managing risks not only instills haze, flood, earthquake, pandemic PROACTIVE RISK a strong risk ownership across disease, fire, civil unrest to enhance MANAGEMENT the Company but also reduces their operational preparedness. Keppel Land will continue to uncertainties associated with These plans are tested and refined review and refine its risk executing our strategies, allowing to ensure responses are practical, management methodology, us to harness opportunities executable and effective while systems and processes to ensure with agility. critical business functions continue its adequacy and effectiveness. to operate smoothly. The Group will continue to leverage Despite best efforts, the Group its educational initiatives to raise recognises that risks can never be ENHANCING A RISK-CENTRIC employees’ risk management entirely eliminated, especially in an CULTURE awareness and capabilities as well evolving landscape of uncertainties Effective risk management hinges as enhance the process in sharing and vulnerabilities. equally on mindsets and attitudes of lessons learned. KEPPEL LAND LIMITED Sustainability Report 2014 37 Managing Key Risks 5. MISSTATEMENT OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS end-user computing as well as the safeguarding and backing • The Group ensures that up of information have been The key risks identified and appropriate the consolidated financial put in place. mitigating actions undertaken by statements have been Keppel Land in 2014 are as follows: prepared in accordance 9. BUSINESS CONTINUITY RISKS with the Singapore Financial • Business units continually 1. BUSINESS STRATEGY RISKS review and test their business Reporting Standards. • The Group’s strategic direction • Internal and external audits continuity plans to ensure effective and business strategies are response to disruptive events. are conducted to provide reviewed by the Board and • Critical business functions reasonable assurance on senior management. Factors are determined and alternative the accuracy of financial including the laws and regulations, processes, resource requirements statements. market conditions and competitive and interdependencies are landscape within each market are 6. PROJECT MANAGEMENT RISKS identified to support operation considered carefully. Keppel Land • Project management processes at times of disruption. continues to look into matters are reviewed regularly by relating to technology, innovation the Project Management & 10. FRAUD/CORRUPTION RISKS and solutions as part of its strategy Sustainable Design department. • Keppel Land has put in place to develop alternative business Through these processes, the the employee code of conduct, products and innovative solutions. Group adopts good industry insider trading and whistle-blower practices to achieve project protection policies, financial 2. CONCENTRATION delivery on time, within authority limits and control EXPOSURE RISKS budgeted cost and meet self-assessment tools to mitigate • A concentration risk management the quality expectations of the risk of fraud, corruption and policy that governs the exposure buyers and tenants. misconduct by staff. limits of each market and project • Trainings are conducted for • Internal and external audits is established to manage project managers to increase are conducted regularly to concentration exposure risk. their familiarisation and prevent, detect and mitigate • Exposure to all countries and ensure their compliance fraud risk. projects are monitored regularly with the processes. to ensure the Group is not 11. QUALITY OF DELIVERABLES overly exposed to any single 7. HUMAN RESOURCES RISKS • The Group has put in place project or market. • Keppel Land leverages the Quality Assurance/ scholarships as well as Quality Control procedures 3. INVESTMENT/ management associate and and Keppel Quality Standards DIVESTMENT RISKS leadership development to ensure excellence in • Guided by investment parameters, programmes to identify and project deliveries. all major investments are subject develop its talent pipeline. • The handover procedures to due diligence processes • Succession planning for key and defects management and evaluated by the Board. executive positions is regularly standard operating procedures • All investment and divestment reviewed to ensure relevance. are adopted to ensure proposals submitted for approval customer satisfaction of would have to be accompanied 8. INFORMATION products delivered. by a completed set of risk TECHNOLOGY RISKS assessment template. • The IT department has 12. HEALTH AND SAFETY RISKS established the IT Security • Keppel Land has put in place 4. EXPOSURE TO FINANCIAL Framework to address IT a Health and Safety (H&S) MARKET RISKS security risks. Various measures Policy to raise staff awareness • Keppel Land hedges against such as intrusion prevention on the importance of foreign exchange and interest and detection systems and workplace H&S. rate risks through the utilisation firewalls are put in place to • Various initiatives and of various financial instruments protect confidential information. policies are implemented where appropriate. • The IT Disaster Recovery Plan via the Workplace Safety and • The Group ensures that adequate is reviewed and tested regularly Health (WSH) department. funding resources are available to ensure the robustness of WSH also ensures a safety for investments and cash flows the IT system. IT audits are also culture is inculcated in are actively managed. carried out. Policies governing all employees. Sustaining Growth Risk Management 38 SUSTAINING GROWTH Environment 01 As a responsible green developer, 01 Keppel Land is committed to high standards Ocean Financial Centre stands tall in Singapore’s financial of environmental protection. The Company district as an icon of eco-breakthroughs. also strives to continually improve its environmental performance. Ranks 47 Green 4th Mark Awards The Company has garnered Keppel Land ranks 4th in the a total of 47 BCA Green Mark Corporate Knights’ Global 100 Awards, including six Platinum, Most Sustainable Corporations five GoldPLUS, 32 Gold Awards in the World 2015, the highest and four Certified Awards. position in Asia and also in the real estate sector worldwide. KEPPEL LAND LIMITED Sustainability Report 2014 39 As one of Asia’s leading developers, Keppel Land strives to create sustainable ENVIRONMENTAL VISION and optimal live-work-play environments of enduring value for the community. A premier developer committed to Focused on its vision to create properties designing, building and operating that harmonise with and enhance the environment, the Company adopts a properties that harmonise with holistic and proactive approach towards the environment and enhance the environmental management. It undertakes rigorous measures to ensure that both quality of life of the communities new and existing developments comply where we operate. with regulatory requirements and are aligned with internationally-recognised environmental guidelines. KEY ECO-PRINCIPLES ENVIRONMENTAL VISION, POLICY AND ECO-PRINCIPLES 1 ECOllaboration Keppel Land’s approach towards environmental management is guided by its vision, the Quality, Environmental, ECOllaboration Health and Safety Policy as well as its four eco-principles. Work with stakeholders as well as Endorsed by top management, these policyand decision-makers to build are communicated to all staff through a sustainable future. various platforms such as the Company’s intranet and newsletters. 2 ECOnomy ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY Keppel Land has in place an environmental sustainability strategy which focuses on five main areas. This includes the formulation of corporate policies and programmes, development of new projects, management Balance commercial viability and of completed buildings, implementation environmental sustainability. of management systems, as well as organisation of outreach initiatives. 3 ECOmmitment The Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Committee oversees the Group’s CSR efforts which include environmental management and protection. Comprising representatives from the Promote environmental awareness different business units, the Committee and support green initiatives. formulates the Group’s eco-policy, principles, targets and framework for action, implements green initiatives as 4 ECOmmunity well as sets performance benchmarks for continual improvement. ECOllaboration The Committee also leads the Group’s implementation of the ISO 14001 Environmental Management System (EMS) as well as the Eco-Office and Go Green Create a sustainable future for with Keppel Land outreach programmes. generations to come. Sustaining Growth Environment Environment 40 SUSTAINING GROWTH Environmental Objectives Objectives Develop environmentallyAdopt an integrated Meet national or international friendly properties that approach in the design, standards on environmental minimise pollution and construction and protection. other adverse impact development of to the environment. sustainable properties. Targets Achieve at least the BCA Reduce carbon footprint Achieve an Integrated Green Mark GoldPLUS for new and implement sustainable Management System for the developments in Singapore, practices when developing Group’s business operations. and the BCA Green Mark Gold new buildings and managing Award or its equivalent overseas existing properties. for new projects overseas. Performance • Conferred the BCA Green Mark • Expanded the scope of the • Implemented the Integrated in 2014 Champion Award in 2014. Environmental Operation Management System (IMS) and 2015 • Achieved five BCA Green Plans to include completed in Singapore. Mark Awards for commercial commercial buildings • Achieved ISO 9001 developments in Singapore overseas in addition to certification for projects in 2014. those in Singapore and in Singapore. • Attained another three hospitality properties • Achieved ISO 14001 BCA Green Mark Awards overseas, thereby improving re-certification for its for properties in China and the buildings’ energy, water operations in Singapore, Myanmar in 2014. and waste management. China, Vietnam and Indonesia. • Total of 47 BCA Green Mark Awards in Singapore and overseas to-date, including six Platinum, five GoldPLUS and 32 Gold Awards in Singapore, China, Indonesia, Vietnam, India and Myanmar. Plans Ahead • To attain the minimum of • To reduce carbon emission • To roll out IMS to cover BCA Green Mark GoldPLUS intensity by 16% below 2010’s its operations in Vietnam Award for all new projects levels by 2020. and China. in Singapore. • To implement guidelines • To achieve at least the comprising stretched targets BCA Green Mark GoldPLUS in the areas of environmental Award for completed certification, energy, water, commercial buildings landscaping and materials in Singapore by 2015. used in new developments • To attain at least the BCA in Singapore and overseas. Green Mark Gold Award or its equivalent for new developments overseas. KEPPEL LAND LIMITED Sustainability Report 2014 41 Raise awareness of Underscore importance Develop green capabilities, Preserve biodiversity in environmental sustainability of waste minimisation, knowledge and skills local environments. among stakeholders resource conservation and to enhance building through the Go Green environmental ownership performances. with Keppel Land amongst employees outreach programme. and tenants. Engage and raise ecoPromote green practices Leverage green building Preserve biodiversity consciousness among staff, among tenants and staff technology and build a and maintain high standards tenants and the wider public through the Eco-Office core team of in-house green of environmental protection through regular activities programme in its building specialists through to ensure a balanced and and events. corporate offices. sustainability training. intact eco-system. • Pioneering partner in • Attained re-certification • Trained and equipped • Implemented green the BCA Green Buildings of the Eco-Office another eight Project initiatives such as Innovation Cluster (GBIC) Programme by the Managers with BCA Green enhancing water quality, programme. Singapore Environment Mark certifications. About increasing plant density • Partnered Royal Philips on Council for Keppel Land half of the Company’s and natural habitat a zero-capital expenditure and Keppel REIT’s offices project managers in areas at Eco-City scheme to replace existing for 2015-2017. Singapore and overseas International Country lights with LED lighting • Provided complimentary have been trained to-date. Club in Tianjin, China. for corporate office energy gap analysis • Participated in the US and tenants. to tenants at selected Green Build International • Shared best practices at buildings to encourage Conference 2014 and sustainability conferences. adoption of green initiatives. an industry study trip • Showcased Sino-Singapore • Collaborated with Ricoh organised by the Singapore Tianjin Eco-City as a model Asia-Pacific in Eco-Action Green Building Council. for sustainable development Day 2014 environmental at the World Green awareness campaign Economy Summit 2014. for corporations. • Collaborated with Singapore Compact, National University of Singapore and Singapore Business Federation on CSR publications. • To continue to contribute • To encourage more tenants • To have all project • To partake in good to the green scene through to renovate their premises managers certified as stewardship of the partnerships with related in accordance with the BCA Green Mark Managers environment and adopt agencies and bodies in BCA Green Mark for Office within two years of joining best practices and policies Singapore and overseas. Interior requirements. the Company, so as to that support healthy • To continually engage • To achieve optimal levels develop a pool of in-house eco-systems, promote and inculcate a green of energy, paper and professionals with expertise biodiversity and sustain mindset among various toner usage at its in sustainable design natural resources. stakeholder groups corporate offices. processes to spearhead through sharing best integrated designs practices at environmental and enhance building conferences, organising performances. outreach programmes, and supporting ecorelated events. Sustaining Growth Environment Environment 42 SUSTAINING GROWTH SINGAPORE 01 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Keppel Land has implemented an EMS in accordance with the internationallyrecognised ISO 14001:2004 standard (ISO 14001) standard for managing and controlling corporate activities to achieve continuous improvement in environmental performance. The EMS identifies aspects of the Company’s activities that may have significant impact on the environment. Targets are then established, with procedures and processes put in place to achieve these objectives. ISO 14001 CERTIFICATION The Company achieved the ISO 14001 certification for its property development and property management operations in Singapore in 2008 and 2009 respectively. The scope of certification was extended to its property development operations in China and Vietnam in 2009 which obtained independent certifications in 2011 and 2013 respectively. In 2013, the scope was further extended to include Keppel Land’s property development operations in Indonesia. The Company renewed its certifications for its operations in Singapore, China, Vietnam and Indonesia in 2014. To further enhance its management performance, Keppel Land has implemented an Integrated Management System which combines the ISO 14001, ISO 9001 and OHSAS 18001 standards on environmental management, quality and occupational health and safety management respectively into a single framework. 01 Keppel Bay Tower was accredited the highest Platinum rating at the BCA Green Mark Awards 2014. KEPPEL LAND LIMITED Sustainability Report 2014 43 SUPPLY CHAIN Energy and Environmental Design Highline Residences received GoldPLUS. In the selection of main contractors (LEED) for all its new projects overseas. KDH2 also obtained the BCA and for the Group’s new projects in Infocomm Development Authority (IDA) Singapore, contractors are assessed LEED PLATINUM Platinum Award. Overseas, Sedona Hotel under stringent criteria. These include Ocean Financial Centre is the first Yangon in Myanmar, and Stamford City in track record, financial strength as high-rise office development in China received the Gold Award. Keppel well as commitment towards high Southeast Asia to achieve the Digihub and Stamford City were also quality, environmental and safety highest LEED Platinum certification certified to Green Mark standard in 2014. standards. Contractors with ISO 9001, from the US Green Building Council. ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 Launched in 2005, the BCA Green Mark certifications are preferred. LEED is the globally-recognised scheme drives Singapore’s construction benchmark for the design, construction industry towards achieving a sustainable For all project sites covered under and operation of high-performance built environment by incorporating best the scope of Keppel Land’s EMS, green buildings. Buildings certified practices in environmental design and contractors are required to conduct under the LEED Platinum rating construction as well as encouraging the an impact assessment based on have to meet stringent standards adoption of green building technologies. their project site activities prior to on sustainability, energy and water It provides a comprehensive framework construction. The assessment covers efficiency, materials, resources, for assessing the overall environmental potential negative environmental indoor environmental quality, design performance of new and existing impacts including depletion of innovation and regional priority. buildings in terms of energy and water resources, biodiversity disturbance efficiency, indoor air quality as well as as well as air, water and noise pollution. Ocean Financial Centre, with other green and innovative features. Contractors are required to establish 850,000 sf of column-free Grade A and implement appropriate measures office space, is a showcase of GREEN MARK CHAMPION to mitigate and prevent any significant innovative eco-breakthroughs. For its continual improvement in environmental aspects identified. environmental performance, Keppel These include a large photovoltaic Land was conferred the title of BCA Through such efforts, Keppel Land (PV) systems for high-rise buildings in Green Mark Champion in May 2014. aims to influence and encourage its Singapore’s central business district, This award recognises developers contractors to improve their energy an energy-efficient hybrid chilled water for their strong commitment towards efficiency and reduce overall emissions. system and an integrated paper recycling CSR and outstanding achievements facility. Its 2,125 sm green wall was in environmental sustainability. It is COMPLIANCE named the World’s Largest Vertical awarded to developers with a substantial In 2014, three developments in Garden by the Guinness World Records. number of buildings which have achieved Singapore were fined a total of Green Mark Gold rating and above. $140,000 for exceeding permissible BCA GREEN MARK noise levels and incidences of mosquito To-date, Keppel Land has garnered Keppel Land’s General Manager for breeding at the construction sites. a total of 47 BCA Green Mark Awards Property Management and Knowledge The fines were imposed on the for its properties in Singapore, China, Management received the BCA-Singapore Company’s appointed main contractors. Indonesia, Vietnam and India. They Green Building Council (SGBC) Green Mitigating actions have since been include six Platinum, five GoldPLUS, 32 Gold Building Individual Award for Green taken to prevent recurrence. Awards and four Certified Awards. Facilities Manager. This award recognises individuals from across the building BENCHMARKS OF EXCELLENCE Total energy savings from these and construction value chain for Keppel Land adopts a proactive properties is estimated at over their consistent contribution and approach towards environmental 125 million kWh or $30 million per outstanding achievements in protection through harnessing human annuma. Total annual water savings the development of a green and capital, technology and innovation. amounted to over 1.5 million m3, sustainable built environment. The Company has set the benchmark while total annual emissions for all new projects as well as completed reduction is 58,000 tonnes. GREEN MARK PLATINUM commercial projects in Singapore to To-date, Keppel Land has six Green obtain at least the BCA Green Mark In 2014, the Group attained eight Mark Platinum-certified buildings in GoldPLUS rating by the Building and BCA Green Mark Awards for its its portfolio. The new additions in Construction Authority of Singapore residential and commercial projects in 2014 include Bugis Junction Towers, (BCA). The Group is also committed to Singapore and overseas. In Singapore, Keppel Bay Tower and KDH2. achieve the minimum BCA Green Mark Keppel Datahub 2 (KDH2), Bugis Gold certification or its equivalent such Junction Towers and Keppel Bay Tower a Energy cost: 1kWh = $0.2528 as the United States’ (US) Leadership in achieved the Platinum rating while (Source: SP Services, 4Q 2014) Sustaining Growth Environment – Singapore Environment 44 SUSTAINING GROWTH SINGAPORE Bugis Junction Towers was re-certified A joint venture between Keppel Land Keppel Land’s International Financial as a BCA Green Mark Platinum building and Keppel Telecommunications & Centre Jakarta Tower 2 was the following the retrofit of its chiller plant Transportation, KDH2 incorporates first office building in Indonesia system. The improved and more highly energy efficient and to achieve the BCA Green Mark efficient system is expected to yield environmentally-friendly features Platinum rating in 2012. Expected total additional energy savings of including the use of Dynamic annual energy savings is about 31% more than 5.8 million kWh annually. Rotary Uninterruptible Power or 3.4 million kWh annually. When The building also features a PV system Systems, which reduces chemical completed in 2015, this development that can generate over 180 kWp waste and improves operating will boast state-of-the art eco-friendly of sustainable energy. In addition, efficiency. Efficient cooling features including a highly efficient a comprehensive tenant engagement systems designed for hot and chiller plant system, regenerative programme has been put in place. cold aisle containment deployment elevators and naturally-ventilated maximises energy efficiency, while sky gardens. Keppel Bay Tower was also re-certified customised data centre infrastructure to a Platinum-rated building in 2014. management tracks performance ENERGY SAVINGS Total additional energy savings are to improve energy management. In Singapore, all the Group’s investment expected to exceed 760,000 kWh Computational fluid dynamics buildings have garnered at least annually. Some of its energy efficient studies are conducted to examine the BCA Green Mark Gold Award features include an enhanced chiller the airflow patterns to ensure under the existing building category. plant system and air filters as well as uniform temperature distribution. Besides engaging external vendors the installation of LED lightings at Eco-friendly materials were also to conduct audits on the buildings’ common areas. used in the construction of energy consumption and recommend the development. energy-saving measures, the Group has KDH2 has set new benchmarks in implemented energy-efficient systems sustainable development by becoming Other Green Mark Platinum-certified and environmentally-friendly features the first new data centre in Singapore buildings in the Group’s portfolio include in its buildings. to achieve the Platinum BCA-IDA Green Ocean Financial Centre, which was the Mark, the highest green accolade first office building in Singapore’s CBD Total annual energy savings is conferred by BCA and the IDA for to attain the BCA Green Mark Platinum about 13 million kWh or $3.3 million. data centre developments. KDH2’s Award in 2008. Expected energy This is equivalent to an annual expected energy savings is about savings of Ocean Financial Centre reduction of about 5,800 tonnes 33% or 15 million kWh annually. is about 35% or $9 million annually. of carbon emissions. 01 01 Keppel Land recently collaborated with REC to install solar panels at Bugis Junction, reaffirming its commitment to continually innovate to improve the environmental performance of its buildings. KEPPEL LAND LIMITED Sustainability Report 2014 45 TOTAL OF 47 BCA GREEN MARK AWARDS Project Location Category Year Singapore Residential Highline Residences Singapore GoldPLUS 2014 The Glades Singapore GoldPLUS 2013 Corals at Keppel Bay Singapore GoldPLUS 2013 The Luxurie Singapore Gold 2013 The Lakefront Residences Singapore Gold 2012 Marina Bay Suites Singapore Gold 2009 Sixth Avenue Residences Singapore Gold 2009 The Promont Singapore Gold 2009 Madison Residences Singapore Gold 2008 Reflections at Keppel Bay Singapore Gold 2008 Marina Bay Residences Singapore Gold 2007 The Tresor Singapore Gold 2006 Commercial Keppel Bay Tower 1,3 Singapore Platinum 2014 Keppel Datahub 2 Singapore Platinum 2014 Keppel Datahub 2 Singapore BCA-IDA Platinum 2014 Bugis Junction Towers 1,3 Singapore Platinum 2014 Prudential Tower 1,3,6 Singapore GoldPLUS 2013 Keppel Digihub Singapore Certified 2013 Marina at Keppel Bay 1 Singapore Gold 2011 Equity Plaza 1,6 Singapore Gold 2010 Keppel Tower & Keppel Tower 2 7 Singapore Gold 2010 Marina Bay Financial Centre (Tower 3) Singapore GoldPLUS 2009 One Raffles Quay 1 Singapore Gold 2009 Ocean Financial Centre 2 Singapore Platinum 2008 Marina Bay Financial Centre (Towers 1 & 2) Singapore Gold 2008 Overseas China Stamford City (Block 5) Jiangyin Gold 2014 Stamford City (Blocks 1,2,3-1,3-2) Jiangyin Certified 2014 Hill Crest Villa Chengdu Gold 2013 Park Avenue Heights Chengdu Gold 2012 Hill Crest Residence Kunming Gold 2012 Seasons Park4 Tianjin Gold 2012 Serenity Villa4 Tianjin Gold 2012 Central Park City (Plot C1) Wuxi Gold 2011 The Arcadia Tianjin Gold 2009 Spring City Golf and Lake Resort (La Quinta villas) Kunming Gold 2009 The Springdale (Plot 1) Shanghai Gold 2009 The Springdale (Plot 3)4 Shanghai Gold 2009 Villa Riviera Shanghai Certified 2009 Vietnam Saigon Centre (Retail Podium) 4 Ho Chi Minh City Gold 2012 Saigon Centre (Office Tower) 4 Ho Chi Minh City Gold 2012 Riviera Point 4 Ho Chi Minh City Gold 2012 Riviera Cove Ho Chi Minh City Gold 2009 The Estella Ho Chi Minh City Gold 2008 Indonesia International Financial Centre Jakarta Tower 2 4 Jakarta Platinum 2012 Jakarta Garden City (Phase 1) 5 Jakarta Gold 2011 India Elita Garden Vista 5 Kolkata Certified 2012 Myanmar Sedona Hotel Yangon Yangon Gold 2014 1 Projects awarded BCA Green Mark certifications under the existing building category. 2 Ocean Financial Centre also received the Platinum level LEED-CS (core and shell) pre-certification in 2009, which was subsequently converted to certification in 2012. 3 Re-certification award. 4 Provisional awards – the final certificates will only be issued upon verification of the green features at the project completion stage. 5 Keppel Land divested its stakes in the residential developments in Jakarta Garden City and Elita Garden Vista in 2013 and 2014 respectively. 6 Keppel Land divested its stakes in Prudential Tower and Equity Plaza in 2014. 7 Formerly known as Keppel Towers & GE Tower. Sustaining Growth Environment – Singapore Environment 46 SUSTAINING GROWTH SINGAPORE COST SAVINGS In 2014, the Marina was reaccredited At the inaugural World Green Building When fully completed, the total with the highest 5 Gold Anchor status Council Asia Pacific Regional Network reduction in energy consumption by the Marina Industries Association, Leadership Awards in Green Building from all of Keppel Land’s BCA Green following a rigorous assessment which 2014, Keppel Land won in the Business Mark-certified projects will be over includes an independent audit of its Leadership in Sustainability category. 125 million kWh per annum. These high environmental standards as an savings is equivalent to the amount eco-friendly marina. Ocean Financial Centre was also among of energy required to power more than the eight finalists in the Leadership in 22,000 homes in Singapore for one Marina at Keppel Bay also clinched Sustainable Design category. yearb. In terms of greenhouse gases, the Green Maritime Company of these projects will achieve an annual the Year Award at the Asia Boating Keppel Land emerged as winner in reduction of more than 58,000 tonnes Awards 2014, reinforcing its steadfast the Energy Management category at of carbon dioxidec. commitment to environmental the Sustainable Business Awards 2014, protection and conservation. which recognises companies which MARINA AT KEPPEL BAY This follows its previous win in 2011. have demonstrated sustainable The first marina in Asia to receive the business best practices that benefit BCA Green Mark Gold Award, Marina Collaborations are made with the environment and its stakeholders. at Keppel Bay incorporates some of the independent marine conservationists latest in green technology. A reticulated and research facilities to continually Keppel Land’s listed fund management vacuum sewer pump-out system ensures monitor the project’s impact on arm, Keppel REIT was named the that sewage from vessels are not the local marine eco-system. These Regional Leader for Office Sector discharged into the water, individualised include implementation of energy (large companies) in the Global Real advanced metering system monitors and water saving measures as well Estate Sustainability Benchmark power and water usage. Boaters are as pollution monitoring and control (GRESB) 2014. GRESB measures the also encouraged to install four-stroke systems. These green initiatives environmental and social performances instead of two-stroke engines on their have attracted visitors and serve as of real estate companies and funds vessels to reduce exhaust pollution. a learning platform for employees based on sustainability data gathered and scientific researchers. from property companies and funds The 300-sm green wall at the Marina’s around the world. carpark features plants such as the GREEN INNOVATION Thunbergia Grandiflora and Vernonia In 2014, Keppel Land became a At the Singapore Environmental Ellipta, which were specially selected partner in the Green Buildings Achievement Awards 2014, Tanah to minimise the amount of light and Innovation Cluster (GBIC) programme, Sutera, the joint venture developer heat reflected from the concrete, initiated by the BCA. of Keppel Land’s integrated township resulting in less heat trapped in the of Taman Sutera in Johor Bahru, carpark thus minimising the need Comprising academic institutions, Malaysia, was conferred the regional for ventilation fans. developers and other professionals Merit Award for its contributions in the green buildings industry, the towards environmental sustainability. The Marina’s berthing area is designed GBIC serves as the central focal Organised by the Singapore based on an open concept, which point to reinforce the national drive Environmental Council, the award allows water to flow freely throughout towards greater energy efficiency recognises Southeast Asian companies the marina during the change of tides, as well as to streamline, coordinate with environmental excellence, with nutrients and plankton being and disseminate building energy leadership and innovation. carried along as the currents flow. efficiency-related activities. It will As a result, Marina at Keppel Bay is be a one-stop hub to experiment, Keppel Land clinched the Best now an underwater sanctuary teeming exhibit and exchange knowledge on Eco-Practices Award at Eco Action with more than 40 different species promising building energy efficient Day, Singapore’s largest business-led of marine life. solutions with industry stakeholders. environmental awareness campaign organised by Ricoh Asia Pacific in The aquatic community continues to SUSTAINABILITY BENCHMARKS June, in recognition for its corporate thrive through the Marina’s City Reef Keppel Land continues to gain direction towards sustainability. project, an initiative to encourage recognition, both regionally and the conservation and appreciation of internationally, for its commitment b Average consumption of a Housing marine life. Among the sea animals to high environmental standards, Development Board five-room flat is and plants that have made Marina at incorporation of green technologies 471 kWh/month (Source: SP Services) Keppel Bay home are the clown fish, and features in its properties as c Energy conversion ratio: 1kWh electricity = 0.4499 kg CO2 juvenile batfish, tiger tail seahorses well as environmental education (Source: National Environment Agency, and sea turtles. and outreach. Dec 2014) KEPPEL LAND LIMITED Sustainability Report 2014 47 Environmental Education & Outreach EMPLOYEES TENANTS AND PUBLIC RESIDENTS INCULCATE GREEN MINDSETS COMMEMORATE KEY PROMOTE ENVIRONMENTAL • Major corporate sponsor and ENVIRONMENT DATES AWARENESS participant of the Green Corridor • Keppel Land’s 41 commercial, • Collaborated with SW CDC on Run 2015 during which the residential and hospitality its 1,000,000 Native Plants @ inaugural Keppel Land Water developments in Singapore and South West and Recycle-a-Bulb Challenge event was launched. overseas participated in Earth Hour. programmes. • Pledged to conserve energy at • Held eco-awareness drives • Renewed adoption of Jurong Ricoh’s Eco-Action Day 2014, at seven Keppel Land and Lake under PUB’s Friends where Keppel Land was the Keppel REIT office buildings in of Water programme for strategic partner. collaboration with Ricoh Asia three years from 2015. • Organised lunchtime workshops Pacific during Eco-Action Day 2014. by the Tanah Sutera team on the SHARE BEST PRACTICES use of Effective Micro-organism ENGAGE AND COLLABORATE • Shared on tenant engagement solutions as an alternative to ON GREEN INITIATIVES practices and showcased chemical products. • Extended partnership with Royal Ocean Financial Centre as a • Rallied staff, tenants and Philips to replace existing lamps leading green development residents in support of the with LED lightings on zero capital at the International Green Nature Society’s National expenditure scheme, to tenants Building Conference 2014. Butterfly campaign, where at Bugis Junction Towers and • Shared on stakeholder Keppel Land is also a Keppel Bay Tower. engagement and Keppel Land’s major sponsor. • Formed Green Tenants Committee role as a green developer with tenants of various office at Ricoh’s Eco-Action Day COMMEMORATE KEY buildings to share green initiatives. Forum 2014. ENVIRONMENTAL DATES • Collaborated with Singapore • Screened environmentallyENCOURAGE GREEN Compact, Singapore Business themed film to staff and tenants PROPERTIES Federation and the National to raise eco-consciousness • Produced Green Fit-Out and University of Singapore’s during World Car Free Day Green Office Operation Guides Business School on their and Green Consumer Day. for tenants and residents. CSR publications. • Held tree planting and recycling • Provide complimentary • Engaged suppliers and activities with children from environmental gap analysis contractors on greening charitable organisations services to encourage tenants the supply chain through during World Environment to adopt the BCA Green Mark a sharing session on Day in China. for Office interior. sustainability issues. CULTIVATE GREEN HABITS LEARN FROM PROMOTE COOPERATION • Implemented Eco-office practices INDUSTRY EXPERTS FOR ENVIRONMENTAL in Singapore, China and Vietnam. • Held talks by industry experts PROTECTION • Obtained recertification as including BCA and Singapore • Founding member of the Green Offices under the SEC Compact on topics such as World Green Building Council Eco-Office programme for Workplace Transformation and Corporate Advisory Board. 2015-2017 for Keppel Land’s the Benefits of Working in a • Board member of the Singapore and Keppel REIT’s offices. Green Office. Green Building Council. Sustaining Growth Environment – Singapore Environment 48 SUSTAINING GROWTH SINGAPORE Keppel Land continued to participate Managers or Green Mark Professionals; and appreciate the rich biodiversity in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) or have undergone the Singapore at Jurong Lake. on a voluntary basis in 2014. The CDP is Certified Energy Manager programme an international non-profit organisation organised by the National University of In March 2015, Keppel Land was that encourages companies and cities Singapore’s Energy Sustainability Unit. a major corporate sponsor of the to disclose and share vital environmental 10.5-km Green Corridor Run, which information. It currently holds the To keep employees abreast of green was held in conjunction with PUB’s largest global collection of self-reported business strategies and best practices, Singapore World Water Day celebrations. climate change, water and forest-risk key management staff attended the US The inaugural Keppel Land Water data, and is a key source of environmental Green Build International Conference Challenge event involved participants performance database for many 2014 and participated in a study trip to running with water-filled containers partners worldwide. Washington DC organised by Singapore along the Green Corridor along Green Building Council (SGBC) and the former KTM rail line to raise ECO-OFFICE PROGRAMME BCA. These provided insights into the awareness of over 700 million In recognition of the Group’s continuous latest in green buildings and people worldwide who lack access efforts at implementing green initiatives technologies as well as innovative to safe drinking water. Some 60 at its offices and encouraging staff building and construction materials. Keppel Land employees and their to be eco-conscious, the Singapore families joined in the event, which Environment Council has re-certified STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT* also promoted the ecological and Keppel Land’s and Keppel REIT’s Recognising the need for stakeholder environmental conservation of corporate offices as Green Offices engagement to inculcate a green Singapore’s greenery. for another two years from 2015. mindset, Keppel Land continues to reach out to its stakeholders with its Go Green To cultivate eco-awareness among Within the offices, eco-products with Keppel Land environmental the Jurong community, Keppel Land such as Totally Chlorine Free (TCF) or education and outreach programme. collaborated with the SW CDC in Elemental Chlorine Free (ECF) printing Led by the CSR Committee, activities its Environment and Community paper and Energy Star-labelled printers and events are organised regularly to Plan South West initiative, aimed at and computers are used. A recycling promote environmental awareness. cultivating a cleaner, greener and company has been contracted to more proactive community. collect and recycle waste paper. In doing so, Keppel Land collaborates with strategic partners including Keppel Land also pledged to plant During the year, Keppel Land replaced Singapore’s national water agency over 200 native trees at The Lakefront almost all of the lightings in its offices PUB, Southwest Community Residences in support of SW CDC’s with energy-efficient light emitting Development Council (SW CDC) 1,000,000 Native Plants @ South diode (LED) lamps, which consume and Ricoh Asia Pacific on various West programme, which targets to less than half the energy of fluorescent initiatives and programmes. have a million trees planted over tubes. Energy consumption was reduced ten years from 2008 by 13,000 to 445,000 kWh, with energy usage COMMUNITY PARTNERSHIPS residents in the southwest district, per gross floor area falling to about Keppel Land has adopted the Jurong to promote natural heritage and 82kWh/m2 from about 85kWh/m2 Lake under Singapore’s national fight climate change. in 2014. water agency, PUB’s Friends of Water Programme since 2013. Keppel Land In addition, Keppel Land is a corporate Paper and toner usage in 2014 fell to renewed its adoption for another partner in the Recycle-A-Bulb about 11.0 reams per employee and three years in 2015. programme, a joint initiative between 0.74 tonereqd per employee respectively. SW CDC and General Electric (GE). The partnership involves the sponsorship Used light bulbs are collected and GREEN CAPABILITIES of the Active, Beautiful, Clean (ABC) recycled. Energy-efficient ones are in Keppel Land is committed to inculcating Waters Learning Trail @ Jurong Lake, turn, provided to low-income families. in its employees a sound understanding as part of the Company’s ongoing The programme aims to collect over of green technologies and knowledge efforts to educate and engage the 50,000 light bulbs over the next five of sustainable management to enhance public, in particular the youth, on the years, which will benefit 12,500 families the Company’s environmental importance of water conservation. with an estimated $3.7 million savings performance. Eight employees have been trained in electricity bills. as Learning Trail guides to introduce To-date, about half of all project and visitors to the unique sustainable property managers in Singapore and ABC design features that help treat d Tonereq refers to the equivalent toner that overseas have been trained as Green water naturally, conduct water prints 6,000 copies. Mark Managers, Green Mark Facilities testing exercises as well as learn * G4-26, G4-27 KEPPEL LAND LIMITED Sustainability Report 2014 49 01 In support of the Nature Society conserve energy in their own homes environmental movie, Beyond Beauty, of Singapore’s National Butterfly and offices at all times. as well as a sharing session by the Campaign held in March 2015, Tanah Sutera team on the use of Keppel Land rallied its staff, tenants Keppel Land continued to be the Effective Micro-organisms (EM)TM as and residents of its properties, as well exclusive supporter of Ricoh Asia Pacific’s an environmentally-friendly alternative as the Keppel Group to vote for the Eco-Action Day 2014 campaign in June, to chemical and synthetic farming, national butterfly. The Company was while Keppel REIT was the building cleaning and landscaping products. also a major sponsor of the campaign, supporter. Held in conjunction with which aimed to raise awareness of the World Environment Day, Eco-Action To inculcate a green mindset in need to protect the butterfly species Day is Singapore’s largest business-led employees, the CSR Committee and their natural forest habitat. environmental awareness campaign. organised an Eco-Fair at Keppel Land’s Roadshows were held at seven of premises in November, featuring OUTREACH INITIATIVES Keppel Land and Keppel REIT’s office eco-friendly household and organic Keppel Land involves its stakeholders buildings over three weeks. Energy food products. The Committee in commemorating key environmental conservation measures were shared also organised tours for over dates through activities such as with tenants and the public, who were 70 Keppel Land staff including the recycling initiatives and workshops. encouraged to pledge simple changes management, to Gardens by the in their everyday routines to conserve Bay during the Singapore Garden The Company supported Earth Hour energy. Keppel Land’s employees also Festival in August 2014 and the in March 2015 by rallying its tenants, made pledges to conserve energy Christmas season. residents and guests at 41 of its both at home and the workplace. properties across Singapore, China, Indonesia and Myanmar to switch off The Company also commemorated non-essential lights. Façade floodlights World Car Free Day and Green 01 as well as lightings at lobbies, carparks, Consumer Day with a series of Keppel Land staircases, walkways and corridors activities over a two-month period collaborated with were turned off for an hour, resulting aimed at raising eco-consciousness Royal Philips to in energy savings of about 4,400 kwh. among employees and tenants. replace existing lamps with energyThrough such activities, tenants and The CSR Committee organised efficient LED lighting residents are reminded of the need to events including a screening of the in its buildings. Sustaining Growth Environment – Singapore Environment 50 SUSTAINING GROWTH SINGAPORE 01 TENANT ENGAGEMENT tenants, Keppel Land extended the initiatives and environmentally-friendly As tenants’ energy consumption scheme to tenants of its office buildings. fixtures that companies can adopt when contributes substantially to the Positive response from tenants such refurbishing their office space. These building’s total usage, Keppel Land as Cathay Pacific at Bugis Junction include careful selection of materials constantly finds ways to work with Towers and The Swatch Group at to ensure minimal volatile organic them to enhance the environmental Keppel Bay Tower were received. compound levels in the office space, as performance of its properties. Potential energy savings when all tenants well as recommended energy-efficient of these buildings have committed lightings and water-saving fittings. In 2013, a Green Tenants Committee was to the scheme is 1.5 million kWh formed. Comprising representatives or $400,000 per annum, which Another Green Office Operation from Keppel Land and tenants of its is equivalent to the energy required Guide, which provides practical tips on various properties, the Committee to power about 250 five-room HDB incorporating environmentally-friendly seeks to raise environmental awareness, apartments in Singapore for one year. practices such as waste minimisation and share good practices and encourage recycling, energy and water conservation tenants to support green initiatives. Keppel Land also extended as well as eco-practices in daily operations, complimentary environmental was also distributed to tenants. In September 2014, the Company gap analysis services to tenants at partnered global lighting solutions selected office buildings. The analysis Green Guides were also produced for provider Royal Philips to replace its will help tenants identify energy homeowners of Madison Residences existing conventional office lamps savings opportunities, thereby lowering and The Lakefront Residences. The with energy-efficient light-emitting their operating costs. Keppel Land aim is to encourage residents to diode (LED) lighting on a zero capital hopes that such engagement initiatives incorporate green fixtures when expenditure scheme to reduce lighting will motivate more tenants to renovate renovating their apartments and energy consumption in its office their premises in accordance with the to promote a green lifestyle. premises by up to 60%. To-date, 1,200 requirements of the BCA Green Mark lamps in Keppel Land’s corporate office for office interior standard. Keppel Land is developing a Green have been replaced with LED lightings, Guide for its hotels and serviced resulting in energy savings of around GREEN GUIDES apartments in their hospitality division. 100,000 kWh, or $25,000 per annum. The Green Fit-Out Guide was first Through such efforts, the Company produced and distributed to tenants aims to encourage guests to adopt As part of its commitment to engage at Ocean Financial Centre in 2011. environmentally-friendly practices and promote green practices among The Guide outlines sustainable during their stay. KEPPEL LAND LIMITED Sustainability Report 2014 51 KNOWLEDGE SHARING To instil the importance of a sustainable Green Economy Summit (WGES) To foster knowledge exchange, supply chain, Keppel Land engaged held in Dubai, United Arab Emirates, Keppel Land shares best practices its contractors and suppliers through in April 2014. The WGES is a highin sustainability and green building a sharing session in November 2014 profile initiative by the Dubai Electricity technologies at conferences. on supply chain issues as well as and Water Authority as well as the alignment with international sustainability Dubai Supreme Council of Energy These included the International benchmarks like ISO 26000 and to forge global partnerships for Green Building Conference 2014 the United Nations Global Compact. sustainable development. organised by the Singapore Green Some 26 main contractors and Building Council and supported suppliers from China participated PUBLIC COMMUNICATION PLAN by BCA in September, where in the session. To ensure the well-being of the Keppel Land shared on the topic community, Keppel Land has developed of engaging building occupiers To inspire more organisations to a Public Communications Plan which on sustainability. Delegates visited start their own sustainability journey, will be implemented for future projects. Ocean Financial Centre as part of the Keppel Land collaborated with the The plan includes gathering feedback tour of leading green developments Singapore Business Federation and and mitigating measures to minimise in Singapore. The Group was also a the National University of Singapore’s inconveniences to residents where Gold Sponsor of the event which Business School on the book, Converging possible. For instance, the Company attracted over 10,000 delegates Towards a Sustainable Future. will proactively inform and obtain from 40 countries. feedback from residents in the vicinity The Company also collaborated with of any upcoming construction works In June 2014, Keppel Land shared Singapore Compact on its publication, during the design and construction on stakeholder engagement and Corporate Social Responsibility: stage of its new developments. its role as a leading green developer Singapore Companies’ Winning Ways. in tackling climate change at GREEN BUSINESS ASSOCIATIONS Ricoh Asia Pacific’s inaugural Overseas, the master developer for Keppel Land is a founding member Eco Action Day Forum. It also Sino-Singapore Eco-City, Sino-Singapore of the World Green Building Council participated in the plenary session Tianjin Eco-city Investment and Corporate Advisory Board, working on CSR: For Sustainable Growth – Development Co. Ltd (SSTEC) shared with the global network of Green Balancing Profit, People & Planet its experiences at the plenary session Building Councils to implement at the International Singapore on Success in Green Public Private strategies, ideas and projects for Compact CSR Summit. Partnership at the inaugural World a green built environment. 02 01 Keppel Land is a firm supporter of national eco-initiatives, including Ricoh Eco-Action Day. 02 Keppel Land’s Director of Corporate Services, Mr Choo Chin Teck, shared on the Company’s approach towards sustainability in its businesses and operations at the 6th International Singapore Compact CSR Summit 2014. Sustaining Growth Environment – Singapore Environment 52 SUSTAINING GROWTH SINGAPORE TOTAL ENERGY CONSUMPTION (million kWh) ENERGY INTENSITYk (kWh/m2) 80 600 60 450 40 300 20 150 0 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2011 2012 2013 2014 Corporate Office 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.4 Corporate Office 99 96 85 82 Singapore Commercial a,b 23.0 22.7 23.4 23.6 Singapore Commercial a,b 97 92 94 101 Overseas Commercial d 14.5 14.4 15.1 15.9 Overseas Commercial d 185 183 164 173 Overseas Retail e 8.3 9.9 8.9 6.1 Overseas Retail e 54 64 58 53 Hospitality Properties f 23.6 24.0 21.9 22.7 Hospitality Properties f 91 95 101 123 Total 70.0 71.5 69.8 68.7 The Company also sits on the Board of accepted AA1000 Assurance Residential developments have been the Singapore Green Building Council, Standard based on the accountability excluded unless otherwise stated as which propels Singapore’s building principles of inclusivity, materiality they are trading properties, which the and construction industry towards and responsiveness in 2011. The Group Company eventually does not own. environmental sustainability by further adopted the GRI Construction promoting green building design, and Real Estate Sector Supplement ENERGY USE practices and technologies, integrating guidelines for its report in 2012. In 2014, total direct energy eco-initiatives into mainstream design, consumption from the use of diesel construction and operation of buildings In 2013, Keppel Land further raised its was about 13,500 GJe, while total as well as building industry capabilities disclosure standards and achieved a indirect energy consumption from use and professionalism to support wider Level A+ rating. of electricity was about 250,000 GJf. adoption of green building development and practices. The Council complements In 2014 and 2015, the Company Keppel Land’s total direct energy and supports the government’s efforts adopted the Global Reporting consumption arising from diesel to accelerate the greening of the city’s Initiative’s (GRI) G4 Guidelines at the usage was about 410,000 litres. Total buildings by 2030. Comprehensive level, and completed indirect energy consumption arising the GRI Materiality Disclosures Service. from electricity consumption was SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING 68.7 million kWh, down 1.5% from Keppel Land adheres strictly to This seventh and current Sustainability 69.8 million kWh in 2013. the discipline of disclosure and Report has been reviewed and communication with its stakeholders approved by the CSR Committee, Energy productivity, defined as revenue on its ESG performance. Believing which also ensures that all material per energy use, was about S$5,700/GJ that what is measured gets done, the aspects are addressed. (or USD 4,200/GJ) in 2014. This is Group started detailing its environmental almost 10% higher than the S$5,200/GJ initiatives as part of its Annual Report ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE* recorded in 2013, due to lower energy since 1997. It produced its first CSR This section reports on Keppel Land’s consumption. report online in 2008. energy and water use, waste discharged and recycled, materials used and CORPORATE OFFICE Keppel Land has adopted the emission to air for major properties Keppel Land’s corporate office occupies internationally-accepted Global in Singapore and overseas. about 58,000 sf spread across four Reporting Initiative (GRI) framework in floors at Bugis Junction Towers. The its sustainability reporting since 2009. It covers data for the corporate Company continues to ensure the use The Company’s level of disclosure office, Singapore and overseas of energy-efficient and green-labeled improved from Level C to Level B+ and properties under Keppel Land included external assurance in 2010. and Keppel REIT’s portfolio as well as hospitality developments e 1 litre of diesel = 0.0331 GJ This was followed by assurance in managed by Keppel Land f 1 kWh of electricity = 0.0036 GJ accordance with the internationallyHospitality Management. * G4-22, G4-23 KEPPEL LAND LIMITED Sustainability Report 2014 53 ENERGY INTENSITY AT CONSTRUCTION SITESg (GJ/m2) 0.48 0.36 0.24 0.12 0 Ocean Reflections Madison Lakefront Financial at Keppel Residences Centre Bay Direct Energy Intensity 0.19 0.45 0.28 0.37 Indirect Energy Intensity 0.09 0.12 0.13 0.003 office equipments. Employees are OVERSEAS INVESTMENT CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS constantly reminded to switch off BUILDINGS To account for the variation in the lights, computers and other office Overseas investment buildings include type, number and construction stages equipment when not in use. In October Saigon Centre and International Centre of projects undertaken every year, 2014, Keppel Land replaced most in Vietnam; International Financial Keppel Land measures the energy of its office lightings with energyCentre Jakarta in Indonesia; as well as consumption of each project over efficient LED tubes to further reduce 77 King Street, an office tower owned the period of its entire construction. energy consumption. by Keppel REIT in Sydney, Australia. BG The information is disclosed upon Junction in Surabaya, Indonesia was the completion of the project to As a result, energy intensity or the energy divested in 2014. allow more meaningful comparisons use per floor area at the corporate office between developments. fell about 3% from 84.9 kWh/m2 or Total energy consumption at these 456,400 kWh in 2013 to 82.1 kWh/m2 buildings amounted to about 22.0 Lakefront Residences in Singapore or 444,700 kWh in 2014. Energy million kWh or 105.8 kWh/m2 in 2014. was completed in 2014. The total intensity is expected to improve Energy intensity of office buildings was direct and indirect energy consumed further when cost savings from the 173.0 kWh/m2, marginally higher than over its entire construction period was replacement of existing conventional 164.4 kWh/m2 recorded in 2013. 16,200 GJ or 0.37 GJ/m2; and 140 GJ office lamps with energy-efficient LED or 0.003 GJ/m2 respectively. light tubes is realised for the full year HOSPITALITY PROPERTIES from 2015 onwards. Keppel Land Hospitality Management Total direct energy consumed for manages Sedona Hotel Yangon and other projects in Singapore included SINGAPORE INVESTMENT Sedona Hotel Mandalay in Myanmar, 2,900 GJ or 0.28 GJ/m2 for Madison BUILDINGS Sedona Suites Hanoi in Vietnam, as Residences; 86,100 GJ or 0.45 GJ/m2 Singapore investment buildings well as Spring City Golf & Lake Resort for Reflections at Keppel Bay and include Ocean Financial Centre, (Spring City) in Kunming, China. 17,900 GJ or 0.19 GJ/m2 for Ocean Keppel Towers and Keppel Towers 2, Financial Centre. Total indirect energy as well as Keppel Bay Tower. Equity In 2014, total energy consumption at consumption was 1,300 GJ or 0.13 GJ/m2; Plaza and Prudential Tower were these properties was about 22.7 million 22,600 GJ or 0.12 GJ/m2; and 8,500 GJ divested in 2014. kWh or 123.0 kWh/room-night. Energy or 0.09 GJ/m2 respectively. intensity of Spring City was about Electricity consumption at these 517 kWh/room-night, about 30% higher WATER USE buildings was about 23.6 million kWh than 385 kWh/room-night in 2013. WATER CONSUMPTION or 101.4 kWh/m2 in 2014. The energy Energy intensity of other properties In 2014, Keppel Land’s total water intensity was higher than 93.6 kWh/m2 was 91.9 kWh/room-night, about 20% consumption was about 692,000 m3, recorded in 2013. This was mainly due higher than 77.7 kWh/room-night in 9% lower than 762,000 m3 recorded to the completion of Ocean Financial 2013. This was mainly due to a lower the year before. This was partly due Centre Phase 2 in 2013, which has its number of room-nights experienced to the divestment of Equity Plaza, own chiller plant system. at our hospitality properties in 2014. Prudential Tower and BG Junction. Sustaining Growth Environment – Singapore Environment 54 SUSTAINING GROWTH SINGAPORE Water productivity, defined as revenue TOTAL WATER CONSUMPTIONk (‘000 m3) per water use, was about S$2,200/m3 (or USD 1,600/m3) in 2014, about 15% 1,200 higher than the S$1,900/m3 recorded 1,000 in 2013, mainly due to the lower water consumption over the year. 800 Water consumption at the corporate 600 office is about 3,000 m3 per annum or 400 9.1 m3/person per annum, based on the recommendations set by the Singapore 200 Standard SS CP48:2005 for water services. 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 In Singapore, water is drawn from public supply sources such as local catchment Corporate Office 3 3 3 3 areas, imported water, reclaimed water Singapore Commercial a,b 239 250 233 217 (NEWater) and desalinated water. Potable Overseas Commercial d 150 149 126 131 water is consumed at Keppel Land’s Overseas Retail e 100 91 94 70 investment properties for drinking, Hospitality Properties f 545 417 306 271 sanitary, irrigation and general washing. Total 1037 910 762 692 In 2014, total water consumption at the Group’s investment properties in Singapore was about 217,000 m3 or 18.7 m3/person; about 4% lower than the 19.5 m3/person WATER INTENSITYk (m3/person) recorded the year before. Measures to conserve water at its buildings include the 90 use of water-efficient fittings approved under 75 the PUB Water Efficiency Labelling Scheme (WELS), self-closing taps and flow regulators. 60 All of Keppel Land’s local investment buildings have achieved the PUB Water Efficient Building 45 award for outstanding efforts in water 30 conservation. In 2014, Ocean Financial Centre, One Raffles Quay and Prudential 15 Tower were upgraded to the Silver rating in 0 PUB’s Water Efficient Building certification. 2011 2012 2013 2014 Overseas, total water usage at Corporate Office 9.1 9.1 9.1 9.1 Keppel Land’s investment buildings Singapore Commercial a,b,c 22.0 18.3 19.5 18.7 was about 201,000 m3 in 2014. Water Overseas Commercial d 23.6 23.1 19.8 20.8 intensity or water used per person of office Overseas Retail e 3.2 2.4 2.4 2.3 buildings was 20.8 m3/person, about 5% Hospitality Properties f 2.1 1.6 1.4 1.5 higher than 19.8 m3/person in 2013. Water usage at the hotels was about 271,000 m3 in 2014, about 10% lower than 306,000 m3 recorded in 2013. Water intensity was about 1.5 m3/room-night in 2014, 7% higher than the year before. WATER DISCHARGE Water drawn from public utilities at the construction sites of Keppel Land’s developments in Singapore is generally recycled and reused for washing vehicles. With appropriate earth control measures, discharged water contains a lower amount KEPPEL LAND LIMITED Sustainability Report 2014 55 TOTAL CARBON EMISSIONh,k (tonnes CO2) of total suspended solids than the legal allowable limit of 50 mg/litre. 48,000 In Singapore, discharged water is 36,000 conveyed by a network of pipelines 24,000 nationwide to waterworks or wastewater treatment plants where it is chemically 12,000 treated, filtered and disinfected. The 0 treatment frees the water of harmful 2011 2012 2013 2014 bacteria and makes it clear, odourless and colourless. The treated water is then Fuel (scope 1) i 2,225 2,200 2,450 1,100 pumped into the distribution system Refrigerants (scope 1) i 985 700 750 750 and service reservoirs for consumption. Electricity (scope 2) i 36,540 37,700 36,500 35,100 Business Travel (scope 3) i 2,200 3,200 3,050 1,500 Similarly waste water used overseas Staff Commuting (scope 3) i 190 200 200 200 is recycled whenever possible. Water Consumption (scope 3) i 300 300 250 Total 42,140 44,300 43,250 38,900 WASTE MANAGEMENT WASTE RECYCLED Total waste generated at Keppel’s completed properties in Singapore and overseas was estimated at almost OVERALL CARBON EMISSION INTENSITY (kg/m2) 3,800 tonnes in 2014. Waste productivity, defined as revenue per waste generated, 80 was about S$400,000 /tonne (or 60 USD 290,000/tonne). Of this, about 300,000 kg of waste including paper, 40 plastics and cans is recycled at the 20 Group’s investment buildings. 0 Tenants at Keppel Land’s investment 2011 2012 2013 2014 buildings are also encouraged to recycle. For instance, at Ocean Financial 68.9 71.3 70.3 69.3 Centre, a central paper recycling chute complete with a paper shredder for disposing confidential documents within their premises, enables tenants EMBODIED CARBON EMISSION INTENSITY to recycle used papers. AT CONSTRUCTION SITES j (kg/m2) In 2014, Keppel Land and Keppel REIT’s 1,000 corporate offices recycled about 750 15,000 kg of waste paper in total. Waste generated at Keppel Land’s corporate 500 office consists mainly of paper. The 250 Company has a systematic paper management and recycling programme. 0 These include setting printers to print Ocean Reflections Madison Lakefront double-sided by default, encouraging the Financial at Keppel Residences Residences Centre Bay use of electronic mail and intranet for the publication and storage of documents, Embodied Carbon utilising smaller printouts as well as Emissions arising switching to electronic greeting cards. from Energy Use (Direct & Indirect) 27.7 51.3 40.0 31.0 Employees are encouraged to recycle Embodied Carbon Emissions arising used paper, with recycling bins placed at from Materials Use 510.0 860.0 920.0 970.0 convenient locations in all departments. A recycling company has been contracted to collect used paper regularly. Sustaining Growth Environment – Singapore Environment 56 SUSTAINING GROWTH SINGAPORE DIRECT AND INDIRECT EMISSIONS MATERIALS USED AT CONSTRUCTION SITESi (tonnes) EMISSION TO AIR The Company’s carbon emissions include 4,000 direct emissions from fuel used in power 3,000 generators and loss of refrigerant in air conditioning systems; indirect emissions 2,000 due to purchased electricity consumed 1,000 at investment properties and hotels; as well as other indirect emissions 0 arising from water usage at investment Ocean Reflections Madison Lakefront properties, business travel and employees Financial at Keppel Residences Residences commuting to and from the workplace. Centre Bay Materials Intensity In 2014, total carbon emission was (kg/m2 GFA) 2,200 2,900 3,600 3,800 about 38,900 tonnes. The largest source Emission Intensity of emissions was the use of electricity (kg/m2 GFA) 510 860 920 970 in its investment buildings, which accounted for about 90% of the Company’s carbon footprint. a Energy data for Singapore commercial buildings includes energy for mechanical and electrical services such as air-conditioning, lifts and lightings Carbon productivity, defined as revenue in all common areas, but excludes tenants’ energy consumption as tenants per greenhouse gas emission, was about are charged separately for use of electricity within their tenanted space. S$40,500/tonne (or USD 29,700/tonne) b Includes Ocean Financial Centre (from 2011 onwards), Ocean Towers (demolished and excluded from 2011 onwards), Keppel Towers and GE in 2014. This is about 10% higher than Tower, Prudential Tower (divested in Sep 2014), Equity Plaza (divested in Aug 2013, mainly due to the increase 2014) and Keppel Bay Tower. c Water intensity figures for Singapore commercial buildings are computed in revenue. based on the number of occupants in each respective year. d Includes Saigon Centre in Ho Chi Minh City and International Centre in Keppel Land is on track to meet the Hanoi, Vietnam as well as International Financial Centre in Jakarta, Indonesia. e Includes BG Junction in Jakarta, Indonesia (divested in 2014). emissions intensity reduction target of f Energy and water intensity for Hospitality Properties are expressed in 16% below 2010 levels as set out in its terms of kWh/room-night and m3/room-night respectively. Includes Sedona Carbon Management Plan. Manado in Indonesia (divested in 2013), Sedona Hotel Yangon and Sedona Hotel Mandalay in Myanmar, and Sedona Suites Hanoi in Vietnam. g Data for construction sites are disclosed on project basis instead of by year, Normalising the carbon emissions by the to allow for meaningful comparison. Energy data represent the total energy consumed during the entire construction period of the project. total floor area of all investment properties, h Energy conversion ratio for 2014 : 1kWh electricity = 0.4499 kg CO2 its carbon intensity in 2014 was 69.3 kg/m2 (Source: National Environment Agency, Dec 2014). gross floor area (GFA). This is 7.6% below i Scope 1 emissions include direct emissions from fuel used in power generators and loss of refrigerant in air-conditioning systems. 2010 emission levels. Scope 2 emissions include indirect emissions due to purchased electricity consumed at investment properties and hotels. Implementation of energy conservation Scope 3 emissions include other indirect emissions arising from water usage at investment properties, business travel as well as commuting to measures including the upgrade and and from the workplace of employees from corporate office. optimisation of chiller plant systems, j The emission data represent the project’s total embodied carbon from materials used and energy consumed at the construction site. Embodied as well as replacement of conventional carbon index of materials are sourced from The Inventory of Carbon and lightings with LED tubes at its investment Energy 2011, based on cradle-to-grave boundaries. properties have improved the Company’s k Figures for 2010-2012 have been restated to exclude tenants’ energy consumption at Saigon Centre and BG Junction, and include Spring City environmental performance. Golf & Lake Resort in the scope. In 2014, Keppel Land started to implement similar energy conservation measures in all its properties, including those overseas. About 70% of the staff at its corporate office in Singapore commute to work by public transport. The Company also advocates communication via audio or video conferencing where possible so as to minimise overseas travel. KEPPEL LAND LIMITED Sustainability Report 2014 57 ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION EXPENDITURE Estimated Description Expenditure ($) Total cost of green building features in all Green Mark-certified projects in Singapore and overseas* 130,000,000 In 2014: Green building features in Green Mark-certified projects awarded in 2014 22,800,000 Training (environmental courses, seminars, conferences) 7,000 External certification (ISO 9001, ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001) 54,000 Outreach programmes^ Environmental education 52,000 Gold sponsor of International Green Building Conference 2014+ 50,000 Subtotal 22,963,000 * Total cost includes cost of projects developed in joint ventures which will be borne by Keppel Land and joint venture partners. ^ Excludes Keppel Land’s share of contribution at Keppel Group level. + Includes contributions from Keppel Group. CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS meaningfully, Keppel Land discloses Keppel Land aims to reduce materials While emissions due to construction the usage of materials based on the intensity and embodied carbon activities that occur within the entire construction lifespan of a project emissions as well as conserve global boundaries of a development site instead of on a yearly basis. For resources. The Company has set are a result of the contractor’s direct comparison purposes, total materials the target of using at least 30% of and indirect emissions, Keppel Land used per project is reported upon building materials with recycled recognises the significant environmental project completion. content, low carbon emissions or impact of construction activities. The certified by recognised environmental Company measures and monitors A total of 10 most commonly used organisations such as the Forest energy and emission data from its materials in building construction Stewardship Council or the Singapore construction sites. have been identified and measured. Green Building Council for its These include cement, sand, new projects. Adopting the same principle of concrete, aggregate, bricks, steel, disclosure on a project basis, the aluminum, glass, paints, as well as ENVIRONMENTAL total direct and indirect emissions ceramic tiles and granite. PROTECTION EXPENDITURE of Lakefront Residences was about Keppel Land adopts a proactive 1,350 tonnes or 31 kg/m2 GFA. Total materials used at Lakefront and holistic approach in the way it Residences was about 170,000 tonnes designs, constructs and operates Total direct and indirect emissions was or 3,800 kg/m2 GFA. In terms of its developments. about 410 tonnes or 40 kg/m2 GFA for embodied carbon emissions, about Madison Residences, 10,000 tonnes 42,800 tonnes or 970 kg/m2 GFA The total cost incurred for incorporating or 51 kg/m2 GFA for Reflections at were emitted. green features for all its Green MarkKeppel Bay; and 2,600 tonnes or 28 kg/m2 certified residential and commercial GFA for Ocean Financial Centre. Total materials used was 36,000 projects in Singapore and overseas tonnes or 3,600 kg/m2 GFA for is estimated to be about $130 million. CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS Madison Residences; 564,000 tonnes This amount includes its partners’ MATERIALS USE or 2,900 kg/m2 GFA for Reflections share for jointly developed projects. The construction and real estate sector at Keppel Bay; and 200,000 tonnes consumes a considerable amount of or 2,200 kg/m2 GFA for Ocean TARGETS materials. However, the amount of Financial Centre. In terms of Recognising the twin benefits of materials used within a reporting year embodied carbon emissions, about environmentally-friendly business is not comparable over the years as the 9,500 tonnes of 920 kg/m2 GFA, practices on the environment number of projects varies every year 167,000 tonnes or 860 kg/m2 GFA’ and its bottom-line, Keppel Land and the construction stages of each and 47,000 tonnes or 510 kg/m2 GFA has set strategic plans for project differ. To track such data were emitted respectively. continual improvement. Sustaining Growth Environment – Singapore Environment 58 SUSTAINING GROWTH SINGAPORE ENVIRONMENTAL DESIGN ENVIRONMENTAL OPERATION PLANS CARBON MANAGEMENT PLAN GUIDELINES Keppel Land has implemented Keppel Land’s Carbon Management Keppel Land has in place a set Environmental Operation Plans for Plan outlines the initiatives and of Environmental Design Guidelines the management of the respective programmes that the Company will for its new developments. These completed commercial buildings in undertake to reduce its emissions. include stretched targets in the Singapore and hospitality properties areas of environmental certification, overseas since 2012. In 2014, the scope Adopting a holistic approach energy, water, landscaping and was expanded to include completed towards reducing carbon emissions, materials use. Since 2013, these commercial buildings overseas. the Group has set the target of guidelines have been included reducing its emissions intensity in the design brief to consultants The individualised plans outline by 16% below 2010’s emission for new projects undertaken. environmental targets and levels by 2020. programmes to yield measurable The Group adopts an integrated reductions in waste as well as energy Carbon reduction measures to be design approach where teams and water usage at each property. undertaken include developing including consultants as well These include adhering to the high-performance commercial as in-house sustainability and Group’s environmental policy and buildings, upgrading chiller plant project managers work together green procurement guidelines. systems in existing buildings and to adopt new strategies, systems replacing existing lightings with and products right from the initial Annual reviews will also be energy-saving LED tubes. design stages to create sustainable conducted to monitor the progress developments. This will enable and implementation of the plans as This will result in a reduction of the Group to achieve its goal well as the corresponding cost savings. about 23,000 tonnes of carbon of obtaining at least the BCA These measures are targeted at dioxide emission, which will Green Mark GoldPLUS and helping the Company achieve its goal yield potential savings of over Gold standards for all new of at least the BCA Green Mark GoldPLUS $12.4 million up to 2020. Beyond properties in Singapore and rating for all its completed commercial 2020, annual savings of about overseas respectively. buildings in Singapore by 2015. $2.75 million are expected. ENVIRONMENTAL TARGETS 2020 • To reduce 2017 carbon emissions • To achieve at intensity by 16% 2008 2012 2015 least one BCA below 2010’s • Committed to achieve • Committed to • To achieve minimum Green Mark emission levels. minimum BCA Green achieve minimum BCA Green Mark Pearl Award. Mark Gold Award BCA Green Mark GoldPLUS Award or its equivalent for GoldPLUS Award for for completed new developments new developments commercial buildings in Singapore in Singapore. in Singapore. and overseas. • Committed to train all Project Managers as Green Mark Managers. KEPPEL LAND LIMITED Sustainability Report 2014 59 Environmental and Sustainability Milestones 2009 • Ocean Financial Centre became the first 2006 office development in • Awarded the BCA Southeast Asia to achieve Green Mark Gold LEED Platinum (core and Award for condominium shell) pre-certification. development, The Tresor, in Singapore. • Conferred 11 BCA Green Mark Awards for projects • Obtained Gold in Singapore, China and (Implementation/ Vietnam. These include Residential) and Silver the Group’s first BCA (Maintenance) Awards Green Mark Gold Award for Caribbean at in China for projects Keppel Bay at the in Tianjin, Shanghai Landscape Industry and Kunming. Association (Singapore) Awards of Excellence. 2008 • Expanded the ISO 14001 • Conferred four BCA EMS certification scope • Caribbean at Keppel Green Mark Gold to include property Bay emerged Winner Awards for projects management in in the Residential in Singapore and Singapore and property category at the Vietnam. The Estella development in China international FIABCI Prix and Vietnam. 1997 d’Excellence Awards. was the first in Vietnam • Started a dedicated to receive BCA’s Green Mark Award. • Published inaugural section in Keppel Land’s GRI Level C Annual Report to • Ocean Financial Centre Sustainability Report. detail the Company’s environmental efforts. became the first office development • Became founding in Singapore’s CBD member of the to obtain the highest Singapore Green BCA Green Mark Building Council. Platinum Award. • Eco-City International 2007 • Achieved IS0 14001 Country Club (previously • Formed the Environment EMS certification for known as Tianjin Pearl Management Committee. 2005 property development Beach International • Attained the Best Country Club) in • Became a developer and in Singapore. in Class status China became the project manager for by Scandinavian world’s first Audubon Keppel Group’s 36.6-ha • Attained Eco-Office financial institution, International-certified eco-development in the certification for its Storebrand, Classic Sanctuary. Start-Up Area in the corporate headquarters for leading in Sino-Singapore Tianjin by the Singapore environmental and • Jakarta Garden City Eco-City (Sino-Singapore Environment Council. social performance. was named Best Eco-City) in China. • Released first CSR Middle Class Residential • Became founding Development at the • Awarded BCA Green report online. member of FIABCI Indonesia BNI Mark Gold Award for Singapore Compact. Prix d’Excellence Marina Bay Residences. • One Raffles Quay emerged Winner in Awards. • Started the Go Green the Office category at the FIABCI Prix • Saigon Centre in with Keppel Land d’Excellence Awards. was named the Most outreach programme. Energy-Efficient Building (1st runner-up) by Vietnam’s Ministry of Trade and Industry. Sustaining Growth Environment – Singapore Environment 60 SUSTAINING GROWTH SINGAPORE 2011 • Joined the United Nations Global Compact. 2010 • Embarked on journey to • Selected as a component align the Group’s business of the Dow Jones operations with the ISO Sustainability Index 26000 standard. (DJSI) Asia Pacific. • Selected as a component • Only Singaporean of the DJSI World Index company to be included and retained its position in the Sustainable Asset Management (SAM) in the DJSI Asia Pacific 2012 for the second year. • Became founding Sustainability Yearbook 2011. member of the World • Included in the SAM Green Building • Expanded the scope • Named the Most Admired Sustainability Yearbook ASEAN Enterprise for Council Corporate of Keppel Land China’s 2012 and named Sector Advisory Board. independent ISO 14001 CSR at the ASEAN Mover for the real Business Awards. EMS certification to estate sector. • Placed in the DJSI Asia include Chengdu, • Conferred another four Pacific and World for Nantong and Beijing. • Named Best Performer the third and second BCA Green Mark Gold in Asia in the Global Real Awards for commercial year respectively. • Commenced ISO 14001 Estate Sustainability EMS implementation projects in Singapore. Benchmark (GRESB) 2011. • Included in the in Indonesia. • Expanded the ISO 14001 SAM Sustainability • Conferred the Best In Yearbook for the third • Developed Environmental EMS certification scope Class (Financials) status to include property consecutive year. Operation Plans for by Storebrand. managing environmental development operations in Tianjin, Kunming and • Included in the MSCI performance at • Won the Best Sustainability Global Sustainability completed commercial Jiangyin in China. Award at ACCA Singapore Index. buildings in Singapore Awards for Sustainability and overseas hospitality • Panel speaker at the Reporting 2011. Impetus for Growing Global • Named the Regional properties. seminar organised by the Sector Leader for • Ocean Financial Centre the Office Sector in • Jakarta Garden City Singapore Management bagged the Gold Award University and BCA. GRESB 2012. (Phase 1) in Indonesia for Product Excellence bagged the Highly at the Global CSR • Participated in the Carbon Commended Green • Showcased Ocean Awards 2011. Financial Centre and Disclosure Project. Development Award Sino-Singapore Eco-City at at the Southeast Asia • Conferred another four • Achieved nine BCA Property Awards 2012. Building Eco Xpo Asia, where BCA Green Mark Gold it was the Gold sponsor. Green Mark Awards for Awards for projects projects in Singapore, • Conferred the Best in Singapore, China China, Vietnam, Indonesia Property Development • Attained the Audubon and Indonesia. Classic Sanctuary status and India. International Organisation for Mature for another two golf Financial Centre Jakarta Markets at the Asia • Expanded the ISO 14001 Tower 2 became the Pacific Real Estate courses in Kunming, China, EMS certification scope and Bintan, Indonesia. first development in Association Best to Zhongshan and Indonesia to receive Practices Awards 2012. attained independent the BCA Green Mark • Attained the Solar certification for property Pioneer Award for Platinum Award. • Garnered a Special development in China. Mention under the Ocean Financial Centre. Green Champion • Marina Bay Residences category at the • Won the Central and Marina Bay Financial Singapore Project Singapore Compact Centre (Phase 1) CSR Awards 2012. E.A.R.T.H. Challenge for received the FIABCI Prix corporate organisations. d’Excellence Singapore Property Awards 2011 in • Published GRI Level B+ the residential (High-rise) Sustainability Report, and office categories. with external assurance. • Ocean Financial Centre • Merit Award winner in the bagged the Green services category at the Development Award Singapore Environmental at the Southeast Asia Achievement Awards. Property Awards 2011. KEPPEL LAND LIMITED Sustainability Report 2014 61 2014-2015 • Ranked 4th in Corporate Knights’ Global 100 List of Most Sustainable Corporations in the 2013 World 2015, up from • Conferred the Most 17th position in 2014. Admired ASEAN Enterprise Award in • Included in the DJSI the CSR category at Asia Pacific and World the ASEAN Business Indices for the fifth and Awards 2013. fourth consecutive year respectively. • Included in the DJSI Asia Pacific and • Included in World Indices for RobecoSAM’s the fourth and third Sustainability Yearbook year respectively. 2015 for the fifth consecutive year. • Included in RobecoSAM’s • Achieved six BCA Green • Included as a Sustainability Yearbook Mark Awards for constituent of the MSCI for the fourth projects in Singapore Global Sustainability consecutive year. and China. and Socially Responsible Indices for the third • Included as a • Emerged winner in and second consecutive • Marina Bay Financial constituent of the services category year respectively. Centre Tower 3 won the the MSCI Global at the Singapore inaugural BCA Green Sustainability and Environmental • Conferred the Most Mark Pearl Award in Socially Responsible Achievement Admired ASEAN 2015. Indices. Awards 2013. Enterprise Award for Corporate Excellence • Highline Residences • Named the Regional • Won the Sustainable at the ASEAN Business and The Luxurie garnered Sector Leader for Business Award Awards 2014. the BCA Universal Asia (Office Category) (Large Enterprises) Design Mark Award. in GRESB 2013. at the Singapore • Named BCA Green Sustainability Mark Champion and • Achieved ISO 9001 • Achieved ISO 14001 Awards 2013. achieved eight BCA certification for certification for Green Mark Awards for property development property development • Garnered the Green projects in Singapore and project management operations in Indonesia Champion Award at and overseas in 2014. services in Singapore. and independent the Singapore Compact certification for CSR Summit 2013. • Bagged the BCA • Implemented the property development Quality Champion Integrated Management operations in Vietnam. • Achieved the Green Gold Award (Developer) System in Singapore. Globe certification for and the BCA Built • Embarked on the Sedona Suites Hanoi Environment Leadership • Became a partner Integrated Management and Sedona Suites Gold Class Award in the BCA Green System to combine Ho Chi Minh City. in 2015. Buildings Innovation ISO 14001, ISO 9001 Cluster programme. and OHSAS 18001 • Ocean Financial Centre standards into a garnered the Skyrise • Adopted GRI’s G4 single framework. Greenery Excellence Guidelines at the Award 2013. Comprehensive Level for its Sustainability • Marina at Keppel Bay Report from 2014. named winner of Best Environmental Initiative • Collaborated with and International Marina Singapore Compact, of the Year 2013-14 by Singapore Business the Marina industries Federation and the Association (Australia). National University of Singapore’s Business • Published GRI Level A+ School on their Sustainability Report, CSR publications. with external assurance. Sustaining Growth Environment – Singapore Environment 62 SUSTAINING GROWTH OVERSEAS OVERSEAS PRESERVING BIODIVERSITY species, most of which are native Keppel Land’s commitment towards Conscious efforts are made to to the Yunnan province. Information the management and protection of the preserve the biodiversity in boards have also been placed along environment goes beyond Singapore Keppel Land’s properties. the trail to help spread the message on to wherever it operates. the importance of preserving biodiversity. Its golf courses such as Spring City HOSPITALITY MANAGEMENT and Ria Bintan Golf Club (Ria Bintan) The architecture of the Forest Course Keppel Land Hospitality Management, in Indonesia were sculpted along at Ria Bintan is constructed around which operates and manages a the natural contours of the existing natural contours so as to portfolio of properties including undulating landscape. preserve wildlife corridors. The hotels, serviced residences as well integrated design allows a one-withas golf courses, resorts and marinas Originally an arid and mountainous nature theme throughout the resort. across Asia, is committed to good site afflicted by poor surface drainage environmental stewardship at all and severe soil erosion, Spring City Ria Bintan has also embarked on a its properties. is today home to two world-class programme to reduce water usage and golf courses. fertilisers in maintaining its golf All its hotels and serviced residences courses. Local species of shrubs and adhere to an environmental policy Indigenous flora like the eucalyptus groundcovers are planted to minimise and a set of guidelines on energy trees and wildflowers were carefully maintenance work. and water conservation, green preserved during and after construction procurement as well as usage of to ensure that the eco-system remained At Eco-City International Country Club biodegradable cleaning products, balanced and intact. Many species of (ECICC) in Sino-Singapore Eco-City, energy-efficient office appliances trees were also planted at Spring City the resort has introduced new and equipment. Energy conservation to help in the habitation of wildlife such initiatives such as enhancing water measures at its properties include as songbirds, squirrels, butterflies, quality with additional re-circulating the installation of timer switches and insects and rabbits. streams so as to increase plant density energy-saving fluorescent bulbs as along the water edge, conserving well as a recycling programme for Spring City also features a 1.7-km water through better controls as well paper, plastic, glass and linen. nature trail with over 300 plant as increasing the natural habitat areas 01 KEPPEL LAND LIMITED Sustainability Report 2014 63 01 02 Keppel Land’s golf courses such as Spring City in Kunming, China (pictured), boast eco-friendly features. 02 The Company’s overseas hospitality properties such as Sedona Hotel Yangon (pictured) are also Green Mark-certified. and migration corridors. ECICC was GREEN GLOBE CERTIFICATION With a development period spanning conferred the Gold Award in the Sedona Suites Hanoi and Sedona 10 to 15 years, it will showcase how Wetlands category at the Top Golf Suites Ho Chi Minh City in Vietnam ecological challenges can be tackled Courses Awards in March 2014 for its achieved the Green Globe certification with the integration of eco-solutions excellence in golf course management in 2013, while Sedona Hotel Mandalay through careful master-planning. It has and environmental protection. attained the certification in 2009. a Start-Up Area (SUA) of four sq km, which will be home to about 26,500 AUDUBON CERTIFICATION Developed by the World Travel and households when completed. The Company operates three Audubon Tourism Council and an affiliate International-certified golf courses to the United Nations World Tourism The master developer for Sino-Singapore in China and Indonesia. ECICC was Organisation, the Green Globe is Eco-City is Sino-Singapore Tianjin the first in the world to achieve the recognised internationally as a mark of Eco-City Investment and Development prestigious Audubon Classic Sanctuary quality, sustainability and climate action. Co., Ltd (SSTEC), a 50/50 joint venture status in 2009, followed by Spring City It assesses the sustainability performance between the Singapore consortium, and Ria Bintan in 2010. of travel and tourism businesses and led by the Keppel Group, and the their supply chain partners. Chinese consortium, led by Tianjin Audubon is a global environmental TEDA Investment Holding Co., Ltd. organisation which champions wildlife TOWARDS SUSTAINABLE protection as well as provides education DEVELOPMENT Keppel Land China is an investor, and conservation assistance for SINO-SINGAPORE ECO-CITY, CHINA developer and project manager of responsible management of natural Sino-Singapore Eco-City is a flagship the Keppel Group’s 36.6-ha site within resources. The Audubon Classic bilateral project between the the SUA. Keppel Corporation and Programme is targeted at existing governments of Singapore and China Keppel Land China hold 45% and 55% golf courses that are being redeveloped to jointly create a practical, scalable interests respectively in this site. or going through refurbishments, and replicable model of sustainable while maintaining its use. urban development for other cities The development of Keppel Group’s in China and the rest of the world. 36.6-ha site in the SUA is carried out in To achieve the status, certified courses phases. It is expected to yield about must meet the stringent programme Located on non-arable, water-scarce 4,350 homes, as well as commercial requirements as well as any additional land with limited natural resources in developments including office and site-specific requirements identified by the Tianjin Binhai New Area, the 30-sq km retail space when completed. Audubon. These include environmental Sino-Singapore Eco-City is envisioned planning, wildlife and habitat to be an economically thriving Into its sixth year, Sino-Singapore management, outreach and education, city that is socially harmonious, Eco-City has been steadily transformed reduction of chemical-use and safety, environmentally-friendly and into a modern eco-township with offices, water conservation as well as water resource-efficient, where 350,000 commercial hubs, schools and other quality management. residents can live, work and play. amenities. Its transformation from Sustaining Growth Environment – Overseas Environment 64 SUSTAINING GROWTH OVERSEAS 01 a former wasteland into a thriving Eco-Business Park was conferred eco-city that is now home to over the 3-Star Award by China’s Green 10,000 residents was featured at the Building Design Label (GBDL) in GREEN BUILDING World Cities Summit held in June 2014. recognition of its outstanding EVALUATION The latest developments, eco-solutions contributions in the areas of green STANDARD and technologies at Sino-Singapore building and environmental protection. Eco-City were showcased in conjunction The award is of the highest rating with the summit’s theme of meeting conferred by GBDL, China’s national • Achieve at least 70% urban challenges with green initiatives green building evaluation system, reduction in building energy and sustainable solutions. which is accredited by the Ministry of consumption compared Housing and Urban-Rural Development. to buildings designed to Sino-Singapore Eco-City has been The LCLL was also the first to receive local design standard; designated as China’s first national the BCA Green Mark Platinum Award green development demonstration to be given to a building located in a • Meet 5% of total building zone and will serve as a test-bed for temperate zone in 2013. energy demand from new models of green development in renewable energy sources; China. An action plan spanning to GREEN BUILDING 2020 has been developed to bring EVALUATION STANDARD • At least one room in all the eco-city to the next level. It All developers in Sino-Singapore apartment units will receive includes low-carbon developments Eco-City have to comply with the Green at least two hours of sunlight and plans to promote green transport Building Evaluation Standard (GBES). during winter; such as electric vehicles. These pilot The GBES is a combination of China and schemes for sustainable development Singapore’s green building standards. • Green ratio of at least 40%; if successful, will be replicated in cities across China. Under the standard, a building is • Reduce construction evaluated in six areas, namely land materials wastage through In recognition of its outstanding savings and outdoor environment, optimal design; and achievements in the area of green energy efficiency, materials savings, buildings development, Sinowater savings, indoor environment • Source more than 70% Singapore Eco-City was named the quality, as well as operations of construction materials National Green Building Base by the and maintenance. (by weight) from within a China Green Building Council. 500-km radius. Developers may choose to exceed In addition, the Low Carbon Living Lab the mandatory standards to qualify (LCLL) developed by SSTEC in the for the Silver, Gold or Platinum awards. KEPPEL LAND LIMITED Sustainability Report 2014 65 SEASONS PARK Keppel Land strives to create vibrant, application of EM. An EM workshop Seasons Park is the first collection integrated and quality live, work, and was also held at Keppel Land’s head of homes in the Keppel Group’s play environments which can meet office in Singapore. four-phase residential development the demand for premium office space in the SUA. Phase 1 of Seasons Park from multinational corporations In November, Taman Sutera obtained the BCA Green Mark Gold looking to participate in the rapid collaborated with the EM Research Award in 2012 and attained the ISO growth of Tianjin and northern China. Organisation, Raffles University 14001 certification for its environment Iskandar as well as Kiwanis CareHeart management system standards in 2011. OVERSEAS OUTREACH Centre to organise the Good Earth Keppel Land extends its Go Green eco-exhibition at Sutera Mall. Comprising 1,672 homes, it was with Keppel Land outreach programme Environmental talks, workshops launched in 2010 and completed to its overseas offices to engage and movie screenings were held in 2012. Over 90% of the 1,459 its stakeholders. throughout the month to spread the launched units have been sold as green message to the community. at end-March 2015. INCULCATING GREEN MINDSETS To commemorate World Environment In China, SSTEC collaborated with Some of the innovative green Day, staff from Keppel Land’s offices General Motors (GM) and the SSTEC technologies incorporated at in Beijing and Chengdu held activities Administrative Committee launched Seasons Park include a building such as tree-planting as well as art a study on the usage of low-speed, envelope thermal system which and craft using recycled materials green transportation tools for daily can achieve energy savings of with children from charitable commuting. The Chevrolet EN-V 2.0, up to 70% compared to normal organisations. In the Philippines, a zero-emission Electric Networkstandards, a solar hot water system employees attended a presentation Vehicle was deployed in Sinothat supplies 60% of all units’ hot session on the impact of climate Singapore Eco-City’s premises as water consumption and pneumatic change and the importance of a model of sustainable urban mobility. waste collection system. preserving the environment. To promote a sustainable lifestyle, SSTEC held a waste management Other green features include an Eco-office measures have been workshop for staff, as well as staged energy-efficient air-conditioning implemented in Keppel Land’s a play on eco-lifestyle for staff and system and high-energy conservation offices in Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam students at the Tianjin Binhai Foreign insulated walls. Building positions as well as Shenyang, Shanghai, Languages School. have been designed to avoid the Tianjin, Wuxi and Jiangyin in China. wind tunnel effect. These include green practices such At Central Park City in Wuxi, China, as turning off non-essential lights homeowners were given a Green SEASONS GARDEN and computer monitors during Guide with details of the eco-friendly Phase 2 of the residential component, lunch hour, ensuring appropriate features and facilities within the Seasons Garden, will comprise about indoor ambient temperatures in development. Recycling bins and 1,190 midand low-rise apartments. offices and using recycling bins. a green corner are provided to Currently under development, it was Keppel Land China also extended encourage residents to adopt a launched in November 2013. these practices to its residents, green lifestyle. consultants and contractors. In 2013, Keppel Land acquired another Similar efforts to promote environmental 10.4-ha prime residential site in the ENGAGING COMMUNITIES awareness have been implemented SUA to develop 346 low-rise homes. Taman Sutera, Keppel Land’s integrated at Stamford City in Jiangyin, China. township in Johor Bahru, Malaysia, These include bicycle rental facilities, SEASONS CITY collaborates with research bodies a Green Educational Corner to educate Seasons City, also known as the such as the EM Research Organisation residents on energy and water commercial sub-centre, will comprise to actively promote the use of Effective conservation, as well as provide practical three office towers and retail premises Micro-organism (EM) solutions for tips on leading a green lifestyle. with GFA of about 162,000 sm. Phase 1 construction and landscaping, as an will feature an office tower and a retail environmentally-friendly alternative complex with total above-ground to chemical cleaning products GFA of 81,500 sm. Work has beyond the Taman Sutera community. 01 commenced and is targeted for An educational tour to the Kiwanis Sino-Singapore completion in 2017. CareHeart Centre at Sutera Utama Eco-City has been Education Hub was conducted for designated as China’s first national Leveraging its extensive experience as students of Singapore’s Ngee Ann green development a developer of prime office buildings, Polytechnic to demonstrate the demonstration zone. Sustaining Growth Environment – Overseas 66 SUSTAINING GROWTH Innovation and Product Excellence 01 Keppel Land is committed to creating 01 quality live-work-play environments through All of Keppel Land’s properties are celebrated for the development of sustainable properties their innovative design and of enduring value for its homeowners thoughtful features. Photo credit: Woh Hup and tenants. (Private) Limited ISO 9001 Top 10 As at October 2014, all of Keppel Land has been listed among Keppel Land’s projects in Singapore BCI Asia’s Top 10 Developers in have attained the ISO 9001 certificaSingapore and Vietnam in 2014. tion. This will be expanded to cover its overseas operations. KEPPEL LAND LIMITED Sustainability Report 2014 67 SUSTAINABLE BENCHMARKS Keppel Land aligns with and benchmarks its business practices against global standards including the Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) by the United States Green Building Council; the Green Mark scheme by the Building and Construction Authority of Singapore (BCA); the Audubon International certification; the ISO 14001, OHSAS 18000 and ISO 26000 standards; the Global Reporting Initiative guidelines and the AA1000 Assurance Standard. In doing so, the Company continually strives towards excellence in product quality, environmental protection, occupational health and safety, social responsibility and sustainability reporting. ISO 9001 Keppel Land has adopted the ISO 9001:2008 (ISO 9001) quality management system standard for its projects. The internationally-recognised standard provides organisations with guidance and tools to ensure quality products and services that meet customers’ requirements. Companies are also encouraged to constantly improve on their product and service offerings. The standard focuses on the eight principles of customer focus, leadership, involvement of people, process approach, system health and safety management The Innovation Culture Taskforce approach to management, continual system into a single framework. aims to improve the Company’s improvement, factual approach to innovative culture. Following a decision making and mutually This streamlines procedures, series of in-house focus group beneficial supplier relations. reduces time and resources discussions, a new staff lounge needed to administer and audit was set up where employees can The Company achieved the ISO 9001 the projects, and increases overall interact, re-charge and exchange certification for its Singapore projects operational efficiency. ideas. Named Kloud and officially in October 2014, and certification launched in May 2014, the lounge for its China projects are ongoing. A new Quality, Environmental, forms part of the Company’s The certification will be expanded to Health and Safety (QEHS) Policy broader efforts to create multiple cover its overseas operations thereafter. endorsed by the CEO was adopted platforms to further strengthen in early-2014. staff engagement. Employees INTEGRATED MANAGEMENT SYSTEM were involved in the various stages The Group has implemented the INNOVATION* of setting up the lounge, from Integrated Management System The Innovation Culture Taskforce and conceptualisation to the naming (IMS) in Singapore. This combines the Product/Service Innovation Team, process through to implementation. ISO 9001 with the ISO 14001 which were set up in 2013, continued environmental management system to lead efforts to help the Company and the OHSAS 18001 occupational stay abreast of market trends. * G4-26, G4-27 Sustaining Growth Innovation and Product Excellence Innovation and 68 SUSTAINING GROWTH Product Excellence Type of Sustainability Number of Type of Certification and Ratings Developments Development Location LEED Platinum 1 Commercial Singapore Total 1 BCA Green Mark – Platinum rating 3 Commercial Singapore 1 Commercial Jakarta, Indonesia 2 Data centre Singapore – GoldPLUS rating 2 Commercial Singapore 3 Residential Singapore – Gold rating 9 Residential Singapore 5 Commercial Singapore 11 Residential Shanghai, Chengdu, Jiangyin, Wuxi, Tianjin and Kunming, China 3 Residential Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam 2 Commercial Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam 1 Residential Jakarta, Indonesia a 1 Hospitality Yangon, Myanmar – Certified 1 Data centre Singapore 1 Residential Jiangyin, China 1 Residential Shanghai, China 1 Residential Kolkata, India a Total 47 Audubon Classic Sanctuary 3 Golf Course Tianjin and Kunming, China, as well as Bintan, Indonesia Total 3 a Keppel Land divested its stakes in the residential developments in Jakarta and Kolkata in 2013 and 2014 respectively. Sustainability Management Standards Development b Location ISO 14001 Residential Singapore Commercial Singapore Residential Shanghai, Wuxi, Tianjin, Kunming, Jiangyin, Zhongshan and Chengdu, China Commercial Beijing and Tianjin, China Residential Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam Commercial Jakarta, Indonesia OHSAS 18001 Residential Singapore Commercial Singapore Residential Shanghai, Shenyang, Wuxi, Kunming, Jiangyin, Tianjin, Zhongshan and Chengdu, China Commercial Beijing, China Residential Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam Commercial Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam b With the exception of commercial developments in Singapore, which have been completed, all other developments are currently under development. KEPPEL LAND LIMITED Sustainability Report 2014 69 To instil an innovative culture within solving project challenges relevant and technology to introduce new and the organisation, a quarterly Lecture to their respective business areas. innovative features in its properties. Series, K’onversations, was held from June 2014. Guest speakers from In August 2014, Keppel Land was In September 2014, staff from within the Company and industry invited by Keppel Infrastructure to both innovation teams attended experts shared their experiences conduct a sharing at their inaugural a workshop on Design Thinking on innovation and championing Cross-Business Unit Workshop. In to facilitate their role as change change. These sessions, which addition to featuring some of the agents. Conducted by DesignWorks were held at the staff lounge and initiatives by the Taskforce, staff also Singapore, a Business Design centre open to all employees, provided shared their experiences working set up by the Singapore Polytechnic a lively platform for staff to on the green wall at Ocean Financial and the University of Toronto’s Rotman engage with and be inspired by Centre, which had garnered a School of Management with the the speakers. Guinness World Record as the support of SPRING Singapore, this World’s Largest Vertical Garden. customised workshop equipped The Innovation Culture Taskforce participants with Design Thinking also collaborated with the Singapore The Product/Service Innovation tools and methodologies in an Polytechnic to co-facilitate a Team seeks to address product interactive, project-based format. Design Thinking Training Workshop deficiencies or omissions within the during the Company’s Annual Company’s existing developments. Staff Conference in May. Some In addition, through identifying 40 employees from Singapore and future lifestyle trends resulting 01 overseas business units attended the from changing environmental The green wall at workshop. Besides understanding factors such as demographics, Ocean Financial Centre the concepts and tools of Design socio-economics, government garnered a Guinness World Record in 2013 Thinking and Innovation, they also plans and policies, the Company as the World’s Largest gained hands-on experience in aims to leverage the latest in design Vertical Garden. 01 Sustaining Growth Innovation and Product Excellence Innovation and 70 SUSTAINING GROWTH Product Excellence Following the successful research OUTSTANDING DEVELOPMENTS aggregate value of projects under collaboration with Singapore Polytechnic’s Keppel Land’s commitment and construction during the last full Student Agency in 2013, Keppel Land efforts have gained recognition calendar year weighted by the collaborated with the Polytechnic’s regionally and internationally. extent of their sustainability efforts. Diploma in Business Innovation and Design final-year students on a research The Company clinched a total of eight Keppel Land’s residential projects, project to conceptualise family-oriented awards at the prestigious Euromoney Highline Residences and The Glades in homes in response to Singapore’s Real Estate Awards 2014, which recognises Singapore were awarded the Landscape rapidly aging population. Three the best in the global real estate industry. Excellence Assessment Framework (LEAF) students from the course were It was named the Best Office Developer certification in August 2014. This followed subsequently selected for internships for the seventh consecutive year, as well the recognition for Corals at Keppel with the Company to further develop as Best Developer in the residential, Bay and 158 Cecil Street which were the ideas arising from the project. leisure/hotel and overall categories in conferred the inaugural awards last year. Singapore. In Vietnam, it bagged the In 2014, Keppel Land spent a total of titles of Best Developer, Best Residential Launched by the National Parks Board, about $584,050 on innovation-related Developer, Best Office/Business LEAF recognises developments that matters, a significant increase from Developer and Best Mixed-Use Developer. feature outstanding landscaping. $443,940 in 2013. It is the first of such schemes in At the same time, Keppel Land was Singapore dedicated to the provision Innovation is also part of employees’ recognised as a green builder at and management of greenery. This competency assessment appraisal. the inaugural World Green Building certification reaffirms Keppel Land’s It is assessed as part of a group of Council Asia Pacific Regional Network commitment to develop properties six to eight other key competency Leadership Awards in Green Building that support healthy eco-systems. areas which carry a 30% weightage in held in September, emerging as one their individual performance appraisal. of the winners under the Business Highline Residences is a showcase of Leadership in Sustainability category. sustainability and resource efficiency Keppel Group launched the inaugural through its landscape management Innovation Convention in June 2015, QUALITY HOMES and greenery provision. These include as part of the efforts to foster and Keppel Land has been listed among a seven metres green lawn, an elevated flourish the core value of innovation, BCI Asia’s Top 10 Developers in green ridge, rooftop community farming as well as apply innovation and Singapore and Vietnam in 2014. and landscaped sky terraces, as well as technology to keep ahead of competition. The awards recognise top architectural an automated irrigation system. The The Convention will provide an exciting firms and developers in the region that development will also feature native plant platform to ignite the exchange had made the greatest impact on the species suitable for tropical weather, to of best ideas and development of built environment in Southeast Asia. ensure easy maintenance. Horticulture innovative projects from employees Architectural and development firms waste produced will be recycled across the Group. were evaluated based on the highest through the provision of compost bins. 01 KEPPEL LAND LIMITED Sustainability Report 2014 71 02 COMMERCIAL SHOWCASE breakthroughs, with features including In recognition of its excellence in design one of Singapore’s largest assembly and architecture, Ocean Financial of solar panels, an energy-efficient Centre and Marina Bay Suites were hybrid chilled water system and an conferred the coveted International integrated paper recycling facility. Real Estate Federation FIABCI Singapore Together, these contribute to about Property Awards under the Office and 35% in overall energy savings per annum. Residential (High Rise) categories Other efforts including the harvesting respectively. With these wins, both of rainwater for irrigation of rooftop properties qualified for the highly gardens, recycling of condensate acclaimed FIABCI Prix d’Excellence water for the cooling tower and use of Awards 2015. Participants were water-efficient tap fittings, contribute evaluated on aspects such as concept, towards water savings of 42 million architecture and design, development litres annually, which can fill about and construction, finance and 17 Olympic-sized swimming pools. marketing, as well as environmental MARINA HONOURS 01 impact and community benefit. Marina at Keppel Bay has been For outstanding Ocean Financial Centre also bagged reaccredited by Australia’s Marina landscaping in its developments, the Gold award for Best Innovative Industries Association (MIA) with Keppel Land was Green Building at the 8th MIPIM Asia the 5 Gold Anchors, the highest awarded the LEAF Awards 2014 held in December. The accreditation under the International certification by NParks for Highline Residences prestigious MIPIM Asia Awards recognise Rating Scheme for Marinas. The Marina and The Glades. excellence and innovation in Asian was first bestowed the 5 Gold Anchors accreditation in 2010, and was the 02 real estate development, with winners selected by a distinguished jury of first marina in Asia then to receive The multi-awardprominent real estate industry leaders. the honour. Recently, for its latest winning Marina at Keppel Bay was the reaccreditation, the Marina had to first marina in Asia to Ocean Financial Centre is a US LEED undergo a rigorous audit exercise receive the 5 Gold Platinum-rated and BCA Green Mark which included a checklist of Anchors accreditation in 2010. In 2014, Platinum award-winning development. 101 points evaluating its services, it was reaccredited The building is a showcase of ecofacilities and infrastructure. with this honour. Sustaining Growth Innovation and Product Excellence Innovation and 72 SUSTAINING GROWTH Product Excellence 01 The Marina also clinched the title of COMPLIANCE Saigon Centre in ‘Green’ Maritime Company of 2014 Keppel Land is committed to best Vietnam was one at the annual Asia Boating Awards practices and complies with the of Keppel Land’s held in Hong Kong in May 2014. relevant legislations and requirements. overseas commercial properties which This is the second time that the There were no instances of nonunderwent an annual Marina has been conferred this award, compliance with laws, regulations service quality survey. reinforcing its steadfast commitment and voluntary codes concerning the to environmental protection provision and use as well as health and conservation. Into its tenth and safety of its products and services. year, the Asia Boating Awards honour the industry’s best on an The Company abides by the Singapore international platform. Code of Advertising Practice (SCAP) 01 KEPPEL LAND LIMITED Sustainability Report 2014 73 NUMBER OF HOMES HANDED OVER BY CUSTOMER FOCUS UNIT Country 2014 Singapore 650 China 1,332 Vietnam 233 India 356 Total 2,571 set out by the Advertising Standards CUSTOMER FOCUS* SERVICE QUALITY SURVEYS* Authority of Singapore, which seeks Keppel Land is a forerunner among Annual service quality surveys are to promote high standards of ethics developers to establish a dedicated conducted at the Group’s residential in advertising through industry Customer Focus Unit (CFU) to and commercial buildings. These self-regulation. Its basic premise is meet the needs and expectations were conducted at 16 completed that all advertisements should be of homebuyers. Since its setup projects in 2014, namely Nassim legal, decent, honest and truthful. in 1997, the CFU has played Woods in Singapore; Springdale Plot 1, The SCAP was formulated against a vital role in the delivery of Plot 2-1, Plot 3-1 and 8 Park Avenue the background of the national law as quality homes. in Shanghai, Serenity Cove, and well as international law and practices, Seasons Park in Tianjin, Spring City including the International Code of Through the CFU, the Company in Kunming, Central Park City Plot B Advertising Practice published by the continually engages its customers and Plot C1A in Wuxi, Stamford City International Chamber of Commerce. to ensure a high level of satisfaction in Jiangyin, as well as The Seasons for its products and services. in Shenyang, China. In 2014, there were no incidents of Feedback is regularly obtained non-compliance with regulations and and reviewed, with relevant Commercial projects surveyed voluntary codes concerning marketing improvements incorporated were Bugis Junction Towers and communications efforts, including into new projects. Equity Plaza in Singapore as well as advertising, promotion and sponsorship. International Centre and Saigon Centre Every year, events such as golf in Vietnam. There were no instances of nontournaments, celebration of festive compliance with regulations and events and resident get-togethers Through these surveys, the Company voluntary codes concerning product serve as platforms to build strong garnered feedback on matters in and service information and labelling rapport with homeowners areas of cleanliness, security, car during the year. There were no and tenants. parking, building maintenance and complaints regarding breaches management personnel as well as of customer privacy and loss of Keppel Land also engages green features and facilities provided. customer data. stakeholders on environmental On average, more than 95% of the issues through outreach activities respondents were satisfied with the For its activities in Singapore, conducted in conjunction services rendered. Keppel Land abides by the country’s with Earth Hour and World regulations of the Personal Data Environment Day. In 2014, the CFU handed over 2,571 Protection Act which safeguards homes in Singapore, China, Vietnam consumers’ personal data against These include eco-roadshows and India. misuse by regulating the proper and recycling initiatives where management and processing of more than 80,000 kg of items personal data. The provisions relating were collected from Keppel Land to a national Do Not Call Registry, and Keppel REIT’s commercial which allows individuals to register buildings for recycling. their Singapore telephone numbers to opt out of receiving marketing phone In celebration of World Car Free calls, mobile text messages and faxes Day and Green Consumer Day from organisations, came into effect in October, tenants and staff on 2 January 2014. The provisions were invited for a screening of an relating to the main data protection eco-documentary, Beyond Beauty – came into force on 2 July 2014. Taiwan from Above. * G4-26, G4-27 Sustaining Growth Innovation and Product Excellence 74 EMPOWERING LIVES Health and Safety 01 At Keppel, safety is a core value. The Company 01 has systems and processes in place to Keppelites reaffirm their commitment to safety during constantly remind all stakeholders to uphold the eighth annual Keppel Group Safety safety at the workplace. Convention 2014. Zero 16,000 fatalities workers Keppel Land had no fatalities in Over 16,000 workers have been 2014. Total man-days lost was also trained at Keppel Land’s two Safety reduced to 212 in 2014, compared Awareness Centres to-date. to 214 in 2013. KEPPEL LAND LIMITED Sustainability Report 2014 75 STRONG SAFETY CULTURE Safety is a core value and forms an integral SAFETY FIRST part of Keppel Land’s business operations. The Company is committed to creating 1 Vision a safe workplace and encourages all its stakeholders including its employees and contractors, to embrace safety as a personal and collective responsibility. Regular exchange of experiences and knowledge is encouraged to foster positive behavioural changes in working towards An organisation with a safety achieving a zero-harm workplace. culture that inspires and motivates employees to care for self and others Safety is a top priority and key focus of to achieve a zero-harm workplace senior management. The Company has processes and systems in place to constantly remind and educate all stakeholders on 2 Strategy the importance of safety at the workplace. Driving Keppel Land’s safety efforts is the Workplace Safety and Health (WSH) unit, which formulates and oversees the implementation of Health and Safety Proactive Actions (H&S) programmes. Implement effective management system and arrangement The Company adopts a top-down approach towards H&S, with its policy and action Communication plans endorsed by the CEO. Communicate safetyand health-related matters regularly Safety issues rank first on the agenda at the Company’s quarterly Board of Training Directors meetings, a testament of senior Equip managers and employees management’s commitment towards with safety and health knowledge workplace safety. Rewards and Recognition Keppel Land is committed to the Keppel Group Honour employees and contractors WSH 2018 strategy, which is aligned with for safety excellence the National WSH 2018 strategy. The initiative aims to implement uniform safeguards, increase accountability and promote 3 Strategic Outcomes ownership through four key thrusts, namely: • Establish an integrated WSH framework across businesses worldwide; • Implement an effective safety management system; • Enhance safety ownership; and • Reduction in Occupational • Strengthen safety partnerships. Injury Rates • Recognition for Best-In-Class All new employees are required to undergo Safety and Health Practices a safety initiation course as part of the • Safety and Health made integral Company’s orientation programme. Staff to business are also regularly updated on matters such as the Company’s key safety principles, action plans, accident and/or incident reporting procedures and relevant training as well as related articles via the intranet and newsletter. Empowering Lives Health and Safety 76 Health EMPOWERING LIVES and Safety BOARD SAFETY COMMITTEE (BSC) and reputational implications on Heights and Hill Crest Villa in Formed in 2007, Keppel Land’s BSC the Group. Chengdu; as well as Serenity Villa reviews and develops safety policies in Tianjin. and management systems. It currently The Management Safety Committee comprises four members including (MSC), formed in 2006, supports the The Committee also visited Saigon two independent Directors. Mr Tan BSC. It comprises 12 representatives Centre (Phases Two and Three), Yam Pin, a member of Keppel Land’s from key business units and The Estella, Riviera Cove as well Board of Directors, chairs the spearheads all safety initiatives. as Riviera Point in Ho Chi Minh City, BSC. The BSC has oversight Vietnam, to better align safety practices of the safety programmes and As part of the Keppel Group across the Company’s operations. budget for 2014. Inter-Strategic Business Unit Safety Committee, Keppel Land In December, the MSC visited The BSC regularly monitors and participates in regular dialogue the project site of Sedona Hotel evaluates the Group’s compliance sessions with other business units Yangon Phase Two in Myanmar and effectiveness of its H&S policies to promote the exchange of safety to reiterate the importance of and safety management system knowledge and experiences. This inculcating good safety values to ensure that they are effective includes site visits where business to all workers. The visit coincided and aligned with industry’s best units take turns to host safety with the project’s one million practices. Safety reports on the personnel from across the Keppel accident-free man-hours Company’s operations in Singapore Group and share their respective safety milestone. and overseas are submitted to the safety systems. BSC monthly. These visits provide the Committees In 2014, the BSC visited the with a better understanding of the The Committee convenes quarterly worksites of residential projects operating environment as well as the to discuss safety standards, in China, including Central Park effectiveness of the safety initiatives, practices and any related matters in Wuxi; 8 Park Avenue and Seasons while reinforcing the importance that may have strategic, operational Residence in Shanghai; Park Avenue of safety at the worksites. KEPPEL LAND BOARD SAFETY COMMITTEE SECRETARY MANAGEMENT SAFETY COMMITTEE PROJECT SITES SINGAPORE PROJECTS PROJECT SITES KEPPEL LAND CHINA INTERNATIONAL/ PROJECT SITES REGIONAL INVESTMENT PROPERTY MANAGEMENT AND COMMERCIAL BUILDINGS KNOWLEDGE MANAGEMENT HOSPITALITY UNITS HOSPITALITY MANAGEMENT PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND SUSTAINABILITY DESIGN HUMAN RESOURCES CORPORATE DEVELOPMENT KEPPEL LAND LIMITED Sustainability Report 2014 77 01 01 Keppel Land’s Board Safety Committee carries out regular site visits to ensure safety on the ground. SAFETY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM All our construction worksites in basis. Lessons learnt from incidents Safety management is incorporated Singapore and overseas have a Site and near misses are shared with other at the earliest development stage of Safety and Health Committee which business units to prevent recurrence. all Keppel Land projects and continues is helmed by the main contractor’s consistently throughout the design, project manager and supported by In 2014, an online reporting system, construction and management stages. Keppel Land’s project team, who Yellowjacket, was adopted for the This inculcates a strong safety mindset serves as advisors and observers. reporting of non-conformance of H&S in all employees and stakeholders practices onsite for Singapore projects including its consultants, suppliers An average of about 9% of the total such as The Glades, The Luxurie and and contractors for all its projects in workforce is represented on the Corals at Keppel Bay. It manages safety Singapore and overseas. committee for all Singapore and inspection records and reports, onsite overseas projects. observations as well as follow-up actions. Workers at construction sites are encouraged and rewarded for The Committee monitors and submits Keppel Land also believes in partnering coming up with innovative ideas monthly safety reports. Members contractors and suppliers who share to improve safety. These include meet at least once a month to discuss its commitment to quality as well as the use of laser beams, installing safety inspection findings, incidents high standards in environmental, safety door in crane and replacing and injuries, work activities and health and safety issues. load-testing blocks with steel. coordination as well as organise onsite health and safety events. A set of stringent criteria is applied and A comprehensive design checklist adhered to when selecting contractors is provided at the start of every All accidents and near misses are for each of the Company’s projects. project. Rigorous assessments investigated and findings are discussed In 2014, a total of 134 contractors are incorporated to identify and at the BSC meetings. Any incident of comprising four main contractors analyse potential hazards and risks. non-compliance with safety standards and 130 subcontractors in China were Controls are also put in place to and accidents involving employees evaluated based on Keppel Land’s eradicate or minimise exposure and/or subcontractors are also Contractors’ Pre-Qualification Evaluation. to these hazards. reported to management on a timely Of these, 87% met the evaluation criteria. Empowering Lives Health and Safety 78 Health EMPOWERING LIVES and Safety 01 COMPLIANCE equipment; first-aid facilities and The Company In keeping with the Company’s emergency plans are also included ensures all its commitment to ensure that its in the guide. contractors remain operations and significant suppliers vigilant and comply with the specifications are not involved in unethical labour It also details monitoring and as well as relevant practices such as child or forced measuring mechanisms such as regulatory requirements workplace inspections, accident labour, a human rights clause on the and safe work practices. prohibition of child labour has been recording and reporting, accident incorporated in all H&S specifications investigation, internal and external to contractors since 2012. audits as well as safety improvements. Legislations and standards as well as The H&S specification is a performance measurement indicators comprehensive document for are also incorporated. contractors which includes a safety policy and its objectives as well as To ensure that all its contractors information about the organisation remain vigilant and comply with and its responsibilities. Planning and the specifications as well as relevant implementation guidelines including regulatory requirements and safe work hazard identification and risk practices, Keppel Land’s WSH unit assessment; information, training conducts weekly safety walkabouts and supervision; safe work systems; at its Singapore worksites and inspects hazard controls; permits to work; overseas worksites at least once every equipment inspection, testing and quarter. These included projects in maintenance; personal protection Tianjin, Beijing, Shanghai, Wuxi, 01 KEPPEL LAND LIMITED Sustainability Report 2014 79 Jiangyin, Nantong, Chengdu, Zhongshan and Kunming in China; SAFETY IN ACTION Jakarta in Indonesia; Johor Bahru in Malaysia; Ho Chi Minh City in Vietnam; Manila in Philippines as well as Yangon and Mandalay in Myanmar in 2014. In addition, two MSC meetings were conducted in January and April to update senior management on the latest regulatory revisions relating The inner red core of the to work-related traffic accidents, the protection of employees against Keppel Safety Logo represents haze at the workplace as well as work the five key safety principles while at height requirements. the outer strokes demonstrate PROACTIVE ACTIONS its action plan. Over the years, Keppel Land has implemented numerous initiatives to inculcate a strong safety culture. 5 Key Safety Principles SAFETY ROADMAP The Company has in place a Safety Roadmap with set targets and benchmark indicators that address the areas of safety leadership, structure and work processes. The roadmap aims to inculcate 1. If safety is expensive, disasters cost more a total of 11 safety characteristics among its employees and contractors. 2. Value everyone’s safety These include leadership by example, 3. Zero tolerance for incidents common shared values, strong 4. Recognise safe behaviour teamwork and pride in the organisation. 5. Passion for Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) excellence This ensures sufficient and capable resources, employee involvement, active lines of communication and 5 Key Actions timely documentation. Safety processes are enhanced through ensuring consistency in procedures, eliminating shortcuts and maintaining good housekeeping at the worksites. The roadmap is reviewed and updated 1. Board/management leadership periodically to ensure its relevance 2. Safety as a line function and effectiveness. 3. Stakeholder involvement SAFETY KEY PERFORMANCE 4. Leading safety indicators INDICATORS 5. Positive reinforcement Remuneration of management is linked to sustainability-related KPIs, which includes safety. Safety is also a Key Performance Indicator (KPI) in the performance appraisal of the relevant managers. Any fatality at the end of the supply chain affects the bonuses of key executives and staff. Empowering Lives Health and Safety 80 Health EMPOWERING LIVES and Safety MANAGING THE SAFETY LIFE CYCLE BUILDING DESIGN PLANNING CONSTRUCTION MANAGEMENT DESIGN FOR SAFETY SPECIFICATION SAFETY MONITORING SAFETY MANAGEMENT IN BUILDINGS AND FOR CONTRACTORS OF NEW PROJECTS SYSTEM (SMS) FOR STRUCTURE GUIDELINES COMPLETED BUILDINGS Incorporation of safety Keppel Land has in place a • Weekly site safety walkAll completed buildings management at the H&S specification stipulating throughs by project managed under Keppel Land’s design stage of a project the minimum requirements managers and contractors Property Management team by identifying hazards and of a sound H&S management • Collection and monitoring have integrated and aligned risks early in the design system which its contractors of safety indicators on a its operations with the stage of a development need to comply with. monthly basis OHSAS 18001 standards. project, so as to eliminate This specification has • Monthly independent site Internal and external or minimise them. been incorporated into the safety surveillance audits are conducted tender documents for all • Bi-monthly worksite visits at least one a year to new development projects by Management Safety ensure compliance. in Singapore and overseas. Committee • Behavourial Management of Safety • Occupational Health and Safety Management System 18001 • Construction Safety Audit Scoring System • Safety and Health Active Review programme • Year-end safety performance review At the same time, all employees have OHSAS 18001 with OHSAS 18001. An internal audit 2% of their KPI tagged to an online Keppel Land received the Occupational was conducted for the Company’s corporate sustainability quiz. In 2014, Health and Safety Management China projects from April to July to the focus was on workplace safety, to System (OHSAS) 18001 certification ensure that the various parameters ensure that staff keep abreast of the for the successful implementation pertaining to OHSAS 18001 are met. Company’s H&S practices. Project of the system at all its development The OHSAS 18001 system has also managers have an additional 10%-20% projects and properties under been integrated with the ISO 14001 of their individual performance appraisal management in Singapore, standard for all of the Company’s linked to a safety KPI. Of this, safety China and Vietnam in 2012. An projects in China. All projects performance, including accident internationally-recognised standard, in Singapore are in compliance frequency rate and accident severity as OHSAS 18001 enables organisations with the Integrated Management well as fatal accident, accounts for 50%. to manage, control and improve its System, which combines ISO 9001, occupational H&S performance. ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 Participation in safety-related activities systems into a single framework. such as site safety inspections, meetings Projects in Singapore, China and and innovation make up another 30% Vietnam currently account for 70% The Company is currently of the project manager’s safety KPI. The of Keppel Land’s total ongoing implementing the OHSAS 18001 remaining 20% relates to safety training, developments and all of its workforce for its projects in Indonesia, India, including compulsory attendance and in these countries are in compliance Myanmar and Malaysia. It will certification for courses such as the with the OHSAS 18001. continue to comply with the Construction Safety Course for Project standards and certification of Managers and Risk Management In 2014, independent third party OHSAS 18001 through annual and Assessment Training conducted audits were carried out at projects independent third party audits by Ministry of Manpower (MOM)sites in Singapore, China and and a re-certification audit every approved training providers. Vietnam to ensure compliance three years. KEPPEL LAND LIMITED Sustainability Report 2014 81 ConSASS of four bands with scores of between effectiveness in managing WSH risks. Keppel Land has conducted the 1 and 100. MOM requires sites to meet This helps Management better allocate Construction Safety Audit Scoring a minimum score of 75% at Band III. resources in order to elevate standards System (ConSASS) audit at all and improve its effectiveness in its projects in Singapore, China In 2014, Keppel Land went beyond managing the safety and health risks and Myanmar. statutory requirements to conduct at worksites. quarterly audits for its Singapore ConSASS is an audit tool that provides worksites. Four projects including COMPLETED BUILDINGS AUDIT an independent assessment on the The Lakefront Residences, The Luxurie, Keppel Land also conducted audits effectiveness and development status Corals at Keppel Bay and The Glades for all of its completed buildings of a worksite’s WSH Management attained an overall average score of for the fourth consecutive year. system. It is administered by the 93% at Band III. All of the Company’s 17 commercial WSH Council and supported by and hospitality establishments in MOM for the construction industry The Group has also implemented the Singapore, China, Vietnam, Indonesia in Singapore. Since August 2011, ConSASS audit for the worksites of 12 and Myanmar were audited by the all construction sites with a contract of its China projects since April 2013, WSH unit in 2014. sum of $30 million and above are three of which have since been required to have its WSH Management completed. Audits have also been System audited every six months. conducted for sites in Myanmar in 2014. The Company has also increased Conducted by MOM-approved the frequency of the ConSASS audit 01 WSH auditors, the audit involves for each project to four times a year, In 2014, the Company document reviews, site inspections up from twice a year. conducted quarterly and interviews with key personnel. audits for its Singapore worksites, including A total of 17 elements are assessed, The ConSASS assessment tool The Lakefront with each being graded on a scale allows cross-comparison of worksites’ Residences (pictured). 01 Empowering Lives Health and Safety 82 Health EMPOWERING LIVES and Safety 01 bizSAFE MENTOR COMMUNICATION* Keppel Land’s Keppel Land is one of only ten SHARe PROGRAMME Safety Awareness companies in Singapore to be named Keppel Land has in place the Safety Centres in Ho Chi the bizSAFE Mentor for its exemplary and Health Active Review (SHARe) Minh City, Vietnam (pictured) and WSH management and performance, programme for its projects in Johor Bahru, Malaysia the highest recognition under WSH Singapore. They include The Luxurie, display exhibits Council’s bizSAFE programme. The Glades, Corals at Keppel Bay and which encourage safe practices at Highline Residences. the workplace. As a bizSAFE mentor, Keppel Land leads and guides contractors in Under the SHARe programme, developing and implementing safety teams are formed for each initiatives at the workplaces as well as project, including a Keppel Land provides stewardship and support with representative as well as the regards to meeting the safety contractor’s management and safety standards set by the WSH Council. personnel. The team monitors WSH implementation in the Company’s Since 2010, as part of Keppel Land’s projects and organises exchange tender requirement, main contractors visits to worksites to share and hired by Keppel Land would have to be learn best practices. certified as bizSAFE Partners. This in turn requires that their subcontractors BEHAVIOURAL MANAGEMENT have at least bizSAFE Level 3 OF SAFETY (BMOS) certification, which entails the Keppel Land also has in place implementation of risk management the BMOS programme to plans including the WSH management integrate behavioural strategies system to eliminate or reduce injuries and processes into its H&S and illnesses at worksites. management system. * G4-26, G4-27 KEPPEL LAND LIMITED Sustainability Report 2014 83 01 BMOS integrates behavioural strategies various communications modes to Company plans to implement the and processes into the Company’s H&S instill the importance of safety at BMOS programme in China in 2015. management systems. It promotes safe the workplace. behaviour and positive environmental SAFETY AWARENESS CENTRES conditions to deliver continuous All workers undergo safety Keppel Land’s two Safety Awareness improvement in health, safety and orientation courses. Weekly talks Centres (SAC) in Ho Chi Minh City, business performance, which reduce on different topics including the Vietnam and Johor Bahru, Malaysia the risk of work-related injuries. It control of mosquito breeding were set up in 2011 and 2013 stems from the belief that the personal and working at heights are also respectively, to provide training adoption of safe working practices, conducted by the main contractors to improve the safety performance through the inculcation of a set of for their workers. In China, articles of contractors’ employees. Some defined behaviours, will reduce the on worksite safety are distributed 4,989 and 1,121 workers were trained risk of work-related accidents and quarterly to workers. in HCMC and Malaysia respectively strengthens a company’s safety in 2014, bringing the total number culture. This is achieved through data TRAINING of workers trained at the two SACs collection on the frequency of safety BMOS TRAINING to more than 16,000 to-date. critical behaviours as well as providing In 2014, trainings on BMOS were feedback and counselling to reinforce conducted at The Glades and The SACs seek to heighten safety safe behaviour. Corals at Keppel Bay. A total of 28 awareness among contractors’ project managers, contractors and employees on pertinent topics In 2014, the programme was implemented consultants attended this training such as working at heights, lifting at all of the Group’s worksites in session. BMOS training was also procedures, working within confined Singapore and Yangon, Myanmar. extended to include personnel spaces, proper use of equipment, from the appointed subcontractor, risk assessment and managing SAFETY TALKS Woh Hup, and their local subcontractor scaffolds. All workers have to attend Keppel Land actively engages its Shwe Taung for the Sedona Hotel the mandatory safety training before consultants and contractors through Yangon project in Myanmar. The they are allowed to work onsite. Empowering Lives Health and Safety 84 Health EMPOWERING LIVES and Safety 01 01 Keppel Land won the coveted Chairman’s Safety Challenge Trophy at the eighth annual Keppel Group Safety Convention held in November 2014. TRAINING AND EDUCATION with a performance assessment SHARING BEST PRACTICES Employees undergo training courses at the end of the programme. The Company provides various and seminars to enhance their In 2014, two Keppel Land staff and platforms to facilitate the sharing of knowledge and skills in managing two students from the Nanyang best safety practices and experiences H&S risks. Staff at Keppel Land’s Technological Institute participated across the Keppel Group. Among corporate headquarters in Singapore in this programme. these, an e-safety portal has been set received 1,276.5 hours of safety up for the Group’s safety champions, training in 2014. Employees in China, In Myanmar, Keppel Land held its key management and operations Vietnam, Myanmar, Indonesia first safety seminar at Sedona Hotel personnel to access, contribute and Malaysia committed a total of Yangon in August. Top engineers in and share information efficiently 6,878 hours, 31,731 hours, 2,125.5 hours, Yangon, including some from the through forums and links to other 1,499.5 hours and 2,242 hours of government sector, were invited to web resources. training respectively. share their knowledge and insights. Keppel Land’s appointed contractor A quarterly publication, HSE Matters, Training topics included first aid, for the extension of Sedona Hotel which focuses on health-, safetysafety induction, site regulation, Yangon, Woh Hup, also shared on and environment-related news HSE risks, safety awareness, safety practices which are being across the Keppel Group, is also construction safety, risk management implemented onsite. disseminated to all staff, contractors implementation as well as specialised and workers. subjects such as safe use of electrical At Keppel Thai Properties, Keppel Land’s equipment and working at height. subsidiary in Thailand, a total of 23 staff Keppel Land’s rigorous efforts in and contractors participated in a upholding safety best practices In 2014, an attachment programme Safety Management in Construction at The Seed, one of the residential to the WSH unit was introduced. workshop at Villa Arcadia Srinakarin projects situated within the It is open to all staff in Singapore and in April. Conducted by the Director Company’s joint venture development overseas as well as students from of Thailand’s Safety and Health at of Taman Sutera in Johor Bahru, tertiary institutions in Singapore, and Work Promotion Association, a veteran Malaysia, was recognised and provides a good understanding of in the field, participants learned shortlisted by Malaysia’s Department Keppel Land’s safety programme the safe and correct way of using of Occupational Safety and Health as well as hands-on experience construction tools and equipments, as (DOSH) for its Workplace Safety on safety management, complete well as how to prevent worksite injuries. Award under the construction KEPPEL LAND LIMITED Sustainability Report 2014 85 site category. Keppel Land was ANNUAL CONSULTANTS AND KEPPEL GROUP also invited by DOSH to share its CONTRACTORS H&S MEETING SAFETY CONVENTION processes at the Safety & Health The annual Consultants and For its strong safety record Officer Seminar. Contractors H&S Meeting reinforces and innovative safety initiatives, the importance of safety training and Keppel Land won the coveted Keppel Land’s position as an industry practices amongst projects teams, Chairman’s Safety Challenge leader in terms of workplace safety contractors and workers. The event Trophy at the eighth annual Keppel and health was further reinforced also recognises and rewards project Group Safety Convention held in at the World Congress on H&S at teams and contractors with excellent November 2014. Work held in Frankfurt, Germany safety performance. in August 2014. Keppel Land’s Themed Our Safety, Our Well-Being, Director of Workplace Safety In August 2014, more than 120 the event brought together close and Health shared on the topic consultants, contractors and staff to 900 Keppel Group employees, of Diversity in the World of Work, attended the meeting to exchange industry partners, contractors and in relation to occupational health safety best practices. The Gold Award suppliers to reaffirm their commitment and safety. (Top Performer) was conferred to the to safety. The Convention served as Lakefront Residences project team a platform for business units across REWARDS AND RECOGNITION and their main contractor Woh Hup. the Keppel Group to share best Keppel Land collaborates with its The latter also won a Gold Award for its practices as well as recognise teams main contractors to ensure that work at Marina Bay Suites. Obayashi/ who constantly innovate to raise the all stakeholders and workers are Woh Hup joint venture, the main bar in safety at the workplace. committed to maintaining high contractor for Phase Two of Ocean safety standards at all project sites. Financial Centre, was presented with SAFE WORKSITE AWARDS Safety programmes that reward the Silver Award, while Tiong Seng, In China, a total of 14 out of 19 project and encourage safe work practices the main contractor for The Luxurie sites received the Safe Worksite are organised to promote safer attained a certificate of merit. Award 2014 from the Ministry of work environments. Housing and Urban-Rural Development A similar convention was held in Bureau, a testament to Keppel Land SAFETY PERFORMANCE China in March 2014 to share best China’s continual efforts to ensure There were no fatalities in 2014. practices as well as recognise safe environments. Accident frequency rate was 0.55 contractors with good safety records. reportable cases for every million Over 200 employees, customers and INTERNATIONAL SAFETY AWARD man-hours worked, compared with contractors exchanged experiences Keppel Land was also conferred the 0.31 in 2013. Accident severity rate and ideas to strive for an incident-free prestigious International Safety Award was 6.86 in 2014, compared to 6.56 workplace. A total of four Gold, five (Merit) by the British Safety Council in in 2013. Total man-days lost was Silver and four Merit awards as well 2014, in recognition of the Company reduced to 212 in 2014, compared as 10 Safety & Innovation Awards for its commitment to the health, to 214 man-days lost in 2013. were conferred. safety and well-being of its workforce. KEPPEL LAND’S CUMULATIVE ACCIDENT FREQUENCY RATE Per million man-hours 1.4 1.2 1.0 0.8 0.6 0.4 0.2 0 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Empowering Lives Health and Safety 86 EMPOWERING LIVES People Matter 01 Keppel Land is committed to nurturing a 01 diverse, competent and dedicated talent As an employer of choice, Keppel Land organises regular pool to drive further growth for the Company. wellness activities for its staff. $1,413 58% In Singapore, average training As part of Keppel Land’s localisation investment per employee was $1,413. strategy, locals accounted for 58% of all department head positions at its overseas offices in 2014. KEPPEL LAND LIMITED Sustainability Report 2014 87 Recognising that people are its appointed as a non-Independent equal at 56%: 44%. Overseas, 46% greatest asset and that every staff Director on 1 September 2010. of employees are female and 54% are is a Keppel Land brand ambassador, male. The senior management team the Group is committed to nurturing All Directors are over 50 years of comprises a total of 17 members, a diverse, competent and dedicated age. There is no minority ethnic of which 15 are male. talent pool that will drive further group representation on the Board. growth and value for the Company. In Singapore, 61% of its workforce PROFILE OF EMPLOYEES is aged between 31 and 50 years, Talent management and succession Keppel Land employs over 3,900 with 31% and 30% in the 31–40 and planning rank high on the Company’s staff across 12 countries. 41–50 years age groups respectively. priority list. Keppel Land continues Overseas, 74% of the employees are to improve its bench strength in the The Company has 497 employees aged 40 years and below. key markets of Singapore, China, based at its corporate office in Vietnam and Indonesia through staff Singapore, of which 379 or 76% are In terms of educational profile, promotion, rotation and selective executives and 118 or 24% are non69.8% of the employees in Singapore new hires. executives. About 470 or 95% are have tertiary qualifications and above. full-time, permanent employees, Of these, 53.7% hold a Bachelor’s Keppel Land also actively engages while 27 or 5% are hired on contract. degree, professional certification staff through various initiatives About 11% are from the minority or graduate diploma, and 16.1% such as post-results communication ethnic groups. have a Master’s or post-graduate sessions, lunches and tea with the degree. About 45% of staff based CEO and senior management as well A total of 3,429 staff are based overseas hold a Bachelor’s degree, as employee perception surveys. overseas, of which about 3,269 professional certification or graduate or 95% are full-time staff. Of these, diploma, and 4% have a Master’s or PROFILE OF BOARD OF DIRECTORS 54% are located in China, 10% in post-graduate degree. The Company has a total of nine Indonesia, 3% in Vietnam and 4% Directors on its Board, contributing in India, Philippines, Thailand and The overall turnover rate for with experience and competence in Sri Lanka. Out of 3,269 overseas Keppel Land was about 11.3% or areas such as industry knowledge, full time staff, 947 staff are employed 550 employees in 2014, down from legal, finance and risk management. under joint-venture companies. They 11.5% or 474 staff in 2013. The rate are attached to the hotels and resorts for the Company’s headquarters in The Board has two female Directors, managed by Keppel Land Hospitality Singapore was at 10.1% or 55 staff and providing gender diversity. Mrs KohManagement in Vietnam and Myanmar. below the national average of 24.3% Lim Wen Gin was appointed as an for 2014. Of the 550 employees, 49% Independent Director on 20 January The proportion of female to male or 268 staff were below 30 years old, 2010. Mrs Oon Kum Loon was employees in Singapore is almost while another 48% or 263 staff were EVOLUTION OF EMPLOYMENT* REGIONAL DISTRIBUTION 5,000 % 4,000 Singapore 12.7 3,000 China 44.9 India 0.5 2,000 Vietnam 10.6 1,000 Indonesia 8.5 0 Philippines 0.6 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Thailand 1.9 Singapore 527 540 565 493 497 Sri Lanka 0.4 International* 3,045 3,555 3,557 3,476 3,429 Myanmar 19.7 Total 3,572 4,095 4,122 3,969 3,926 Others 0.2 Total 100 * Including Keppel Land and Sedona Hotel International operations Empowering Lives People Matter 88 People EMPOWERING LIVES Matter aged 30-50 years and the remaining non-discriminatory and merit-based needs, to help them achieve their 3% or 19 staff were over 50 years old. employment practices. It is committed full potential; to the five guiding principles of fair d. Reward employees fairly based Turnover by gender was at 287 (52%) employment, namely: on their ability, performance, males and 263 females (48%). contribution and experience; and a. Recruit and select employees on e. Abide by labour laws and adopt POLICY OF NON-DISCRIMINATION the basis of merit (such as skills, Tripartite Guidelines which promote In support of human rights principles, experience or ability to perform fair employment practices. Keppel Land adheres to fair the job), regardless of age, race, employment practices and provides gender, religion, family status There were no reported incidences equal opportunities with regards to or disability; of discrimination by employees recruitment and career development b. Treat employees fairly and in 2014. of its employees. with respect and implement progressive human resources REMUNERATION AND BENEFITS The Company is a signatory of the management systems; Staff at the corporate office enjoy Employers’ Pledge of Fair Employment c. Provide employees with equal the benefits stipulated in the Practices with the Tripartite Guidelines opportunity to be considered Singapore’s Employment Act which on Fair Employment Practices (TAFEP). for training and development is the key legislature governing The Group adheres to the principles of based on their strengths and employment contracts. It includes GENDER PROFILE AGE PROFILE (Singapore) (Singapore) % % Male 44.1 Less than 31 years 20.3 Female 55.9 From 31 to 40 years 31.0 Total 100 From 41 to 50 years 29.8 From 51 to 62 years 16.7 More than 62 years 2.2 Total 100 EDUCATIONAL PROFILE PROFESSIONAL PROFILE (Singapore) (Singapore) % % Master’s Degree/ Executive 76.3 Post-Graduate 16.1 Non-Executive 23.7 Bachelor’s Degree/ Total 100 Professional Certification/ Graduate Diploma 53.7 Diploma/ GCE ‘A’ Levels 15.3 GCE ‘O’ Levels/ Industrial Certification 10.1 Others 4.8 Total 100 KEPPEL LAND LIMITED Sustainability Report 2014 89 the basic terms and conditions of CPF insurance and education STAFF BENEFITS employment that organisations purposes, while those in the Besides the mandatory CPF must abide by. Medisave Account can be used for contributions by both employer and hospitalisation as well as approved employees, Keppel Land offers all CENTRAL PROVIDENT FUND (CPF) medical and insurance expenses. full-time employees a comprehensive SCHEME Special account savings are for old benefits package including health and The CPF is a comprehensive national age, contingency purposes and welfare allowances, maternity and social security savings plan that investment in retirement-related paternity leave entitlements as well as ensures working Singaporeans financial products. coverage under the Company’s group have a secure retirement fund. health insurance plan. Information on Keppel Land and its employees Together with employees’ contribution these entitlements is disseminated contribute to the employees’ CPF of 20% of monthly wages into CPF, the to all staff via the Welfare and Benefits on a monthly basis. total contribution by both employers portal on the Company’s intranet. and employees is 36%. Contributions The portal serves as a one-stop CPF contributions go into the are lower for employees aged above virtual centre for information on Ordinary, Special and Medisave 50 years as well as those earning employee benefits and entitlements accounts. Savings in the Ordinary monthly wages of below $1,500. in healthcare, insurance, leave, welfare, Account can be allocated for The CPF monthly salary ceiling telecommunications, loan facility, housing, approved investments, remains at $5,000. transport and recreation. GENDER PROFILE AGE PROFILE (Overseas) (Overseas) % % Male 53.7 Less than 31 years 35.2 Female 46.3 From 31 to 40 years 38.5 Total 100 From 41 to 50 years 20.4 From 51 to 62 years 5.7 More than 62 years 0.2 Total 100 EDUCATIONAL PROFILE PROFESSIONAL PROFILE (Overseas) (Overseas) % % Master’s Degree/ Executive 33.6 Post-Graduate 3.8 Non-Executive 66.4 Bachelor’s Degree/ Total 100 Professional Certification/ Graduate Diploma 45.1 Diploma/ GCE ‘A’ Levels 14.2 GCE ‘O’ Levels/ Industrial Certification 4.1 Others 32.7 Total 100 Empowering Lives People Matter 90 People EMPOWERING LIVES Matter 01 In 2014, Keppel Land added a new assessment model is applied for Outstanding family attraction, Alive Museum, in all executives across the various employees who its corporate card scheme, as part business units. have demonstrated of Keppel Land’s effort to promote exemplary performance are work-life balance. Keppel Land fosters a performancerecognised at based reward culture. Compensation the Outstanding Valuing the knowledge, experience includes a base salary that commensurate Keppelites Awards. and commitment of exemplary senior with skills and experience, along with staff beyond the retirement age of an incentive bonus programme based 62, Keppel Land retains and extends on the performance of the individual their employment on contract basis staff and the Company. annually, taking into account the employee’s health, productivity and Performance management is a performance. These employees enjoy participative process where employees the same benefits as full-time employees. and their supervisors or managers jointly In 2014, a total of nine employees in set measurable targets and develop an Singapore were above retirement age. individual action plan that details work plans, training, responsibilities as well REMUNERATION as career development plans. In Singapore, the ratio of basic salary of male to female in the executive Staff performance appraisals are category is 1.08, while the ratio for conducted online. This is part of the non-executive category is 0.92. the Company’s ongoing efforts to automate work processes and improve The ratio of the entry level salary productivity. Overseas employees can of male to female in the executive also access the system via the intranet. category in Singapore is 0.96 while the ratio for the executive category An integral part of the performance is 1.15 in China and Vietnam. appraisal is the employee’s exemplification of the Group’s core There are no female non-executives values which are passion, integrity, in China, or male non-executives in customer focus, people-centredness, Singapore and Vietnam who are safety, agility and innovativeness, drawing at entry level salary. collective strength and accountability. Alignment with our core values is assessed based on observed behaviour CAREER PLANNING in daily interactions with supervisor, AND RECOGNITION peers, subordinates as well as other PERFORMANCE stakeholders to achieve work goals. MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Keppel Land has in place a Keppel Land also has in place two structured staff appraisal and share-based incentive plans – the performance management system Restricted Share Plan (RSP) and which allows all staff to receive Performance Share Plan (PSP) – regular performance feedback to strengthen the link between and career development reviews. reward and long-term performance. The RSP, which is distributed equally Following the launch of the revised over three years, is awarded to Keppel Competency model in 2012 employees who have achieved to allow for greater consistency pre-determined targets at the end across the business units in areas of a one-year performance period. such as succession planning and talent management, a new Keppel The PSP is awarded to a select Leadership Potential model was group of key senior management introduced in 2013. The new model staff and encompasses greater complements an existing assessment stretched targets with emphasis tool used since 2011 and ensure that on strategic goals that have direct a consistent leadership potential impact on the Company’s long-term KEPPEL LAND LIMITED Sustainability Report 2014 91 growth. If the pre-determined targets strong performing employees, The performance of each LEAD are achieved, the grants will be regardless of nationality. participant is regularly reviewed by the vested at the end of the three-year Talent Review Committee. They are performance period. LEAD 1 seeks to develop high potential also guided by a trained mentor who executives to become effective will coach and share experiences as The 2013 RSP grant has met the vesting people managers, while LEAD 2 aims well as provide insights and perspectives criteria with one-third of the award to groom promising people managers throughout the programme. released to the awardees annually to become effective functional and over a three-year period from 2014 to operational leaders. Employees on the programme will 2016. A total of 341,900 RSP shares progress through a structured learning or one-third of the award, have been A stringent selection process which roadmap, including taking on stretched given to 91 recipients in March 2014. includes psychometric testing has assignments, overseas postings and been instituted to ensure rigour and job rotations to help them develop The 2011 PSP grant has also met the objectivity in identifying staff for the core competencies that are aligned vesting criteria. A total of 158,800 PSP programme. There are currently 22 with the Company’s strategic thrusts. shares (52.9% of the award) have been employees who are groomed under given to four recipients in March 2014. LEAD 1, and another 17 under LEAD 2. In 2014, the selected employees The vesting of the two incentives They include employees from the attended leadership development plans strengthens the linkage between Group’s offices in Singapore, China, programmes organised by the reward and long-term performance. Vietnam, Indonesia, and Myanmar. Business Leadership Centre, the training arm of Temasek Holdings. LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT A leadership development roadmap The programmes provide a platform (LEAD) PROGRAMME targeted at all Assistant General for top talents across the Keppel Group The LEAD programme comprising Managers and above is also in place. and Temasek Group of companies to LEAD 1 for Emerging Leaders and The roadmap includes a coaching exchange and network as well as to LEAD 2 for Operational Leaders aims component as well as structured understand more about global trends to accelerate the development of courses and programmes. and practices. 01 Empowering Lives People Matter 92 People EMPOWERING LIVES Matter TRAINING EXPENDITURE DISTRIBUTION A leadership lunch talk series was reaches out to Vietnamese and (Singapore) also introduced in Keppel Land to Indonesian students in Singapore heighten awareness on leadershipwho are keen to work in their related issues. Topics covered home countries upon completing included communication with their studies. clarity and change management, management and networking skills. TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT To help staff realise their full potential MANAGEMENT ASSOCIATE and contribute more effectively, PROGRAMME (MAP) enhancements to existing programmes The two-year MAP comprises job were made in 2014. rotation opportunities, core training and mentoring for fresh graduates. A Career Review Committee (CRC) % Successful candidates benefit was formed to identify and develop Conference 11.7 from the exposure, knowledge and promising employees for future Industry-related 34.0 networks necessary to embark on a leadership positions. Headed by and job specific fulfilling and rewarding career with the CEO, the CRC focuses on specific external courses Keppel Land. developmental interventions for Skills Training 42.6 high-potential employees based on Leadership Courses 11.1 In 2014, Keppel Land received more the Company’s shortand long-term Language Courses 0.6 than 650 applications for the MAP business needs. Two CRC meetings programme in Singapore. Two out were held in 2014. The first CRC Total 100.0 of the 24 shortlisted candidates were meeting reviewed 41 high potentials’ admitted into the programme after career plans in January and the second rigorous rounds of interviews. meeting took place in November where career plans for 42 high LOCALISATION STRATEGY potentials were reviewed. To strengthen the quality of Keppel Land’s overseas local staff, At the same time, the New Hires the Company has hired Human Milestone Programme helps new Resource (HR) Heads for Vietnam and employees assimilate into the Indonesia to spearhead the sourcing, organisation. It includes various attraction and grooming of local talents workshops to familiarise them with to take on future leadership roles. the Group’s businesses, core values, functions of different departments, In view of the Company’s expansion the real estate industry as well as overseas, a number of mid-career the Company’s performance locals have also been hired to helm management framework. A two-hour key positions as well as to bolster sailing experience at Marina at the bench strength of its overseas Keppel Bay was also included to management team. foster greater staff interaction. In 2014, locals accounted for 58% Recognising the importance of of all department head positions continuous training and development, at its overseas offices. To facilitate various training roadmaps and courses staff deployment across cities, a are made available to employees. uniform global grading structure Every staff is encouraged to attend has been established for employees at least three learning programmes based overseas. each year. The HR department works closely with unit heads to The progress of localisation is reviewed recommend relevant courses for by top management annually. The their staff. Efforts are also made MAP in Keppel Land China continues to identify learning programmes to attract young talents from reputable for non-executive staff, including universities. An Employee Value both soft and functional skills. Preposition branding exercise was Course materials are also available also launched to attract local talent on the learning resources centre on in China. In addition, the Company the intranet. KEPPEL LAND LIMITED Sustainability Report 2014 93 In Singapore, the average training senior management to all executives As part of the Company’s efforts to places per employee is 7.1 in 2014. in 2014. Overseas employees also enhance collaboration and interaction Average training investment per joined in via video conference during among employees, a staff lounge employee was $1,413. Employees at the the session held in conjunction with named Kloud was officially opened in executive level clocked an average of the 2014 full-year results. A webcast May 2014. It has since become popular 51.7 training hours in 2014, while nonof the event is made available to all with staff as a gathering place to meet, executive staff attended an average of staff including overseas employees, celebrate, share and learn together. 29.7 hours of training in 2014. Overseas, via the intranet after the event. the average training places per employee Other informal platforms include was 5.1 in 2014. Executive and nonComplementing these efforts, Company-wide staff get-togethers executive staff attended an average of the Human Resources department held during the Chinese New Year 23.8 and 20.3 training hours respectively. as well as the Corporate Social Lo-Hei and the mid-autumn festival Responsibility and Welfare Committees celebrations, Keep Fit and Eat Well EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT* work closely together to foster an Breakfast session, as well as the STAFF ENGAGEMENT PLATFORMS open and collaborative culture Mid-Week Chill-Out sessions to foster The CEO takes the lead in encouraging among employees. greater interaction and rapport among staff to adopt an entrepreneurial staff from the different business units. mindset, to be open and agile in Various engagement platforms adapting to change, as well as to are used throughout the year as Through KLink, an online bi-monthly innovate for growth. part of Keppel Land’s continuous staff newsletter, employees are kept efforts to improve management-staff informed with features on the latest At the half-yearly staff communication communication and interaction. developments within the Company sessions, the CEO updates employees These include breakfast and as well as interviews with management on the Company’s performance and afternoon tea sessions with the CEO. and staff. strategic directions. Invitations to A total of seven breakfast sessions the sessions were extended beyond and 15 tea sessions were held in 2014. * G4-26, G4-27 01 01 The Company organises staff communication sessions where the CEO addresses all employees Groupwide. Empowering Lives People Matter 94 People EMPOWERING LIVES Matter THE KEPPEL CORE VALUES ORGANISATIONAL CLIMATE The findings will help the organisation These resulted in the introduction SURVEY (OCS) identify strengths and opportunities of new initiatives to foster greater The annual OCS for overseas for improvement, as well as review staff interaction, communication and employees (excluding China) was and refine policies and programmes collaboration as well as to improve a postponed in 2014. This has to reinforce its position as an performance management culture. been arranged to coincide with employer of choice. the next Employee Engagement INCULCATING CORE VALUES Survey (EES) for Singapore and EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT To align employees with the Group’s China-based employees to SURVEY (EES) eight core values, creative activities be conducted in 2015, and to The EES is a Keppel Group-wide that expound these values were allow the taskforce implementing survey enabling staff to provide organised every quarter. OCS to collate survey findings, feedback and suggestions on review action plans and implement 18 areas including sustainable The Values-In-Action programme new human resource policies engagement, working relationships has also been included as one of and programmes in the and teamwork, safety, career the orientation events for new hires various countries. development and training, since 2012. The programme aims innovation and communication. to help staff understand the values The last and fifth OCS was held through experiential activities. At the online in October 2013 across seven Conducted annually in the past, same time, the core values portal countries and 12 cities, with response it will now be held on a bi-annual sustain awareness and promote the received from 1,400 employees. basis with the next survey to be actualisation of the values in a fun carried out in 2015. Based on the and interactive manner. It features The Group-wide survey provided EES conducted in 2013, the HR the behavioural attributes, pledges employees with a platform for department organised six focus by staff in support of the values feedback and suggestions on group sessions in 2014 to gain as well as the Hall of Fame Awards 14 key areas including safety, deeper insights into the findings. to recognise employees who are job recognition and feedback, Four of the sessions were targeted exemplary role models . A total of total rewards, staff well-being, at business unit-specific issues, eight staff and three teams received personal development opportunities while another two sessions focused the Hall of Fame award at the as well as overall work environment. on company-wide issues. Annual Dinner and Dance in 2014. KEPPEL LAND LIMITED Sustainability Report 2014 95 The Keppel Group also bestows Awards, which encourages sharing Dam Sen Water Park in May. Staff the Outstanding Keppelite Awards of best work practices and approaches and their families bonded over water to recognise exemplary work that could be replicated for improved sports andenjoyed dance, singing, performances as well as the efficiency and effectiveness. There games and magic performances. exemplification of core values were a total of six shortlisted teams amongst staff. SIx Keppel Land who presented case studies on PROMOTING WORK-LIFE BALANCE staff received the awards in 2014. innovative work practices, problem The Singapore Government has solving methods and people implemented the Marriage and Dialogue sessions were also held management skills. Conducted Parenthood Package in support of a where management engaged in a fun and informal manner, pro-family environment in Singapore. employees in small groups of the WOW! Awards have been These include: about 10 staff each on the Group’s well-received by staff. core values. Management shared a. Extension of the maternity how the core values have served PROMOTING WORK-LIFE BALANCE protection to cover the full as a moral compass, guiding the Recognising that work-life balance pregnancy period; Company as it overcame challenges promotes a motivated and dedicated b. Introduction of shared parental and capitalised on opportunities workforce, Keppel Land continues to leave to allow fathers to utilise during the past decades. Three implement initiatives that promote up to one week of the mother’s sessions were conducted for family cohesiveness. maternity leave; about 30 staff in 2014. c. Introduction of one week FAMILYMATTERS@WORK Government-paid paternity leave; To further inculcate the core values Keppel Land supports FamilyMatters@ d. Extension of two days childcare in employees, external organisations Work, a national movement spearheaded leave for each parent with such as Singapore Airlines and by the Ministry of Social and Family a Singapore citizen child PropertyGuru were invited to share Development (MSF) in Singapore. between the ages of seven their experiences in achieving excellence and 12; and during the K’onversations sessions. FamilyMatters@Work equips and e. Provision of four weeks of empowers employees with the skills Government-paid adoption leave. In order to encourage submission and knowledge on enhancing quality of innovative ideas, CEO launched family life. The MSF also provides In line with the Government’s the Keppel Land Post at Kloud in partial funding and helps organise pro-family legislations and the early 2015. Through the offline post, talks and activities that cater to Child Development Co-Savings Act, staff can contribute their ideas for different life stages as a single, employees who have been with the improvements within the organisation. married couple and parent. It also Company for more than three months offers organisations counsel and are eligible for parental and childcare ANNUAL STAFF CONFERENCE (ASC) support to sustain family-related leave benefits. The ASC 2014 was a four-day event activities and programmes in May, which was attended by over throughout the year. Female employees with Singapore 400 Singapore-based staff and citizen births are entitled to 16 weeks key executives from its overseas In 2014, four talks on family and of government-paid maternity leave. operations. The plenary sessions social-related issues as well as an In 2014, Keppel Land was granted included non-executives in Singapore. outdoor event for families were a total amount of $60,083 for five conducted to enhance bonding eligible female employees under The ASC facilitates strategic between staff and their family the scheme. collaboration and exchange of members. The talks, which focused best practices and ideas, as well as on topics such as raising confident Male employees with Singapore cross-learning opportunities and and resilient children as well as citizen births are entitled to one networking among staff. It also serves reconciling differences between week of government-paid paternity as a key platform for Management to women and men, were well-received leave. In 2014, Keppel Land was share the Group’s strategic directions by staff. The visit to the Universal granted $2,683 for two eligible and provide corporate updates on Studios which was specially male employees under the scheme. the various business units. organised by the Welfare Committee Prior to the announcement of the together with the Ministry of Social one-week paid paternity leave, Overseas staff also attended and Family Development, similarly Keppel Land had granted one customised training programmes received overwhelming response. day of paternity leave to its male that are not readily available in their employees with non-Singapore home countries. A highlight of the Overseas, Keppel Land Vietnam citizen births. In 2014, one male ASC is the Work of a Winner (WOW!) organised a Family Day event at staff enjoyed this benefit. Empowering Lives People Matter 96 People EMPOWERING LIVES Matter 01, 02 In addition, employees with Committee, which comprises Keppel Land is children who are Singapore citizens a total of 18 staff from various committed to and aged below seven years are departments. To ensure that new develop a healthy entitled to six days of paid childcare ideas are continuously generated, and happy workforce. leave per year, which is borne the chairmanship and membership jointly by the Company and the of the Committee is rotated government. In 2014, Keppel Land every year. was granted a total amount of $44,811 for 45 eligible employees In 2014, the Welfare Committee under the government-paid increased its budget by 10% to childcare leave scheme. introduce more sports and familyrelated activities. This was in Employees with children who are response to two separate surveys citizens aged between 7 and 12 are conducted in November 2013 entitled to two days of extended where employees had expressed childcare leave annually. In 2014, their preferred activites and events. Keppel Land was granted a total More than 10 talks on personal amount of $16,009 for 24 eligible health and mental development employees under the extended were also conducted. childcare leave scheme. In the last quarter of the year, the EMPLOYEE WELLNESS Welfare Committee collaborated Workplace health promotion is with the Health Promotion Board spearheaded by the Staff Welfare to organise a 40-minute aerobics 01 KEPPEL LAND LIMITED Sustainability Report 2014 97 02 exercise regime during the lunch Keppel Land was also conferred The Union will be advised before hour every Wednesday. Subsidies a Platinum Award at the biennial changes in the general conditions ranging from $10 to $50 were given Singapore HEALTH Award 2014 of employment such as rates of pay, to encourage staff to participate in for the first time, in recognition of hours of work and other general competitive and non-competitive its exemplary efforts in promoting terms and conditions of employment, sports. Employees also participated workplace health. The award are put into effect. actively in the annual Keppel recognises organisations that Games in sporting events such have achieved at least two Gold In addition, the agreement also as badminton, dragon-boating, Awards consecutively and have covers medical benefits including golf, track and field, table-tennis demonstrated tangible benefits annual coverage limit, extension of and bowling. from their workplace health coverage to dependents as well as promotion programme. Group Term Life and Group Critical The Company renewed its corporate Illness insurances for corporate membership at the Clark Hatch LABOUR RELATIONS office employees. Fitness Centre for the 16th consecutive Keppel Land engages the Singapore year. Well-utilised by staff, the Industrial and Services Employees’ Besides forging closer relations gym is conveniently located at Union (SISEU) through regular with the Union, this agreement Hotel InterContinental Singapore, dialogue and communications. reinforces the Company’s which is within Bugis Junction commitment to fair remuneration where Keppel Land’s headquarters All non-executive staff at the and employee retention. is located. Singapore headquarters are covered under the collective There were no grievances reported AWARDS FOR BEST PRACTICES agreement signed between SISEU by employees in 2014. In 2014, Keppel Land was conferred and the Company. To date, a total three awards at the Singapore of 18 employees are members of HR Awards 2014 for excellence in the SISEU. various aspects of human capital management. These included Under the collective bargaining recognition for Leading HR Practices agreement signed with the in Learning and Human Capital SISEU, the notice period for Development, and special mentions consultation and negotiation in the Talent Management, Retention between the Company and the and Succession Planning as well Union shall be no later than six as Compensation and Rewards months prior to the expiry of Management categories. the agreement. Empowering Lives People Matter 98 NURTURING COMMUNITIES Community and Society 01 The Company is committed to be a 01 responsible corporate citizen and continues Keppel Land seeks to nurture communities wherever it operates, to engage and contribute to communities including in Myanmar, with the Water wherever it operates. for Life (Yangon) project (pictured). 2,254 7,000 hours villagers Keppel Land staff committed a total Over 7,000 villagers will be provided of 2,254 hours to various community better access to clean drinking water outreach activities in Singapore and through the Keppel Land-supported overseas in 2014. Water for Life project in Yangon. KEPPEL LAND LIMITED Sustainability Report 2014 99 As a responsible corporate WATER FOR LIFE the People’s Association and five citizen, Keppel Land continues to In Myanmar, where Keppel Land self-help groups. The initiative aims to engage and support communities owns and operates two hotels – cultivate good reading habits through wherever we operate. Sedona Hotel Yangon and Sedona volunteers who read regularly to Hotel Mandalay, an estimated 70% children from low-income families. Adopting a multi-faceted of the population reside in rural areas approach towards Corporate with limited access to clean water Once a week, about 25 volunteers Social Responsibility (CSR), the sources and basic health facilities. head to the PAP Community Group aligns its community Foundation (PCF) Kindergarten at outreach efforts with its focus Keppel Land, in partnership Tanjong Pagar on a rotational basis areas of environment and education, with the Singapore International to read and engage the children while continuing to support various Foundation (SIF), non-profit through educational games. To community programmes including organisation Mingalar Myanmar enhance their mentoring skills, the arts, healthcare initiatives and and the Singapore Red Cross, volunteers were coached in the other charitable causes. aims to provide over 7,000 villagers basic techniques of storytelling in the cyclone-hit townships of by a qualified NLB trainer. To nurture a spirit of volunteerism Kaw Hmu and Kungyangon with and cultivate an engaged workforce, better access to clean drinking Following the positive response employees are given two days water through the Water for Life from employees, Keppel Land held of volunteer leave each year to project in Yangon (WFL Yangon). a recruitment drive in early 2014, participate in community-related successfully rallying a new team of activities. This encourages staff Launched in 2013, Keppel Land’s volunteers to join in this meaningful to be socially responsible and to support over three years will see outreach activity. embrace the core values of passion, the installation of 24 tube wells and people-centeredness and collective water storage shelters in the two MY LIBRARY strength, while playing an active townships. Community education In Malaysia, My Library, a collaboration role in the development of programmes on basic hygiene and between NLB and Tanah Sutera the beneficiaries. healthcare will also be conducted Development, was officially opened for villagers. In addition, five rural in November 2013. Spanning In 2014, Keppel Land staff committed health centres will be refurbished 35,000 sf and boasting a collection a total of 2,254 hours to various and medical staff at these facilities of 55,000 books and 1,000 copies community outreach activities in will be provided with training on of audio and visual materials, it is the Singapore and overseas, almost basic healthcare skills. first full-fledged community library triple that of 2013. to be housed within Sutera Mall, the To-date, more than 30 employees retail component of Keppel Land’s The CSR Committee assesses from Keppel Land and the Keppel Taman Sutera integrated township strategic partnerships and supports Group have participated in six in Johor Bahru. outreach programmes based on a volunteer trips. A total of 16 tube detailed set of criteria. These include wells with water storage shelters Regular educational events alignment with the Company’s have been installed and nine hygiene such as story-telling sessions CSR focus, continuity and scalability workshops have been conducted. and informative talks are also of the initiative, extent of stakeholder organised as part of My Library’s engagement, as well as the track EMPOWERING THROUGH aim to cultivate good reading habits record of the organisation. Other EDUCATION among residents in Taman Sutera key guiding principles include Embracing the belief that and surrounding communities. reaching out to the local communities knowledge is fundamental in in countries where the Company equipping communities with WORDS ON WHEELS operates, opportunities to involve skills for a sustainable livelihood, As one of Vietnam’s pioneer and and leverage the skills-set of its Keppel Land collaborates with largest real estate developers, employees as well as ensuring strategic partners on various Keppel Land strives to enrich the that the activities undertaken reading initiatives and programmes lives of the local communities. have long term positive impact in Singapore and overseas. on the communities. Following the success of its kidsREAD Words on Wheels (WoW) mobile Currently, about 40% of Keppel Land is a sponsor of library project in Hanoi, Keppel Land Keppel Land’s operations have the kidsREAD programme, a partnered SIF to extend the project implemented local community nation-wide collaboration with to Ho Chi Minh City (HCMC), Vietnam engagement programmes. the National Library Board (NLB), in May 2014. Nurturing Communities Community and Society 100 Community NURTURING COMMUNITIES and Society 01 01 This is the Company’s third partnership as Keppel Group, were conducted. In 2014, Keppel Land with SIF following WoW Hanoi and Volunteers travelled with the mobile extended its Words WFL Yangon. library to engage with children from on Wheels initiative the rural schools through reading to Ho Chi Minh City following the success Together with its Vietnamese joint and games. of the programme venture partners for The Estella, in Hanoi since 2011. Riviera Point, South Rach Chiec In Hanoi, staff volunteers from and Villa Arcadia residential Keppel Land’s Vietnam office developments, Keppel Land is continued to make regular weekend the main sponsor of WoW HCMC. trips on the WoW mobile library to An initiative by SIF in partnership engage with children across 10 with the General Sciences Library, villages in Hanoi. Outdoor games, WoW reaches out to rural communities performances as well as art and by promoting a culture of reading craft activities were organised by and self-learning. Over three years, the volunteers to creatively inculcate the mobile library will provide reading and communication skills over 3,000 children aged between in the children. 6 and 15 in the Binh Chanh district access to educational materials, In conjunction with International IT resources and learning facilities. Volunteers Day in December, the CSR Committee organised a lunchtime In 2014, five volunteer trips sharing session where volunteers involving about 40 employees of WoW Hanoi, WoW HCMC and from Keppel Land’s offices in WFL Yangon shared their experiences Singapore and Vietnam, as well with other employees. KEPPEL LAND LIMITED Sustainability Report 2014 101 SCHOLARSHIPS adopted charity, the Association for PROMOTING THE ARTS Keppel Land provides educational Persons with Special Needs (APSN). As part of the Company’s efforts opportunities through scholarship APSN runs five learning institutes to bring cultural music to a broader programmes such as the Keppel in Singapore – two primary schools audience, Keppel Land supported Group Scholarship, which offers (Chaoyang and Katong Special the Singapore Chinese Orchestra students with outstanding academic Schools), one intermediate school (SCO) in the Keppel Land-SCO and co-curricular track records the (Tanglin Special School) for students Outdoor Rhapsody series. Four opportunity to further their studies aged 13-16 years, one senior school performances by the SCO were held and embark on a career with the (APSN Delta Senior School) for years at the Singapore Botanic Gardens Group thereafter. 16-18 as well as the APSN Centre from August 2013 to April 2014. for Adults. Keppel Land is also an industry To promote Chinese performing sponsor of the Building and Throughout the year, staff participated arts and provide a platform for the Construction Authority of in activities aimed at developing artists to showcase their works to Singapore’s (BCA) Built Environment the social skills of APSN students the community, Keppel Land has Undergraduate Scholarship, which to help them assimilate into society. been supporting the River Hongbao offers promising young individuals These included excursions to the and Esplanade’ – Theatres on the a rewarding career in the real Sungei Buloh Wetland Reserve, Earth Bay’s (The Esplanade) Huayi Chinese estate sector. There are currently Hour celebrations and kite-making Festival of the Arts since 2005 and four students in this programme, workshops. Keppel Land also raised 2006 respectively. of which one was awarded the funds for the APSN beneficiaries scholarship in 2014. through a bake sale during the The Company also contributed festive season. $40,000 in support of the The scholars are attached to Mid-Autumn Festival at The different units during their school Keppel Volunteers also actively Gardens in September 2014. Aimed vacation, to give them a better engages and brings cheer to the at promoting Chinese culture, the understanding of the Company’s elderly. In 2014, Keppel Volunteers two-week-long event, which included businesses and operations prior to partnered Thye Hua Kwan Bedok displays of handicrafts, sculptures joining the organisation. Radiance Seniors Activity Centre, and calligraphy as well cultural St Theresa’s Home and Ren Ci Nursing performances, attracted over To-date, 17 scholars have graduated Home to organise activities such as 800,000 visitors. from these programmes and are bowling, taichi, cycling, cooking currently working with Keppel Land. and karaoke sessions. It also joined At the same time, the Company Yayasan Mendaki in delivering food is committed to enriching lives In 2014, the Company also hampers to low-income households through arts education among the provided 20 internship positions during Ramadan in July 2014. young with its ongoing support to undergraduates from local of Keppel Nights, a joint initiative and overseas universities and At the same time, Keppel Volunteers by Keppel Corporation and The polytechnics, enriching them with reaches out to beneficiaries from the Esplanade. As Singapore’s first ticket invaluable practical experiences. KK Women’s and Children’s Hospital subsidy scheme which was relaunched and the Handicaps Welfare Association in 2013, the programme gives students KEPPEL VOLUNTEERS through excursions and walkathons. from heartland schools access to Keppel Land also reaches out to It also helped in the refurbishment world-class performances and has the less privileged through Keppel works of the Moral Student Care enabled students to grow in their Volunteers, a Keppel Group-wide Centre in Bedok. appreciation of the arts, exposing volunteer movement. Started in them to internationally-renowned acts 2000, Keppel Volunteers has In support of the National Blood such as ballet concerts, cultural dances harnessed the Group’s diverse Programme by Health Sciences and orchestra performances held resources, strengths and talents in Authority and Singapore Red Cross, at the Esplanade. spearheading regular activities that blood donation drives were organised positively impact local communities, at Keppel’s worksites including In addition, Keppel Land was the social institutions and non-profit Keppel Bay Tower for the seventh presenting sponsor of Musicity, organisations. consecutive year in 2014. a two-week-long musical event held in April at the show gallery of its Keppel Volunteers works closely With its wide ranging programmes, Highline Residences development. with beneficiaries in the areas of the Keppel Volunteers caters to the varied The event is the second edition environment, the elderly and special interests of employees and fosters a of a global music programme to needs children, as well as Keppel’s robust culture of volunteerism. showcase the works of local talent. Nurturing Communities Community and Society 102 Community NURTURING COMMUNITIES and Society 01 Similarly, Keppel Land’s listed fund programme. Workshops on appreciating The Company management arm, Keppel REIT and collecting art, as well as world supports local organised various activities at its music and dance performances were and international properties in 2014, to bring music, featured at RQAM’s developments. artists with special showcases at its arts and culture closer to the business A two-week-long Silver Arts exhibition show galleries. community. These include monthly was also held at Marina Bay Link Mall lunchtime performances by both as part of NAC’s roving Silver Arts 02 professional and young budding programme which seeks to engage Outdoor musicians, a two-week-long art senior citizens in the arts. performances were held at exhibition by young local artists Ocean Financial in collaboration with the National SUPPORTING Centre to engage Arts Council, as well as a musical COMMUNITY CAUSES those working in the vicinity of showcase by winners of Symphony Keppel Land continued to support Raffles Place. 92.4FM’s Young Talents Projects. various community causes during the year, including charity runs, donation 03 In August 2014, NAC and Raffles Quay drives and supporting adopted charities. Keppel Land Asset Management, the building sponsored the Run for Life charity manager of Marina Bay Financial Centre CHARITY RUNS run in July 2014. and One Raffles Quay, collaborated In July 2014, Keppel Land sponsored on a new Arts in Your Neighbourhood $10,000 in support of Run for Life, 01 02 KEPPEL LAND LIMITED Sustainability Report 2014 103 03 a fund-raising event organised by held at Keppel Land’s headquarters from staff, which amounted to over Life Community Services Society. in Bugis Junction Towers where the 70 packets of rice donated to the Some 30 Keppel Land staff and National Council of Social Service, less fortunate. their family members took part in South West Community Development the event, which was graced by Centre, Muscular Dystrophy ADOPTED CHARITIES Emeritus Senior Minister Goh Chok Association Singapore, Presbyterian Alpha Investment Partners (Alpha), Tong. A total of $600,000 was Community Church, Beyond Social Keppel Land’s private-equity fund raised in support of educational Services and APSN sold works management arm, continued to and outreach programmes for by their beneficiaries. Staff also support the Asian Women’s Welfare more than 1,000 underprivileged donated and participated in the Association School, its adopted charity children and youths-at-risk. distribution of schoolbags to for 2014 and 2015. Beneficiaries are 50 underprivileged children from low-income families with children In November 2014, Keppel REIT Lakeside Family Services. suffering from multiple disabilities supported the Singapore Exchange’s and autism. In April 2014, staff from annual Bull Charge Charity Run, During the Lunar New Year period, Alpha volunteered in the school’s as sponsor and participant. About Keppel Land staff collaborated Sports Day. $2.6 million was raised for four charities, with the Metropolitan YMCA to including the Asian Women’s Welfare sponsor and distribute necessities Similarly, Keppel REIT invited tenants Association, the Autism Association of and festive items to over 100 of Ocean Financial Centre as well as Singapore, Fei Yue Community Services underprivileged families. Keppel Land the public to grant Christmas wishes and Shared Services for Charities. also supported the South West made by children from the Melrose CDC’s Eco Clean Out initiative, Home. Keppel REIT continued to DONATION DRIVES where employees donated clothes partner MINDSville@Napiri for the During the festive season, the which were exchanged for packets fifth consecutive year, with a culinary CSR Committee engaged staff and of rice for low-income families residing workshop to help intellectuallytenants in donation drives for various in the South West district. A total of challenged children assimilate into charities, including a Christmas bazaar 220 kg of old clothes was collected the community. Nurturing Communities Community and Society 104 Community NURTURING COMMUNITIES and Society 01 02 REACHING OUT TO Keppel Land China team in 2014 for Employees from Keppel Land’s OVERSEAS COMMUNITIES needy students. Some 14 students Taman Sutera development in Beyond philanthropic efforts, from Ya’an Yong Fu Primary School Johor Bahru, Malaysia, provide the Company seeks to empower benefitted from the programme. regular monetary donations lives for sustainable change and and assistance to over 40 welfare improvement, creating positive and HUMANITARIAN EFFORTS institutions, schools and libraries meaningful impacts on the overseas In response to the Yunnan Ludian in Malaysia such as the Kiwanis communities wherever it operates. County earthquake in August, CareHeart Centre, Malaysia National employees of Spring City in Library, Hospice Cancer Patient GROOMING TALENTS Kunming and its trade union Centre and the Fo Guang Foundation. Following the success of its donated RMB 23,000 to the hospitality training programme victims. Fundraising efforts such COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT in 2013, Sedona Hotel Mandalay as golf tournaments and a charity To raise awareness and understanding continued to groom local youths auction were organised. Staff of children with autism as well as keen on a career in the industry in volunteers visited the victims and provide an additional platform for 2014. Five out of the seven youths rendered assistance. Keppel Land’s their learning and development, from 2014’s intake have graduated employees and project teams volunteers from Keppel Land China and are currently working at across China also contributed organise regular outings with children Sedona Hotel Mandalay. RMB 81,000 towards an from Xiangyu Autism Mutual Aid earthquake relief fund. In total, Association. In July 2014, employees At Spring City Golf and Lake Resort RMB 214,000 was raised by in Tianjin brought the children on (Spring City) in Kunming, China, Keppel Land China. an excursion to the water park in the Junior Academy Programme Tanggu District of Tianjin City. provides middle school students Spring City continues to support from neighbouring villages the in Bless China International, In September 2014, Keppel Land opportunity to pick up golfing as a non-government organisation staff across China and their families a career. Promising students are which provides medical needs organised charity bazaars based on selected and trained to provide to the poor and disabled. In March, the theme of Love the Children them a chance to be a potential a total of RMB 55,000 was raised to raise funds for underprivileged professional golfer. through Spring City’s Bless China children. A total of RMB 42,000 charity auction, which went towards was raised across 10 cities, which In Chengdu, a pro-bono tuition sponsoring bone deformity operations was donated to welfare institutions initiative was launched by the for the needy. for children. KEPPEL LAND LIMITED Sustainability Report 2014 105 To improve the living conditions Singapore-Thai Chamber of 01, 02 of orphaned children in Vietnam, Commerce in Thailand, supported Charity bazaars to Sedona Hotel Suites Hanoi held a the Baan Sang San Dek (Foundation raise funds for the series of donation drives for the of the Better Life of Children), less fortunate are regularly organised Thuy An Orphans’ Centre and Nam a shelter for underprivileged boys at Keppel Land’s Hung Rosa Orphanage in the Ba Vi aged between six and 17 years old. offices and and Hoc Mon districts respectively. This is part of the KTP Volunteers properties overseas. Residents and staff volunteers programme which was started in 03 visited the orphanages in October October 2013 to encourage employees In Vietnam, and December to deliver food, to work with non-profit organisations volunteers bring electrical appliances, clothes and that support the underprivileged. cheer to children books, as well as helped to spruce from low-income families in HCMC as up the premises. In December 2014, over 50 staff part of their retreat. from KTP helped in the building Similarly, volunteers from Sedona of the foundation’s new two-storey Hotel Mandalay in Myanmar engaged dormitory for its 65 beneficiaries. ethnic minority children from the Naga They also donated lightings, orphanage with activities such as furnishings, used clothes, toys singing songs and playing games and books, and taught the during a visit in September. children how to use hardware tools safely. Volunteers also helped In Thailand, Keppel Thai Properties to assemble and install furniture (KTP), in partnership with the in the dormitory. 03 Nurturing Communities Community and Society 106 GRI G4 Content Index FOR ‘IN ACCORDANCE’ – COMPREHENSIVE Level of Reporting, External External ISO 26000 Page Reference and/or Assurance Assurance Clauses Explanation for Omissions Yes (Y)/No (N) Reference GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES Strategy and Analysis G4-1 Statement from the most senior 4.7, 6.2, 7.4.2 3-7 Y 115-118 decision-maker of the organization G4-2 Description of key impacts, risks, 4.7, 6.2, 7.4.2 37 Y 115-118 and opportunities Organizational Profile G4-3 Name of the organization – 8 Y 115-118 G4-4 Primary brands, products, and/or services – 8 N – G4-5 Location of organization’s headquarters 6.2 8 N – G4-6 Number and names of countries where the – Annual Report (AR) N – organization operates at www.keppelland. com pages 71-73 G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form – AR (270) N – G4-8 Markets served – AR (71-73) N – G4-9 Scale of the reporting organization – AR (2) N – G4-10 Employees Profile – 87-89 Y 115-118 G4-11 Percentage of employees covered 6.3.10 97 Y 115-118 by collective bargaining agreements G4-12 Organization’s Supply Chain 6.4.1, 6.4.2 43, 77 Y 115-118 G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period – AR (30) N – G4-14 Whether and how the precautionary approach – 35-36 Y 115-118 or principle is addressed by the organization G4-15 Externally-developed economic, environmental 6.4.3, 6.4.4, 12, 15-16 Y 115-118 and social charters, principles, or other 6.4.5, 6.8.5, initiatives to which the organization subscribes 7.8 or which it endorses G4-16 Memberships of associations 6.4.5 14, 51-52 Y 115-118 Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries G4-17 List all entities included or not included in 7.3.2 1, AR (226-231) Y 115-118 organization’s financial statements G4-18 Process for defining report content 5.2, 7.3.2 1, 13 Y 115-118 How the organization has implemented the Reporting Principles for Defining Report Content G4-19 List all the material Aspects identified in the 5.2, 7.3.2 13 Y 115-118 process for defining report content G4-20 For each material Aspect, report the 7.3.3, 7.3.4 13 Y 115-118 Aspect Boundary within the organization G4-21 Report the Aspect Boundary outside 7.3.3, 7.3.4 13 Y 115-118 the organization G4-22 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements – 52 Y 115-118 of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting – 13, 52 Y 115-118 periods in the scope and Aspect boundaries KEPPEL LAND LIMITED Sustainability Report 2014 107 Level of Reporting, External External ISO 26000 Page Reference and/or Assurance Assurance Clauses Explanation for Omissions Yes (Y)/No (N) Reference Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged 5.3 11 Y 115-118 by the organization G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of 5.3 11 Y 115-118 stakeholders with whom to engage G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement, 5.3 31, 48, 73, 82, 93 Y 115-118 including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group G4-27 Key topics and concerns raised through 5.3 31, 48, 73, 82, 93 Y 115-118 stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded Report Profile G4-28 Reporting period for information provided – 1 Y 115-118 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report – 1 Y 115-118 G4-30 Reporting cycle – 1 Y 115-118 G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding 7.5.3 1 Y 115-118 the report or its contents G4-32 Report on ‘In accordance’ option, GRI Content 7.5.3, 7.6.2 1, 106-114 Y 115-118 Index, reference to External Assurance G4-33 Policy and current practice with regard 7.5.3, 7.6.2 1 Y 115-118 to seeking external assurance for the report Governance G4-34 Governance structure of the organization 6.2 31, AR (95, 98) N – G4-35 Process for delegating authority for 6.2, 7.4.3 12, 31 Y 115-118 economic, environmental and social topics from the highest governance body to senior executives and other employees G4-36 Whether the organization has appointed an 6.2, 7.4.3 12, 31, AR (95) Y 115-118 executive-level position or positions with responsibility for economic, environmental and social topics, and whether post holders report directly to the highest governance body G4-37 Processes for consultation between stakeholders 6.2, 7.4.3 32-33 Y 115-118 and the highest governance body on economic, environmental and social topics G4-38 Composition of the highest governance 6.2, 7.4.3 32, AR (95, 98) N – body and its committees G4-39 Whether Chair of the highest governance 6.2, 7.4.3 AR (96) N – body is also an Executive Officer G4-40 Nomination and selection process for the 6.2, 7.4.3 AR (97-98) N – highest governance body and its committees, and the criteria used for nominating and selecting highest governance body members G4-41 Processes in place for the highest governance 6.2, 7.4.3 AR (107-109) N – body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided G4-42 Highest governance body’s and senior 6.2, 7.4.3 32, AR (95, 98) N – executive’s roles in the development, approval and updating of the organization’s purpose, value or mission statements, strategies, policies, and goals related to economic, environmental, and social impacts G4-43 Measures taken to develop and enhance 6.2, 7.4.3 31, 76, Y 115-118 the highest governance body’s collective AR (95, 99-100) knowledge of economic, environmental and social impacts GRI G4 Content Index 108 GRI G4 Content Index FOR ‘IN ACCORDANCE’ – COMPREHENSIVE Level of Reporting, External External ISO 26000 Page Reference and/or Assurance Assurance Clauses Explanation for Omissions Yes (Y)/No (N) Reference G4-44 Processes for evaluating the highest 6.2, 7.4.3, AR (99, 101-103) Y 115-118 governance body’s own performance, 7.7.5 particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance G4-45 Highest governance body’s role in the 6.2, 7.4.3 31, 76, AR (105-110) Y 115-118 identification and management of economic, environmental, and social impacts, risks and opportunities. Whether stakeholder consultation is used to support the highest governance body’s identification and management of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks and opportunities G4-46 Highest governance body’s role in reviewing 6.2, 7.4.3 AR (107-109) N – the effectiveness of the organization’s risk management processes for economic, environmental and social topics G4-47 Frequency of the highest governance 6.2, 7.4.3 AR (96) N – body’s review of economic, environmental and social topics G4-48 Highest committee or position that formally 6.2, 7.4.3 52 N – reviews and approves the organization’s sustainability report and ensures that all material Aspects are covered G4-49 Process for communicating critical concerns 6.2, 7.4.3 AR (26-27, 109) N – to the highest governance body G4-50 Nature and total number of critical concerns 6.2, 7.4.3 AR (26-27) N – that were communicated to the highest governance body and the mechanism(s) used to address and resolve them G4-51 Remuneration policies for the highest 6.2, 7.4.3 AR (100-104) N – governance body and senior executives G4-52 Process for determining remuneration 6.2, 7.4.3 AR (100-104) N – G4-53 How stakeholders’ views are sought and 6.2, 7.4.3 AR (103) N – taken into account regarding remuneration, including the results of votes on remuneration policies and proposals G4-54 Ratio of the annual total compensation for the 6.2, 7.4.3 – Information is N – organisation’s highest-paid individual in each confidential country of significant operations to the median total compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid) individual in the same country G4-55 Ratio of percentage increase in annual total 6.2, 7.4.3 – Information is N – compensation for the organization’s highestconfidential paid individual in each country of significant operations to the median percentage increase in annual total compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country Ethics and Integrity G4-56 Organization’s values, principles, standards 4.4, 6.6.3 AR (109) N – and norms of behaviour such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics G4-57 Internal and external mechanisms for seeking 4.4, 6.6.3 AR (109) N – advice on ethical and lawful behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity, such as helplines or advice lines G4-58 Internal and external mechanisms for reporting 4.4, 6.6.3 AR (109) N – concerns about ethical and lawful behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity, such as escalation through line management, whistleblowing mechanisms or hotlines KEPPEL LAND LIMITED Sustainability Report 2014 109 Level of Reporting, External External ISO 26000 Page Reference and/or Assurance Assurance Clauses Explanation for Omissions Yes (Y)/No (N) Reference SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES – MATERIAL ASPECTS Category: Economic Economic Performance G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach (DMA) 6.2, 6.8 25, 27, 29 Y 115-118 G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 6.8.1, 6.8.2, 25-26 Y 115-118 6.8.3, 6.8.7, 6.8.9 G4-EC2 Financial implications and other risks and 6.5.5 43-44, 57 Y 115-118 opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change and other sustainability issues G4-EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined 6.8.7 89-90 Y 115-118 benefit plan obligations G4-EC4 Significant financial assistance – 95 Y 115-118 received from government Market Presence G4-DMA DMA 6.2, 6.8 87 Y 115-118 G4-EC5 Ratios of standard entry level wage 6.4.3, 6.4.4, 90 Y 115-118 by gender compared to local minimum 6.8.1, 6.8.2 wage at significant locations of operation G4-EC6 Proportion of senior management hired 6.8.1, 6.8.2, 92 Y 115-118 from the local community at significant 6.8.5, 6.8.7 locations of operation Category: Environmental Materials G4-DMA DMA 6.5.1, 6.5.2 57 Y 115-118 G4-EN1 Materials used by weight, value or volume 6.5.4 56-57 Y 115-118 G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used that 6.5.4 56-57 Y 115-118 are recycled input materials Energy G4-DMA DMA 6.5.1, 6.5.2 52-53 Y 115-118 G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organisation 6.5.4 52-53 Y 115-118 G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside the organisation 6.5.4 52-53 Y 115-118 CRE1 Building energy intensity 6.5.4 52-53 Y 115-118 G4-EN5 Energy Intensity 6.5.4 52-53 Y 115-118 G4-EN6 Reduction of Energy Consumption 6.5.4, 6.5.5 43-44, 46, 71 Y 115-118 G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements 6.5.4, 6.5.5 43-44, 46, 71 Y 115-118 of products and services Water G4-DMA DMA 6.5.1, 6.5.2 53-54 Y 115-118 G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 6.5.4 53-54 Y 115-118 G4-EN9 Water sources significantly affected 6.5.4 53-54 Y 115-118 by withdrawal of water G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of 6.5.4 Amount of water Y 115-118 water recycled and reused recycled mainly for irrigation use is insignificant. CRE2 Building water intensity – 54 Y 115-118 GRI G4 Content Index 110 GRI G4 Content Index FOR ‘IN ACCORDANCE’ – COMPREHENSIVE Level of Reporting, External External ISO 26000 Page Reference and/or Assurance Assurance Clauses Explanation for Omissions Yes (Y)/No (N) Reference Emissions G4-DMA DMA 6.5.5 55-56 Y 115-118 G4-EN15 Direct Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions 6.5.5 55-56 Y 115-118 (Scope 1) G4-EN16 Energy Indirect GHG Emissions (Scope 2) 6.5.5 55-56 Y 115-118 G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions 6.5.5 55-56 Y 115-118 (Scope 3) CRE3 Greenhouse gas intensity from buildings 6.5.5 55-56 Y 115-118 CRE4 Greenhouse gas emissions intensity from 6.5.5 55-56 Y 115-118 new construction and redevelopment activity G4-EN18 GHG Emissions Intensity 6.5.5 55-56 Y 115-118 G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions 6.5.5 43-44, 55 Y 115-118 and reductions achieved G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting 6.5.5 – Disclosure is not Y 115-118 substances by weight applicable as the Company does not have ozone-depleting substances. G4-EN21 NO, SO, and other significant emissions 6.5.3 – Disclosure is not Y 115-118 by type and weight applicable as the Company is not regulated by national laws, regulations or environmental permits to report significant air emissions for its operations. Effluents and Waste G4-DMA DMA 6.5.3 55 Y 115-118 G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination 6.5.3 54-55 Y 115-118 – Partial disclosure as wastewater is discharged into the public sewerage system or sewage treatment plant. G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type 6.5.4 55 Y 115-118 and disposal method – Partial disclosure as wastewater is discharged into the public sewerage system or sewage treatment plant. G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills 6.5.3 – Disclosure is Y 115-118 not applicable as Keppel Land does not have significant spills. G4-EN25 Weight of transported, imported, exported, 6.5.3 – Disclosure is not Y 115-118 or treated waste deemed hazardous under applicable as waste the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, on-site are managed and VIII, and percentage of transported waste by the main shipped internationally. contractors and the Company does not transport, import, export or treat hazardous waste. KEPPEL LAND LIMITED Sustainability Report 2014 111 Level of Reporting, External External ISO 26000 Page Reference and/or Assurance Assurance Clauses Explanation for Omissions Yes (Y)/No (N) Reference G4-EN26 Identity, size, protected status, and 6.5.3, 6.5.4, – Disclosure is not Y 115-118 biodiversity value of water bodies and related 6.5.6 applicable as waste habitats significantly affected by the reporting water is discharged organisation’s discharges of water and runoff. into the public sewerage system or sewage treatment plant. Products and services 115-118 G4-DMA DMA 6.5.3, 6.5.4, 43-44 Y 115-118 6.7.5 G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental 6.5.3, 6.5.4, 43-44 Y 115-118 impacts of products and services 6.5.5, 6.7.5 G4-EN28 Percentage of products sold and their 6.5.3, 6.5.4, – Disclosure is not Y 115-118 packaging materials that are reclaimed 6.7.5 applicable as input by category. building materials including packaging are purchased directly by the main contractors. Compliance G4-EN29 Monetary value of significant fines 4.6 43 Y 115-118 and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. Category: Social Labour Practices and Decent Work Employment G4-DMA DMA 6.4, 6.3.10 87 Y 115-118 G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee 6.4.3 87 Y 115-118 hires and employee turnover by age group, gender, and region G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees 6.4.4, 6.8.7 89-90 Y 115-118 that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by significant locations of operation G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after 6.4.4 95 Y 115-118 parental leave, by gender Labor/Management Relations G4-DMA DMA 6.4 97 Y 115-118 G4-LA4 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant 6.4.3, 6.4.5 97 Y 115-118 operational changes, including whether these are specified in collective agreements Occupational Health and Safety G4-DMA DMA 6.4 75 Y 115-118 G4-LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented 6.4.6 77 Y 115-118 in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs GRI G4 Content Index 112 GRI G4 Content Index FOR ‘IN ACCORDANCE’ – COMPREHENSIVE Level of Reporting, External External ISO 26000 Page Reference and/or Assurance Assurance Clauses Explanation for Omissions Yes (Y)/No (N) Reference G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational 6.4.6, 6.8.8 85 Y 115-118 diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities by region and by gender CRE6 Percentage of the organization operating 6.4, 6.4.6 80 Y 115-118 in verified compliance with an internationally recognized health and safety management system G4-LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk 6.8.8, 6.8.8 83 Y 115-118 of diseases related to their occupation G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal 6.4.6 97 Y 115-118 agreements with trade unions Training and Education G4-DMA DMA 6.4 48, 83-84, 92 Y 115-118 G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee 6.4.7 92 Y 115-118 by employee category G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and 6.4.7, 6.8.5 48, 83-84, 92 Y 115-118 lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving 6.4.7 90 Y 115-118 regular performance and career development reviews Human Rights Non-discrimination G4-DMA DMA 6.3 88 Y 115-118 G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination 6.3.6, 6.3.7, 88 Y 115-118 and corrective actions taken 6.3.10, 6.4.3 Child Labour G4-DMA DMA 6.3 78 Y 115-118 G4-HR5 Operations and significant suppliers identified 6.3.3, 6.3.4, 78 Y 115-118 as having significant risk for incidents of child 6.3.5, 6.3.7, labour, and measures taken to contribute to the 6.3.10, effective abolition of child labour. 6.6.6, 6.8.4 Society Local Communities G4-DMA DMA 6.3 99 Y 115-118 G4-SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local 6.3.9, 6.5.1, 99 Y 115-118 community engagement, impact assessments, 6.5.2, 6..3, 6.8 and development programmes. G4-SO2 Operations with significant potential 6.3.9, 6.5.3, 99-101, 102-105 Y 115-118 or actual negative and positive impacts 6.8 on local communities. CRE7 Number of persons voluntarily and involuntarily – – Disclosure is not Y 115-118 displaced and/or resettled by development, applicable as broken down by project. impacts on local communities in the countries that Keppel Land operates in are guided by the respective authorities’ land planning regulations. KEPPEL LAND LIMITED Sustainability Report 2014 113 Level of Reporting, External External ISO 26000 Page Reference and/or Assurance Assurance Clauses Explanation for Omissions Yes (Y)/No (N) Reference Anti-Corruption G4-DMA DMA 6.6 AR (109) Y 115-118 G4-SO3 Total number and percentage of business 6.6.1, 6.6.2, AR (109) Y 115-118 units analyzed for risks related to corruption 6.6.3 and the significant risks identified G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti6.6.1, 6.6.2, AR (109) Y 115-118 corruption policies and procedures 6.6.3, 6.6.6 G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption 6.6.1, 6.6.2, AR (109) Y 115-118 and actions taken 6.6.3 Compliance G4-DMA DMA 4.6 72 Y 115-118 G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total 4.6 43 Y 115-118 number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations Product Responsibility Customer Health and Safety G4-DMA DMA 6.7 75 Y 115-118 G4-PR1 Percentage of significant product and service 6.7.1, 6.7.2, 80 Y 115-118 categories for which health and safety 6.7.4, 6.7.5, impacts 6.8.8 are assessed for improvement G4-PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance 4.6, 6.7.1, 43 Y 115-118 with regulations and voluntary codes 6.7.2, 6.7.4, concerning health and safety impacts of 6.7.5, 6.8.8 products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. Marketing and Communications G4-DMA DMA 6.7 67, 72 Y 115-118 G4-PR6 Sale of banned or disputed products – – Disclosure is not Y 115-118 applicable as the Company does not sell banned or disputed products. G4-PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance 4.6, 6.7.1, 72 Y 115-118 with regulations and voluntary codes 6.7.2 concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. Compliance G4-DMA DMA 6.7 72 Y 115-118 G4-PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for 4.6, 6.7.1, 72 Y 115-118 non-compliance with laws and regulations 6.7.2, 6.7.6 concerning the provision and use of products and services. Legend Fully reported Partially reported – Do not report GRI G4 Content Index 114 United Nations Global Compact 10 PRINCIPLES OF THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT Principles Report Page HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection 15, 17, 78, 88 of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses 15, 17, 78, 88 LABOUR Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and 15, 78, 97 the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4 Elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour 15, 17, 78 Principle 5 Effective abolition of child labour 15, 17, 78 Principle 6 Elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation 15, 88 ENVIRONMENT Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges 42-44, 62-65 Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility 46-47, 57-58 Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies 42-44, 62-65, 70-71 ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, AR (109) including extortion and bribery KEPPEL LAND LIMITED Sustainability Report 2014 Independent 115 Assurance Statement To the Management and Stakeholders of Keppel Land Limited Keppel Land Limited (“Keppel Land”, the “Company”) engaged Ere-S Pte Ltd (“Ere-S”) to provide independent assurance of its Sustainability Report 2014 (the “Report”). SCOPE AND TYPE OF ASSURANCE The assurance focussed on all figures, statements and claims related to sustainability during the reporting period January 2014 to December 2014. This covers all Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Disclosures (G4-EC, G4-EN, G4-LA, G4-HR, G4-SO and G4-PR) and some of the GRI General Standard Disclosures, including G4-17 to G4-27. The list of covered and non-covered indicators is found in the column “External Assurance” of the Report’s GRI Content Index. Financial data or technical descriptions of equipment, buildings, software, and production processes were not included. The assurance also excluded other information not related to sustainability or already supported by existing documents, such as third-party audits or certifications, Keppel Land’s Annual Report 2014 and previous sustainability reports. The assurance process was carried out in accordance with the requirements of the AA1000 Assurance Standard (2008) of AccountAbility, under a Type 2 and moderate (or limited) level of assurance. The assessment consisted of management-level interviews and desktop review with restricted sampling at lower levels in the organisation to gather evidence and verify data. A Type 2 assurance requires: • Evaluating the Company’s sustainability framework and processes using the inclusivity, materiality and responsiveness criteria of the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles (AA1000APS 2008), and • Evaluating the quality of the reported qualitative and quantitative information. For this, Ere-S used the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Reporting Principles: reliability, accuracy, balance, comparability, timeliness, clarity, sustainability context and completeness. ASSURANCE METHODOLOGY The assurance procedures and principles used for this engagement were organised into a methodology developed by Ere-S, which consists of the following steps: 1. Identify and classify statements and data sets according to the scope, data ownership and type of evidence required for the verification process. 2. Carry out interviews with key functional managers and data owners at Keppel Land’s corporate office in Singapore to verify data. During this engagement, over 20 people were interviewed. The verification of the information was done through the following activities: • Enquiring about the quantitative and qualitative aspects of the Report disclosures, including performance information, policies, procedures and underlying management systems. • Requesting evidence of the data sources and explanation of relevant collection and calculation methods to substantiate the figures and claims. • Sampling quantitative data originating from multiple sources. • Challenging claims made in the Report and, where possible, confirming the presented evidence, including calculation methods, criteria and assumptions, with multiple data owners and other documentation from internal and external sources. • Crosschecking data with previous Keppel Land sustainability reports and Keppel Land’s latest published financial results. 3. Assess the collected information and develop recommendations for immediate correction (where required) or future improvement of the Report content. Independent Assurance Statement 116 Independent Assurance Statement RESPONSIBILITY AND INDEPENDENCE This statement represents the independent opinion of Ere-S. The management of Keppel Land was responsible for the preparation of the Report and all statements and figures contained within it. The responsibility of Ere-S was to provide the assurance, to express conclusions in relation to the agreed scope and to prepare the assurance report and this assurance statement for the management of Keppel Land alone and for no other purpose. Ere-S was not involved in the development of the Report or the disclosed management processes; neither has Ere-S been engaged by Keppel Land for other projects. The activities of Ere-S are independent of Keppel Land and entail no financial interest in Keppel Land’s business operations. Ere-S is not responsible for any actions taken by other parties resulting from the findings presented in this assurance statement. FINDINGS AND OBSERVATIONS There is evidence to show an overall strengthening of sustainability-related processes and policies in Keppel Land’s overseas operations since our previous assurance engagement on the Company’s sustainability report. In general, the content of the Report is comprehensive and clear. The Report presents both new and historical data aligned with the Company’s previous reports, which facilitates assessment and comparison of performance through the years. Identification of material aspects, stakeholder engagement channels and the relevant management approaches are also described in the Report. Overall, quality was consistent across the different data sets analysed. Ere-S detected some minor errors, which included inaccurate transcription of information from sources provided by the data owners, inconsistencies in the formulation of final figures and misstated details of initiatives. In some cases, evidence provided for procedures and initiatives managed by the overseas business units was found to be insufficient and, as a result, additional proof was requested to validate the reliability of the information. This was particularly pertinent to human resources and community-related aspects managed by overseas units. On the other hand, evidence for environmental data and safety performance, which are centrally managed by the headquarters, was readily available and could be traced more easily. All our key recommendations to improve the clarity and accuracy of the verified statements have been applied by the reporting team and relevant data owners of Keppel Land. Ere-S crosschecked the final version of the Report to confirm the application of the required corrective actions. In terms of balanced content, the Report provides limited disclosure on gaps, negative performance and remedial action. Despite the Company’s increasing presence overseas, disclosure on overseas performance and initiatives appears less comprehensive than on Singapore operations, particularly for social aspects, such as labour, human rights, society and product responsibility (LA, HR, SO and PR indicators). EVALUATION OF THE ADHERENCE TO AA1000 ACCOUNTABILITY PRINCIPLES Inclusivity – How the organisation engages with stakeholders and enables their participation in identifying issues and finding solutions. Ere-S observed that, overall, Keppel Land’s stakeholder engagement is institutionalised and timely, with employees, customers and investors benefitting from the most mature engagement channels. These include meetings, surveys and centralised information and feedback systems. Mutual dialogue between Keppel Land and its stakeholders is evident in the Company’s engagement with employees, customers and investors. However, apart from a few notable exceptions identified during the assurance, there is less evidence of such a dialogue and involvement in decision making with other stakeholder groups, such as supply chain partners/workers, and local communities that may be impacted by the Company’s operations. The exceptions include empowering onsite workers to develop and implement their own safety initiatives and cross-sector collaboration to identify and test innovative design and cutting-edge technologies in the construction sector. The variance in the maturity of engagement with different stakeholder groups and between the operations in Singapore and overseas could be further reduced. In this regard, evidence suggests that strategies and efforts are being made to identify and close the gaps. KEPPEL LAND LIMITED Sustainability Report 2014 117 Materiality – How the organisation recognises issues that are relevant and significant to it and its stakeholders. Keppel Land has established management approaches to identify and measure issues that are material to the Company and its stakeholders. These are evidenced at management level and, our observations suggest, also at board level, where more attention has been given to assessing material issues and engagement with key stakeholders than in previous years. For example, the CSR Committee has presented the findings of the materiality exercise and the subsequent roadmap to the Board. The assurance team also found evidence of the Company’s means of identifying, assessing and reporting critical issues on a continuous basis. They include: the CSR Committee; meetings involving managers and key stakeholders; a company-wide risk management system; innovationfocussed initiatives, and an integrated quality management system, which was fully implemented in Singapore in 2014. However, we found limited evidence of robust materiality tests on diverse aspects conducted in overseas operations. For instance, the CSR Committee in China has focussed primarily on philanthropic activities. We observed that more efforts are being put in place to guide the overseas operations in this regard and to enhance sustainability-related procedures. Responsiveness – How the organisation responds to stakeholder issues and feedback through decisions, actions, performance and communication. Ere-S has found evidence of actions taken by the Company to address stakeholders concerns expressed through diverse engagement platforms during the reporting period. The most significant example is the staff lounge that was created in response to the employees’ demands. Evidence suggests that, overall, the Company has actively responded to new regulatory requirements as well as a number of issues arising from its engagement with stakeholders. Innovation received greater attention during the reporting period, particularly in the areas of safety and the environment. However, the Company’s disclosure on its responsiveness in Singapore outweighs that of the overseas operations. Communication channels to inform stakeholders about the Company’s initiatives and performance have remained consistent since the previous reporting period. These channels include internal portals, a newsletter, external publications and, particularly, the knowledge management system, which has been fully implemented for all departments in Singapore. CONCLUSION On the basis of a moderate assurance engagement according to the above-listed criteria, nothing has come to our attention that causes us not to believe that, in all material respects, Keppel Land’s Sustainability Report 2014 − provides a credible and fair representation of the organisation’s sustainability profile and a reasonable application of the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles, and − includes statements and figures that achieve an adequate level of reliability and accuracy. Within the scope of the assurance, the findings also provide confidence that the Report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Reporting Principles. Independent Assurance Statement 118 Independent Assurance Statement MOVING FORWARD For further improvement of sustainability reporting by Keppel Land, Ere-S recommends the following: • Keppel Land should continue its effort to strengthen the measurement and reporting channels for overseas business units in aspects other than environmental and safety. This will allow for better alignment between the disclosures of information and performance managed by Company headquarters and the information obtained from overseas operations, especially in the social and economic aspects. The implementation of additional control mechanisms may be necessary to ensure alignment, with specific reporting requirements identified for each location and market. • Ere-S commends the new guidelines on construction of workers quarters that were added into the Safety Specifications for Project Development Contractors during the reporting period. Ere-S recommends that Keppel Land strengthens its effort to formalise measurement and control mechanisms on all relevant human rights aspects into its supply chain. For this, new engagement channels with suppliers and workers may need to be defined. • The inclusion of more case studies to illustrate the formal participation of key stakeholders in decision-making processes and in the implementation of remedial actions would also benefit the Report. Similarly, the quality of Report content could be improved with more balanced statements showing both positive and negative performances. The above findings and additional suggestions for improvement have been presented to the management of Keppel Land in a more detailed assurance report. Singapore, 27 May 2015 On behalf of the Assurance Team JEAN-PIERRE DALLA PALMA LEAD CERTIFIED SUSTAINABILITY ASSURANCE PRACTITIONER Ere-S Pte Ltd is a consulting company specialising in business sustainability and provides services in the domains of sustainability reporting, sustainability report assurance, stakeholder engagement and CSR training. Our assurance team is composed of assurance practitioners with expertise in CSR and each member is required to follow Ere-S’ assurance code of conduct, which can be found at http://www.ere-s.com/assurance-code-of-conduct/. KEPPEL LAND LIMITED Sustainability Report 2014 International 119 Network SINGAPORE Jiangyin Yangtze International SHENYANG Country Club Keppel Township Development KEPPEL LAND LIMITED No. 1 Longtao Road (Shenyang) Co Ltd 230 Victoria Street Jiangyin No. 26 Puxin Road #15-05 Bugis Junction Towers Jiangsu Province, China 214431 Shenbei New District Singapore 188024 Tel: (86) 510 8685 5333 Shenyang Tel: (65) 6338 8111 Fax: (86) 510 8685 8060 Liaoning Province, China 110135 Fax: (65) 6337 7168 Tel: (86) 24 8972 7567 KUNMING Fax: (86) 24 8972 7466 Spring City Golf & Lake Resort CHINA Tangchi, Yiliang, TIANJIN Kunming Keppel Hong Da (Tianjin Eco-City) BEIJING Yunnan Province, China 652103 Property Development Co Ltd Beijing Kingsley Property Tel: (86) 871 6767 1168 Keppel Seasons Park Sales Gallery Development Co. Ltd. Fax: (86) 871 6767 1119 He Chang Road Unit 706 Tianjin Eco-City China World Office 2 NANTONG Tianjin, China 300480 No. 1 Jian Guo Men Wai Avenue Keppel Lakefront (Nantong) Tel: (86) 22 6633 1088 Chaoyang District Property Development Co. Ltd. Beijing, China 100004 10 Shanghai Road WUXI Tel: (86) 10 6505 0866 NETDA CityOne Development (Wuxi) Co Ltd Fax: (86) 10 6505 0865 Jiangsu Province, China 226010 South of Gaolang Road & Tel: (86) 513 8919 9798 East of Nanhu Avenue Beijing Aether Property Fax: (86) 513 8919 0788 Central Park City Sales Gallery Development Co. Ltd Wuxi Block A, Room 701, Hanwei Plaza SHANGHAI Jiangsu Province, China 214131 No. 7 Guanghua Road Keppel Land China Limited Tel: (86) 510 8283 2208 Chaoyang District (Head Office) Fax: (86) 510 8283 2213 Beijing, China 100004 39th Floor Wheelock Square Tel: (86) 10 6561 8822 1717 Nanjing West Road ZHONGSHAN Fax: (86) 10 6561 3322 Shanghai, China 200040 Sunsea Yacht Club (Zhongshan) Tel: (86) 21 6171 2121 Co Ltd CHENGDU Fax: (86) 21 6171 2122 1203 12/F Tower 2, The Summit Chengdu Hillwest Development Co. Ltd. 88 Zhongshan Fourth Road Unit 903 New Hope Tower Keppel Land (Shanghai) East District, Zhongshan, 45 Ren Min Nan Lu Section 4 Management Co Ltd Guangdong Province, China 528403 Chengdu Room 3601 Park Place Tel: (86) 760 8892 6108 Sichuan Province, China 610041 1601 Nanjing West Road Fax: (86) 760 8892 6178 Tel: (86) 28 8702 6688 200040 Shanghai, China Fax: (86) 28 8701 5599 Tel: (86) 21 6288 3066 Fax: (86) 21 6288 2799 INDIA JIANGYIN Jiangyin Evergro Property Co Ltd Alpha Investment Partners BANGALORE #7 Clubhouse, Stamford City China Limited Keppel Puravankara Development Wenhua Lu (Opposite Jiangyin Room 1907 Shui On Plaza Pvt Ltd Tianhua Cultural Centre) 333 Middle Huai Hai Road No. 39, 8th Main, 1’A’ Cross Jiangyin Shanghai, China 200021 Vasanthnagar Jiangsu Province, China 214431 Tel: (86) 21 6333 9696 Bangalore 560052, India Tel: (86) 510 8683 9999 Fax: (86) 21 6333 7338 Tel: (91) 08 4150 5000 Fax: (86) 510 8641 0780 Fax: (91) 08 4150 5008 International Network 120 International Network INDONESIA MYANMAR THAILAND BATAM MANDALAY BANGKOK PT Nongsa Point Marina Sedona Hotel Mandalay Keppel Thai Properties Public Jl. Hang Lekiu No. 1 Junction of 26th & 66th Street Co. Limited Nongsa, Batam 29432, Batam, Chan Aye Tharzan Township 30th Floor Jewellery Centre Building Indonesia Mandalay, Myanmar 138/108 Nares Road, Sipraya, Bangrak Tel: (62) 778 761 333 Tel: (95) 2 36 488 Bangkok 10500, Thailand Fax: (62) 778 761 330 Fax: (95) 2 36 499 Tel: (66) 2 237 1999 Fax: (66) 2 237 2666 BINTAN YANGON PT Ria Bintan Sedona Hotel Yangon Jl. Perigi Raja No. 1 Kaba Aye Pagoda Road VIETNAM Lagoi North Bintan Yankin Township Kepulauan Riau Bintan Resorts Yangon, Myanmar HANOI Indonesia 29152 Tel: (95) 1 666 900 Keppel Land Vietnam Company Ltd Tel: (62) 770 692 868 Fax: (95) 1 666 911 (Hanoi Branch Office) Fax: (62) 770 692 837 Unit 04-05, 5th Floor, International Centre 17 Ngo Quyen Street, Hoan Kiem District JAKARTA THE PHILIPPINES Hanoi, Vietnam PT Keppel Land Tel: (84) 4 3936 7745 PT Kepland Investama ORTIGAS, MANILA Fax: (84) 4 3936 7680 PT Harapan Global Niaga Keppel Philippines Properties, Inc. International Financial Centre Units 2203-2204 Quang Ba Royal Park JV Co. 17th Floor Raffles Corporate Center Building 96 To Ngoc Van Street, Jl. Jend. Sudirman Kav. 22-23 F Ortigas Jr. Avenue Tay Ho District Jakarta 12920, Indonesia Ortigas Center Hanoi, Vietnam Tel: (62) 21 571 2238 Pasig City 1605 Tel: (84) 4 3823 8995/8993 Fax: (62) 21 571 1813 Tel: (63) 2 584 6170/71 Fax: (84) 4 3823 9046 Fax: (63) 2 584 3915 SURABAYA International Centre PT Sentral Tunjungan Perkasa Unit 04, 7th Floor, International Centre Jl Kenari 3-5 SOUTH KOREA 17 Ngo Quyen, Hoan Kiem District Surabaya 60275, Indonesia Hanoi, Vietnam Tel: (62) 31 532 7261 SEOUL Tel: (84) 4 3824 1125/6/7 Fax: (62) 31 531 4957 Alpha Investment Partners Fax: (84) 4 3824 1124 Korea Private Limited PT Sentral Supel Perkasa Unit 3608 Trade Tower Sedona Suites Hanoi Jl Bubutan 1-7 159-1, Samsung-Dong, Gangnam-Gu 96 To Ngoc Van Street, Quang Ba Surabaya 60174, Indonesia Seoul 135-729, Korea Tay Ho District Tel: (62) 31 547 2333 Tel: (82) 2 551 3387 Hanoi, Vietnam Fax: (62) 31 547 0555 Fax: (82) 2 551 3380 Tel: (84) 4 3718 0888 Fax: (84) 4 3718 0666 JAPAN SRI LANKA HO CHI MINH CITY (HCMC) Keppel Land Vietnam Company Ltd TOKYO COLOMBO (Head Office) Alpha Investment Partners Keppel CT Developments Pte Ltd Unit 2, 8th Floor, Saigon Centre Japan Limited Level 34, East Tower 65 Le Loi Boulevard, District 1 Fukoku Seimei Building 21F World Trade Centre, Echelon Square HCMC, Vietnam 2-2-2 Uchisaiwaicho, Chiyoda-ku Colombo 1, Sri Lanka Tel: (84) 8 3821 8000 Tokyo 100-0011, Japan Tel: (94) 11 7468 500 Fax: (84) 8 3821 3540 Tel: (81) 3 5510 7551 Fax: (94) 11 7468 502 Fax: (81) 3 5510 7552 Keppel Land Watco Co. Ltd 4/F Saigon Centre TAIWAN 65 Le Loi Boulevard, District 1 MALAYSIA HCMC, Vietnam TAIPEI Tel: (84) 8 3823 2500 JOHOR BAHRU Alpha Investment Partners Fax: (84) 8 3822 9822 Tanah Sutera Development Taiwan Limited Sdn Bhd Room G 10 Floor Sedona Suites Ho Chi Minh City No. 2 Jalan Sutera Merah 2 No. 1, Songzhi Road, Xinyi Dist., Saigon Centre, Taman Sutera Taipei 11047 65 Le Loi Boulevard, District 1 81200 Johor Bahru, Malaysia Taiwan HCMC, Vietnam Tel: (60) 7 289 9009 Tel: (886) 2 7737 8558 Tel: (84) 8 3822 9666 Fax: (60) 7 289 9119 Fax: (886) 2 7737 8559 Fax: (84) 8 3822 9229 KEPPEL LAND LIMITED Sustainability Report 2014 KEPPEL LAND LIMITED (Incorporated in the Republic of Singapore) 230 Victoria Street #15-05 Bugis Junction Towers Singapore 188024 Tel: (65) 6338 8111 Fax: (65) 6337 7168 www.keppelland.com Co Reg No: 189000001G
