Communication on Progress Year: August 2015 Statement of Continued Support of the UN Global Compact Sintel Security Print Solution Ltd’s board of directors endorse its commitment to the UN Global compact. The CEO is resolute in ensuring that Sintel’s business and manufacturing practices will continually abide with the ten principles of the global compact and will improve its practices by ensuring these tenets The UN Global compact principles are a culture that is part of the Sintel code of conduct which all its employees are aware of. Our code is communicated to all stake holders. August 18th 2015, Niraj Shah – Chief Commercial & Operations Officer Company name: Sintel Security Print Solutions Limited Sector: SECURITY PRINTING Manufacturing Number of employees: 145 UN Global Compact signatory since: Aug 2014 Contact person: Niraj Shah Address: P.O. Box 76529-00508 Email: niraj.shah@sintelsecurityprint.co.ke Phone: +254722511061 Page 1/13 Brief description of nature of business Sintel Security Print Solutions Ltd is a fully accredited security printing company that offers security printing solutions to a the telecommunications and financial sector in East Africa. Sintel specializes in the manufacturing of recharge voucher cards (scratch cards) for telecommunication operators and cheque books for the banking industry. SINTEL is equipped with custom made machinery that is designed to incorporate a maximum level of security while reducing raw materials and limiting the impact on natural resources. SINTEL is committed to providing and delivering long term and sustainable value to its clients through secure Information processes. COMPANY STRATEGY SINTEL MISSION: To create value and make a difference. To provide a service ensuring the highest level of Safety, Confidentiality, Quality and Efficiency SINTEL VISION: To be the Number One Security Printing Company in Africa. CORE VALUES: Customer Focus, Teamwork, Timelines & Confidentiality: Guarantee customer satisfaction by meeting specified requirements. Working as a team internally and with our business partners, to ensure prompt delivery of service which is fundamental to our customers’ success and hence our success. We assure and safeguard the privacy and confidentiality of our customers’ information and data. Integrity & Innovation: To be trustworthy, honourable, transparent and ethical in our business dealings. Improve and develop creative solutions for an enhanced customer experience and better service delivery. Responsibility & Commitment to Excellence: We take responsibility for our actions. Embracing initiative & creativity, and continuous learning enables us to deepen our skills and move towards being the industry leaders. Corporate Social responsibility: We serve our community as active and concerned corporate citizens through supporting development initiatives for the future generations. We are the guardians of our environment. Page 2/13 Scope of this COP The scope of this COP is to confirm that Sintel Security Print Solutions Ltd continually supports the ten principles of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. With this communication, we would like to affirm that Sintel security print solutions Ltd’s intent to advance the principles within our sphere of influence. We are committed to the Global Compact and its principles and it is part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company, we are steadfast in engaging in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, particularly the Millennium Development Goals. Sintel Security Print Solutions Ltd makes this commitment clear to its stakeholders and the general public. We recognize that a key requirement for participation in the Global Compact is the annual submission of a Communication on Progress (COP) that describes our company’s efforts to implement the ten principles. We support public accountability and transparency, and therefore commit to report annually after joining the Global Compact according to the Global Compact COP policy. Page 3/13 Human Rights Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection of internationally UN Global Compact proclaimed human rights principles covered: Principle 2: Business should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Commitment Sintel is committed to upholding the rights of every employee through equal opportunity for employment regardless of their race, sex, marital status, health status, ethnic or social origin, colour, age, disability, religion, conscience, belief, culture, dress, language or birth and any other established standard of human rights. A brief description of our Processes or Systems We are guided by the code of conduct which outlines expected standards of relations as well as grievance procedure to institute proceedings of any allegations. Activities implemented in the last year • Employment of both men and women based on merit from different cultural backgrounds, age, marital status, religion, or any other factor as guided by the Employment Act 2007 as well as those Internationally established. Human Rights • Allowing employees conduct prayers every morning before commencing their work. • Current Confidentiality of employee information which is under the custodian of HR department • In -house staff dispensary for their wellness check-ups, counselling and provision of general healthcare. • In – house cafeteria where the company provides balanced meals. • Filtered treated water for employee consumption • Provision of employee personal lockers • Provision of new personal protective gears i.e. aprons, shoes and safety equipment e.g. ear muffs, googles and dust masks where required. • Our company has been externally audited by the local authority and business customers on compliance of safety and health and other human rights compliance e.g. availability of washroom as guided by Occupational Safety and Health Act 2007 • Company has put up a suggestion box as another avenue for employees to express their opinions and ideas which is received by management and addressed. Page 4/13 • All employees work within the stipulated working hours and where overtime applies it is controlled as regulated and equally compensated. • Our company does not engage employees on Saturdays and Sundays to allow them work-life balance for attending personal, family and religious activities. • The employees have been allowed to form an in-house Savings and Credit Cooperative SACCO and the company provides the venue and time for officials and members to attend the meetings. • The company has established an in-house welfare that caters for financial aid where an employee and his immediate family have been bereaved. • We offer five days compassionate leave as well which is not leave deductible for a bereaved employee Measurement of outcomes and value added for our company • Part of our employees and contractors are expatriates, they have synergized our knowledge and hence increase in output’s quality, quantity through system effectiveness and efficiency. • Harmonious relations by all our employees have resulted to team work and productivity increase • Retention of employees due to accommodating environment which respects their rights and values their input • Change implementation from suggestions received by the employees Activities planned for next year • Use of survey tools to measure employee satisfaction in terms of their welfare and Human Rights their rights • Open meetings for dialogue Future • Open door policy where an employee can meet with supervisors or managers and share their views Page 5/13 Labour Rights Principle 3: Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: Business should support the elimination of all forms of forced and UN Global Compact compulsory labour principles covered: Principle 5: Business should support the effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: Business should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Commitment Sintel security Print solutions upholds the outlined principles according to stipulated International Labour organization. A brief description of our Processes or Systems • Sintel have an open to use suggestion box for any employee, contractors, visitor to channel any suggestion • The employees are made aware of their rights through training and also documentation of the policies and procedures governing them • Employees’ health and safety is ensured and communicated through trainings, placing warning signs and having active and regular health and safety committee meetings to discuss matters related to health and safety. Labour Rights • Employees also conduct periodical internal health and safety audit and give report to management for action • Before employment, any eligible candidate is expected to produce the National Current Identity card or Passport to verify their age and hence minimizes any chances of employment of a child. • All employees sign their appointment letters to acknowledge their employment terms hence reducing any form of forced labour. • Procedure for exit in form of resignation or retirement is clearly outlined for employee wishing to leave employment with Sintel • Performance management system is used to evaluate employees competencies, training needs, salary reviews and promotions without any form of discrimination. • The company grants all employees their rights to observe any Calendar or Declared public holidays. • The company offers employee annual leave as required by law and procedure for taking leave is well outlined to enable employee be relieved off duty when requiring to take leave. • The company had a fully established HR department that caters for all employees enquiries, suggestions and management of their welfare as well as their rights • The company has provision for Sick-leave which is not deductible to any employee, the procedure is well defined to enable employee attend to their medical wellbeing and take time off where required Page 6/13 • The company grants maternity leave and paternity leave as required under Employment Act 2007 laws of Kenya Activities implemented in the last year • Public display of employees rights • Freedom of expression and association • Awareness training of employees labour rights • Open dialogue where called for by either employees or employer • Analysis of medical reports from the dispensary and also occupational injuries to help improve by reducing future occurrences Measurement of outcomes and value added for our company • Employee satisfaction has led to higher productivity • Sintel is an employer of choice to our employees and also prospective future candidates • Improvement guided by suggestions, and audits done Activities planned for next year • Labour Rights Continued display of employees rights • Continued freedom of expression and association • Awareness training of employees labour rights Future • Open dialogue where called for by either employees or employer Page 7/13 Environment Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges UN Global Compact Principle 8: Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental principles covered: responsibility Principle 9: Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Commitment Our company is committed to safe guard the environment and promote its sustainability in its everyday activities. A brief description of our Processes or Systems • Company has established environmental policy which is displayed for awareness • Sintel recycles all recyclables e.g. paper • Sintel has contracted certified waste disposal companies for disposing all its unrecyclable waste as stipulated by NEMA (National Environmental Management Authority) of Kenya. • Material Safety Data sheets are availed to respective users for their knowledge • Sintel has environmental clauses in all agreements made by and between their suppliers that safeguards the environment • Internal staff are made aware on ways of reducing and re-using waste e.g. print Environment papers • The company has put in place a brick maker which uses its matrix waste to produce bricks that can be used as coal Current Activities implemented in the last year • Company has been audited and certified by the relevant government body regulating environmental safety and compliance i.e. National Environmental Management Authority (NEMA) • Audit findings and proposals made by NEMA in 2014 have been duly complied with and therefore leading to 2015 NEMA re-certification. • The company has appointed a safety officer among the safety committee who regularly surveys and gives reports on environmental assessment • Employees awareness on environmental protection Measurement of outcomes and value added for our company • Evaluation of new ways for waste recycling i.e. partnering with suppliers • The environment audit assessment reports have significantly helped identify areas of improvement • Page 8/13 Activities planned for next year Environment • Setting programs for improvements Future Page 9/13 Anti-corruption UN Global Compact Principle 10: Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including principles covered: extortion and bribery Commitment Sintel’s organization culture, governance and core values uphold and emphasizes on integrity and ethical business relations throughout the organization stakeholders. A brief description of our Processes or Systems A code of business conduct is well defined and communicated to all the stakeholders The company is assessed by its suppliers and customers on these values and all reports have cleared us from any allegations of the vices hence growth in our market share and business partners. Anti-corruption Activities implemented in the last year • The company invited its main customer to offer awareness on anti-corruption, extortion and bribery mechanisms for the company to adopt • The company has sensitized its senior and middle level management on ways of Current identifying the vices and reporting • The company encourages whistle blowing • All suppliers are identified, listed and vetted to ensure zero bribery, corruption or extortion. • Open suggestion box to provide grievance mechanism • Referencing the UN Global compact principles in supplier and customer relations Measurement of outcomes and value added for our company  The company reputation in ethical practice has attracted international customers • Evaluation of suppliers and vetting process has reduced chances of corruption • Internal system of approvals for services requires signatories who include senior management to authorize hence creating transparency Page 10/13 Activities planned for next year • Internal Audits Anti-corruption • Company to be audited by external customers and suppliers Future Page 11/13 How do you intend to make this COP available to your stakeholders? Our commitment to the UN Global Compact and its principles is displayed at our Headquarter and at the manufacturing concern in Thika. We also intend to hold workshops to sensitize our suppliers and other stakeholders of this commitment. Internally we will have regular workshops and the code of conduct displays our commitment. Our website also indicates our commitment to the UN Global Compact Donations, awards Below are the certifications we have achieved. CERTIFICATION & COMPLIANCE ISO 27001:2013 (ISMS) Sintel has recently achieved ISO 27001:2013 certification. The Objective of this certification takes into consideration and focus of all business activity related to the entire process of security printing. Every aspect related to the production of scratch cards is documented with key focus on Data management, Quality control, Printing & Packaging. All supporting processes with all departments – IT, HR, Security and Administration is synergized with the ISO 27001:2013 procedures. ISO 9001:2008 We are currently pursuing the certification for ISO 9001. Our Quality management system is compliant to the ISO 9001 procedures. KENYA BANKERS ASSOCIATION: Sintel Security Print Solutions is fully accredited by the Kenya bankers Association, making it one of the very few companies in Kenya as a bona fide security printing company. We support the community in various activities among them are: NEMA: We are compliant with the requirements of the National Environment Management Authority, the governing environment body in Kenya SINTEL RESOLUTION UN GLOBAL COMPACT: Sintel is a member of the UN GLOBAL COMPACT and is committed to respect the ten principles based on: Human Rights Labour Standards Environment Anti-Corruption. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY: As a company we recognize our responsibility to the community and support the AMARA group that is committed in improving lives of children by providing them with facilities for schooling (construction of Page 12/13 buildings) and ensuring that these facilities are maintained. Sintel identifies the potential of our future leaders and Amara’s initiative. Page 13/13
