COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FUEL SUPPLIES MALDIVES PVT. LTD COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Period: 18th January 2014 to 15th April 2015 STATEMENT BY MANAGING DIRECTOR To our stakeholders, Fuel Supplies Maldives supports the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. We as a team at FSM are working on integrating these principles to our daily operations and business strategy. In this communication of progress; we have highlighted the current policies followed by FSM in these areas. Sincerely Yours, Ahmed Wafir Managing Director 1. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Fuel supplies Maldives offers equal opportunities to all employees without regard to race, color, sex, gender, sex, gender, sexual orientation, age, marital status, disability, veteran status or national origin or other criteria protected by law. FSM continuously updates company policies in accordance with human rights principles of conventions of that Maldives are parties to. Periodic audits are conducted by the internal audit department and the audit committee works in association with HR department to ensure compliance with HR factors that are in place according to the regulations governing the employment law. A grievance committee has been established to address human rights and labor issues. 2. LABOUR PRINCIPLES FSM does not discriminate against any employee or applicants for employment because of disability in regard to any position for which the employee or applicant for employment is qualified. All employees have the right to notify any form of discrimination towards them to their department head and Human Resource department. FSM does not tolerate any form of discrimination and takes appropriate disciplinary action, including possibly termination, of any person determined to have engaged in unlawful conduct under the human resources policy. According to the Maldivian employment law, no individual below the age of 18 are allowed to be employed formally in any organization. Therefore, any individual or prospective employee who applies for a vacant position at FSM should have attained 18 years of the age at the time of application of employment. FSM compiles with Employment Act of Maldives (No: 2/2008) All human resources related policies and procedures are audited by internal audit department of Fuel Supplies Maldives and also audited by the parent company State Trading Organization (STO) on all the policies and procedures regarding labor. 3. ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLES FSM caters to the distribution of Fuel to the whole country. Due to the products we carry we have established environment protection measures. FSM has a fleet of fourteen vessels, nine fuel vehicles and three petrol sheds. All the employees in these areas are given health and safety trainings every year. All vessels, vehicles and petrol sheds are equipped with environmental protection gears as per prevailing local regulation. To protect the sea from any spillage while bunkering fuel, FSM has oil booms installed to minimize damage to environment due to any accidental spillage. FSM works closely with EPA (Environment Protection Authority of the Maldives) when implementing projects such as building a slipway. 4. ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES FSM has a Whistle blower policy in order to control corruption matters. It was a system for employees and public to report any malpractice or mismanagement of any company resources, to the management. At FSM internal audits are periodically conducted by the internal department of FSM (reports to Managing Director) and as well as parent company STO. FSM has an external audit company and our books are subject to statutory external audit annually. There are no public legal cases regarding corruption.
