COMMIT CONNECT CARE Sustainable Development Report 2014-15 IN THIS REPORT OVERVIEW 1 BUILDING STRONG RELATIONSHIPS 40 A global footprint 2 Stakeholder engagement 42 From the Chairman’s desk 4 Human rights 44 Highlights of the year 5 Neighbourhood dialogue 46 CEO’s statement 6 Q&A with our leaders 8 ADDING AND SHARING VALUE 48 The global context 10 Employees 50 A strategy to commit, connect, care 12 Community relation 53 How we performed 18 Other stakeholders – (Shareholders & Lenders, Governments, Industry and Civil Society) 58 RESPONSIBLE STEWARDSHIP 20 Awards and Accolades 63 Fair and transparent business 22 Safety and health 25 DISCLOSURE AND ASSURANCE 64 Environment 30 About this report 66 Key Performance Indicators 67 Assurance statement 68 External Indices and Benchmark 71 GRI Index 72 FIND OUT MORE ONLINE Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2015 Annual Report and Accounts FY 2015 THIS REPORT Welcome to our seventh Sustainable Development Report, which is prepared based on Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 – ’in accordance’ – Core guidelines and is mapped to Visit our interactive online the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). Sustainable Development Report It reports our approach and disclosure towards triple bottom line principles – people, 2014–15 at planet and profit over the 2014–15 financial year. See page 66 for more information sd.vedantaresources.com/ about our reporting. SustainableDevelopment2014-15 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2014–15 COMMIT CONNECT CARE One Vision – One Vedanta Our Core Values Trust / Entrepreneurship / Innovation / Excellence / Integrity / Respect / Care Our Core Purpose Vedanta is a globally diversified natural resources company with low-cost operations. We empower our people to drive excellence and innovation to create value for our stakeholders. We demonstrate world-class standards of governance, safety, sustainability and social responsibility. Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2014–15 1 OVERVIEW A GLOBAL FOOTPRINT A DIVERSIFIED NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY OPERATING ACROSS FOUR CONTINENTS Headquartered in London, Vedanta Resources encompasses India, Zambia, Namibia, South Africa, Liberia, Ireland, Sri Lanka and Australia, through two subsidiary companies: Vedanta Ltd. (previously Sesa Sterlite Ltd.) and Konkola Copper Mines (KCM). Each of these businesses has its own unique and diverse culture but they are united under one Vedanta. WHERE WE OPERATE REVENUE 12.9bn India and Sri Lanka Ireland $ 8 EBITDA $ 3.7bn 82k Australia 1 4 3 1 2 5 people employed directly 3 and indirectly 3 4m* 1 2 2 3 1 2 Africa beneficiaries of our community investment 1 4.6bn** 2 3 $ 1 tax payments to exchequers 4 2 * Some beneficiaries may have been involved in more than one project 6 ** Includes direct and indirect taxes, 4 7 royalties, sales tax and dividend tax Our key operations include: Zinc-Lead-Silver Oil & Gas Copper Power 1. Debari smelter 1. Rajasthan block 1. Silvassa refinery 1. MEL power plant 2. Chanderiya smelters 2. Ravva (PKGM-1) block 2. Tuticorin smelter 2. SEL 3. Rampura-Agucha mine 3. Cambay (CB/052) block 3. Mt Lyell mine, Australia Captive thermal power plant 4. Rajpura Dariba mine & smelters 4. South Africa block 4. Konkola and Nchanga copper and Sindesar Khurd mine Iron Ore mines & Nchanga smelter, Zambia 5. Zawar mine 1. Iron ore operations – Goa Aluminium 6. Skorpion mine, Namibia 2. Iron ore operations – Karnataka 1. Lanjigarh alumina refinery 7. Black Mountain mine, South Africa 3. Iron ore projects – Liberia 2. Jharsuguda smelters & 8. Lisheen mine, Ireland power plants 3. Korba smelters & power plants 2 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2014–15 REFRESHING THE VEDANTA BRAND The refreshed logo signifies Vedanta’s approach to the triple bottom line that focuses on People, Planet and Prosperity. A leaf, an unmistakable ‘symbol of life’ which has now been included into the Vedanta globe, and the new colour ‘green’, symbolise Vedanta’s ethical credentials. The colour ‘blue’, reflects Vedanta’s distinct virtues of integrity & professionalism. HOW OUR BUSINESS FITS TOGETHER % 59.9 100 % er a n Copp Cairn Ind ali ia ustr es A Min TA LTD. (62.9 EDAN %) V 9%* 100 MEL 64. % Pow dia (100 er Zinc In MW (HZ L) ) ( 7 9. 4 % ) KO N KOLA VEDANTA : Se RESOURCES inium Talwand D i v is i o n s M) lu O KC A lu m (BA minium ( LC O ( 1, 9 8 C PP r ER M INES nd ) we sa 100 Po on e ra tA 51% bo Ir i Sa Ore ow ara ** W) P % • S te • 0M rlite Copper Bh Sk o rp r 10 io n l u ste 0% & Li rn C sheen Weste BM M– i b e ria) 74 % (L 1 00 % %*** 100 Listed entity Unlisted entity FIND OUT MORE Note: Our subsidiary Sesa Sterlite Ltd. was renamed Vedanta Ltd. in April 2015. The name change from Sesa Sterlite to For more information about our Vedanta Ltd. positions us as a united and aligned identity, strengthening the linkage between our global businesses and communities. businesses, please refer to the Key Performance Indicator section in this * Option to increase stake to 94.4% report and the Vedanta Resources ** Option to increase stake to 100% Annual Report 2015 *** Zinc International Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2014–15 3 OVERVIEW FROM THE CHAIRMAN’S DESK THE NATURAL RESOURCE SECTOR HAS THE POTENTIAL TO GENERATE MILLIONS AND MILLIONS OF JOBS. “Vedanta’s success has been built not just by executives in boardrooms but by talented people fulfilling their potential every day in our mines, smelters and offices, who are our brand ambassadors.” The resources that we mine contribute to the growth of our communities and nations. The natural resource sector has the potential to generate millions and millions of jobs and that is the key to accelerate the growth and development of India. My vision is to open up the potential of India’s natural resources which can make India self-sufficient, to make India’s dreams my own and contribute to nation building by educating and empowering India’s youth. India’s current regulatory framework is pushing towards a sustainable natural resources industry that will ensure that there is a stable economic model at work, assurance of resources for future generations, well-being of the communities around the operations and overall making natural resources an integral part of the economy. With the current reforms push and an investor friendly regime, a company like Vedanta which has capabilities across mining, smelting, refining and several distribution channels is instrumental in creating hundred thousand of direct and indirect employment. I believe there is no better way to alleviate poverty. This year we have delivered long-term social and economic benefits to about 4 million people. We engage in skill development and nation building, and have invested in delivering wider value over the last 30 years, not because it is the right thing to do but because it gains us a ‘Licence to Operate’, building resilience to risk, and enhancing our reputation as a responsible company. We continue to be guided by global best practices through our robust Sustainability Development Model and Framework, and I am pleased to introduce this report that details our approach and achievements in Sustainable Development. 4 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2014–15 A DECISIVE LEADERSHIP & PEOPLE SUSTAINABILITY HIGHLIGHTS OF THE YEAR BUSINESS Today’s volatile commodity markets present challenges but our diversified and well-invested asset base, low cost of production, 4m beneficiaries US$ 61.5m invested in environment initiatives investment in Africa and exposure to the fast-growing Indian (FY 2014: 4.1 m) * (FY 2014: US$57 million) 42m 88% market, together with higher public spending on infrastructure and social security, give us resilience to navigate a strong position over the long-term horizon. US$ invested in community development of sites certified to ISO 14001 I am optimistic as ever on the emergence of India’s economy (FY 2014: US$49 m) environmental standard (FY 2014: 83%) 40m MT as one of the most dominant forces on the global platform. 4,635 That is the reason why we have continued to invest heavily not just in our businesses in India, but also in the communities to ensure the social well-being of the people. Our businesses carbon footprint (FY 2014: 37 m MT) village meetings held maintain financial strength and flexibility during this period of (FY 2014: 3,538) 0.46 1.2m weak commodity prices through capital and resources re-phasing and cost management initiatives. I continue to be inspired by the dedicated efforts of the lost time injury frequency rate (FY 2014: 0.54) training hours delivered to workforce Vedanta team. Listening to their ideas is invaluable. Vedanta’s (FY 2014: 1.1 m) 4.6bn 0 success has been built not just by executives in boardrooms but by talented people fulfilling their potential every day in our mines, smelters and offices, who are our brand ambassadors. US$ tax payments to exchequers We are very fortunate that in his first year as Chief Executive, (FY 2014: US$ 5.3 bn) category 4 or 5 (severe) environmental incidents (FY 2014: 1) 2,325 Tom Albanese has demonstrated a passion and dedication towards managing the business ethically, committed to complete transparency, and continues to ensure that we operate in a ‘zero harm culture’ for our workforce, with the full full-time female employees (FY 2014 : 2,329) 100% of subsidiary businesses have support of the communities around our operations. Biodiversity Management Plans Although we have improved our safety record over the year, I 100% in place or in preparation (FY 2014: 63%) 55% am deeply saddened that eight of our people lost their lives. My heart goes out to the loved ones of these individuals and I periodic medical examinations for all applicable employees give my personal assurance that safety is and will be at the top of my agenda in the coming year. * S ome of the beneficiaries could be involved in non hazardous waste recycling rate more than one project. (FY 2014: 74%) And of course, our business growth and stability is aligned to the growth of our communities. My leadership team and I take great pride in the positive relationships we have built with those living near our sites and the organisations that represent them. I am also delighted that the Indian government shares The basis of life and the motivation of living for these communities is largely my personal views on values of community empowerment based on the natural elements around them. I stand by the principle of free, prior and fair distribution of wealth, and I look forward to working and informed consent whenever we start new exploration, applying our heritage alongside the local governments to shape business policy and of neighbourhood dialogue to ensure all issues are addressed. It has been my make it easier for the private sector to share economic value. categorical statement across forums and to my employees that not a blade of grass will be touched or cut without the prior consent of the local communities. LOOKING AHEAD As we continue to grow, we need to simplify our Group structure; focus on As India grows by leaps and bounds its appetite for metals increasing the mining life of all assets through exploration around our sites; and minerals for infrastructure and power will increase rapidly. optimise our assets and drive higher returns; and identify appropriate merger and My dream as an entrepreneur is to create the world’s best acquisition opportunities that align to our values. natural resources company that is from India. Today there are limited players in the Indian mining industry, who are I am also committed to finding more, mutually beneficial partnerships that will engaged in large-scale national activities. My vision is that deepen our community impact and uphold our licence to operate in countries India will not just be a large consumer of commodities in the with rising expectations of corporate social responsibility. years to come, but it will be a pioneer in creating companies with world-class infrastructure, community development at ANIL AGARWAL the heart of its philosophy and sustainable methods. CHAIRMAN. Businesses today are not isolated entities and their success needs empowering and developing their host communities. Rural India especially is benefiting from this philosophy of running an efficient and sustainable business. Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2014–15 5 OVERVIEW CEO’S STATEMENT LIVING OUR VALUES Our approach to achieving our long-term business goals places utmost importance on safeguarding the welfare of our people by upholding safety as a core value in our operations to build a zero harm culture, and engaging transparently with our communities in a way that shares fairly the value we create. Economic, demographic and environmental change across all of our markets, makes it imperative that we commit to our vision of long-term sustainable development, to deliver on our organic growth strategy and maintain our ‘Licence to Operate’. In my first year as CEO, I am encouraged to see the efforts taken at Vedanta to embed sustainable management practices across our operations and community development programmes. WE ARE COMMITTED The Responsible Stewardship that we embark on for all our activities is integral to our business growth. Our stakeholders have rated safety and health as Vedanta’s highest strategic priority and we continue to foster a culture of zero harm across all of our businesses. The health, safety and well-being of our 82,000-strong workforce are paramount. We released six key safety standards for Group-wide implementation and we have asked for a personal commitment to not walk past any unsafe act or condition; report each near miss to correct the situation before it turns into a potential injury; and most importantly be mindful in assessing job hazards and putting risk mitigation plans in place before you and your co-worker take up any job. This year, over 750,000 hours of safety training were delivered to employees and contractors. Our lost time injury frequency rate fell to 0.46 from 0.54 in the prior year, and we saw fewer fatalities. However, even one work-related fatality is too many and I echo the Chairman, Mr. Anil Agarwal’s sentiments that we must not be complacent despite seeing improvements in our safety record. That is why we have introduced campaigns that aim to entrench a culture of safety awareness, like our Konkola Copper Mines’ Chachilamo project. Chachilamo means ‘enough is enough’ and this project has introduced practical safety standards to the company’s 16,500 employees through mentoring, coaching and competitions. Our commitment to safety can be seen at Board-level, in our policy framework and real-time auditing. This year, Vedanta joined other industry leaders in signing the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) Pledge for access to safe Water, Sanitation and Hygiene 6 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2014–15 (WASH) in the workplace, which begins with a three-year Our inclusive, high-performance culture attracts the right skills, while our commitment. We manage our environmental footprint to the most proactive stance about championing the rights of women is evident in rigorous global standards and have developed specific objectives and our commitment to the promotion of women’s rights, and I am proud targets, particularly with regards to water and energy management. that this year we became a signatory of the ‘CEO Statement of Support’ Concentrated efforts have helped save 7.2 million cubic metres of for the United Nations’ Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEP), water, going beyond our target of saving 2.49 million cubic metres of ‘Equality Means Business’. These principles establish high-level corporate water, and 0.92 million GJ energy, achieving more than our target of leadership for gender equality, ensuring the fair treatment of men and 0.87 million GJ in the last year. 88% of our sites are now certified to women at work and promoting education, training and professional the ISO 14001 environmental standard and I continue to be development for women. impressed by the innovative ways in which we turn waste into new To reinforce our commitment to complete transparency and and efficient products. Take, for example, the world’s first plant that emphasise our principles of community dialogue and mutual respect, makes cement-free concrete from fly ash by Vedanta Ltd.’s Aluminium we communicate with all stakeholders. An integrated and united division in Lanjigarh; or extracting gypsum from smelter waste to be message boosts employee morale and retention and also makes local used in the construction industry and on our own roads at Vedanta communities and the talent pools they represent more driven to Ltd.’s Copper division in Tuticorin. working with us, and they in turn are our ambassadors in the communities where we operate. WE ARE CONNECTED It is crucial that we maintain an ongoing, transparent dialogue with It also underlines my intention, going forward, to deepen our all of our stakeholders in order to build the strong relationships that positive socio-economic impact, by partnering with like-minded will allow our business to succeed and to maintain our ‘Licence to businesses and organisations. Operate’. Our operations are in remote areas that are home to indigenous communities. Local communities have the right to WE CARE participate in the decision making and we respect the principle of free, I feel privileged to lead a business that makes significant contributions prior informed consent. Drawing on 30 years of community expertise, to partner local governments in achieving their development goals; to we place special emphasis on ensuring that the community’s rights strengthening national and local economies, and to build are protected at all times and engage with local people through group infrastructure and facilities for education and healthcare. We believe meetings, public hearings, grievance mechanisms, cultural events and Vedanta’s role is to create value for all our stakeholders. We believe philanthropic activities. that the communities in and around the areas in which we operate should share the value that we create. Only by working in partnership In my visits to almost every Vedanta asset, I have seen the inclusive with our communities will our business grow along with our shared interaction among our people and the local communities, through financial, economic and social value and that will help us maintain our the wide spectrum of community development programmes. licence to operate. I cannot emphasise enough that identifying and proactively This year we invested US$42 million in community development and managing community needs and expectations is a complex and we are consistently demonstrating how we can bring about economic sensitive process. This is why we work in partnership with our host empowerment and social mobility. Whether it’s helping over 15,000 communities. And it is why stakeholder engagement plans backed by women in India set up small scale businesses, providing over 4,000 robust grievance management systems have been implemented, and youngsters with technical training and work placements, or bringing we have conducted over 4,600 village meetings during the year which solar energy to remote villages, Vedanta’s social investments have gave local communities the opportunity to voice their opinions and benefited 3.8 million people globally, especially in the areas of concerns. Our businesses in India have also undertaken a community education, childcare and women empowerment. In the journey of led need assessment exercise to align our programmes continuous improvement, I am committed to ensure that Vedanta with community needs. continues to build on our culture of respect and engagement with Human rights remain an important issue to our stakeholders. We the communities. undertake internal reviews related to human rights and child labour These are exciting times for us all and to maintain our licence to risk assessments led by the Sustainability Committee. We have operate, as we will continue to commit, connect and care in this completed internal assessment on the UN Guiding Principles on sustainable development journey. Human Rights. Our commitment to protecting the fundamental rights of our employees and contract workforce is underpinned by our Code of Conduct and Human Rights Policy, aligned to the UN Guiding TOM ALBANESE Principles on Business and Human Rights. CEO Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2014–15 7 OVERVIEW Q&A WITH OUR LEADERS SUCCESS STORIES, CHALLENGES AND WHAT LIES AHEAD Tom Albanese, CEO, and Roma Balwani, President, Group Sustainability, CSR and Communications, converse on Vedanta’s vision of sustainable development. RB – Roma Balwani TA – Tom Albanese Q. WHAT HAVE BEEN THE KEY ACHIEVEMENTS Q. WHAT CHALLENGES HAVE YOU FACED? DURING 2014–15? TA: T  his year, we faced tax reporting issues, which are relevant TA: I n over a year since I have been CEO, I have been struck by not just to us, but to all our global peers. However, ethics the sheer breadth and depth of our community development and integrity are at the heart of our agenda for sustainable activities. Many companies use the term ‘community investment’ development, and I am determined to resolve any issues. Going but this is the first time that I have seen a company which truly forward, there will be even more emphasis on human rights, embodies the phrase. Vedanta does things differently; building as I believe that our corporate social responsibility is only as interdependence and empowerment instead of dependence and strong as our human rights practices. philanthropy. We have now entered a performance-driven phase RB: T  hese issues are a timely reminder that transparent reporting of our sustainability strategy, having put tried and tested systems is critical to our reputation and licence to operate, and we are into action in recent years. The significant improvements to our working on producing a detailed tax report in conjunction with safety performance are testament to this. our Annual Report. RB: In 2014–15 we completed our most comprehensive, structured Adding a fourth pillar, strategic communications, to our and collaborative community needs assessment exercise in Sustainable Development Modelin 2014–15 reflects our India, reaching every village in the vicinity of our operations. commitment to becoming a more transparent and responsible The main concerns we heard were about improving livelihoods corporate citizen. As part of this initiative, all of our policies and (either in terms of employment or supplier opportunities with company news are made available on our website. Vedanta) and the environment (primarily water and soil quality). We plan to concentrate our efforts on these areas in the year ahead, in addition to any issues that are raised through our material issues assessment. 8 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2014–15 Q. HOW HAVE STAKEHOLDERS INFLUENCED Q. WHAT DOES THE JOURNEY AHEAD HOLD? YOUR APPROACH? RB: P ublic expectations of big business have never been greater, TA: Our employees and our neighbouring communities have also and we are increasingly seeing companies held accountable for been instrumental in creating a spirit of entrepreneurship that irresponsible and opaque practices around the world. My priority will play an important role in bringing successful, sustainable is to keep building positive relationships with those who have an solutions to our stakeholders. Leaving behind a positive legacy, interest in Vedanta. The goal is to empower communities through by implementing a number of sustainable development projects instilling a practice of sustainable, self-dependent growth. I look during the life of the mine for a responsible mine closure, is one forward to convening all of our stakeholders in a neutral forum of the company’s priorities. At Lisheen, which is expected to close to explore ways that we can add more value and teaming with soon, the objective is to rehabilitate the facility such that it is governments on social responsibility projects, to be the partners secure, sustainable and can be used for the widest possible in progress. At this stage, we are focused on continuing to improve range of potential after uses. To date, approximately nine our performance, with an emphasis on minimising our footprint hectares of the facility have been rehabilitated, extensive on the environment and setting out a roadmap for the long-term monitoring data is being collected and Irish regulatory sustainable development of the company. authorities and their retained experts have independently TA: We are learning more and more about how we can create value validated and approved the project. for our shareholders whilst also contributing to the society in which RB: Communities will always be one of our key stakeholders. Our we operate. However, we cannot claim to have mastered this yet. heritage of social investment and local ownership differentiates We are focusing on ethical and green practices for our supply us from other corporate responsibility programmes. It is rooted chain management, so that an environment of a zero harm in 30 years of experience and its legacy will last for many years culture is imparted in all our relationships. The management of to come. We have held meetings with the NGOs, to gain their our Gamsberg project, one of the world’s largest undeveloped zinc view to the approach on our on-ground activities. We encourage deposits, is benchmarked to global best practices. stakeholder input, including from the UN, governmental and I believe that we need to focus on improving performance non-governmental organisations (NGOs), and you will see against our sustainability metrics, as well as managing community outcomes of these partnerships throughout the Sustainable expectations following our universal needs assessment in India. Development Report. It is the feedback from our stakeholders We are now at a point where we have a comprehensive, robust that has led to the report being aligned with our Annual Report. and successful sustainable development story to tell, and we This report is prepared based on -‘in accordance with’the Global intend to build more high-level partnerships and collaborative Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Core guidelines. industry memberships to allow us to share our experiences. We are well positioned to collectively drive excellence and sustainable long-term value for our stakeholders through our core assets our people – while prioritising a zero harm culture. Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2014–15 9 OVERVIEW THE GLOBAL CONTEXT CONNECTING GLOBAL TRENDS Our role is to harness the opportunities of global economic, social and United States environmental megatrends while mitigating negative impacts 90% “The mining sector has a crucial role in fostering sustainable Mexico development where it matters most. Poverty alleviation in the world’s 88% poorest countries is inextricably tied to the minerals and metals that underpin modern society.” – International Council on Mining and Metals, October 2014 SEE MORE ONLINE AT WWW.UNICEF.ORG/SOWC2012/URBANMAP This graphic depicts the projected urban populations in 2050 and the percentages reflect the urban Brazil proportion of the total population. 94% POVERTY AND INEQUALITY Operating in some of the fastest growing economies in the world, our business: has around 82,000 direct and indirect employees; create opportunities for downstream industries that generate jobs for millions of people; generates US$4.6 billion in tax revenue; builds 14.5 kilometres of road and railway networks; and creates entrepreneurship opportunities in our extensive supply chains. We also support communities more directly, investing US$42 million in health, education, livelihoods and environment projects that reached around 4 million people over the year. We are proud of our 30-year record in working towards the cause of poverty and inequality and our public commitment to initiatives such as the UNGC principles and MDGs (see page 71). Across all our work, we prioritise the empowerment of women and social mobility for those marginalised in society. OUR BUSINESS AND EMPOWERS COMMUNITIES BY “To ensure that our youth EMPLOYS INVESTING get proper jobs, we have to aim to make India the 82,000 PEOPLE US$42 MILLION IN manufacturing hub of HEALTH, EDUCATION, the world.” CONTRIBUTES LIVELIHOODS AND – Mr. Arun Jaitley, Indian Finance Minister, US$4.6 BILLION ENVIRONMENT Union Budget Speech IN TAXES PROJECTS 2015-16 10 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2014–15 SEE MORE ONLINE AT WWW.UNICEF.ORG/SOWC2012/URBANMAP This graphic depicts the projected urban populations in 2050 and the percentages reflect the urban proportion of the total population. Russia UK 83% 88% France 94% Turkey 84% China Japan Iran 73% 80% 86% Pakistan 59% Egypt 63% Bangladesh 56% Nigeria India Vietnam Ethiopia 59% 75% 37% 54% Philippines 69% DRC 63% Indonesia 66% CLIMATE CHANGE AND RESOURCE DEPLETION Many of our operating regions such as India, Australia and Africa are predicted to experience the worst impacts of a changing climate. Paradoxically, these are also regions that rely on accessing reserves of finite natural resources. DEMOGRAPHIC CHANGE Global population is predicted to rise by more than Therefore, while the materials we mine, such as lightweight aluminium, can help to a quarter by 2050, with some developing countries reduce greenhouse gas emissions, as a business linked to fossil fuels we have a doubling in size. Further, by 2030, two-thirds of us profound responsibility to drive down our carbon footprint, waste and resource use. will be living in cities. This, alongside rising That’s why we apply the very highest international standards and cutting-edge disposable incomes among middle class Africans technology to reduce emissions and increase energy efficiency; it’s why we are and Asians, will increase consumption and the re-purposing by-products like fly ash and scrubber ‘cake’ for further use to eliminate purchasing power of emerging economies. waste entirely; and why we are investing US$61.5 million in environmental initiatives. Our business is part of a value chain that is enabling more of us to access mobile devices, Urban society depends on minerals labour-saving appliances, air travel and wellequipped hospitals. Many of these products and and energy to meet its modern services are becoming affordable for poorer people needs. We have a portfolio of and those living in remote rural communities. They power and minerals that enables can transform life quality and break generational modern progress. cycles of poverty. We are a lifeline for many developing nations like Zambia, as we create jobs, nuture growth in micro-businesses and invest in trade-enabling infrastructure. For emerging economies like India, Zinc we can offer a route to maturity by giving Lead Power Silver consumers better quality and choice, and empowering entrepreneurs. Oil and Aluminium gas Iron Copper Ore Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2014–15 11 OVERVIEW A STRATEGY TO COMMIT, CONNECT, CARE INTEGRAL TO OUR BUSINESS Alongside delivering high-quality assets and low-cost operations, our Sustainable Development Model is integral to core business strategy and helps us conduct our business in line with the values of trust, entrepreneurship, innovation, excellence, integrity, respect and care – whatever the jurisdiction. Commit The Model is made up of three pillars based on our strategy Responsible governance supports to commit, connect and care. In 2014–15 we added a fourth relationship building dimension: strategic communications. This reflects our dedication to transparency and to engaging in meaningful dialogue with IN ACTION: healthy workplaces all stakeholders. How we are working towards making our employees safe See page 29 Responsible Stewardship It is our responsibility to respect natural and human resources, at all stages of a project. Care Strategic Connect Value will help us to maintain Communications Relationships enable us to a licence to operate contribute to wider society IN ACTION: IN ACTION: skills schools Adding and Building Strong neighbourhood dialogue How we are nurturing our Sharing Value Relationships How Vedanta Ltd. responded future stars. We have a purpose beyond Connecting with stakeholders to a village grievance. profit and make an important helps us build a business fit See page 52 contribution to socio-economic for the future. See page 47 development. For three years, the Model has been aligned with the UNGC’s 10 principles and the MDGs (see page 71). It also takes guidance from global standards set by the International Finance Corporation, the International Council on Mining and Metals and the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. This consistently rigorous approach has helped us win over 40 awards during the year (see page 63). 12 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2014–15 IMPLEMENTING OUR STRATEGY EMBEDDING SUSTAINABILITY We have created a Sustainable Development Framework to help each of our businesses put the Sustainable Development Model into practice. It points to global best practice standards (see previous page) as well as our own policies and guidance notes for the most critical issues. We are committed to ensuring that the Framework is followed and managed in all our operations and new projects as part of our sustainability journey. Lenders Equator Principles IFC performance standards, EHS guidelines, ICMM and OECD guidelines and material issues SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT FRAMEWORK Responsible Stewardship Building Strong Relationships Adding and Sharing Value STRATEGIC COMMUNICATIONS Policies Technical standards / Management standards / Guidance notes Internal verification process (Vedanta Sustainability Vedanta Ltd. KCM Assurance Programme) Sesa Iron Sterlite Vedanta Al Cairn HZL BALCO MEL WCL ZI CMT Ore Copper & Power India Gap analysis Upgrading of all subsidiary company management systems including ISO 14001, ISO 9001, OHSAS 18001 Subsidiary local assurance process Implementation of Sustainable Development Framework in all operations Our goal is for the Framework to be delivered by all employees and embedded in every decision we take, ensuring what we do is safe, ethical and transparent every time. Since rolling out the Framework in 2012-13, we have trained more than 12,000 management-level employees, with e-learning modules at most of our businesses and refresher training available throughout the year. Further, Board members are engaged in sustainability through in-house experts, who either sit on or are invited to the Executive and Sustainability Committees. Our approach continually evolves to reflect changing market trends, varying local contexts and stakeholder feedback (see page 43). Continuous internal auditing is fundamental to keeping us on track and the Vedanta Sustainability Assurance Programme (VSAP) drives compliance with the Framework (see page 22). Results and action plans are reviewed by the Executive and Sustainability Committees on a periodic basis. Going forward, global partnerships such as our involvement with the WBCSD, UNGC and GRI will become increasingly important to challenge ourselves to go further. Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2014–15 13 OVERVIEW MATERIALITY A QUESTION OF PRIORITY We know that our business gives rise to a number understand if stakeholder priorities had changed. This meant commissioning an external consultation process with six groups: of social and environmental impacts, both positive Shareholders and lenders, Industry (suppliers, customers and peers), and negative. Along with our stakeholders, we have Civil society (NGOs and other organisations) and Governments, to prioritise which of these issues we will tackle, and Employees and Communities. To get the management perspective, when. A process of ‘materiality’ helps us to do this. internal leadership and operational management workshops combined with interviews and ranking exercises formed the basis to Our FY 2015 materiality process consisted of the identification of guide the consensus on, and prioritisation of, material issues to be material sustainability topics, the prioritisation of these topics, and managed, measured and disclosed through our sustainability reporting verification of our analysis. We repeated last year’s materiality review to process. –– Employment (1,2,3,4,5) –– Human rights and rights of indigenous –– Employee health and safety (1,2,3,4,5,6) people (1,2,3,4) –– Environmental management (water, waste, –– Child and forced labour (1,2,3,4,5,6) air, emissions, incidents) (1,2,3,4,5) High –– Labour rights and relations (1,2,3,4,5) –– Ethics and integrity – code of conduct –– Land and resettlement (1,2,3) (1,2,3,4) –– Economic value (1,2,3,4) –– New project management and site closure (1,2,3) Relevance to Vedanta’s Stakeholders –– Equal opportunity (1,2,3,4) –– Biodiversity (1,2,3,4) –– Community health and safety (1,2,3,4) –– Community engagement –– Training and leadership development and impact (1,2,3,4) Medium (1,2,3,4) –– Public policy and advocacy (1,2,3) –– Broader economic benefit (taxes and other –– Succession planning (1,2,3,4) payments) (1,2,3,4) –– Gender diversity (1,2,3) –– Retention (1,2,3,4) –– Energy and climate change (1,2,3,4) –– Supply chain management (1,2,3,4) Low Low Medium High Relevance to Vedanta Management Internal businesses External to the business 1 Mining, smelting & refining 2 Oil & Gas 3 Commercial power 6 Outside boundary / supply chain 4 Ports 5 Company transportation ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES Our most salient sustainability issues may affect stakeholders inside Outcomes from these engagements are plotted on the matrix above, our organisation, outside our organisation, or both. Therefore, for each with the top-right corner indicating highest priority issues. We have of our key material aspects, we have described whether the impacts of considered the highest priority issues (highlighted in blue box) for these topics occur within our organisation and also whether both our stakeholders and us as a scope for this year’s reporting. significant impacts are believed to predominantly affect or extend to Overall, stakeholder priorities remain consistent with the previous year. stakeholders outside the organisation – to our contractors and However, ethics and integrity, community engagement and impact, subcontractors, local communities, or municipal and regulatory public policy and advocacy, and child and forced labour have all agencies (refer to the materiality chart). We have described our aspect become more prominent. boundaries within the narrative of the report. 14 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2014–15 GOVERNANCE RESPONSIBLE LEADERSHIP Embedding sustainability into day-to-day activities is no easy challenge in a business as large and complex as ours. It requires leadership from all levels, with ultimate accountability lying with the Vedanta Board. VEDANTA BOARD Remuneration Sustainability Audit Committee Executive Committee Nominations Committee Committee Chaired by Non-executive Chaired by CEO, Tom Committee Chaired by Non-executive Chaired by Non-executive director Aman Mehta. The Albanese. The Executive Chaired by Chairman, director Euan Macdonald. director Euan Macdonald. committee maintains and Committee meets monthly Anil Agarwal, with other The committee monitors The committee oversees monitors Group systems and is responsible for Executive Directors and the effectiveness of the Group sustainability and internal controls, implementing strategic members of senior communication with performance and reports including integrity of plans formulated by the management. The analysts and shareholders to the Board on a periodic financial statements, Board, allocating resources committee identifies the concerning the Board’s basis. anti-bribery and corruption in line with delegated optimum balance of skills, Remuneration Policy. procedures and employee authorities and monitoring background and See page 16 for detailed whistle-blowing policies the operational and experience on the Board. See the Annual Report for information financial performance of detailed information the Group. See the Annual Report for See the Annual Report for detailed information detailed information See the Annual Report for detailed information SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT TEAM Reporting & Community Relations Environment Occupational Health Safety Communication Monthly Sustainable Development Team and Segment Business Committee’s reviews (Monthly Operational Reviews / Business Management Group Meetings) We have clear lines of responsibility to ensure that business NUMBER OF PEOPLE WITH SUSTAINABILITY performance – including meeting our sustainability goals – is RESPONSIBILITIES ACROSS THE VEDANTA GROUP vigorously reviewed and mechanisms are in place to promote shared learning across the Group. Our policies and guidance notes are Community Relations 10% available to all employees through the corporate website, subsidiary portals and through awareness-training sessions. Occupational health 19% SEE PAGE 22 FOR MORE INFORMATION ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS. 656 Environment 26% Safety 45% Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2014–15 15 OVERVIEW “The Vedanta Sustainable Development Framework has enabled significant improvements in the way we do business. The Group’s vastly improved safety performance is testament that robust practices and processes can have a direct impact on performance.” – Euan Macdonald, Chairman, Vedanta Sustainability Committee SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE REPORT This report provides details of the role and responsibilities of the Sustainability Committee and the work it has undertaken during the year. Vedanta’s business model is to deliver operational excellence while demonstrating world-class standards for governance, safety and social responsibility in the locations of operations. This approach is fundamental to gain and maintain our licence to operate and is vital to capture loyalty and insulate the company against crisis. The Sustainability Model, comprising three pillars: Responsible Stewardship, Building Strong Relationships and Adding and Sharing Value, was further strengthened this year with the addition of a fourth pillar – Strategic Communications, that reflects our commitment to complete transparency and emphasises our principles of community dialogue and mutual respect, including free, prior informed consent to access natural resources. The Sustainable Development Modelguides us in ensuring the long-term, sustainable future of our business operations, meeting our growth targets, and creating long-term value for all our stakeholders. The Vedanta Sustainable Development Framework has enabled significant improvements in the way we do business. The Group’s vastly improved safety performance is testament that robust practices and processes can have a direct impact on performance. In 2014–15, we began to see tangible outcomes of our safety drive, with far fewer fatalities and lost time injuries. However, any unsafe incident is entirely unacceptable and I am deeply saddened that eight people lost their lives while working at Vedanta. Each subsidiary company’s Chief Executive presented a detailed appraisal of the root causes and action plans to the committee. We maintained our focus on containing our impact on air, water and land use, to achieve our target for water savings and energy savings this year. As the businesses have met many of our goals, we have set escalated benchmarks. As we enter a new phase of our sustainability journey, the committee recommended businesses to join the WBCSD – WASH Pledge, Global Compact Network – Women Empowerment Principles and other charters, to contribute towards establishing formal partnerships with national and international bodies in the cause of sustainable development. The committee also formed an internal committee to review gap assessment against UN principles of Human Rights and recognised that the subsidiary businesses need to improve their stakeholder engagement and management processes. We are using the Vedanta Sustainability Assurance Programme (VSAP) as our internal sustainability risk management tool to ensure Framework compliance. As a result of a follow-up audit process, review and implementation of action plans, each of the businesses has made the sustainability objectives in line with our Framework requirements and now monitors performance at regular intervals. I take this opportunity to thank management across our businesses for their commitment to VSAP, which has been a demanding exercise. 16 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2014–15 Membership and Attendance The main responsibilities of the Sustainability Committee are: The Sustainability Committee comprises the following directors and –– To advise on sustainability policies and framework, clearly setting met on four occasions during the year. out the commitments of the Group to managing matters of Number of sustainable development effectively; meetings Percentage attended attendance –– To review and approve targets for sustainability performance, to Euan Macdonald, Chair 4/4 100% report to the Board with respect to their appropriateness and to assess progress towards achieving those targets; Tom Albanese 4/4 100% –– To recommend initiatives required to institutionalise a sustainability Kishore Kumar 4/4 100% culture through involvement of leadership, employees and The President, Group Communication, Sustainable Development and communities at all levels; CSR, acted as secretary of the committee and the Group’s subsidiary –– To review and report to the Board the performance of the Group companies’ Chief Executives or their representatives were invited to and the Group companies with respect to the implementation of attend the meetings. the Vedanta Sustainable Development Framework through the Sustainability Assurance Programme so that sustainability and Responsibilities of the Sustainability Committee reputation-related risks are assessed, controlled and The responsibilities of the Sustainability Committee are set out in its managed effectively; terms of reference which are available on the company’s website –– To approve the Sustainable Development Report prior to publication. www.vedantaresources.com or from the Company Secretary. Sustainability Committee activities during the year The main areas of activity of the Sustainability Committee during the year are summarised below: Area of Responsibility Item Framework –– Review and update Sustainable Development Policies; –– Provide oversight of the progress made on the development of the Sustainable Development Model and Framework; –– Review the implementation of the action plan emerging from Vedanta’s Sustainability Assurance Programme (VSAP); –– Review and approve sustainable development objectives and targets; –– Review and approve sustainable development initiatives, charters and partnerships. Health and Safety –– Review of safety incidents and performance; –– Oversee the implementation of action plans with respect to fatal accidents; –– Ratification of Group’s safety performance standards; –– Review of High Potential Incidents and other leading indicators. Environment –– Oversee the Group’s initiatives for reduction in specific water and energy consumption; –– Monitor and follow up of higher category environment incidents; –– Review fly ash management plans and statistics; –– Review biodiversity initiatives and action plans. System Development and –– Review the implementation of IESC close-out audit recommendations of URS final report Performance Reporting (October 2013); –– Oversee the implementation of Group-wide SAP-EHS IT Solution; –– Review of performance evaluation of the Sustainability Committee and review of terms of reference; –– Review and approval of the Group’s Sustainable Development Report 2013–14. Community Relations and –– Ratification of the Group’s community relations framework; Engagement –– Oversee the implementation of strategic CSR projects; –– Review the progress on the Group’s Human Rights programme and initiatives; –– Review of important stakeholder engagements. EUAN MACDONALD CHAIRMAN, SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2014–15 17 OVERVIEW HOW WE PERFORMED MONITORING OUR MATERIAL ISSUES We set ourselves challenging targets, designed to take us towards our vision of becoming a leading diversified natural resources company. These targets are aligned to our Sustainable Development Model and reflect the priority issues identified by our stakeholders. Objectives and targets FY 2014–15 Status Performance FY 2014–15 Objectives and targets FY 2015–16 RESPONSIBLE STEWARDSHIP Health and safety Achieve zero fatal accidents 8 fatalities (5 in India and 3 in Africa) Achieve zero fatal accidents Lost time injury frequency rate (LTIFR) LTIFR (Vedanta): 0.46 Re-establish LTIFR base performance as to be 0.51 or less LTIFR (Vedanta Ltd.): 0.43 per recently released ICMM reporting guidelines and enable future reduction in LTIFR targets Total recordable injury frequency rate (TRIFR) TRIFR (Vedanta): 1.46 Implement Safety Performance to be 1.47 or less TRIFR (Vedanta Ltd.): 1.23 Standards with more than 75% of critical elements in the standards to be implemented across the business Behaviour-based safety training module to be Successfully rolled out at HZL Implement Safety Interactions at two rolled out to other subsidiary businesses businesses in addition to HZL Understanding Occupation Health RisksPerforming a baseline assessment across the aluminium and copper businesses. Environment Water savings – MCM – 2.49 Early commissioning of innovative water Water savings – 2.39 MCM recovery initiatives and implementation of water resource management plan have led to a water saving of 7.38 MCM Energy savings – m GJ – 0.87 Internal benchmarking and technological Energy savings – 0.88 MCM process intervention have led to an energy savings of 0.92 million GJ Report on Scope 3 emissions disclosure Subsidiary businesses established the Report on Scope 3 emissions disclosure by 2015–16 systems and started reporting Scope 3 by 2015–16: Corporate to internally emissions internally confirm the robustness of Scope 3 data Initiation of high-risk Biodiversity All our sites either have BMP in place or in By 2015–16, all sites to have Management Plans (BMPs) across all sites preparation to meet our FY 2015–16 target BMP in place Continue to monitor new projects and site All existing greenfield and brownfield projects Continue to monitor new closures as per the Sustainable Development at Zinc International, KCM and HZL subsidiaries projects and site closures as per Framework are being managed as per Vedanta Sustainable the Sustainable Development Framework Development Framework guidelines. Further, the Lisheen site closure plan has been put in place in compliance with the Framework. 5% increase in non-hazardous waste recycling 5.76 million MT of non-hazardous waste was Explore opportunities and areas to tonnage as compared to FY 2014 recycled against the targeted 8 million MT. increase the fly ash utilisation rate Total recycling tonnage – 8 million MT The decrease in recycling is the result of increased generation and decreased utilisation of fly ash. Status Achieved In progress Not achieved 18 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2014–15 Objectives and targets 2014–15 Status Performance FY 2014–15 Objectives and targets FY 2015–16 BUILDING STRONG RELATIONSHIPS All sites to review their needs and impact Need-based assessment completed at major –– All sites to complete need-based assessments Indian sites, whereas remaining sites to be assessment completed –– Pilot social impact assessments for Indian sites Ensuring 100% coverage of Human Rights and All new joinees are inducted and trained in Capacity building and refresher course Code of Conduct training for all new hires Code of Conduct / Human Rights aspects as – e-learning module on Code of Business part of induction programme Conduct and Ethics to be implemented Implementation of Grievance Systems to Community Grievance Management System Roll out of SAP based programmebe monitored at all Vedanta operations is monitored by management tool for community separate team grievance development and stakeholder engagement ADDING AND SHARING VALUE Training and development Roll-out of Technical ACT UP in all Group –– Pilot assessment completed for the two job To include 1,000 eligible employees for companies for specified technical roles families (Smelting & Mining) in Sterlite the Technical Assessment Copper and HZL respectively –– Roll out plans for other job families in all the businesses are in place Identification of next set of 50 stars for the Phase I of the programme successfully Phase II planned covering next 50 intensive programme, grooming nextcompleted, including 50 high-potential stars in high-potential stars for the intensive generation talents for leadership roles a structured development programme programme, grooming next-generation talents for leadership roles Diversity 25% female representation at Ms. Zotova joined Vedanta’s Board this year. 25% female representation at Vedanta Board level by 2015 We look forward for more women candidates Vedanta Board level by 2015 on the Board (all appointments will be made on merit) 15% of total female hiring at a lateral and 15% of professional women joined Vedanta Continue to focus on diversity with an fresher level objective of 15% of total women hiring at a fresher and lateral level Status Achieved In progress Not achieved Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2014–15 19 COMMIT CONNECT CARE Employees at our Skorpion Zinc Mine. 20 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2014–15 RESPONSIBLE STEWARDSHIP WE COMMIT TO ZERO HARM We are privileged guardians of some of the most precious and finite resources of our planet. It is our responsibility to ensure a zero harm culture for our planet and people. Together with integrity and transparent business practices, our commitment is enshrined in our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. St nsible ewar o Res hip p ds Strategic gR h Communications elationships Ad ding and S ari Bu ng Value ilding Stron WHAT WE FOCUS ON Our priorities identified through our materiality process –– Employee health and safety –– Biodiversity –– Environmental management (water, waste, air, –– New project management and site closure emissions, incidents) –– Energy and climate change –– Ethics and integrity IN THIS SECTION Fair and transparent business – 22 Safety and health – 25 Environment – 30 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2014–15 21 RESPONSIBLE STEWARDSHIP FAIR AND TRANSPARENT BUSINESS RESPONSIBLE & ETHICAL PRACTICES To meet our strategic objectives and create value for all of our stakeholders, we commit to developing the culture and implementing the programmes needed to conduct our business in a responsible and ethical manner at all times. This is governed by our values and evident in how we manage risk, health, safety and environment. Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (the Code) provides a set of principles to guide our employees, while our Sustainable Development Framework outlines best practice standards that drive improvement consistently across all operations. TRANSPARENT BUSINESS Employees and external stakeholders have the opportunity to We integrate a transparent policy framework into all corporate anonymously report inappropriate behaviour under the Whistleaffairs and maintain the highest ethical standards in our dealings blowing Policy (available on our website). The email address with stakeholder groups. To this end, we continually review our whistleblower@vedanta.co.in and a 24-hour hotline are dedicated to systems and processes to achieve excellence in corporate governance, give our employees and external stakeholders a voice, while protecting as outlined in our Annual Report. their identity. The Group Director for Management Assurance is responsible for whistle-blowing procedures while the Audit Committee Our Board of Directors is keenly aware of the need for a strong reviews any reports made under the policy twice a year, and ensures corporate governance framework in the context of an organically that appropriate actions are taken. Outstanding cases are referred to growing business and global social and environmental change the Ethics Committee for further assessment. (see page 10). The Board comprises eight Directors, of whom more than 50% are independent. VEDANTA SUSTAINABILITY ASSURANCE PROCESS ETHICS AND INTEGRITY (VSAP) The Code covers aspects like human rights, insider trading and VSAP is our sustainability risk assurance tool, which we use to assess political contributions, competition, conflicts of interest and the compliance of all our businesses with the Sustainable confidentiality. It provides guidelines for all businesses to assist Development Framework and final recommendations of the employees in meeting high standards of personal and professional Independent Environmental and Social Consultant Report 2013. The integrity. Training in our Code is mandatory for all new hires. assurance model has different modules, which cover environment, health, safety, community and human rights elements. The assurance A key focus is absolute intolerance of fraud, bribery and system works on the premise of tracking corrective and preventive corruption, and we welcome the Indian government’s action by our subsidiaries and commissioning periodic formal audits policy in recent years to confront this. Despite our by external experts. predominant presence being in India, we are held to account by laws in the United States, United Kingdom VSAP is an annual process with clear tracking of results by the and Europe, due to our dual listings. Therefore, if we suspect Sustainability Committee and the Executive Committee, which in turn malpractice anywhere in our operations, we undertake a rigorous report to the Board. As per the identified gaps, respective businesses investigation under the UK Fraud and Bribery Act. We are supporting make management plans and undertake corrective gap-filling actions, the external investigation authorities with reference to the recent which are periodically reviewed, evaluated and documented. The Cairn India Petrogate case. successes and failures are identified and highlighted, and crosslearning opportunities are created. The Vedanta Audit Committee applies rigorous assurance processes. During the year, all business units were reviewed for VSAP has been instrumental in helping us embed sustainable risks related to corruption and bribery, and employees were trained development into every activity. For example, our business units in our anti-corruption policies and procedures. now have SMART sustainability objectives that align to our Framework, while their performance is monitored at regular intervals. 90 During 2014–15, VSAP scores reveal that all businesses increased rigour around implementing resource use, Waste, Water and Biodiversity Management Plans. Today, all planned and unplanned whistle-blower reports changes follow a detailed procedure, including review and UNGC communication to key internal and external stakeholders through structured Management of Change processes. PRINCIPLE 10 22 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2014–15 RESPONSIBILITY THROUGHOUT THE PROJECT HOW WE PERFORMED LIFE CYCLE During the year we provided more than 24,000 hours of training in In order to ensure that risk is minimised in new projects and to obtain our Code of Conduct to our employees and contract workforce. We and sustain our licence to operate, we are committed to implement a have also strengthened executive-level training in integrity and ethics new project planning process i.e. conducting Environmental and Social over the year. Impact Assesments (ESIA) to international standards and site closure All employees and stakeholders can register their integrity-related management standards, as prescribed by our Framework. concerns either by calling on a toll-free number which provides The management standard also obliges our businesses to ensure that multiple language options or by reporting to the web-based portal. adequate resources have been planned for, and are made available to Between January and December 2014, there were 90 Whistle-blowing implement site closure plans, including initiatives to prepare staff for cases, of which 34 were upheld, resulting in appropriate disciplinary closure and retraining. All our mines have site closure plans and actions including separation, warning, counselling and transfer continuous auditing monitors compliance with ESIA requirements, against our employees, contract workforce and vendors.. while stakeholder engagement helps ensure that project decisions reflect the views of all concerned. See the Community neighbourhood (page 46) and Environment (page 30) sections for more information. Our Blackmountain Mine is located in a remote and arid region at Aggneys, South Africa. Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2014–15 23 FAIR AND HOW IS A NEW MINE Lisheen mine CREATED? TRANSPARENT The Gergarub deposit is a greenfield BUSINESS zinc site located in the south-western IN ACTION corner of Namibia, close to our Skorpion Zinc mine. As the deposit is near a biodiversity hotspot, an ESIA study was commissioned before any ...AND WHAT HAPPENS other technical studies could begin. WHEN A MINE REACHES A number of international best practice THE END OF ITS LIFE? standards were drawn upon in the ESIA Our Lisheen mine is an underground including the International Finance lead and zinc mine located in north Corporation’s environmental and social Tipperary, Ireland. The mine has The Gergarub deposit risk standards, risk management been operating since 1999 but is frameworks of the global Equator expected to close in 2015. As Principles, Namibian government responsible stewards of the site, we legislation and our own sustainability aim to leave a positive legacy, both guidance notes and policies as laid socially and environmentally. down in our Sustainable Development Achieving successful mine closure is a Framework (see page 13). complex challenge, requiring the External consultants were appointed consideration of substantial to undertake the ESIA and, since environmental and geochemical commissioning it in 2012, a number information. The closure process must of further baseline studies have been be effective, efficient and sustainable. conducted including vegetation, air The project is well underway, with an pollution, fauna and health. extended programme of expert Background information documents consultations and workshops to have been drafted and circulated for develop a closure plan framework. public consultation. Further, a task force made up of local government representatives, Lisheen At the end of 2014, specialist reports staff and members of governmental and a draft ESIA were under review industrial development agencies is Exploration activities at Gergarub and we expect to submit the final ESIA already working in partnership to deposit, Namibia. by early 2016. manage the closure of the site and create new livelihood options for the community. The team has been progressively rehabilitating its tailings management facility. To date, approximately 34 hectares (45%) of the site have been rock-capped and 8.5 hectares fully rehabilitated and restored to agricultural pasture land, with technological support to prevent metal uptake by plants. We have made a commitment to the local community and to regulatory stakeholders to complete 60% of the cap for the main facility within the operational life of the mine, with the balance to be completed after the mine closes. Our commitment to Lisheen will Rehabilitation and reclamation of closed tailing dam at Lisheen mine, Ireland. extend far beyond its closure; we will monitor the site for an eight to 10-year 45% period and maintain accountability for up to 30 years. Approximately 34 hectares of the site have been rock-capped and 8.5 hectares fully rehabilitated and restored to agricultural pasture land 24 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2014–15 RESPONSIBLE STEWARDSHIP SAFETY AND HEALTH EMBEDDING ZERO HARM CULTURE Protecting the safety, health and wellbeing of those who work for us is a business imperative. Both we and our stakeholders recognise this and we have rated safety and health as our highest strategic priority. In a geographically diverse business like ours, where attitudes to health and safety can vary, fostering a culture of zero harm is no easy challenge. Our Sustainable Development Framework points us to the highest recognised global standards, while continuous auditing and decisive leadership drive compliance. SAFEGUARDING OUR WORKFORCE As per the listed high-risk occupational hazards below, we issued All subsidiary businesses are obliged to ensure that their safety safety performance standards including confined space entry, management programmes meet the requirements of the Sustainable electrical, ground management, isolation, working at height, and Development Framework. In addition, 45 of our 52 sites are OHSAS vehicles and driving. We also worked with mining experts to develop a 18001 certified. Businesses adopt a robust approach to hazard ground control standard for best practice. This has been a significant identification and risk assessment, as shown below. achievement given the complexity of technical and behavioural controls associated with working underground. It will be rolled out in 2015. HAZARD IDENTIFICATION AND RISK ASSESSMENT STUDIES CHANGING BEHAVIOURS Monthly meetings, videos and infographics, safety alerts and leadership audits are in place at Group, business and site level to Application of relevant policies or technical standards manage health and safety issues. Behaviour-changing campaigns Draw on applicable sector and peer best practices have also proven to be an important tool – for example, KCM’s Chachilamo (‘enough is enough’) campaign in Zambia (see page 29) Training and awareness at site level – while Hindustan Zinc has partnered with DuPont to deliver cultural Health and safety is a mandatory module in our human resources transformation in safety and a zero harm workplace. This journey training programme, and health and safety outcomes are linked has been named Aarohan, which means ‘stepping up’ towards safety directly to remuneration to further emphasise their importance, excellence, and has reduced lost time injuries by 38% for one HZL business. as with other sustainability objectives We also work with our senior management team to ensure they are appropriately motivated to emphasise and reinforce this culture. Our approach to safety is tailored to the particular operation and its Group audit and review local context. For example, linguistic and literacy skills of employees All high-potential, lost time injury, fatality and key health issues and contractors will influence how training is delivered. are monitored and reviewed by the business and Group Safety team along with the Sustainability and Executive Committees (see page 16) In FY 2014-15, approximately 75% of incidents resulting in lost time occurred in the five hazard areas below. Occupational hazard Our approach Working at height Application of working at height standards Driving a company vehicle Adherence to Vehicles & Driving Safety standards Work associated with electrical equipment Effective implementation of Electrical & Isolation standards Ground control management Compliance with ground control management standard Walking near vehicles or machinery Compliance with machine guarding guidance note and Vehicles & Driving standard Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2014–15 25 RESPONSIBLE STEWARDSHIP SAFETY AND HEALTH CONTINUED HOW WE PERFORMED In 2014-15, we began to see tangible outcomes of our safety drive, with fewer fatalities and lost time injuries. However, any unsafe 8 fatalities (FY 2014: 19) 756,643 incident is entirely unacceptable and tragically eight employees (five in India and three in African operations) died due to work-related causes over the year. Each fatality has been fully investigated, with causes being fall of ground, electrocution, fall from height, drowning, hours of safety training delivered (FY 2014: 810,000) 100% being hit by a vehicle, and crushing. Each subsidiary company’s Chief Executive or Chief Operating Officer presented a detailed appraisal of the root causes of each fatality to the Board’s Sustainability Committee and updated it on action plans in response. periodical medical examination for all applicable employees During the reporting year, 756,643 hours of safety training were delivered to employees and contractors on subjects including working LOOKING AHEAD at height, permit to work, job safety analysis, first aid, incident –– Re-establish LTIFR base performance as per recently reporting, safe behaviour and falls. We also made progress over the released ICMM reporting guidelines year on strengthening our risk assessment processes. –– Implement Safety Performance Standards with more than 75% of critical elements in the standards to be implemented across the business –– Performing an Occupational Health baseline assessment for aluminium and copper businesses. FATAL INCIDENTS LTIFR (PER MILLION MAN-HOURS WORKED) 69% 47% Reduction in fatal incidents as compared to FY 2011 Reduction in Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate as compared to FY 2011 26 0.86 0.83 22 20 19 0.55 0.54 0.46 8 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 ROAD SAFETY Road safety continues to be a priority for the business due to the ongoing risks it presents to employees, contractors and the public. Over the year, our programmes continued, including road safety week celebrations across our subsidiaries Vedanta Ltd. Jharsuguda, Bharat Aluminium Company, Talwandi Sabo Power and Hindustan Zinc (HZL) (see page 28) where communities and drivers alike received coaching in safe practices on the road. Vedanta Ltd.’s Jharsuguda site has been tackling road safety in and around its premises since 2012. With around 1,500 coal truck movements every day, the facility had been experiencing an unacceptable rate of accidents, with a lack of driver or pedestrian awareness, poor road conditions and weak signage. The business has taken action by installing road signs and speed monitoring cameras, recruiting traffic control personnel, improving the state of the roads, building pedestrian pathways and regularly breathalysing drivers for traces of alcohol. As a result, this site has seen a reduction in road accidents and improved staff morale, winning first prize for environment, health and safety at the Confederation of Indian Industry awards in FY 2014–15. Safety steward monitoring vehicle speed at Vedanta Ltd. – Jhardsuguda. 26 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2014–15 HEALTH ENABLER OF PRODUCTIVITY Employee well-being is not only a moral obligation for us but, by reducing turnover and absenteeism, it is a key enabler of productivity. Each jurisdiction maintains its own occupational health management system appropriate to the local context, while our Group approach is guided by a global health management standard and is structured around three areas – prevention, monitoring and support & recovery. Prevention Monitoring –– First aid and occupational health training to employees and contractors –– Investment in technologically advanced –– Health and wellness programmes including respiratory health, hearing processes that reduce possible exposure levels; conservation, eye checks and ergonomic surveys workplace monitoring –– Mandatory use of Personal Protective Equipment –– Baseline studies to identify key risks –– Pollution control equipment, effluent treatment and the correct –– Pre-employment medical checks and storage of hazardous chemicals ongoing monitoring –– Screening for diseases particular to the location, for example HIV –– Tests for noise, dust, heat exposure (Zambia), Ebola (Liberia) and malaria (India and Zambia) and silicosis –– Training in healthy lifestyles and disease prevention and treatment –– Continuous internal audit Support & recovery –– Medical insurance for 100% of full-time employees whereas contract employees are covered either by employee state insurance or through Group insurance/workmen compensation –– Stress management programmes for employees at risk, and support and recovery programmes including yoga and training etc. –– On-site and outreach health and disease treatment programmes for employees’ families HOW WE PERFORMED During the reporting year, all of our sites conducted medical examinations for their staff. In our Liberia operations, we conducted screenings for Ebola and supported employees and their communities with aid parcels. In Zambia, our KCM subsidiary has worked in partnership with the Zambian government on a Prevention of Mother to Child Transmission of HIV programme. This includes maternal and infant HIV testing and prevention counselling. Vedanta Ltd. – Jharsuguda has nominated employee change agents to identify, monitor and improve workplace health. 87% of sites became OHSAS 18001 certified (FY 2014: 85%) for occupational health and safety management. Free VCT camp for contract workforce and communities at KCM, Zambia. CARING FOR OUR COMMUNITIES In addition to prioritising the health needs of our workforce, Our approach is based on local community needs (see page 53), we also provide medical assistance to the communities that World Health Organisation health surveys and employee health surround our operations. We offer advice and treatment for indices. Community-specific awareness programmes are a variety of illnesses and conditions, educating employees, organised on health and nutrition, HIV/AIDS awareness, malaria, their families and the wider community. tuberculosis and cancer. Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2014–15 27 SAFETY AND HEALTH BRIDGING COMMUNITY A DAY IN THE LIFE OF A IN ACTION THROUGH SAFETY, INDIA SAFETY OFFICER, TAMIL When we talk about workforce safety, NADU, INDIA there is no difference between a Sterlite Copper’s motto is ‘Make safety contract worker and an employee. a way of life’. The company has taken Contract workers make up 70% of this quite literally by giving employees Vedanta’s workforce and contractors the chance to be a safety officer for the are obliged to submit their safety day. A total of 245 employees from credentials in the tendering process. different departments got to Once a contract is awarded, on-site experience first-hand what safety training, support and supervision are officers do, recording 6,694 unsafe acts Sterlite Copper – Tuticorin team providing safety kits to contract workforce families. given, and post-contract a safety audit and situations between them. and evaluation are completed. Although this exercise was a fun 80 As well as maintaining high team-building experience, its message % expectations of contractors, HZL and was serious and we are pleased to Sterlite Copper teams are also working report greater awareness and a with families of these workers through reduction in injuries. the initiative ‘Bridging community 245 through safety’. Safety officers visit families in their homes to share EMPLOYEES RECORDED 6,694 experiences of workplace safety, offer a of HZL’s workforce are contract free home safety audit, hand out workers and they are obliged to emergency instruction pamphlets and submit their safety credentials in safety kits. the tendering process UNSAFE OBSERVATIONS Thirty households were involved during 2014, with families reporting improved confidence in taking responsibility for personal safety and health. ROAD SAFETY ON THE MOVE, INDIA More people die on the roads in India than anywhere else in the world. Our subsidiary HZL in partnership with the organisation Rajasthan Parivahan Nirikshak Sangh is bringing road safety messages direct to people’s doors in a travelling van. Designed to reach even the most remote communities in the desert of Rajasthan, the vehicle is equipped with an LCD projector to give audio-visual demonstrations. The videos cover Road safety mobile van at HZL’s community school. traffic rules, safe driving and first aid, and are followed by a Q&A session. “The road safety mobile van is proving to be very useful. We are So far the project has given around able to reach remote villages, schools and rural people. We are 600 demos to 100,000 people. In one able to show short films on road safety, which is helping make district, Rajsamand, road accidents people understand the gravity of the situation.” have reduced by 40%. – Veerendra Singh Rathore, State President, Rajasthan Parivahan Nirikshak Sangh 28 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2014–15 At Konkola Copper Mines (KCM) in Zambia, risk analysis had shown HEALTHY MINERS, IRELAND AND INDIA that 96% of accidents, including three For our miners around the world, health is a key priority. Even before an employee fatalities in FY 2015, could have been (whether permanent or on contract) begins work, they undergo a preavoided. So KCM launched the safety employment medical check, and free health examinations are available campaign Chachilamo, which means throughout their career. ‘enough is enough’. At Lisheen mine, Ireland, health and well-being programmes include: screening With the aim of creating a zero-harm for heart disease, cholesterol, body mass index and artery conditions; ergonomic environment for employees, contract surveys; and the promotion of healthy lifestyles (including smoking prevention, workers and visitors alike, the exercise and weight loss). Lisheen’s award-winning on-site canteen serves low-fat, campaign focused on high-risk areas, low-salt foods and fresh fruit, while physiotherapy and fitness classes run all week. namely electrical appliances, machine At HZL’s larger mines and smelters in India, occupational health centres offer guarding, fire equipment, gas cylinders audiometric tests, spirometry, ophthalmology and chest X-rays, as well as toxic and welding machines. Over 12 weeks, elements profile testing to check for any presence of arsenic, cadmium, mercury, safety champions were selected cobalt, lead or chromium. During the year, 14,711 employees received medical and trained to engage at least five examinations and no cases of occupational disease were reported. colleagues each. This included spending time observing others HZL’s commitment to health extends beyond employees to their families and the at work and mentoring them in wider community. The centres run special campaigns on issues such as stress safer behaviours. Recording and management, bone density and hypertension for both employees and monitoring of incidents was also dependants. In the villages surrounding the zinc mines, monthly health check-ups addressed and processes brought have reached approximately 18,000 people, while 4,000 have attended HZL in line with Group standards. medical camps. Since Chachilamo, there has been MONTHLY HEALTH CHECK-UPS HAVE REACHED APPROXIMATELY 18,000 a 92% compliance rate with safety measures and greater awareness of how easy it can be to be safe. PEOPLE 92 COMPLIANCE RATE WITH SAFETY MEASURES % Health and Wellness camp at Lisheen, Ireland. SEE PAGE 54 FOR MORE ON OUR COMMUNITY HEALTH STRATEGY. Chachilamo safety talk with contract workforce at KCM, Zambia. Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2014–15 29 RESPONSIBLE STEWARDSHIP ENVIRONMENT WORKING TOWARDS GLOBAL STANDARDS We are conscious that what we do can give rise to negative environmental impacts, from gas and particulate emissions and hazardous waste to water extraction and landscape modification. To this end, we manage our footprint to the most stringent global standards throughout the project life cycle. This means not simply complying with national laws; Our Sustainability Framework (see pages 12 and 13) shows the toolkit we look to internationally recognised standards of best of policies, standards and guidance to rigorously manage practice to find new and innovative ways of protecting the environmental impact, as shown below. For the environmental environment. We invested US$ 61.5 million over the year (US$186 priorities arising from the materiality process, we have developed million in the last three years) because it can bring efficiency savings specific objectives and targets, and review performance against to our bottom line; it helps build relationships and trust with these issues on a periodic basis, particularly with regard to energy stakeholders; and it means we can keep doing what we’re doing long and water management. into the future. Environmental and Social Impact –– Environmental Management Systems –– Internal assurance assesses Assessments carried out for all new (EMS) set up for every existing project. compliance with EMS projects –– Environmental incidents monitored –– Monitoring, reporting and and categorised 1–5 (5 being most investigation of all category incident critical) –– Alignment to ISO 14001 and ISO 50001 standards to monitor effectiveness of the EMS REVIEW AND AUDITS BY BOTH BUSINESS AND VSAP TEAMS Evaluation of category 4 and 5 incidents by Group Sustainability and Executive Committees Management teams given training in meeting Framework requirements HOW WE PERFORMED We are proud to report zero serious environmental incidents over the LOOKING AHEAD year (compared to one in FY 2014). Our goal is to obtain ISO 14001 –– Implement actions identified in each business’s certification at all sites, and as of now 46 of our 52 operations are Environmental Management Plan certified. All subsidiary businesses have been assessed against internal audit modules and gaps were identified in energy, water –– Implement Biodiversity Management Plans management, greenhouse gas emissions and biodiversity. Action at all sites plans are now in place to close all the identified gaps. –– Implement WASH Pledge action plan and water tool –– Explore potential further global or industry partnerships to share best practice 88% of sites certified to ISO 14001 for environmental management (FY 2014: 83%) UNGC 0 Category 4 or 5 (critical) incidents (FY 2014: 1) PRINCIPLE 7 12 Category 3 (moderate) incidents (FY 2014: 24) 30 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2014–15 BIODIVERSITY PARTNERING WITH CONSERVATION EXPERTS An extractive site can affect the habitats of flora and fauna. Where this is the case, we partner with expert conservation bodies such as the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) to ensure we leave our sites as (if not more than) bio-diverse as we found them. Protecting biodiversity is an integral part of Vedanta’s commitment of Environment, Forest and Climate Change, Vedanta Ltd. became a to sustainable development. Our dedicated Biodiversity Policy and signatory to the India Business and Biodiversity Initiative, a national Management Standard advise how disruption to wildlife should be platform for business and its stakeholders around mainstreaming avoided, minimised or compensated for, from project scoping to site sustainable management of biological diversity into business strategy. closure and beyond. Our aim is to achieve a minimum of No Net Loss Over the next two years the initiative will build awareness among (NNL) of biodiversity and Net Positive Gain (NPG) of biodiversity (in businesses, share best practice examples and advocate public policy case any critical habitat is present) at all our operations. at a national and international level. We apply the UN Environment Programme’s Integrated Biodiversity Assessment Tool (IBAT) to screen for risk, followed by site-specific assessments to identify sensitive habitats, important bird areas and key biodiversity hot spots. The results of risk screening and assessments are applied to develop Biodiversity Management Plans (BMPs) for all our main sites (see graphic below). The intention is to have a full suite of BMPs in place by 2015-16. HOW WE PERFORMED We are on track to meet our biodiversity targets. Almost all our subsidiary sites have BMP either in place or in preparation to meet our FY 2015-16 target. The sites that have completed a BMP made good progress in implementing the recommendations of their plans (see page 38), while remaining subsidiaries are working to develop BMPs. As with our wider approach to sustainable development, we work alongside others. For example, by invitation of the India Ministry Fish restocking programme at KCM. BIODIVERSITY MANAGEMENT PROCESS Vedanta Corporate Site Environmental Manager Stage 1(Achieved) Stage 2: Achieved Stage 3: BMP in place or in Stage 4: Initiated preparation Biodiversity risk Biodiversity risk Develop BMP for risk Monitoring and screening assessment management reporting –– Initial biodiversity risk –– Desk-based research and –– Development of a –– Monitoring biodiversity rating using IBAT risk assessment biodiversity management impacts –– Identification of hot –– Validation of biodiversity plan (BMP) –– Detailed reporting against spots and IUCN red risk rating and IBAT results –– Implementation of the GRI by FY 2016 listed species Biodiversity Management Plan (BMP) Knowledge and awareness Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2014–15 31 RESPONSIBLE STEWARDSHIP WATER MINIMISING WATER FOOTPRINT We recognise the value of water as an increasing global concern and are conscious of the impact of its use in mining, smelting and refining and at our power plants. Hence we are committed to minimising our water footprint and reducing the amount of fresh water we consume by reusing as much water as possible in our processes. Our approach is outlined in our Water Policy and delivered through our Water Management Standard. We facilitate the integration of water WBCSD – WASH PLEDGE management into decision-making processes for all our new and A staggering 1.8 billion people worldwide lack access to safe existing projects, which helps ensure all necessary measures are in drinking water, while 4 billion are without adequate sanitation. place to avoid, minimise, or, in some cases, compensate for the In India, the government has announced that all households impacts of our projects. This includes an obligation for all our will have complete sanitation by 2019. subsidiary businesses to conduct a water-screening assessment to In 2014–15, we pledged universal access to safe Water, identify sensitive water resources, aquatic habitats and any known or Sanitation and Hygiene (WASH) in the workplace, an initiative suspected water resource constraints in proximity to each operation. of the World Business Council for Sustainable Development, Most of our operational processes have been designed to be ‘zero which brings businesses together to create a sustainable discharge’, where the generated waste water is treated and recycled future. for cooling and other applications. In addition to these initiatives, All Vedanta’s business units have completed the selfeffluent and sewage treatment plants are installed at many locations assessment questionnaire highlighting the gaps in compliance for reusing water at primary locations. with the Pledge. Action plans, including budgets, resources and Due to the high water table in Zambia, Ireland and Australia, we have responsibilities, have been chalked out to plug gaps by March to ‘dewater’ (remove) a large quantity of water from these 2016. Progress will be reviewed by the individual business underground mines. Approximately 49% of the water withdrawn committees and the Sustainability Committee at Group level. (around 178 million cubic metres) is discharged into nearby water bodies, complying with applicable regulatory limits, and treated in effluent treatment plants. Vedanta’s Iron Ore division, HZL, Cairn India and Sterlite Copper in Tuticorin have met some of their water requirements through rain water harvesting of 560,891 cubic metres. Further, Cairn India utilises the abundant supply of sub-surface saline water to meet its operational and domestic water needs, to avoid any risk to the fresh water resources of the region. “It has been highly valuable to have Vedanta Resources on board with the WASH Pledge. The company is at the forefront of leadership on WASH issues, not only in the Indian business space but also in its industry. The company is sending a strong message to the global business community that business can and should make a concrete contribution to the societal goals surrounding water, sanitation and hygiene.” Joppe Cramwinckel Director, WBCSD’s Water Cluster HZL Chanderiya employees supporting and signing the WBCSD – WASH Pledge. 32 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2014–15 HOW WE PERFORMED All subsidiary businesses now have a Water Resources Management INNOVATING TO SAVE WATER Plan in place to eliminate, minimise, mitigate and manage impacts During 2014–15, many of our operations applied creative on water resources. Total water conservation levels reached 7.38 thinking to find ways to reduce water consumption and recycle million cubic metres, against a target of 2.49 million cubic metres for more waste water back into use. 2015-16. Further, all waste water discharge complies with applicable Such initiatives include: regulatory limits, and at all sites waste water is treated in effluent treatment plants. Metals are precipitated by addition of lime and –– Vedanta Ltd.’s aluminium refinery in Lanjigarh, Odisha is the flocculants and the use of sediment ponds. first in India to operate at zero discharge, reducing consumption of external water by over 60% During the reporting period, we withdrew 362 million cubic metres of –– BALCO in Chhattisgarh, India, has improved the reliability of water, with 59% from ground water, 40% from surface water and 1% dyke water recirculation pumps, saving 200 cubic metres of from rain water and utility. water per day The Group’s water conservation efforts, across its subsidiaries on a –– KCM’s Nkana Refinery, Zambia, initiated an effluent global basis, led to the recycling of nearly 40 million cubic metres of recycling project to capture, treat and re-use waste water water during the period, which has fulfilled our 17% requirement of (see page 38) overall water consumption. –– HZL installed Udaipur’s first sewage treatment plant, treating 20 million litres of effluent a day. It also installed its first adiabatic cooling towers, which reduce waste water by almost 80% –– Cairn India uses the abundant supply of sub-surface saline water to meet its operational and domestic water needs. Total volume of produced water amounts to 17.78 MCM of which 17.26 MCM is re-injected back into the system. Further, nearly 3,600 Kg of hydrocarbon was discharged in the produced water. TOTAL WATER RECYCLING 2014–15 (%) TOTAL GROUP WATER CONSUMPTION (m3) TOTAL WATER RECYCLING 2014–15 (%) TOTAL GROUP WATER CONSUMPTION (m3) Zinc India 28% Zinc India 17% Copper India/Australia 2% Copper Africa 21% Zinc Africa India Copper 28%8% Zinc India 17% Copper India/Australia 3% Aluminium Copper India/Australia 15%2% Copper Africa 21% 17 198 Copper Africa 8% Power 13% Copper India/Australia 3% Aluminium Power 15%2% Iron Ore 2% 17 198 Power 13% Zinc Zinc International 3% International 1% Iron Ore 2% Power 2% Aluminium 26% Oil and Gas 44% Zinc Zinc International Oil and Gas 15%3% International 1% Aluminium 26% Oil and Gas 44% Oil and Gas 15% SPECIFIC WATER CONSUMPTION (M3 / UNIT OF PRODUCTION OUTPUT) Business Sector Company Name 2014–15 2013–14 Zinc India Hindustan Zinc Ltd – Mines 0.50 0.52 Hindustan Zinc Ltd – Smelters 6.89 9.29 Zinc International Skorpion Zinc 22.96 20.76 Lisheen mine 0.02 0.02 Black Mountain mine 0.88 0.91 Copper India / Australia Sterlite Copper 6.95 7.38 Copper Africa KCM 231.52 382.78 Aluminium BALCO 2.30 1.84 Vedanta Ltd – Lanjigarh 2.58 2.41 Vedanta Ltd – Jharsuguda 0.55 0.58 Vedanta Iron Ore Sesa Iron Ore 2.08 1.99 Power MEL 3.40 3.53 SEL 2.35 2.50 Oil & gas Cairn India 1.10 0.99 During 2014–15, production at our Copper Mines of Tasmania (Australia) operation ceased due to closure, hence data not included. Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2014–15 33 RESPONSIBLE STEWARDSHIP ENERGY AND CLIMATE CHANGE MEETING THE GLOBAL CHALLENGE Meeting growing energy demands while limiting carbon emissions is a global challenge. We recognise that we have a social and economic responsibility both to take action to reduce our footprint and to engage constructively on climate change issues. Although this issue was deemed a slightly lower priority to our stakeholders over the year, it remains a high-profile challenge across our markets, with many of our operating countries (such as India, Australia and African nations) predicted to experience the worst impacts of a changing climate. Our Energy and Carbon Policy commits our operations to adopt and We feel that an understanding of the risks can highlight opportunities maintain global best practices in carbon and energy management for us to improve ways in which we reduce our own impact on the and to minimise greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. We are aware of environment and also to make a positive contribution to the debate. the opportunities that energy management and climate change The voluntary reporting of our efforts to fulfil our environmental and present and understand the business case for these initiatives, which social responsibility helps us in addressing key stakeholder concerns, can include efficiency savings based on a combination of new meeting their expectations, increasing brand perception, and technology and advancing our business processes. To add further attracting suitable financial investment opportunities. robustness to our energy programmes, subsidiary businesses are We have observed a significant reduction in our energy performance upgrading existing business management systems to allow over the year, which has helped us in creating a new benchmark for accreditation to the energy standard ISO 50001. Our Sterlite Copper energy performance in our sector. Thus, any mandatory cap and trade – Tuticorin and Silvassa, Vedanta Ltd. Aluminium (Jharsuguda and scheme may serve us with revenue generation opportunities owing to Lanjigarh), Sesa Iron Ore (Pig Iron Division) and Sterlite Energy our excellent energy performance in comparison to other major Limited operations have obtained ISO 50001 certification. players in the sector. Over the past few years, we have aggressively As Vedanta is part of an energy intensive industry, our direct and pursued the rewards offered by the Kyoto Protocol’s Clean indirect energy consumption is in the order of 363 million GJ. It is Development mechanisms to reap multiple benefits – enhanced important that we carefully consider our approach to energy use, energy security, improved GHG performance, revenue generation including our use of technology to maximise efficiencies. We have through sale of CERs, and increased stakeholder confidence. completed a carbon footprint exercise across all our manufacturing and mining locations. The long-term strategy for addressing climate change issues consists of diversifying the energy portfolio and water sources of all our companies, and the Group is developing its thinking DIRECT AND INDIRECT ENERGY around these issues and how best to implement them. CONSUMPTION (million GJ) 363 RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES We understand that climatic change risks arising due to changes in regulations, operating / physical parameters and carbon taxes and 13 14 consumer behaviour may have the potential to generate a 13 substantive change in our business operations, revenue or 349 331 342 expenditure. As an example, the change in UK GHG reporting Direct energy regulation and India’s / Zambia’s increasingly proactive and aggressive consumption stance towards managing their GHG inventory may drive stringent Indirect energy regulations leading to higher fuel costs, ultimately reducing operating consumption margins and profits for our businesses. All these changes pose a potential compliance risk for our operations, which may result in direct financial implications like financial sanctions or indirect financial implications such as loss of reputation, which can affect stakeholder confidence. 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 34 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2014–15 SCOPE 1 EMISSIONS (tonnes of CO2 equivalent) 38,274,754 Zinc India Zinc International Aluminium Copper India/Australia Copper Africa 35,949,149 Vedanta Iron Ore Oil and Gas Power 2013–14 2014–15 SCOPE 2 EMISSIONS (tonnes of CO2 equivalent) 1,581,703 Zinc India Zinc International Aluminium 1,167,209 Copper India/Australia Copper Africa Vedanta Iron Ore Oil and Gas Power 2013-14 2014-15 HZL operates 273.5 MW of wind power plants. HOW WE PERFORMED In 2014-15, we conducted internal benchmarking on energy CLEAN ENERGY consumption among our subsidiaries, in order to understand where to As well as optimising our efficiencies, we also look to renewable focus our efforts and create a sense of competition with Vedanta to energy to power our operations. While we currently source only drive performance. Vedanta Ltd.’s Jharsuguda unit made energy 2% from renewable sources, we are taking the lead from efficient modifications to its smelting infrastructure, such as flue wall subsidiaries like Copper Mines of Tasmania and KCM Zambia, replacement, optimisation of fan power and greater deployment of where 100% of energy derives from hydropower. compressed air. At KCM’s Nchanga mine in Zambia, changes to air Our HZL subsidiaries have 273.5 megawatts (MW) of wind compressors saved 55,560 GJ of energy, while ore flow optimisation farms in two phases across five states in India. All wind power saved a further 163,279 GJ. At BALCO, automation in the smelting generation has been registered under the CDM and 511.4 furnace and cooling tower resulted in savings of more than 750,000 million units have been sold to the electricity grid in each state, GJ in the reporting period. As a result of this approach, we are pleased an increase of 52.3% compared to 2012. to report that we met our energy targets over the year, consuming 1.15 million GJ. Consequently, we saw a decrease in our carbon Thanks to wind generation and other investments such as footprint normalised by turnover. During the reporting period, we waste heat recovery steam turbine generation and low-energy identified renewable projects under the global Clean Development boilers (also registered under the CDM and bringing the total Mechanism (CDM), with a certified emissions reduction of 1.4 million clean energy generation to 536,882 MWh per year), HZL has units. These projects are registered by the UN Framework Convention reduced annual average emissions by 583,685 tonnes of CO2e. on Climate Change. In 2014-15 we accrued around 0.54 million units. Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2014–15 35 RESPONSIBLE STEWARDSHIP AIR QUALITY MANAGING AIR QUALITY Our Environmental Management Standard commits all our operations to identify and manage emissions to air from point, fugitive and mobile sources, as well as from process activities associated with combustion and materials storage. Each facility applies air quality prevention and mitigation measures, to our gas customers. This will help in conserving energy and and across the Group we monitor air quality for its impact on reducing GHG emissions. For the reporting period, the volumes employees, local communities and the environment. This includes of flared and vented hydrocarbon emissions from Cairn operations both ambient air quality monitoring (AAQM) and stack emissions were approximately 38.23 million SCM and 0.52 million SCM. monitoring. We require all our operations to apply air quality prevention and mitigation measures. Suspended particulate matter (SPM), SOx and NOx are generally monitored as part of AAQM. The AAQM reports are regularly submitted to the regulatory authorities. In relation to stack emissions of particulate matter, emissions are legally regulated at most of our operations and are monitored to ensure compliance. During the year, we also monitored SOx, NOx and other relevant emissions including lead emissions in our zinc operations, fluoride emissions in our copper and aluminium operations, and polyaromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) in our aluminium operations. When transporting extracted materials like bauxite, coal, lime and alumina, we work hard to minimise dust. We have installed bag filters and dry fog systems with water sprinklers. Further, all trucks are covered with tarpaulin to ensure no spillage or dust generation. HOW WE PERFORMED Our significant emissions include SOx, NOx, and PM and are summarised in the graph below right. Other include fluoride emissions (112 MT) from aluminium operations, lead emissions (23 MT) and PAH emissions (5 MT) from our zinc operations, and VOC emissions Air quality monitoring system at Sterlite Copper – Tuticorin plant. (188 MT) from our Cairn India operations. In all operations we now fit bag filters and scrubbers to minimise dust and pollution. Over the past year, we have also put in place a number of initiatives to improve air quality. For example, Vedanta Ltd. Sterlite STACK EMISSION DATA (MT) Copper has identified seven point sources for continuous ambient air quality monitoring and has invested US$320,000 in installing fence-line SO2 detection systems. Its factory is now continuously monitored for air quality. The system works on the principle of UV 146,371 Differential Optical Absorption Spectroscopy to monitor SOx and NOx 128,157 emission, along the four sides of our factory operation. Further, our 2013–14 Vedanta Ltd. – Jharsuguda thermal powerplant has completed hybridisation of all its electrostatic precipitators with bag filters, 2014–15 making it one of the best in terms of air emissions from the stacks. Excess Gas Flaring At our Cairn business, we currently use associated gas at the Mangala 42,351 33,995 Processing Terminal to generate power for our operational facilities. The excess associated gas is flared at the assets where gas sales 6,066 6,008 infrastructure does not exist. We have undertaken a project to compress and condition the excess gas. Post-conditioning, this gas PM emission SOx emission NOx emission will be commingled and exported with the Raageshwari gas for sale from stacks from stacks from stacks 36 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2014–15 WASTE AND RESOURCE USE TURNING WASTE TO WEALTH Our mining and smelting/refinery operations generate significant amounts of non-hazardous waste and some hazardous waste. Finding innovative ways to reduce and commercialise waste is a approach we are tackling with pioneering innovation. We have in place a Resource Use and Waste Management Technical in secondary construction work, for example, in raising tailing dam Standard and supporting guidance notes. Our main priority is to reduce heights, and back-filling mined out areas and exhausted mine pits. both the quantity and the toxicity of our waste, followed by recovery, For our Cairn operation, around 38,536 MT of drill mud and cuttings re-use and recycling, with disposal in landfill or by incineration viewed as were produced using non-aqueous drilling fluid, out of which 100% a last choice. The technical standard obliges our subsidiary businesses was disposed at onshore and offshore facilities. to systematically identify these opportunities wherever practicable. Our hazardous waste generation includes used/spent oil, waste AMOUNT OF WASTE GENERATED (million MT) 10.91 refractories, spent pot lining and residual sludge from smelters. Hazardous wastes are stored in authorised, licensed and secured landfills, while some have value and are sold to authorised recyclers. 0.76 The key non-hazardous waste we generate includes fly ash (from 0.64 0.64 10.15 captive and merchant power plants), red mud (aluminium refinery Non-hazardous 8.36 waste), jarosite/jarofix (from zinc smelting), slag, lime grit (process waste 7.08 residues from smelters and aluminium refineries) and phosphor gypsum (phosphoric acid plant). Hazardous waste HOW WE PERFORMED 2012–13 2013–14 2014–15 We generated around 10.91 million MT and recycled/re-used 55% of non-hazardous waste. Hazardous waste was stored in a secured landfill and some of it was sold to authorised recyclers. Further, around 96 million MT of overburden and waste rocks and 28 million MT of tailing were produced. Much of our generated overburden is used CLOSING THE LOOP Process / Business Captive and Aluminium Iron Ore, Zinc Copper merchant power and Copper plants Waste Product Created fly ash Red mud Slag Gypsum Reused 351K 208K 484K 2,060K tonnes sent to tonnes reused in road tonnes reused for road tonnes reused in road make cement and construction and brick construction and cement construction and brick bricks nearby manufacturing production manufacturing Useful purpose / products (brick, road and cement making) Sterlite Copper has achieved a 100% HZL’s state-of-the-art Central Research non-hazardous waste recycling rate and provides and Development Laboratory is exploring livelihood opportunities for nearby industries. how to recover more metals from mining and smelting operations Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2014–15 37 RESPONSIBLE STEWARDSHIP ENVIRONMENT HAZARDOUS WASTE – A PIECE OF CAKE, INDIA IN ACTION Hazardous waste such as oil, residual sludge and scrubber ‘cake’ is an unwanted by-product of many of our processes. Sterlite Copper is determined to recycle 100% of its scrubber cake. The smelting business has discovered that scrubber cake contains the right balance of chemicals to produce gypsum, which has a rising value in global commodity markets. Following approval from the India Central Pollution Control Board, it invested approximately US$33.3 million in state-of-the-art technology to neutralise and repurpose its cake. Metal dust is now restricted from entering lime scrubbers at its primary and secondary smelters, while a ‘bag house’ and flue gas desulphurisation remove noxious sulphur dioxide and dust from the air. Residual ‘bleed’ is taken to a plant for poly-electrolyte treatment. The final product is INVESTED APPROXIMATELY gypsum, a harmless mineral used to manufacture cement and plasterboard. US$ 33.3m in state-of-the-art technology The investment has reduced hazardous waste by 40% and doubled the life of surrounding landfill sites. SAVING WATER, CUTTING COSTS, ZAMBIA PROTECTING THE NATIONAL KCM’s Nkana Refinery has initiated an effluent recycling project BIRD OF INDIA, RAJASTHAN to capture, treat and re-use effluent from its operations. An extensive biodiversity study covering a Before 2014, refinery waste water had been exceeding legal 10-kilometre radius of HZL’s mines revealed discharge concentrations of 1.5 milligrams of copper per litre. the need to protect the endangered peacock This, together with high costs of water consumption at the (Pavo cristatus), India’s iconic national bird. refinery, prompted the team to explore a cheaper, more In partnership with Rajasthan’s Forest and sustainable approach to waste water management. Wildlife Department, the business has invested over US$43,000 in a conservation plan. A water filtration system was introduced and the time period for neutralisation and precipitation of copper and other elements The strategy involves reforestation in settling ponds extended. of high-branched trees to offer peacocks shelter and protection from predators, Thanks to this innovative thinking, Nkana Refinery now operates planting species that attract the insects and at zero effluent discharge. The project has also reduced pressure snakes on which the birds feed, as well as on fresh water abstraction by over 60%, with associated costs water feeding points. These measures were substantially reduced. 60 supported by the engagement of employees % and communities in the importance of conserving peacocks, as well as fire and Reduced pressure on fresh water poaching prevention measures. abstraction by over INVESTED OVER US$ 43,000 in a conservation plan The biodiversity study also revealed the need to protect rare plants and those important to people’s livelihoods as food, medicine, herbs and animal fodder. HZL created a plant nursery, reintroducing species once they became saplings. For example, around 500 Commiphora wightii saplings were planted over the year. Recycled water getting used for washing copper plates at KCM, Zambia. 38 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2014–15 FLY ASH – WASTE TO WEALTH, INDIA Fly ash is a residue generated in combustion processes and comprises fine particles that rise with flue gases. At HZL and Sterlite Copper, 100% of fly ash is captured and sold on to nearby cement industries. Bottom ash is also stored and supplied to brick-makers and internal road-making applications. Following the success of this initiative, other Vedanta businesses such as BALCO, Vedanta Ltd. Jharsuguda, and Lanjigarh are interested in following suit. Our Vedanta Ltd. Lanjigarh Alumina refinery has become the first company CONSERVING ECOSYSTEMS FOR GREEN in the world to develop cement-free concrete using fly ash. The product, ENTERPRISE, SOUTH AFRICA Cold-Setting Geopolymer Green Concrete, has the unique property of fast Namaqualand in South Africa contains ecologically sensitive setting in ambient conditions and reduces costs and carbon by up to 15%. The ecosystems with critical value for biodiversity conservation, company is devising a road map to extend this initiative to other subsidiaries. local livelihoods, eco-tourism and agriculture. Researchers highlight that the plant and fauna diversity of this habitat is particularly vulnerable to anthropogenic impacts and climate change. Black Mountain Mining (BMM) has partnered with the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) to develop a Sustainable Biodiversity Management System at the proposed Gamsberg zinc mining site in Northern Cape Province. The system aims to enhance and diversify rural livelihoods within Namaqualand by promoting green enterprise development and biodiversity-related technologies. An external Biodiversity and Livelihoods Coordination Committee (BLCC) has been set up to advise on BMM’s wider sustainable development strategy in Namaqualand. Road made of Cold-Setting Geopolymer Green Concrete at Vedanta Ltd. – Lanjigarh, India. UNGC PRINCIPLES 8&9 Black Mountain mine, South Africa – working towards the conservation of rare plant species. NATURAL WASTE WATER TREATMENT, INDIA Cairn India is finding new, sustainable ways to deal with effluent near its Bhagyam oil field in Rajasthan. A reed bed wetland has become a natural treatment works, removing harmful bacteria through sedimentation, filtration, biological degradation, adsorption and nutrient uptake. The water quality is tested daily and found to be well within the limits for use in irrigation or surface discharge. Over time, as the plant roots establish, water quality will become even better. SAVING OVER 300,000 Savings in fresh water irrigation and effluent transportation costs amount to over US$300,000 a year. This pilot project has demonstrated that reed bed technology is viable for treating domestic US$ waste water in arid climates. a year from fresh water irrigation and effluent transportation costs Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2014–15 39 COMMIT CONNECT CARE Our CSR personnel are crucial to driving and managing local engagements and act as a point of contact for communities. 40 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2014–15 BUILDING STRONG RELATIONSHIPS CREATING WINNING PARTNERSHIPS WITH STAKEHOLDERS Transparent and continuous engagement with our stakeholders builds long-lasting relationships and maintains our licence to operate. St nsible ewar o Res hip p ds Strategic gR h Communications elationships Ad ding and S ari Bu ng Value ilding Stron WHAT WE FOCUS ON Our priorities identified through our materiality process –– Community engagement and impact –– Child and forced labour –– Human rights and the rights of indigenous –– Land and resettlement peoples IN THIS SECTION Stakeholder engagement – 42 Human rights – 44 Neighbourhood dialogue – 46 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2014–15 41 BUILDING STRONG RELATIONSHIPS STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT TRANSPARENT DIALOGUE We stand by our principle of transparent dialogue and believe that anyone should be able to voice their opinions; that they should be listened to; and that they can expect a considered and constructive response. This is the basis for connecting with others and building strong relationships. To illustrate the importance we place on this, we have added Strategic identified and recorded against each group. Using the information Communications as a fourth pillar of our Sustainable Development gathered, we then determine with the stakeholders themselves the Model. This reflects the emphasis we place on partnership working level of communication and consultation that is appropriate. and also global trends of consumerism in emerging markets, meaning From this, Stakeholder Engagement Plans (SEPs) are developed and that more people than ever have an interest in commodity continuously updated as circumstances develop on-site. These SEPs production. aim to: –– Identify, categorise and engage stakeholders at all stages of the We have identified six stakeholder groups that have a significant project life cycle interest in our operations: –– Ensure that systems are in place for stakeholders to feedback to us –– Outline the resources and responsibilities for implementing engagement activities COMMUNITIES SHAREHOLDERS INDUSTRY (SUPPLIERS, –– Identify relevant information for local disclosure AND LENDERS CUSTOMERS, PEERS) RESPONDING TO STAKEHOLDER CONCERNS As part of our continual engagement with those interested in our EMPLOYEES CIVIL SOCIETY GOVERNMENTS business, we are committed to responding effectively to stakeholder (NON-GOVERNMENTAL feedback. Effort is made by the business to ensure that multiple AND OTHER channels are used to maintain contact; for example, at Group level ORGANISATIONS) a dedicated email address – sustainability@vedanta.co.in – is When deciding where to focus our sustainability efforts (the available and is displayed in the Contacts section of our website. materiality process – see page 14), we consult formally with every This is complemented by an online feedback form in the Sustainable group. We also engage on other issues throughout the year, as Development section of our website. All issues, feedback points shown opposite and throughout this report. and grievances raised are recorded, and contribute to our continual monitoring and understanding of stakeholder interests and inform The approach we take to connect with different stakeholders is our materiality review (see page 14). guided by our Stakeholder Engagement Technical Standard. All of our operations run their own stakeholder identification and We meet pro-actively with key stakeholder groups including civil analysis process. As part of this, they identify potential stakeholder society organisations, media and industry associations to increase representatives who act as a channel for the receipt and awareness about our business, explain our point of view and answer dissemination of information. queries. We also publish in-house journals and newsletters, such as Zinc News and Yagna, to engage with employees, our wider industry In addition, our sites identify individuals and groups who may be and communities and host governments. We also have an active additionally affected by operations due to their disadvantaged or presence on various social media (YouTube, Facebook, Twitter, Flicker, otherwise vulnerable status. Ways in which stakeholders may be Pinterest, blogs) to increase awareness about our business and affected and the extent of both actual and perceived impacts are activities. Cairn India – stakeholder enagement is an ongoing and dynamic process. 42 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2014–15 HOW WE PERFORMED Here we outline the various ways in which we engage with our six key stakeholder groups, highlighting the mode of engagement, and identifying the material aspects in which they have an interest and the outcomes. This report, coupled with our Annual Report, responds to these areas. COMMUNITIES Mode of engagement Outcomes Community group meetings, village council meetings, public hearings, –– Revisited the community base need assessment for major Indian sites grievance mechanisms, cultural events, engaging philanthropically –– Stakeholder engagement process is being followed as per the Framework with communities via the Vedanta Foundation. –– Around 4 million beneficiaries via integrated development programmes Identified material aspects –– US$42m invested in community development –– Community engagement initiatives –– All land and resettlement to follow the process laid down in the Framework –– Infrastructure projects –– Land and resettlement EMPLOYEES Mode of engagement Outcomes Chairman’s workshops, CEO meetings and feedback sessions, –– Group-wide training and behavioural-based programme initiated performance management systems, various committees at the plant –– Technical ACT-UP process rolled out level: mentor programme, event management committee and welfare committee, women’s clubs etc. –– Identification of Future Leaders – intensive employee grooming programme initiated Identified material aspects –– Preference for women and regional hiring at all locations –– Employee health & safety –– Training and leadership development –– Gender diversity, succession planning SHAREHOLDERS AND LENDERS Mode of engagement Outcomes Regular updates, investor meetings, site visits, Annual General Meeting –– US$3.7bn EBITDA, US$12. 9bn revenue and conferences, dedicated contact channel ir@vedanta.co.in and –– All new projects are carried out per the Sustainable Development Framework sustainability@vedanta.co.in. and International Finance Corporation standards Identified material aspects –– Sustainability assurance audits through VSAP –– Economic performance –– ESG (Environment, Social and Governance) performance –– Adherence to international standards for new projects –– Sustainability risk management CIVIL SOCIETY Mode of engagement Outcomes Partnerships with and membership of international organisations, –– Membership of international organisations including the United Nations working relationships with organisations on specific projects, Global Compact and the World Business Council for Sustainable engagement with international, national and local NGOs, conferences Development, Indian Biodiversity Business Initiative, etc. and workshops, dedicated contact channel sustainability@vedanta.co.in. –– More than 250 partnerships with non-government organisations, schools, Identified material aspects academic and government bodies –– Project partnerships –– Sustainability Committee reviewed human rights and child labour risk –– Community development assessment for all Vedanta operations –– Human rights compliance – child labour and forced labour INDUSTRY (SUPPLIERS, CUSTOMERS, PEERS) Mode of engagement Outcomes Customer satisfaction surveys, scorecards, in-person visits to customers, –– SAP – Supplier Relation Management systems in place to facilitate supplier and vendor meetings. transparency Identified material aspects –– Whistle-blower complaints – hotline service and email ID –– Contractual integrity – payments –– Partnerships GOVERNMENTS Mode of engagement Outcomes Participation in government consultation programmes, engagement –– US$42m in community development with national, state and regional government bodies at business operational level. –– US$61.5m spent on environmental improvement projects –– US$4.6 bn payment to exchequers Identified material aspects –– Economic performance –– Community development –– Environmental initiatives Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2014–15 43 BUILDING STRONG RELATIONSHIPS HUMAN RIGHTS SAFEGUARDING HUMAN RIGHTS Our Human Rights Policy is aligned to the UN Guiding Principles on business and human rights and includes strict prohibition of child or forced labour – either directly or through contract labour. Additionally, our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (Code) commits us to comply with all relevant national laws and regulations, underpinning our approach to protecting the fundamental rights of all our direct and indirect employees. Human rights training is an integral part of our Sustainable effectively implemented by all units. However, the need for periodic Development Framework implementation, with over 24,000 man internal capacity building around implementing our human rights hours of training in Code of Business Conduct and Ethics including standards is required. The review also helped us in strengthening our Human Rights provided to our employees and contract workforce. existing systems and delivering focused training for our staff. These range from our on-site security guards – who are required to Also, during the year we became a signatory to the WBCSD Water, work in compliance with International Finance Corporation (IFC) and Sanitation and Hygiene (WASH) Pledge to fulfil global human rights International Council on Mining and Metals guidelines – to our to water. transport workforce, where we have previously identified some risks of child labour. In 2014-15, all security guards in the Group received training in our Human Rights Policy. Human rights-related risks may occur in our supply chain. Therefore, 24,000 hours of training in Code of Business Conduct and Human Rights although all our significant suppliers have adequate systems to safeguard the human rights of their workforce, we continue to engage these businesses diligently. To this end: UNGC PRINCIPLES –– All our new suppliers and contractors are provided with an induction to our Code of Conduct, sustainability policies, standards and systems. 1, 2, 4 & 5 –– All our new suppliers and contractors undergo sustainability screening on human rights and child labour, environment and PROTECTING CHILDREN AND INDIGENOUS labour aspects etc. PEOPLES –– Inspections and audits of all key suppliers and contractors are Despite operating in countries where the risk of child and forced undertaken and any issues identified are recorded and labour may be high, during the past year no instances of child communicated to the contractor. labour in our operations came to the Group’s attention. We –– Supplier and contractor performance and compliance with human ensure that contractors and vendors understand our rights law is monitored by our continuous audit function. expectations, with guidance provided to sites to eliminate any –– A supplier relationship management e-learning module ensures breach. We also carry out periodic inspections of our remote transparency and provides a communication mechanism for all mine locations and require proof of age for all contract workers. registered suppliers to voice their concerns. The Indigenous Peoples and Vulnerable Tribes We support collective bargaining and our businesses, namely BALCO, The Group’s standards and guidance note on the subject was Hindustan Zinc, Vedanta Ltd. (Iron), Konkola Copper Mines, Copper rolled out to support the implementation of our related Mines of Tasmania and Zinc International, recognise unions, while technical standard. The core aim of the standard is to enable other businesses have adequate systems for employee development, our project teams to engage, negotiate and partner with these remuneration and grievance redressal. The rigorous Environmental vulnerable groups in a manner that avoids negative impacts and Social Impact Assessments (ESIAs) and our Sustainable and risks for all stakeholders, especially the indigenous peoples Development Framework compliance that apply to all projects include and vulnerable tribes. the obligation to undertake human rights screening in all M&A activities (of which there were none in the reporting period). It also outlines our desire to create opportunities for positive economic and social development, within the context of the Under the leadership of the Vedanta Sustainability Committee, we unique requirements of these groups. During the reporting carried out internal due diligence according to the UN Guiding Principles period none of our operating mines was found to be operating on Human Rights for all Vedanta operations. This included risk in or adjacent to indigenous peoples’ territory and hence no assessments to identify potential human rights, child and forced violations involving the rights of indigenous people or labour-related risks within our boundary, communities and supply chain. vulnerable groups were observed during the reporting period. The assessment confirmed that the Human Rights Policy is being 44 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2014–15 SUPPORT FOR FEMALE EQUALITY Vedanta Resources has become a signatory to the ‘CEO Statement We practise and promote equal employment opportunities. Our of Support' for the United Nations’ Women's Empowerment Board has a 13% representation of women and in 2012 set out a Principles (WEP) – ‘Equality Means Business'. target to reach over 20% by 2018. We have also empowered over 25,000 rural women through the creation of about 1,800 Self Help WEP are produced and disseminated by the United Nations Entity Groups in the communities, across the locations of our operations. for Gender Equality, the Empowerment of Women (UN Women) Over 39,000 people benefited from Vedanta's female and the United Nations Global Compact. empowerment and entrepreneurship & skill development initiatives The CEO pledge was signed by Vedanta’s Chief Executive Officer, that contribute towards the socio-economic empowerment of rural Tom Albanese. Women are increasingly playing an irreplaceable women and youth. role across societies, and we are committed to providing equal On International Women's Day, 8 March 2015, Vedanta Group opportunities within the Vedanta Group. As a part of Vedanta’s companies conducted a series of awareness programmes on Corporate Social Responsibility, we continue to provide platforms health and nutrition benefiting over 11,000 women and adolescent that empower women in our communities. To be associated with girls in India. the cause of advancing women by the United Nations Global Compact is an extension of our commitment to a holistic The celebrations included 19 health camps in various rural locations development of communities. around the business operations and nine Mobile Health Units travelling in remote locations, with the focus on treating women WEP present seven steps that businesses and other sectors can take and creating awareness of the importance of health and hygiene to advance and empower women: practices. The celebrations took place across the states of (1) Establish high-level corporate leadership for gender equality Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh, Tamil Nadu, Odisha, Goa and Punjab (2) Treat all women and men fairly at work – respect and support in India. human rights and non-discrimination The UN Global Compact is a strategic policy initiative for businesses (3) Ensure the health, safety and well-being of all workers that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies with universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, (4) Promote education, training and professional development environment and anti-corruption. By doing so, business, as a for women primary driver of globalisation, can help ensure that markets, (5) Implement enterprise development, supply chain and commerce, technology and finance advance in ways that benefit marketing practices that empower women economies and societies everywhere. (6) Promote equality through community initiatives and advocacy (7) Measure and publicly report on progress to achieve gender equality. BUILDING COMMUNITY UNDERSTANDING In line with our principle of community empowerment, we carry out a participatory needs assessment, working alongside communities (with a focus on those most marginalised such as women or indigenous peoples), governments and nongovernmental organisations to co-create programmes that will have the most tangible long-term impact. The result is a threeto five-year plan owned jointly by all those involved. OUR CONSULTATION APPROACH Phase 1 Phase 2 Phase 3 Entry point activity Preliminary dialogue with Wider consultation the community with the project-affected families Approaching the Baseline study & need Public hearing community assessment Isolating issues Feedback The Biometric gates at KCM ensure restricted entry and prohibit child and forced labour practices. Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2014–15 45 BUILDING STRONG RELATIONSHIPS NEIGHBOURHOOD DIALOGUE A CULTURE OF MUTUAL RESPECT We are privileged visitors to some of the world’s most remote and underdeveloped regions. We have a duty to respect, learn from and create a shared understanding with those who host us. Connecting with our communities is not just the right thing to do, it is fundamental to our licence to operate. Research shows that thriving communities support COMMUNITY GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS business growth. An engagement with local neighbours We are aware that any project is likely to raise issues for a host can help employees feel rewarded and connected, community and we have in place community grievance processes safeguard a future pipeline of talented people, and for issues to be raised with our skilled on-the-ground business contribute to resilient supply chains. Our ethos of community representatives. This is a key step in preventing concerns from empowerment goes back over 30 years and has made us a trusted escalating into significant issues or disputes, risking the viability corporate citizen. It starts with understanding the potential impact our of operations. business may have on the community. This is further strengthened All public grievances are resolved per the process and procedure laid with a robust stakeholder engagement mechanism to incorporate down in our Sustainable Development Framework Grievance Redressal community feedback into our systems. Some of the impacts which Technical Standard. External grievances regarding Vedanta and its take place in areas where we operate include shifts in employment subsidiaries can also be logged at sustainability@vedanta.co.in. All patterns, lifestyle and attitudes. We have extensive risk and hazard community incidents (social and labour) and grievances are recorded identification mechanisms at shop floor level to ensure that controls and categorised as negligible (1), minor (2), moderate (3), serious (4) are in place to avoid any negative impact on the community because or disastrous (5), and captured on a monthly basis. of our operations. Our approach is based on the global principle of free, prior informed HOW WE PERFORMED consent whereby local communities, particularly indigenous peoples, A total of 2,916 community grievances were recorded across our have the right to participate in decision-making about access to businesses, of which 2,204 were actionable and were resolved in a natural resources. This is delivered through a suite of technical timely manner. None of the cases were related to human rights standards, which cover land and resettlement management, violations. No category 4 or 5 social and labour incidents were grievance mechanisms, stakeholder engagement and community recorded in 2014-15, although lower-level incidents such as village consultation. These standards are applied in conjunction with the road blockages and strikes were recorded, particularly related to ESIA and together enable our businesses to understand their employment and contractor issues, infrastructure projects and some responsibilities to their host communities. Our community investment operational issues including land and traffic management. programmes are in response to the engagement with our Over the year, we completed an ambitious project applying our stakeholders. Our community development initiatives have focused on community consultation model to all sites in India. Drawing on enhancing income for our communities, increasing domestic savings dedicated local personnel to act as conduits between business and for households and developing micro-enterprises to enable women community, we undertook around 3,500 village and community entrepreneurs. Farmers in our communities have benefited from meetings and around 250 panchayat meetings (village selfaccess to improved farm-based practices, water management and governments) across our operations. The main requests raised were animal husbandry. around infrastructure and community asset creation, community development and employment opportunities. No significant disputes relating to land use, or customary rights of local communities and indigenous peoples, were brought to our notice. MDG 8 46 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2014–15 NEIGHBOURHOOD DIALOGUE IN ACTION OUR BIGGEST-EVER COMMUNITY A TRANSPARENT NEEDS ASSESSMENT, INDIA RESPONSE TO GRIEVANCES, Understanding community needs and expectations is a complex INDIA and sensitive process. In 2014–15, we completed our most When a community grievance was reported comprehensive, structured and collaborative community to Vedanta Ltd.’s Aluminium division in engagement to date to develop medium and long-term Odisha, the business put its Stakeholder development plans in participation with our stakeholders. 61% of Engagement Plan (SEP) into action to ensure our subsidiaries and divisions have completed the study or are in a transparent, objective investigation and a the process of completion and the rest have committed to working fair outcome. Individuals from the villages on it. This was done in partnership with government and Kurebaga and Brundamal had sought non-government organisations (with a focus on those active in compensation for crops believed to be remote regions of India), for every community adjacent to our sites damaged by gas leakage from Vedanta Ltd.’s (two-thirds of communities were assessed in 2014 while one-third plant. The process below shows had been assessed in 2013). the chain of events. WHAT WE HEARD –– Community grievance reported We were one of many stakeholders working together to listen to –– Preliminary discussion with villagers and understand the needs of our neighbours. Each community to understand concerns group (including women and marginalised individuals) had the –– Field visits by Central Rice Research opportunity to speak separately and voice their opinions without Institute (CRRI) to test soil quality fear or shame. The main concerns we heard were around –– CRRI report confirms no visible toxicity livelihoods (in terms of either employment or supplier opportunities symptoms with Vedanta) and the environment (primarily water and soil –– Findings communicated to the quality). This was a valuable feedback for our businesses, many of District Magistrate which are now developing projects around vocational training for –– Recommendations made to farmers them. around use of fertiliser HOW WE WILL RESPOND –– Summary of the findings reported in Going forward, we will be working with communities to help them local media understand our business better, including a focus on environmental As a result of this open and consultative hazards. A challenge will be managing expectations arising from process, no further grievances were reported this consultation. For example, where we cannot provide and communities were reassured by Vedanta employment we will explore vocational training (for example, in Ltd.’s comprehensive response to any brick manufacturing), entrepreneurship options (focusing on potential safety or environmental risks. women) and other employability routes. We will align our MDG programmes with these needs, at the same time ensuring that the business goals are also attained. The needs assessment will be 7 repeated in three to four years’ time. MDGs 1 AND 8 Community led needs-based assessment exercise at HZL location. Stakeholder Engagement and Grievance redressal process at Vedanta Ltd. – Aluminium – Jharsuguda business. Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2014–15 47 ADDING AND SHARING VALUE COMMIT CONNECT CARE 48 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2014–15 ADDING AND SHARING VALUE WE CARE BY DEMONSTRATING A PURPOSE BEYOND PROFIT We make an important contribution to socio-economic development through job creation, taxes, access to commodities and infrastructure, community empowerment and social mobility. In doing so we demonstrate that our business has a purpose beyond profit. St nsible ewar o Res hip p ds Strategic gR Communications h elationships Ad ding and S ari Bu ng Value ilding Stron WHAT WE FOCUS ON Our priorities identified through our materiality process –– Economic value –– Training and leadership development –– Community engagement and impact –– Labour rights and relations –– Succession planning –– Broader economic benefits IN THIS SECTION Employees – 50 Community relations – 53 Other stakeholders – 58 Awards & Accolades – 63 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2014–15 49 ADDING AND SHARING VALUE EMPLOYEES BUILDING A FUTURE BUSINESS Our employees are our key asset and our growth and success are attributable to them. Our people strategy is founded on this belief and is designed to recruit, develop and retain the talented workforce that run our businesses. Our strategy is to build a culture of high-performance, entrepreneurial innovation, while caring for and supporting everyone who works with us. To safeguard our future competitiveness, we also seek to identify 82,534 direct and indirect employees and develop leadership skills; create a fair workplace free from 1.24m discrimination; and respect human rights above all else. This has never been more important in an organically growing business with so many different businesses. During the year, we continued to focus on five priority areas, as shown on the following page. training hours delivered to workforce (FY 2014: 1.1 million man hours) Our approach is focused on ensuring that we have the right person 2,325 in the right role, along with clear succession planning, with a focus on critical positions. This is important in our industry, where securing high-potential talent is a challenge because of high growth and competition for skilled personnel across the industry. full-time female employees (FY 2014: 2,329) We are committed to hiring the right person for the right job, MDG 3 and expect all decisions relating to employee development and progression to be based on proper evaluation directly related to work performance. We continue to focus on hiring more women professionals for business roles and this is an internal priority set by UNGC management to bring in diverse skills across the Group. We also focus on recruiting from the communities that surround our operations to encourage local employment generation. Over the reporting period, across our business, the total percentage of senior management who are locally hired is: India (87%), Australia (nil), Zambia (67%), Namibia PRINCIPLES 3&6 (nil), Ireland (100%) and South Africa (75%). We believe that we must invest in developing and retaining key talent to drive innovation and efficiency within the business. In this regard, our attrition rate has remained stable and this year was reported at less than 5%. We continue to attract talent from top engineering institutes, business schools and graduate colleges. This is an important step WOMEN IN WORKFORCE* (%) in sourcing a strong talent pipeline for the future. We also focus on effectively utilising and grooming talent by appropriately rotating them across businesses for experience in new roles and to prepare them to take up various key positions in the future. In particular, this 8.6% year, due to volatile market conditions and owing to disruptions in our business, we have redeployed and optimised appropriate resources to other businesses. 8.6 8.2 8.1 8.3 0,000 2012 2013 2014 2015 * Full-time employees 50 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2014–15 BECOMING AN EMPLOYER OF CHOICE – KEY PRIORITIES AND PROCESSES Employee engagement Processes and systems Employees are encouraged to communicate their views This was a area of focus for 2014-15 and it is important and opinions. We measure our success in fostering positive to ensure we offer consistency in human resources support engagement through internal and external employee surveys, and development across all of our businesses. including Aon Hewitt’s ‘Great Places to Work’ programmes, –– Digitalising our processes and internal ‘dipstick’ surveys. We use these results to inform –– Employee redressal mechanism our employee programmes over the following year. –– Welfare and benefits including performance-related compensation, maternity leave, medical insurance covering family and dependants, health support, transport facilities, Performance management subsidised canteens, and a share option programme for All employees participate in a reward-linked annual executive-level employees. appraisal programme where performance is gauged against –– Whistle-blowing procedure to anonymously report unsafe key performance indicators. Refer to the Remuneration report in or unethical practices (see page 22) our Annual Report. –– Volunteering, collective bargaining –– Appraisal based on annual goals measured against –– Ethics Committee oversees issues including cases of a pre-determined five-point scale discrimination and harassment –– Feedback and identification of areas for improvement –– Suggestion box and open door policy to senior management –– Individual key performance indicators linked to sustainability outcomes Talent development Over the last year we have delivered 1.24 million training hours Organisational growth for all staff, averaging 25 hours per full-time employee. Owing to Ensuring we have the right person in the right role, along with the high proportion of our workforce who join Vedanta as new clear succession planning, with a focus on critical positions. graduates, managing career progression and development is very We expect all decisions relating to employee development important to the business, particularly to ensure talent retention. and progression to be based on robust evaluation directly related to work performance. –– Expert-led training on issues including health and safety, behaviour and technical skills To this end, we: –– Work with universities and training institutions to –– Orientation programme to manage new recruits’ transition develop the future pipeline of talent from ‘campus to corporate’ –– Offer rotation opportunities around the business, –– Chairman’s workshops attended by more than 2,000 people mentoring and career development in the last five years –– Extend more opportunities to women, particularly at –– Initiatives like Technical Act Up, Club 100 and leadership managerial level workshop provide opportunities for talent to build their careers LABOUR RIGHTS AND RELATIONS allowances, incentives and bonuses. In addition, unions play an active We aim to have constructive relations with all employees and labour role in safety committees at many sites and union representatives unions in the locations where we operate, and to ensure that participate in various steering committees. We have a collective compensation for workers meets or exceeds the legal requirements. bargaining mechanism at our HZL (48%), Zinc International (68%), KCM (87%), Sesa Iron Ore (73%) and BALCO (61.5%) operations. We do not believe that any country where we have operations represents a risk to freedom of association and collective bargaining, A mechanism is in place to make employees aware of any significant and we uphold this right at all the operations we manage. operational changes like restructuring, mergers and acquisitions, expansions and the like. Notification periods for such events are We understand that collective bargaining offers the opportunity to contained in collective bargaining agreements and certified standing build a constructive relationship with unions – management and orders of respective entities. For example, in India the notification union representatives negotiate agreements which include clauses period is 21 days, in Zambia and Namibia it is 30 days, whereas in on productivity, health and safety, working conditions, remuneration, South Africa it is 90 days. Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2014–15 51 ADDING AND SHARING VALUE EMPLOYEES IN ACTION A WIN-WIN, INDIA Initiatives like Women’s Interactive Network (WIN) at –– A human resources policy framework that gives all female Hindustan Zinc Limited (HZL) inspire female professionals employees access to a fair, timely and confidential redressal into leadership roles. WIN promotes fair treatment in the –– Professional development programmes aimed at women workplace, breaks down infrastructural and safety barriers –– Engagement opportunities such as quarterly women’s to equality, builds positive relationships with line managers networking events and colleagues, and promotes a culture of zero tolerance –– An online WIN Portal for communication on gender issues of sexual harassment. Going forward, WIN aims to increase its crèche offer at all HZL has four WIN coordinators at each location to support HZL locations and further increase training and awareness delivery of: in its focus areas. WIN volunteers at HZL, India. OUR FUTURE STARS We have identified over 800 individuals at Vedanta whom we consider to be ‘high potential’, 10% of whom are women. We develop these future leaders through initiatives like Leaders Connect, which aims to create a strong leadership cadre to complement the senior management team. Participants can expect to see accelerated growth through targeted support such as coaching. In 2014-15, 214 senior management professionals underwent the external assessment process. And our ‘Club 100’ of potential future leaders now has 100 members, 7% of whom are women. In Rajasthan we have established a Mining Academy to support those with enhanced underground mining skills, while Technical Act Up is a structured programme for those who are technically highly proficient. MDG 3 Vedanta Senior Leadership Workshop – Club 100. 52 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2014–15 COMMUNITY RELATIONS SHARED VALUE FOR COMMUNITIES We are clear that the communities in and around our operations should get a fair share of the benefits, whether those are through employment, trade and enhanced infrastructure, or greater empowerment to voice opinions. This resonates with our corporate values of trust, entrepreneurship, innovation, excellence, integrity, respect and care. So, in addition to BREAKING THE POVERTY CYCLE, ZAMBIA extensive neighbourhood dialogue (see page 46) and our wider Raphael Mulenga Kalima, a peasant farmer and father of economic contribution, we see it as our responsibility to invest in three in Chililabombwe, northern Zambia, only ever dreamed communities in a meaningful way. of owning cattle, but today is the proud owner of four: “My Our community investment strategy focuses on health, education, children won’t have any problems. If they pass to go to livelihoods and environment. In 2014-15, we invested US$42 million, university, I will use cattle to sponsor their education.” benefiting around 4 million people globally through building hospitals, Mr Kalima is among the beneficiaries of a US$2.5 million schools and infrastructure, developing employability skills, and sustainable livelihoods project run by Konkola Copper Mines engaging in community programmes. Our priority over the year was (KCM). KCM is working with the NGO Village Water Zambia, supporting rural livelihoods. the Ministry of Agriculture and 20 women’s organisations to Consistent with our Sustainable Development Model of drawing on target 2,700 of the poorest rural households and support them global best practice, our community investment approach is evaluated with animal husbandry skills and veterinary advice. Using a against the UN Millennium Development Goals and tends to follow a ‘pass-on’ model, two cattle and seven goats are given to each Public-Private-People-Partnership (4P’s) structure, in line with our goal family on the condition that the calves are passed on to the of co-creation and handing ownership to communities as early as next generation. possible. As the MDGs expire in 2015 we will also evaluate how Women, the main income earners but with virtually no land our projects will contribute to the sustainable development goals rights, are the focus of the programme. This simple idea has highlighted in Rio+20. the potential to break generational cycles of poverty and enable social mobility – philosophies that are at the heart of our Sustainable Development Model. Since 2010, KCM has given 596 heifers and 2,000 goats, and intends to hand ownership of the project to specialist organisations in 2015. US$42m invested in community programmes, benefiting around 4 million* people MDGs 1-8 * Some of the beneficiaries could be involved in more than one project. Cattle breeding programme at KCM, Zambia. “The Agro advisory services are helping me immensely in better planning of crop management and improved harvesting and yield.” –Santi Naik, ‘Veggie Kart’ farmer See page 54 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2014–15 53 ADDING AND SHARING VALUE COMMUNITY RELATIONS CONTINUED OUR AREAS OF FOCUS We have seven discrete focus areas in our community programmes: health, education, sustainable livelihoods, women’s empowerment, community asset creation, bio-investment and integrated village development. These areas have been chosen due to the relevance they have to the development agendas of our major host countries, and regional areas of operation. FOCUS AREA DETAILS PERFORMANCE EDUCATION The Vedanta Bal Chetna Anganwadi (VBCA) programme –– 550 young scholars from economically targets pre-school level education through the Integrated disadvantaged backgrounds were provided Child Development Scheme, run in partnership with the with scholarships. Indian government. We promote women’s education by –– 813 adults were taught to read and write by KCM sponsoring girls who opt for higher education. We support in collaboration with the Zambian Ministry of a midday meal programme through eight centralised Education. Several of them have passed certificate kitchens, aimed at improving the health status of children exams organised by the Ministry. from Class I to VIII in government-aided schools as well as encouraging regular attendance at school. We also –– More than 6,000 adolescent girls covered through assist adult literacy centres, distribute education kits and one of its kind outreach programme for sexual health provide proactive support and encouragement for in Tamil Nadu by Copper division. educational enrolment and achievement. Skills –– To inculcate scientific learning among students and development training is offered in a wide range of improve pedagogical tools for teachers, Cairn India marketable trades and we encourage development works in Rajasthan and Gujarat covering more than of small business enterprises and entrepreneurship. 150 schools. HEALTH Our activities include the delivery of medical –– Sterlite Copper’s mobile medical bus delivered primary infrastructure such as the 44 hospitals/health posts healthcare services to 35,000 people in Tamil Nadu. we run across the Group supported by medical outreach –– 400 community cataract operations funded by services. These include mobile health vans and medical Black Mountain mine, South Africa. outposts to provide isolated rural communities with access to medical services. We have programmes to –– More than 4,000 household toilets have been built support access to clean water and increase awareness over the last year by HZL and Cairn in Rajasthan. of the importance of sanitation, providing practical –– 3,393 people benefited from free eye check-ups assistance in developing related infrastructure, such as funded by Sterlite Energy Limited. toilets, garbage disposal facilities and waste recycling. –– Over 50,000 people were reached by 36 water kiosks We particularly focus on women, through targeted in Rajasthan, funded by Cairn India. nutrition programmes and family planning, combined with child welfare initiatives. –– HZL’s occupational health centres have reached approximately 18,000 people and more than 40,000 have attended medical camps for neighbouring communities. –– Konkola Copper Mines (KCM) operates two hospitals and eight clinics, providing free medical services to more than 63,200 people, including employees and their dependents. –– HZL and Cairn signed an agreement with the government of Rajasthan to build more than 40,000 household and school toilets. LIVELIHOODS On farms, we distribute high-yield seeds, and –– Vedanta Ltd. launched ‘Veggie Kart’, a microfinance provide education and training in fruit and vegetable project that helps farmers through agro-advice, cultivation and in animal rearing practices, breed procurement and marketing. In 50 farmers generated selection and animal vaccination. We offer a range a substantial surplus in 2014, Odisha. of technical assistance through partners, including –– 1,082 young people have graduated as electricians adopting new scientific technologies such as compost and plumbers from Vedanta Ltd.’s technical school pits and drip irrigation systems. We also focus on in Goa in the past 10 years. non-farm interventions to create economic opportunity for rural youth. –– BALCO’s skills school has benefited more than 3,800 young people to date, in five communities in Chhattisgarh. –– Cairn India completed construction of the Cairn Centre of Excellence in Jodhpur, Rajasthan, offering skills development and employment in partnership with TUV Rhineland. 54 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2014–15 FOCUS AREA DETAILS PERFORMANCE WOMEN’S Our main activity in working to empower women is our –– 1,056 Self Help Groups for women, reaching support for over 1,200 women’s Self Help Groups (SHGs). 15,251 women since 2004, Sterlite Copper (see EMPOWERMENT These SHGs bring women together to develop skills and following page). HZL and Cairn have installed sanitary create income-generating micro businesses. As vending machines for women along with incinerators economic opportunities are very limited in isolated rural to promote menstrual women’s health. The sanitary villages, SHGs not only give women a chance to pads are made by women’s SHGs. contribute towards the income of their families but also –– Skorpion Zinc sponsored the Confederation of African provide an opportunity to socialise and share concerns Football’s Women’s Football Championship, Namibia. and experiences with other women outside the home, leading to overall empowerment of women. Specific –– KCM has invested US$2.5 million in a community opportunities include training in tailoring, stitching and livestock programme focused on women, giving local crafts to women, providing them with skills that can 596 cows and 2,000 goats since 2010 (see page 53). enable sustainable income generation. Market links are also provided. We partner to provide livelihood skills, including animal husbandry; support is also provided to establish links with financial institutions. COMMUNITY ASSET Amongst other initiatives, this also includes the building –– HZL has invested over $800,000 for a sewage of schools in rural and remote locations. Facilities are treatment plant which provides clean and safe drinking CREATION built on a needs basis in discussion with the community water to the community as well as helping the local and have included community halls, roads, health and administration combat the challenges of urban waste. education facilities. BIO INVESTMENT This year, our focus has been on significant planting –– 100 households receive energy from Cairn India’s programmes around our operations. The aim of these community-run solar PV plant. AND ENERGY mass plantings is to reduce dust emissions and preserve –– KCM partnered with Village Water Zambia, the habitats and water tables. In addition, investment in government Forestry Department and communities energy where communities which are remote. The to plant 7,000 fruit and animal fodder trees as community owned model where we partner in capex nutritional supplements for communities. and the community runs it on a fee model was piloted. Direct Economic Impacts 2014–15 Youths provided vocational training 3,844 Youths linked to Job After training 2,213 Youths linked with job/ self-employment engaged under micro-enterprise development for self-employment 718 Direct Economic Impacts 2014–15 Number of Self Help Groups (SHGs) (old + new) 1,571 Women members in SHGs 33,375 SHGs engaged in income generation activities 326 Number of women establishing micro-enterprises 3,371 Average income of Women Entrepreneurs (monthly income in Rs.) 6,302 Total number of Special/Mega Camps e.g. eyecare, cardiac care, family planning, TB, HIV/AIDS etc. 2,944 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2014–15 55 ADDING AND SHARING VALUE COMMUNITY INVESTMENT IN ACTION SOLAR MICRO-GRID FOR 100 DESERT HOUSEHOLDS, INDIA When night falls, the villages around Cairn India’s operations in Barmer, Rajasthan, are in complete darkness. But thanks to Cairn’s rural solar mini-grid pilot project, people now have the light and power to work, run small businesses and study safely. In partnership with the photovoltaics company SunEdison, the grid is made up of a centralised solar energy production and storage facility, and electricity lines connecting each house. By pooling power in this way, each household can access energy more reliably than via the national grid, which is prone to outages. With 100 households now able to run lights, fridges and fans, community productivity has dramatically improved. Television was even introduced to one remote village for the first time. By replacing kerosene lamps, which are prone to Vocation training for youth at BALCO, India. fire and emit petrol fumes, safety and health are also improved and villagers save two-thirds of PREPARING YOUNGSTERS FOR WORK, INDIA the cost. In the state of Chhattisgarh, central India, young people lack manufacturing Following the success of this pilot, ownership of the and service skills. The Chhattisgarh State Skills Development Corporation (SDC) solar facility was transferred to the Gram Panchayat has set a target of training 2 million youngsters by 2020. (local self-government) and will be run as a Village As a key employer in the region, Vedanta’s aluminium business, BALCO, is offering Electricity Committee where community members vocational training and work placements. Its skills school provides the facilities, are responsible for collecting payments, operations, resources, transportation, uniforms and work placements, while training is basic maintenance and security of the facility. delivered by experts from the SDC. All 30-45-day courses are free and subjects This initiative is an exemplar of Vedanta’s philosophy include hospitality, welding, sewing and electrical fitting, all certified by the SDC. of grassroots development, empowering women, So far the project has benefited 3,000 young people across five communities. working in partnership and handing ownership to It has been commended as a model project by the State Secretary of Technical beneficiaries at the earliest opportunity. Education and has won a number of awards. In Goa, Vedanta Ltd.’s technical school celebrated a 10-year anniversary, with 1,082 young people graduating as electricians and plumbers over the decade – a 100% pass rate. “After training, the school gave me an offer to join a hotel. I happily joined there and today I am earning Rs.4,500 as monthly income.” – Sangeeta Ekka, student at the BALCO skills school Energising lights through solar power, Cairn, India. MDGs 1, 3 & 8 “Now the schoolchildren are able to study at night. Housewives and girls can now get freedom from working in the dark.” – Bhanu Devi, beneficiary, Cairn India solar grid 56 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2014–15 SUSTAINABLE WATERSHED MANAGEMENT, INDIA HELPING VILLAGERS In partnership with the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development, TAKE CONTROL OF the NGO Action for Food Production and community Panchayat councils, SANITATION, INDIA BALCO conducted a needs assessment in four villages in Chhattisgargh. Over the year, 11,426 household This consultation revealed the requirement for better watershed management toilets were built as part of HZL’s for agricultural irrigation. agreement with the State Government of Rajasthan to invest £848 million in BALCO stepped in to fund 33 acres of fencing, a cascaded dam, three farm building 30,000 rural toilets for families ponds storing 850,000 litres of water, two wells and 600 kilograms of seed classified as in poverty, over three years. potato. The results have been impressive: 40 acres of land can now be irrigated, The community development team benefiting 28 farmers; rabi crop yields have increased and further crops including has been working in and around 200 wheat, gram and mustard have been planted; 2,400 kilograms of potatoes have villages in Rajasthan where 60% of the been harvested; soil water retention is helping preparedness for climate change population lacks access to a toilet and drought; and fish are being reared at all three ponds. Farmers also received where open defecation leads to disease. training in sustainable cultivation, nutrient and pest management and animal Lack of sanitary wear is also preventing husbandry, and a cattle vaccination programme was initiated. girls from attending school. After successful implementation of this initiative, BALCO has begun the Also in Rajasthan, Cairn India has process of handing ownership to communities, in line with Vedanta’s model constructed 2,200 household toilets in of social empowerment. three communities. Its goal is to build 20,000 household toilets and 150 school toilets in 120 communities by FY2018. Working closely with government and NGO partners, it saw satisfaction reported by 81% of beneficiaries. HZL and Cairn India follow a public – private partnership model that involves close collaboration with communities and external stakeholders. An extensive process of Panchayat consultations and focus groups runs in parallel with awareness-raising campaigns on the importance of sanitation. Both Livelihood enhancement through watershed management programme at BALCO, India. businesses apply Vedanta’s ethos MDGs 1, 3 & 7 of long-term community ownership as beneficiaries share the costs of construction. In Tamil Nadu, Sterlite Copper has CHAMPIONING WOMEN ENTREPRENEURS, INDIA invested £84,000 in building 195 Sterlite Copper has been creating and supporting Sakhi self-help groups for rural individual toilets and 23 school toilets women for 10 years and has formed 1,056 groups over this period, reaching since 2011, alongside social NGO 15,251 women. The Sakhis bring together government organisations and six Sulabh International. Sanitation levels non-government organisations (NGOs) under Vedanta’s vision of developing have increased by 24% in the two women entrepreneurs to create social mobility and economic empowerment targeted communities. (see page 55). PROJECTS LIKE THESE Training is offered in book-keeping, leadership and decision-making, and CONTRIBUTE TO members receive assistance to grow income-generating enterprises ranging MDGs 4, 5 AND 6 from prawn pickle processing to dried flower production; candle making to rabbit rearing. Groups are based on principles of fairness and democracy and are born out of a needs assessment to understand the issues and barriers facing women. For example, many women have reported a lack of access to credit as a barrier and thus microfinance has become a key focus of Sakhis. As a result of these self-help groups, women are earning an average of US$48 a month more than they were previously, a relatively large sum in rural Tamil Nadu. Furthermore, many have secured loans ranging from US$800 to over US$6,000 to grow their enterprises. The collective savings of the group during the reporting period was US$642,000, a milestone in the Sakhi goal of being self-sufficient in funding. Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2014–15 57 ADDING AND SHARING VALUE SHAREHOLDERS AND LENDERS MULTIPLYING RETURNS AND RELATIONSHIPS Positive relationships with our shareholders and lenders ensure that we are able, through access to finance, to expand and grow our business. As many lenders are aligned to the Equator Principles and International Finance Corporation standards, our Sustainable Development Framework and this report act as important tools to build this relationship. In order to meet the economic commitments that the business has increased in nine out of ten years and held constant for one year. with its finance providers, Vedanta invests in projects and businesses Over the last ten years, Vedanta has returned US$1.6 billion to that drive the development of the Group asset base and increase shareholders, an average return of 8% per annum. Dividends have production, and therefore sales. The Group has a balanced debt been paid out every year, across the commodity cycle, increasing portfolio, with a diversified range of funding sources and a balanced progressively from 17.0 US cents per share ten years ago to maturity profile. 63.0 US$ per share this year. DIALOGUE WITH SHAREHOLDERS AND LENDERS Track record of delivering EBITDA growth We engage with shareholders and lenders in a targeted and timely Our broad natural resources portfolio diversified across base metals, way and as part of this year’s materiality process we consulted with bulks and oil & gas has delivered consistent EBITDA margins in representatives of our shareholders and lender institutions. Our Annual excess of 30% over the last ten years. General Meeting also enables two-way dialogue with shareholders, Throughout this year, we have remained focused on our stated and members of our senior management team engage with strategic priorities. We have started to ease back on capital shareholders on a periodic basis to enable understanding of our expenditure and concentrated on increasing production through business and strategy. optimising our core assets. HOW WE PERFORMED We have seen unprecedented declines in oil and iron ore prices, Consistent returns though zinc and aluminium prices were relatively resilient. These We have a progressive dividend policy and have returned dividends to affected Group EBITDA, which decreased by 17% to US$3.7 billion shareholders since the IPO in 2004. Since our IPO at 390p in (FY2014: US$4.5 billion). However, our diversified portfolio allowed December 2003, shareholders have seen a Total Shareholder Return us to maintain a robust adjusted EBITDA margin of 38%. of over 200% and we have paid a progressive dividend that was EBITDA MARGIN (%) RETURNS TO SHAREHOLDERS (US$ PER SHARE) 38% 63 45 45 41 39 38 63 58 59 55 52.5 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 58 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2014–15 GOVERNMENTS PARTNER IN GROWTH Working within the jurisdictions of developing countries necessitates an understanding of the socio-economic, political and cultural contexts of these nations, which are often distinct to those of developed economies. We believe that, as a Group, we make a significant, valuable contribution by ensuring that both the financial and non-financial returns that the business can deliver are realised. For example, where infrastructure, including roads, housing, sanitation We have not received any direct financial assistance from and healthcare facilities, are not adequate we partner with host governments, although as a part of various direct tax holidays governments to develop these areas for future generations. and similar exemptions Vedanta did benefit by US$239 million during 2014–15. At a broader level, we are committed to contributing to the development of democracy and democratic processes in the countries where It is Board policy, as per the UK Bribery Act, that neither Vedanta nor we operate. We do this in a number of ways, including through Group subsidiaries will make donations or contributions to political membership of industry organisations and international bodies. parties within the United Kingdom or European Union. In India, political Protecting the environment also involves working closely with host donations or contributions made within the context of legitimate governments and our US$61.5 million investment in environmental business operations are only made with the approval of the Board. initiatives helps support government priorities. We make a direct, positive economic contribution to national and state budgets through the taxes and royalties we pay. We also make Tax Transparency has been gaining importance a broader contribution through developing industry, infrastructure for the stakeholders like Government and and skills, and by providing some 82,000 direct and indirect the communities and range of initiatives have employment opportunities and many times that through secondary, supporting industries. This is underpinned by the broad range of been taken worldwide for the tax disclosure health, and education services and infrastructure that we provide, requirement. We have also produced our first either independently or in constructive partnerships, benefiting some voluntary Tax Transparency Report that shows 4 million people. the contributions we make to the public finances In the last year, in total the Group contributed US$4.6 billion to host in the countries in which we operate to provide governments by way of taxes and royalties. Importantly, we have a transparent approach to disclosing the tax we pay and, for developing insights into the contributions made by us to countries, the revenue received facilitates the sustainable public finances. development of host communities. VEDANTA’S ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTION (US$m) Economic Value Generated and Distributed (EVG&D) FY 2013–14 FY 2014–15* Economic value generated 12,945.0 12,878.7 a) Revenues 12,945.0 12,878.7 Economic value distributed 12,118.1 12,298.6 b) Operating costs 9,830.8 10,159.1 c) Employee wages and benefits 801.6 812.8 d) Payment to providers of capital 1,194.5 802.8 Net Finance costs (including other gains/losses) 1,032.0 631.5 Dividend paid 162.5 171.3 e) Payment to government – Income Tax 128.7 352.6 f) Community investment (including donation) – already included in operating costs 49.0 42.37 Economic value retained 826.9 580.1 * (Calculated as Economic Value Generated less Economic Value Distributed – excluding impairment). Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2014–15 59 ADDING AND SHARING VALUE INDUSTRY (SUPPLY CHAIN AND PEERS) CONTRIBUTING TO THE MARKET DEVELOPMENT Vedanta operates across the value chain, undertaking exploration, asset development, extraction, processing and value addition with a primary focus on upstream operations. We capitalise on our strategic capabilities to create value for all our stakeholders: our shareholders, our employees, our customers and the communities where we operate. Further, we are committed to the highest standards of sustainable development in all aspects of our business with a well-developed Sustainable Development Framework underpinning everything that we do. VALUE CHAIN HIGH VALUE OUTPUTS Exploration Natural resources We focus on extending the life of our mines and oilfields through Our diversified portfolio produces high quality metals and minerals, focused exploration, aimed at increasing our R&R base over and LME-branded refined metals, and oil & gas, delivering industry above what we extract each year. We prefer to explore brownfield leading EBITDA margins of over 40%. Our business activities are opportunities across our current asset base, and a few select, underpinned by a well-established Sustainable Development large-scale, low-cost greenfield sites. Framework to minimise our environmental footprint. Asset development People and skills We develop our resource base to optimise both production and the We invest in developing our workforce, delivering over 1.24 million life of the resource. We also develop processing facilities that are hours of training, including over 756,000 hours of health & safety strategically located close to our resources to optimise our costs training. We attract and retain talented employees through and access to markets. management training and development programmes, supported by specific initiatives to encourage gender diversity. Extraction Our operations are focused on mining metals and bulks, extracting oil & Governments gas and generating power. We operate mines in India, Africa, Australia We are a substantial contributor to the economies where we operate, and Ireland, extracting zinc, lead, silver, iron ore, bauxite and copper. We both as an employer and a tax payer. We paid a total of US$4.6 produce oil & gas from three operating blocks in India. billion in taxes and levies across the Group. Processing Society In line with our integrated value chain, we produce refined metals We make an economic and social contribution to the communities by processing and smelting the ore that we extract. We have where we operate, investing US$42 million in building hospitals, smelters and other processing facilities in India and Africa. We schools and infrastructure and providing community programmes generate our own power for most of our operations, selling any for around 4 million people. surplus. We also sell power generated by our independent power plants and wind farms. Customers We deliver high quality raw materials for our customers in line with Value addition international standards for quality settlement terms and delivery While we are primarily upstream, we selectively add value by dates. We operate more than 25% of India’s oil production and converting some of our primary metal products into higher margin contribute to the nation’s energy security. India has a deficit market products such as sheets, rods, bars and rolled products at our zinc, and we are a large generator of power in India. aluminum and copper businesses, depending on the profitability of adding value and the customer demand for these products. Shareholders We have a progressive dividend policy and have returned US$1.6 billion in dividends to shareholders since the IPO in 2004. 60 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2014–15 DEVELOPING LOCAL MARKETS not only benefits local economies and governments but also As the largest producer of aluminium, copper and zinc-lead in India contributes to reducing the carbon footprint. In addition, we strive we make a significant contribution to the development and maturity to work with local suppliers wherever possible, contributing to local of many markets. Due to the scale of our operations, we generate market development. Importantly, this relationship extends to opportunities for downstream industries and support services which non-financial benefits such as skills development and training has led to the growth of other industries which have capitalising on in areas such as health and safety, as well as making improvements the increased availability of domestic raw materials. Sourcing locally to local infrastructure. SAVING US$800 MILLION IN OUR SUPPLY CHAIN We believe that we can make savings of up to US$800 million, as well as substantial carbon savings, by engaging more effectively with our supply chain over the next four years. This is how we aim to do it. KEY INITIATIVES Improve procurement unit prices Improve quality, processing Improve performance –– Optimise supplier portfolio and and technology of our operations combining purchases at Group level –– Optimise products to best fit our assets –– Reduction in after-treatments (e.g. fuel, coal) (e.g. alumina, copper concentrates, coal) and waste –– Combine logistics activities and better –– Improve asset flexibility to process –– Develop closer relationships leverage of our assets e.g. Vizag port wider range of commodities with key vendors to achieve –– Work with Government for easier access (e.g. complex copper concentrates) benchmark performance to raw materials –– Strengthen quality assurance and full life cycle value e.g. reduced consumption) SUPPLIERS All our activities are focused on ensuring customer needs are met in Our SAP supplier portal is an easy-to-use, highly efficient and secure an appropriate and timely manner, including assisting our customers method of communication between purchasing organisations and with technical issues and product development for first use. Customer vendors. Requests for quotations, vendor bidding and auctions are satisfaction surveys are conducted periodically by external third carried out online to ensure transparency, with easy access to the parties. status of offers, material dispatched and payments, ensuring transparency within the business and added value to our suppliers. HOW WE PERFORMED Last year Group-wide SAP – Supplier Relationship Management Sourcing locally not only benefits local economies and governments (SRM) IT module, which ensures transparency and adds value to but also contributes to reducing our carbon footprint, and can improve our suppliers, who can access the system once registered.. skills development and training in areas such as health and safety, as well as making improvements to local infrastructure. No cases of non-compliance with relevant regulations, anticompetitive behaviour, anti-trust, monopoly and voluntary codes CUSTOMERS concerning the health and safety impacts of our products and We understand that meeting our customers’ expectations is crucial services were observed or reported. Similarly, no significant fines for to the growth of our business, particularly when we have such a non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision significant presence in the market. We therefore ensure that our raw and use of products and services were reported. materials meet the required London Metal Exchange (LME) standards for entering the commodity market. We have defined systems and practices in place to understand and meet customer expectations and regularly engage with them through our marketing and customer relationship personnel. Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2014–15 61 ADDING AND SHARING VALUE CIVIL SOCIETY EFFECTIVE PARTNER IN CHANGE As a major contributor to the social and economic development of the communities in which we operate, we advocate policies which promote sustainable development and value creation for all stakeholders. The world faces many pressing issues including climate change, becoming a signatory to the World Business Council for Sustainable poverty and the depletion of finite natural resources. By our Development’s Water, Sanitation and Hygiene (WASH) Pledge to fulfil engagement and partnerships with civil society – encompassing global human rights to water by 2050. We also identified renewable a wide range of non-governmental and not-for-profit organisations projects under the International Panel for Climate Change’s Clean – we can make a contribution to meeting these global and local Development Mechanism (CDM), with certified emissions reduction challenges. In addition, to deliver our many community development of 1.4 million units. These projects are registered by the United programmes we partner with a wide range of civil society organisations Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. Some of our as they can offer valuable expertise and personnel. These relationships subsidiary companies are members of trade and industry bodies like are managed at the appropriate level: at the Group corporate level, the Federation of Indian Mining Industries, Confederation of Indian at our subsidiary businesses and at the local level, utilising our CSR, Industries, India Lead Zinc Development Association, Indian Institute investor relations, sustainability and other functional teams. We also of Metal, Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce & Industry, listen closely to the views of organisations that challenge our business. Zambia Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative, Irish Business Engaging with civil society (non-governmental organisations, religious, and Employers’ Confederation, and The Energy Resources Institute, academic and healthcare institutions) helps us to tackle the world’s India, where they actively participate and contribute. changing social and environmental megatrends and reduce business This year, we have continued to engage at a more local level, for risk (see page 10). It is also fundamental to our corporate values of example hosting NGO workshops at Lanjigarh and Jharsuguda, trust and sustainability. engaging existing and new organisations to share our baseline studies HOW WE PERFORMED and meaning. Going forward, we aim to host a workshop with civil society organisations to gauge wider perceptions of our activities In 2014–15, we focused on increasing our presence with global in a neutral forum. bodies such as UNGC – Women Empowerment Principles and Stakeholders meet with senior management at BALCO, India. 62 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2014–15 AWARDS Hindustan Zinc Ltd. –– Vedanta Ltd. – Jharsuguda CPP Awarded 15th National Award –– HZL – Chanderiya received National Awards for Manufacturing for Excellent in Energy Management by CII Competitiveness by International Research Institute for –– Vedanta Ltd. – Jharsuguda received National award for best Manufacturing, India practices in CSR at National CSR conclave Green Tech CSR Award –– HZL – Chanderiya received ‘Green Manufacturing Excellence –– Vedanta Ltd. – Jharsuguda received India CSR award – 2014 for Award 2014 – Challenger Award’ by Frost & Sullivan best CSR initiative in Women Empowerment –– HZL – Kayad Mine received the ‘Federation of Indian Mineral –– Vedanta Ltd. – Lanjigarh received 4th Annual Green tech Industries (FIMI) Abheraj Baldota Environment Award’ for Award 2014 the year 2013–2014 –– Vedanta Ltd. – Lanjigarh received Odia Tele-viewers award 2014 –– HZL – Dariba received National Awards for Manufacturing –– Vedanta Ltd. – Lanjigarh received CII Industrial Innovation Competitiveness by International Research Institute for award 2014 Manufacturing, India –– Vedanta Ltd. – Lanjigarh received Skoch Renaissance award 2014 –– HZL received ‘Best Sustainability Performance Award 2014’ –– Vedanta Ltd. – Lanjigarh received 4th Annual Green tech Award in the Non Ferrous category by Indian Institute of Metal 2014 (GOLD Category) –– HZL awarded for ‘Outstanding contribution in the field –– Vedanta Ltd. – Lanjigarh received PR CII award of Environment’ by Udaipur Chamber of Commerce –– Vedanta Ltd. – Lanjigarh was recognized for its Green Concrete –– HZL – Sindesar Khurd Mines received – ‘Energy Efficient Unit Project Case study by India CSR – 2014 Award 2014’ by Confederation of Indian Industry –– HZL – Chanderiya Smelting Complex Unit-2 received Gold Award Vedanta Ltd. – Iron Ore – ‘Economic Times India Manufacturing Excellence Awards 2014’ –– Vedanta Ltd. Iron ore business won 3rd Prize in World Environment –– HZL – Chanderiya Smelting Complex received – ‘CII-ITC Quiz organized by Goa State Pollution Control Board Sustainability Award 2014’ for outstanding accomplishment –– Vedanta Ltd. Iron Ore (Met coke Division) received the first prize –– HZL received ‘Commendation Certificate’ from CII-ITC in the Medium scale (Category 1) in ‘4th FICCI Safety System Sustainability Center Excellence Award for Manufacturing’ –– HZL was recognized for excellence in CSR at India’s Most Ethical Companies 2014 by World CSR Day Zinc International –– The Lisheen Mine won two awards for Health and Safety at the BALCO 23rd Annual National Irish Safety Organization / Northern Ireland –– BALCO (Plant II and CPP I) received the Shristi G3 runner up awards Safety Group (NISO/NISG) Safety Awards –– BALCO (Plant II) received India Green Manufacturing Challenge Award , Silver Award Vedanta Ltd. – Sterlite Coper –– BALCO was recognized for its watershed project case study by –– Sterlite Copper received excellent award trophy for reducing the India CSR – 2014. PPE inventory by 25% from current level in safety by National –– BALCO received Gold Award for Excellence in CSR in Metals convention for Quality Circles – National level competition and Mining Category from Green Tech Foundation Cairn India Vedanta Ltd. – Aluminium (Jharsuguda and Lanjigarh) –– Cairn India (CB/OS-2 block) received National Safety Awards –– Vedanta Ltd. – Jharsuguda Smelter-1 and CPP awarded (Mines) for ‘Lowest Injury Frequency Rate’ for year 2011 and 2012 Frost & Sullivan’s Safety Excellence Award 2014 from Ministry of Labor and Employment, (Directorate General –– Vedanta Ltd. – Jharsuguda Smelter-1 and CPP awarded Frost & Mines & Safety) Sullivan’s Safety Green Manufacturing Excellence Award 2014 –– Cairn India (Ravva Onshore & Offshore Facilities) received two CII –– Vedanta Ltd. – Jharsuguda awarded GOLD award at 4th Annual awards under Large Scale Industries category Greentech HR Award 2014 in the category of ‘Best Strategy’ in HR –– Cairn India was selected as one of the 12 finalists among the –– Vedanta Ltd. – Jharsuguda received Kalinga Safety Award in major global oil and gas companies under ‘Stewardship Awards – Aluminum Sector. Corporate Social Responsibility’ category by Platts, USA. –– Vedanta Ltd. – Jharsuguda received CII Odisha Award – –– Cairn India received the IPE Excellence Award in the Development 2014 first prize for Best Practices in Health, Safety & Environment Sector for contributing to society at large through our well planned –– Vedanta Ltd. – Jharsuguda received Kalinga Safety award in and executed CSR portfolio Odisha state conclave –– Cairn India (Ravva Block) received National Safety Award (Mines) –– Vedanta Ltd. – Jharsuguda received 15th Green tech Award in category of longest accident free period – runner up for 2011 on Environment Management under Silver category in Metal –– Cairn India (RGT) has received ‘Second Prize’ of FICCI Safety System and Mining Excellence in the category of ‘Large Scale Manufacturing Industries’ –– Vedanta Ltd. – Jharsuguda Smelter-1 Awarded 15th National –– Cairn India received Golden Peacock award for business Award for Excellent in Energy Management by CII excellence 2014 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2014–15 63 DISCLOSURE AND ASSURANCE COMMIT CONNECT CARE Cultural dance activities at KCM, Zambia 64 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2014-15 DISCLOSURE AND ASSURANCE WE REPORT TO GLOBAL STANDARDS OF EXCELLENCE In line with the Strategic Communications pillar of our Sustainability Model, our reporting is transparent, credible and rigorous. It covers the full scope of our operations; is aligned to the external benchmarks like the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), UNGC and MDGs and is externally verified. IN THIS SECTION About this report — 64 Key Performance Indicators— 65 Assurance statement — 66 External Indices and Benchmarks — 69 GRI Index — 70 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2014-15 65 DISCLOSURE AND ASSURANCE ABOUT THIS REPORT This is our seventh Sustainable Development Report and coincides with the publication of our Annual Report. Combined these two documents provide an overview of our approach and our achievements in FY 2014-15, outlining our actions over the past year to achieve our mission to be a world-class diversified natural resource company. REPORTING SCOPE AND BOUNDARY Covering the financial year 2014-15, the report is structured around our Sustainable Development Model’s pillars of Responsible Stewardship, Building strong relationships, and Adding and sharing value. All group subsidiary companies except Fujirah gold have been reported in full as though they were 100% wholly owned as we recognise the level of control and sphere of influence the Group has over these operations. The aspect boundaries and content of this Sustainable Development Report have been defined using reporting principles prescribed in the GRI G4 guidelines and is prepared ‘in accordance’ – Core criteria of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Guidelines. We followed the approach described in GRI implementation manual for designing the report content. The material aspects that have been covered in the report are clearly brought out in the materiality matrix. In the report, the DMA (Disclosure on Management Approach) describes the Company’s approach to the subjects relevant to it and the indicators provide details on performance on the specific subjects. Our subsidiary Sesa Sterlite Ltd. was renamed as Vedanta Ltd. in April 2015 and the same has been reported everywhere in the report. There are no specific restatements of the information provided in the previous reports and no significant changes in terms of acquisition and physical boundaries from the previous reporting periods in the scope and aspect boundaries. The report is also mapped to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) principles. It reports our approach and disclosure towards triple bottom line principles – people, planet and profit over the 2014-15 financial year. GRI G4 CONTENT AND DISCLOSURE DOCUMENT The GRI G4 detailed content index and Vedanta GRI G4 Disclosure Document FY 2014-15 includes the core and additional indicators including the Mining and Metal and Oil and Gas supplements disclosure is available on our website at: http://sustainabledevelopment.vedantaresources.com/sustainable-development/performance-and-reports.html ASSURANCE AND DISCLOSURE Assurance of this report was carried out in accordance with the DNV GL Protocol for Verification of Sustainability Reporting (VeriSustain). There is an internal approval system in the Company for appointment of external assurance provider for the sustainability report. 66 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2014-15 KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Description Zinc / lead / silver Oil & gas Iron ore • World’s second largest integrated • Cairn India is one of India’s largest • Operations in India and Liberia zinc-lead producer private sector oil and gas companies • Goa iron ore exported, with • Zinc operations in India, Namibia, • Interest in seven blocks in India, and Karnataka iron ore sold domestically South Africa and Ireland one each in Sri Lanka and South Africa • Large iron ore deposit in • Operators of the world’s largest zinc • Contributes to ~27% of India’s Liberia mine at Rampura Agucha, India current domestic crude oil production • One of the largest silver producers globally with an annual capacity of 16 moz. Market share We are the leading supplier of zinc in We produced 27% of India’s domestic We are a major supplier to the to India, with an 78% market share. We crude oil in FY2014 and is welldomestic market with the Goa iron ore are also the country’s leading supplier positioned to reduce country’s energy mine, India also serving the Chinese of lead and silver. import burden. and Japanese export markets. Location India, Ireland, Namibia, South Africa India, Sri Lanka, South Africa India, Liberia Revenue (US$ million)* 2,943.9 2,397.5 326.5 EBITDA (US$ million) 1,476.8 1,373.3 31.4 Production volumes Zinc – 774 kt; Lead – 113 kt; 211.6 Kboepd 1.2 million tonnes Silver – 10.53 units million oz Total no. employees 23,768 8,591 5,933 including contract workforce Total no. fatalities 2 0 0 High-category 0 0 0 environmental incidents Total payment to local 911.2 3,115 72 exchequer (US$ millions) Community investment 11.2 11 1.3 (US$ millions) Description Copper Aluminium Power • Smelting and mining operations • The largest aluminium producer in • 3.2GW of commercial power across India, Australia and Zambia India with a current capacity of 2.3 generation capacity • Largest custom copper smelter and million tonnes • Largest supercritical unit in India copper rods producer in India • Strategically located large-scale operational at Talwandi Sabo Power • Integrated copper mining and assets with integrated power from plant smelting operations in Zambia captive power plants in the Indian • One of the largest producers of wind states of Chhattisgarh and Odisha power in India Market share We not only serves over 800 small and We are the leading supplier of Our generating capacity is around 5% medium enterprises (SMEs) in the aluminium in India, with over 44% of India’s generating capacity. downstream industry for the critical market share. electrical sector, but is also the major supplier of copper to the country’s defence sector Location Australia, India, Zambia India India Revenue (US$ million)* 4,777.8 2,081.9 671.9 EBITDA (US$ million) 277.2 415.5 153.8 Production volumes 478 kt 877 kt 9.859 million units sold Total no. employees 18,970 21,032 2,909 including contract workforce Total no. fatalities 3 2 1 High-category 0 0 0 environmental incidents Total payment to local 271.5 98.1 34 exchequer (US$ millions) Community investment 15.8 2.8 0.86 (US$ millions) Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2014-15 67 DISCLOSURE AND ASSURANCE INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT INTRODUCTION Our engagement did not include assessment of the adequacy DNV GL represented by DNV GL Business Assurance India Private Limited or effectiveness of Vedanta’s strategy or management of has been commissioned by the management of Vedanta Resources plc sustainability related issues and during the assurance process, (‘Vedanta’ or ‘the Company’) to carry out an independent moderate level we did not come across limitations to the scope of the agreed of assurance engagement on the Company’s Sustainable Development assurance engagement. The financial disclosures in the Report Report 2014-15 (‘the Report’) in its printed and online formats prepared are based on the audited financial statements issued by the in line with the ‘in accordance’ – Core reporting requirements of Company’s statutory auditors. Further Tax transparency report the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI’s) G4 Sustainability Reporting discussed and referred in the report was not included in the scope Guidelines (GRI G4). The engagement was carried out against the and boundary of verification and assurance. No external stakeholders DNV GL Protocol for Verification of Sustainability Reporting (‘VeriSustain’ were interviewed as part of this assurance engagement. – available on request from www.dnvgl.com).This engagement focused on verification of qualitative and quantitative information VERIFICATION METHODOLOGY (sustainability performance) disclosed in the Report, and underlying This assurance engagement was planned and carried out in management system and reporting processes. accordance with VeriSustain. The Report has been evaluated against the following criteria: The intended user of this assurance statement is the management of the Company. The management of the Company is responsible –– Adherence to the principles of Stakeholder inclusiveness Materiality, for all the information provided in the Report as well as the processes Responsiveness, Completeness, Reliability and Neutrality; for collecting, analysing and reporting the information presented in –– Application of the principles and requirements of GRI G4 for its the printed, online and web based Report, including the maintenance ‘in accordance’ – Core criteria, including the material Aspects of and integrity of the website. Our responsibility in performing this work is the Metals and Mining and Oil and Gas Sector Disclosures; regarding the verification of sustainability performance disclosed in the During the assurance engagement, we have taken a risk-based printed and online Report in accordance with the scope of work agreed approach, meaning that we concentrated our verification efforts with the management of the Company. The assurance engagement on the issues of high material relevance to Vedanta’s business is based on the assumption that the data and information provided and its stakeholders. We have verified the statements and claims to us is complete, sufficient and authentic. We disclaim any liability made in the Report and assessed the robustness of the underlying or responsibility to a third party for decisions, whether investment data management system, information flow and controls. In doing or otherwise, based on this Assurance Statement. Our assurance so, we have: engagement was planned and carried out in March – June 2015. –– Reviewed the approach to stakeholder engagement and SCOPE, BOUNDARY AND LIMITATIONS materiality determination process; OF ASSURANCE –– Verified the sustainability-related statements and claims The scope of assurance as agreed upon with Vedanta included the made in the Report and assessed the robustness of the verification of the Economic, Environmental and Social information data management system, information flow and controls; in the Report. In particular the assurance engagement included: –– Examined and reviewed documents, data and other information made available by Vedanta for the reported disclosures including –– Verification of the application of Report Content Principles as set disclosure of management approach and performance indicators; out in GRI G4 and the quality of information presented in the report over the reporting period (1st April 2014 to 31st March 2015); –– Conducted interviews with key representatives including data owners and decision-makers from different functions of the –– Review of the policies, initiatives, practices and performance Company during corporate and site visits; described in the Report; –– Performed sample-based reviews of the mechanisms for –– Review of the disclosures made in the Report against the implementing the sustainability related policies, as described requirements of VeriSustain, with a moderate level of assurance; in the Report; –– Verification of the reliability of GRI G4 Performance Indicators –– Performed sample-based checks of the processes for generating, –– Confirmation of the fulfillment of GRI G4 guidelines’ ‘in accordance’ gathering and managing the quantitative data and qualitative – Core criteria, as declared by Vedanta. information included in the Report. The reporting Aspect boundaries are as set out in the Report under the section “Materiality – A Question of Priority” and “About this Report” covering the sustainability performance of Vedanta Resources plc. As part of our verification, we visited Hindustan Zinc Limited (HZL; Dariba mine and smelter, Debari – smelter), Bharat Aluminium Company (BALCO; Head office, smelter and Kawardha mine), Vedanta Ltd. – Sesa Iron Ore, Goa, Vedanta LtdSterlite CopperTuticorin (Smelter and Captive Power Plant), and Konkola Copper Mines (Head office, Konkola, Zambia) in addition to Vedanta’s Corporate Office at New Delhi, India. 68 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2014-15 CONCLUSIONS Human Rights The Sustainable Development Report 2014-15 is prepared based –– Investment – G4-HR1; on GRI G4 Reporting Principles and Standard Disclosures for ‘in –– Child Labour – G4-HR5; accordance’ – Core. In our opinion, based on the scope of this –– Forced or Compulsory Labour – G4-HR6; assurance engagement, the disclosures on sustainability performance –– Security Practices – G4-HR7; reported in the Report along with referenced information provides –– Indigenous Rights – G4-HR8, MM5, OG9; a fair representation of the material Aspects, related strategies, –– Assessment – G4-HR9; management systems and performance indicators and meets –– Supplier Human Rights Assessment – G4-HR10; the general content and quality requirements of GRI G4 i.e., –– General Standard Disclosures: We are of the opinion that the Society reported disclosures generally meet the GRI G4 reporting –– Local Communities – G4-SO1, MM6; requirements for ‘in accordance’ – Core reporting; –– Anti-Corruption – G4-SO3, G4-SO4, G4-SO5; –– Specific Standard Disclosures: We are of the opinion that the –– Public Policy – G4-SO6; reported disclosures generally meets the GRI G4 reporting –– Asset Integrity and Process Safety – OG13; requirements for ‘in accordance’ – Core based on GRI G4 covering –– Involuntary Resettlement – MM8; generic Disclosures on Management Approach (DMAs) and –– Closure Planning – MM10; Performance Indicators for identified material Aspects as below: –– Grievance Mechanisms for Impacts on Society – G4-SO11. ECONOMIC We have evaluated the Report’s adherence to the following principles –– Economic Performance – G4-EC1, G4-EC3; on a scale of ‘Good’, ‘Acceptable’ and ‘Needs Improvement’: –– Market Presence – G4-EC6; Stakeholder Inclusiveness: The stakeholder identification and –– Indirect Economic Impacts – G4-EC7, G4-EC8; engagement process is well documented and implemented through –– Reserve – OG1; the Vedanta Sustainability Assurance Programme and the Report brings out key stakeholder concerns as material aspects of significant ENVIRONMENTAL stakeholders. In our view, the level at which the Report adheres to this –– Energy – G4-EN3, G4-EN5, G4-EN6, OG2, OG3; principle is “Good”. –– Water – G4-EN8, G4-EN9, G4-EN10; Materiality: The process of materiality assessment has been carried –– Biodiversity – G4-EN11, G4-EN12, MM2, OG4; out based on the requirements of GRI G4, considering Aspects that –– Emissions – G4-EN15, G4-EN16, G4-EN18, G4-EN21; are internal and external to the the Company’s range of businesses. –– Effluents and Waste – G4-EN22, G4-EN23, MM3, G4-EN24, The Report fairly brings out aspects and topics and its respective G4-EN25, OG5, OG6, OG7; boundaries for the diverse operations of Vedanta. In our view, the –– Supplier Environmental Assessment – G4-EN32; level at which the Report adheres to this principles is “Good”. SOCIAL Responsiveness: We consider that the responses to material aspects Labour Practices and Decent Work are fairly articulated in the report i.e. disclosures on Vedanta’s policies –– Employment – G4-LA1, G4-LA2, G4-LA3; and management systems including governance. In our view, the –– Labor Management Relations – G4-LA4, MM4; level at which the Report adheres to this principle is “Good”. –– Occupational Health and Safety – G4-LA5, Completeness: The Report has fairly disclosed the General and –– G4-LA6, G4-LA8; Specific Standard Disclosures including the Disclosures on Management –– Training and Education -G4-LA11; Approach covering the sustainability strategy, management approach, –– Diversity and Equal Opportunity – G4-LA12 ; monitoring systems and sustainability performances indicators –– Equal Remuneration for Women and Men – G4-LA13; against the GRI G4 – ‘in accordance’ – Core option. In our view, the level at which the Report adheres to this principle is “Acceptable”. –– Supplier Assessment for Labour Practices – G4-LA14; Reliability: The majority of data and information verified at the Product Responsibility Corporate Office and sites visited by us were found to be fairly –– Fossil Fuel Substitutes – OG14. accurate. Some of the data inaccuracies identified during the verification process were found to be attributable to transcription, interpretation and aggregation errors and the errors have been corrected. Hence, in accordance with VeriSustain for a moderate level assurance engagement, we conclude that the sustainability data and information presented in the Report is fairly reliable and acceptable. In our view, the level at which the Report adheres to this principle is “Acceptable”. Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2014-15 69 DISCLOSURE AND ASSURANCE INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT Neutrality: The disclosures related to sustainability issues and OUR COMPETENCE AND INDEPENDENCE performances are reported in a neutral tone, in terms of content We are a global provider of sustainability services, with qualified and presentation. In our view, the level at which the Report environmental and social assurance specialists working in over adheres to this principle is “Good”. 100 countries. While we did conduct other second party and third party assessment work with Vedanta in 2014-15, in our judgment OPPORTUNITIES FOR IMPROVEMENT this does not compromise the independence or impartiality of The following is an excerpt from the observations and further our assurance engagement or associated findings, conclusions opportunities for improvement reported to the management and recommendations. We were not involved in the preparation of Vedanta and are not considered for drawing our conclusion of any statements or data included in the Report except for this on the Report; however, they are generally consistent with the Assurance Statement. DNV GL maintains complete impartiality Management’s objectives: towards any people interviewed. –– The sustainability performance of individual business may be For DNV GL disclosed considering the sustainability context, diverse nature of business and location of operations in various geo locations for the benefit of stakeholders –– The existing management systems needs to be further strengthened so as to enable each business vertical to further enhance the sustainability performance related to environmental and social dimensions. VADAKEPATTH NANDKUMAR –– A system of periodic communication regarding sustainability PROJECT MANAGER, parameters of individual businesses may be evolved to disclose Regional Sustainability Manager, key sustainability parameters for the benefit of stakeholders to DNV GL Business Assurance India Private Limited, India. arrive at informed decisions; –– Review and periodic validation of sustainability related data may be carried out by cross functional teams to further improve the quality and reliability of reported sustainability data. PRASUN KUNDU ASSURANCE REVIEWER, Global Service Responsible – Social Accountability, DNV GL Business Assurance India Private Limited, India. 10th June 2015, Bengaluru, India. 70 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2014-15 EXTERNAL INDICES AND BENCHMARKS UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT (UNGC) We are committed to upholding the ten principles of the UNGC. Our Sustainable Development Report communicates our progress in implementing the ten principles, and below we have mapped the principles against our material issues and specific report sections. Material issue UNGC principle Report reference Page Human rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of Human rights 44 internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Human rights 44 Labour rights Principle 3: Businesses should uphold freedom of association and the effective Employees 51 recognition of the right to collective bargaining Child and forced Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Human rights 44 labour Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour Human rights 44 Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and Employees 50-51 occupation Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to CEO Statement, Environment 6-7, 30 environmental challenges Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility CEO Statement, Environment 6-7. 30-39 Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion CEO Statement, Environment 6-7. 30-39 of environmentally friendly technologies. Ethics and integrity Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including Fair, transparent business 22 extortion and bribery. UNITED NATIONS MILLENNIUM DEVELOPMENT GOALS (MDGs) We also align our reported activities to be broad aims of the MDGs. The table below maps our contribution. MDG Report reference Page 1. Eradicating extreme poverty and hunger Neighbourhood dialogue 54-57 Community Relations 2. Achieving universal primary education Community Relations 50, 54-57 3. Promoting gender equality and empowering women Employees 54-57 Community Relations 4. Reducing child mortality rates Community Relations 54-57 5. Improving maternal health Community Relations 54-57 6. Combating HIV/AIDS, malaria, and other diseases Safety and health 25-27, Community Relations 54-57 7. Ensuring environmental sustainability Environment 28, 54-57 Community Relations 8. Developing a global partnership for development From the Chairman’s Desk 4, 26, Water 54-57 Community Relations Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2014-15 71 DISCLOSURE AND ASSURANCE GRI INDEX This report aligns to and is developed in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) G4 guidelines, following both sector-specific supplements for mining and metals, and oil and gas companies. GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES General Page Number (or Link) External Assurance Standard Information related to Standard Disclosures required by the ‘in accordance’ options may already be Indicate if the Standard Disclosures included in other reports prepared by the organization. In these circumstances, the organization may Disclosure has been elect to add a specific reference to where the relevant information can be found. externally assured. If yes, include the page reference for the External Assurance Statement in the report. Strategy and analysis G4-1 Page 4 – 7 (Overview) Yes Organisational profile G4-3 Front Cover Yes G4-4 Page 2 (Overview) and Page 65 67 (Disclosure and Assurance) Yes G4-5 Page 2 (Overview) and Back Cover Yes G4-6 Page 2 (Overview) Yes G4-7 Page 2, 3 (Overview) Yes G4-8 Page 2 (Overview) and Page 64 (Disclosure and Assurance) Yes G4-9 Page 2 (Overview) and Page 64 (Disclosure and Assurance) Yes G4-10 Page 50 (Adding & sharing values), Page 64 (Disclosure and Assurance) Yes Vedanta GRI G4 Disclosure Document FY 2014-15 G4-11 Page 44 & 51 (Adding & Sharing values) Yes G4-12 Page 10 11 (Overview) and Page 58 61 (Adding and Sharing values) Yes G4-13 Page 3 (Overview) and Page 64 66 (Disclosure and Assurance) Yes G4-14 Vedanta Annual Report 2014-15 Yes G4-15 Internal Front Cover and Page 65 (Adding and Sharing values) Yes G4-16 Page 60 61 (Disclosure and Assurance) Yes Identified material aspects and boundaries G4-17 Page 3 (Overview) and Page 67 68 (Disclosure and Assurance) Yes G4-18 Page 14 (Overview) and Page 65 (Disclosure and Assurance) Yes G4-19 Page 14 (Overview) Yes G4-20 Page 14 (Overview) Yes G4-21 Page 14 (Overview) Yes G4-22 Vedanta GRI G4 Disclosure Document FY 2014-15 Yes G4-23 Page 3 (Overview) and Page 65 (Disclosure and Assurance) Yes Stakeholder engagement G4-24 Page 14 (Overview), Page 42 and 43 (Building Strong Relationships) Yes G4-25 Page 14 (Overview), Page 42 and 43 (Building Strong Relationships) Yes G4-26 Page 14 (Overview), Page 42 and 43 (Building Strong Relationships) Yes G4-27 Page 14 (Overview), Page 42 and 43 (Building Strong Relationships) Yes Report profile G4-28 Front Cover and Page 65 66 (Disclosure and Assurance) Yes G4-29 Page 65 66 (Disclosure and Assurance) Yes G4-30 Page 65 66 (Disclosure and Assurance) Yes G4-31 Back Cover Page Yes G4-32 Internal Front Cover and page 65 and 66 (Disclosure and Assurance) Yes G4-33 Page 64 65 (Disclosure and Assurance) Yes Governance G4-34 Page 15 17 (Overview) Yes Ethics and integrity G4-56 Page 1 (Overview) Yes 72 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2014-15 SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES DMA and Page Number Identified Omission(s) Reason(s) for Explanation for External Assurance Indicators (or Link) In exceptional cases, Omission(s) Omission(s) Indicate if the Standard Information related to if it is not possible to In exceptional cases, In exceptional cases, Disclosure has been Standard Disclosures disclose certain required if it is not possible to if it is not possible to externally assured. required by the ‘in information, identify disclose certain required disclose certain required If yes, include the page accordance’ options the information that information, provide information, explain reference for the External may already be has been omitted. the reason for omission. the reasons why Assurance Statement included in other the information in the report. reports prepared by the has been omitted. organization. In these circumstances, the organization may elect to add a specific reference to where the relevant information can be found. CATEGORY: ECONOMIC Material aspect: economic performance G4-DMA Page 47 (Overview), 58 59 (Adding & Sharing Value) Yes G4-EC1 Page 58 59 (Adding & Sharing Value) Yes Vedanta GRI G4 Disclosure Document FY 2014-15 G4-EC3 Vedanta GRI G4 Disclosure Document FY 2014-15 Yes Material aspect: market presence G4-DMA Vedanta Sustainability Report 2014-15 : Page 47, 58 59 Yes G4-EC6 Page 60 61 (Adding & Sharing Values) Yes Material aspect: indirect economic impacts G4-DMA Page 47 (Overview), Page 48, 60 61(Adding & Sharing Value) Yes G4-EC7 Page 50 (Adding & Sharing Value) Yes G4-EC8 Page 47 (Overview), 53 55 (Adding & Sharing Value) Yes Material aspect : reserve G4-OG1 Vedanta GRI G4 Disclosure Document FY 2014-15 Yes CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Material aspect: energy G4-DMA Page 34 35(Responsible Stewardship) Yes G4-EN3 Page 34 35(Responsible Stewardship) Yes Vedanta GRI G4 Disclosure Document FY 2014-15 G4-EN5 Vedanta GRI G4 Disclosure Document FY 2014-15 Yes G4-EN6 Page 34 35(Responsible Stewardship) Yes Vedanta GRI G4 Disclosure Document FY 2014-15 G4-OG2 Vedanta GRI G4 Disclosure Document FY 2014-15 Yes G4-OG3 Vedanta GRI G4 Disclosure Document FY 2014-15 Yes Material aspect: water G4-DMA Page 32 33 (Responsible Stewardship) Yes G4-EN8 Page 32 33 (Responsible Stewardship) Yes G4-EN9 Page 32 33 (Responsible Stewardship) Yes G4-EN10 Page 32 33 (Responsible Stewardship) Yes Material aspect: biodiversity G4-DMA Page 22, 30, 31 (Responsible Stewardship) Yes G4-EN11 Page 22, 30, 31 (Responsible Stewardship) Yes G4-EN12 Page 22, 30, 31 (Responsible Stewardship) Yes G4-MM1 Page 22, 30, 31 (Responsible Stewardship) Yes G4-MM2 Page 22, 30, 31 (Responsible Stewardship) Yes G4-OG4 Vedanta GRI G4 Disclosure Document FY 2014-15 Yes Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2014-15 73 DISCLOSURE AND ASSURANCE GRI INDEX CONTINUED SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES DMA and Page Number Identified Omission(s) Reason(s) for Explanation for External Assurance Indicators (or Link) In exceptional cases, Omission(s) Omission(s) Indicate if the Standard Information related to if it is not possible to In exceptional cases, In exceptional cases, Disclosure has been Standard Disclosures disclose certain required if it is not possible to if it is not possible to externally assured. required by the ‘in information, identify disclose certain required disclose certain required If yes, include the page accordance’ options the information that information, provide information, explain reference for the External may already be has been omitted. the reason for omission. the reasons why Assurance Statement included in other the information in the report. reports prepared by the has been omitted. organization. In these circumstances, the organization may elect to add a specific reference to where the relevant information can be found. CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL CONTINUED Material aspect: emissions G4-DMA Page34 35 (Responsible Stewardship) Yes G4-EN15 Page 35 (Responsible Stewardship) Yes G4-EN16 Page 35 (Responsible Stewardship) Yes G4-EN18 Vedanta GRI G4 Disclosure Document FY 2014-15 Yes G4-EN21 Page 36 (Responsible Stewardship) Yes Material aspect: effluents and waste G4-DMA Page 32, 37, 38, 39 (Responsible Stewardship) Yes G4-EN22 Vedanta Sustainability Report 2014-15 : Page 32 Yes Vedanta GRI G4 Disclosure Document FY 2014-15 G4-EN23 Page 37 (Responsible Stewardship) Yes Vedanta GRI G4 Disclosure Document FY 2014-15 G4-MM3 Page 37 (Responsible Stewardship) Yes Vedanta GRI G4 Disclosure Document FY 2014-15 G4-EN24 Page 30 (Responsible Stewardship) Yes G4-EN25 Vedanta GRI G4 Disclosure Document FY 2014-15 Yes G4-OG5 Page 33 (Responsible Stewardship) Yes G4-OG6 Page 36 (Responsible Stewardship) Yes G4-OG7 Vedanta GRI G4 Disclosure Document FY 2014-15 Yes Material aspect: supplier environmental assessment G4-DMA Page 30 (Responsible Stewardship) Yes G4-EN32 Vedanta GRI G4 Disclosure Document FY 2014-15 Yes CATEGORY: SOCIAL Sub-category: labor practices and decent work Material aspect: employment G4-DMA Page 50 (Adding & Sharing Values) Yes G4-LA1 Vedanta GRI G4 Disclosure Document FY 2014-15 Yes G4-LA2 Vedanta GRI G4 Disclosure Document FY 2014-15 Yes G4-LA3 Vedanta GRI G4 Disclosure Document FY 2014-15 Yes Material aspect: labor/management relations G4-DMA Page 51 (Adding & Sharing Values) Yes G4-LA4 Vedanta GRI G4 Disclosure Document FY 2014-15 Yes G4-MM4 Vedanta GRI G4 Disclosure Document FY 2014-15 Yes Material aspect: occupational health and safety G4-DMA Page 25 27 (Responsible Stewardship) Yes G4-LA5 Vedanta GRI G4 Disclosure Document FY 2014-15 Yes G4-LA6 Page 25 27 (Responsible Stewardship) Yes Vedanta GRI G4 Disclosure Document FY 2014-15 G4-LA8 Vedanta GRI G4 Disclosure Document FY 2014-15 Yes 74 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2014-15 SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES DMA and Page Number Identified Omission(s) Reason(s) for Explanation for External Assurance Indicators (or Link) In exceptional cases, Omission(s) Omission(s) Indicate if the Standard Information related to if it is not possible to In exceptional cases, In exceptional cases, Disclosure has been Standard Disclosures disclose certain required if it is not possible to if it is not possible to externally assured. required by the ‘in information, identify disclose certain required disclose certain required If yes, include the page accordance’ options the information that information, provide information, explain reference for the External may already be has been omitted. the reason for omission. the reasons why Assurance Statement included in other the information in the report. reports prepared by the has been omitted. organization. In these circumstances, the organization may elect to add a specific reference to where the relevant information can be found. CATEGORY: SOCIAL CONTINUED Material aspect: training and education G4-DMA Page 52 and 53 (Adding & Sharing Value) Yes G4-LA11 Vedanta GRI G4 Disclosure Document FY 2014-15 Yes Material aspect: diversity and equal opportunity G4-DMA Page 52 and 53 (Adding & Sharing Value) Yes G4-LA12 Vedanta GRI G4 Disclosure Document FY 2014-15 Yes Material aspect: equal remuneration for women and men G4-DMA Page 52 and 53 (Adding & Sharing Value) Yes Vedanta Annual Report 2014-15 G4-LA13 Vedanta GRI G4 Disclosure Document FY 2014-15 Yes Material aspect: supplier assessment of labor practices G4-DMA Page 53 (Adding & Sharing Value) Yes Vedanta Annual Report 2014-15 G4-LA14 Page 46 (Adding & Sharing Value) Yes Vedanta GRI G4 Disclosure Document FY 2014-15 Sub-category: human rights Material aspect: investment G4-DMA Page 44 (Adding & Sharing values) Yes G4-HR1 Page 44 (Adding & Sharing values) Yes Vedanta GRI G4 Disclosure Document FY 2014-15 Material aspect: child labor G4-DMA Page 44 (Building Strong Relationship) and Page 51 (Adding & Sharing Values) Yes G4-HR5 Page 44 (Building Strong Relationship) and Page 51 (Adding & Sharing Values) Yes Material aspect: forced or compulsory labor G4-DMA Page 44 (Building Strong Relationship) Yes G4-HR6 Page 44 (Building Strong Relationship) Yes Material aspect: security practices G4-DMA Page 44 (Building Strong Relationship) Yes G4-HR7 Page 44 (Building Strong Relationship) Yes Vedanta GRI G4 Disclosure Document FY 2014-15 Material aspect: indigenous rights G4-DMA Page 44 (Building Strong Relationship) Yes G4-HR8 Vedanta GRI G4 Disclosure Document FY 2014-15 Yes G4-MM5 Vedanta GRI G4 Disclosure Document FY 2014-15 Yes G4-OG9 Vedanta GRI G4 Disclosure Document FY 2014-15 Yes Material aspect: assessment G4-DMA Page 44 (Building Strong Relationship) Yes G4-HR9 Page 44 (Building Strong Relationship) Yes Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2014-15 75 DISCLOSURE AND ASSURANCE GRI INDEX CONTINUED SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES DMA and Page Number Identified Omission(s) Reason(s) for Explanation for External Assurance Indicators (or Link) In exceptional cases, Omission(s) Omission(s) Indicate if the Standard Information related to if it is not possible to In exceptional cases, In exceptional cases, Disclosure has been Standard Disclosures disclose certain required if it is not possible to if it is not possible to externally assured. required by the ‘in information, identify disclose certain required disclose certain required If yes, include the page accordance’ options the information that information, provide information, explain reference for the External may already be has been omitted. the reason for omission. the reasons why Assurance Statement included in other the information in the report. reports prepared by the has been omitted. organization. In these circumstances, the organization may elect to add a specific reference to where the relevant information can be found. CATEGORY: SOCIAL CONTINUED Material Aspect: Supplier Human Rights Assessment G4-DMA Page 44 (Building Strong Relationship) Yes G4-HR10 Page 44 (Building Strong Relationship) Yes Sub-category: society Material aspect: local communities G4-DMA Page 32 (Building Strong Relationship) and Page 53 (Adding & Sharing Values) Yes G4-SO1 Page 32 (Building Strong Relationship) and Page 53 (Adding & Sharing Values) Yes G4-MM6 Vedanta GRI G4 Disclosure Document FY 2014-15 Yes Material aspect: anti-corruption G4-DMA Page 22 (Overview) Yes G4-SO3 Vedanta GRI G4 Disclosure Document FY 2014-15 Yes G4-SO4 Page 22 (Overview) Yes G4-SO5 Page 22 (Overview) Yes Material aspect: public policy G4-DMA Page 59 (Adding and Sharing Values) Yes G4-SO6 Page 59 (Adding and Sharing Values) Yes Material aspect : asset integrity and process safety G4-OG13 Vedanta GRI G4 Disclosure Document FY 2014-15 Yes Material aspect : involuntary resettlement G4-MM8 Vedanta GRI G4 Disclosure Document FY 2014-15 Yes Material aspect : closure planning G4-MM10 Vedanta Sustainability Report 2014-15 : Page 22 Yes Vedanta GRI G4 Disclosure Document FY 2014-15 Material aspect: grievance mechanisms for impacts on society G4-DMA Vedanta Sustainability Report 2014-15 : Page 44 Yes G4-SO11 Vedanta GRI G4 Disclosure Document FY 2014-15 Yes Material aspect : fossil fuel substitutes G4-OG13 Refer GRI Word Document Yes 76 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2014-15 COMMIT CONNECT CARE Sustainable Development Report 2014–15 GET IN TOUCH We value your feedback and welcome comments on this report or any aspect of our approach to sustainability reporting. sustainability@vedanta.co.in MORE ONLINE View our Sustainability website sd.vedantaresources.com/SustainableDevelopment2014-15 View our online Annual Report 2014–15 ar2015.vedantaresources.com/ Vedanta Resources plc 5th Floor, 16 Berkeley Street London W1J 3DZ Tel: +44 (0)20 7499 5900 Fax: +44 (0)20 7491 8440 www.vedantaresources.com
