807 DAILY DEPARTURES, 125 DESTINATIONS, 277 ROUTES FOR FREQUENT TRAVELERS SAS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT NOVEMBER 2013–OCTOBER 2014 Content About this Sustainability Report Letter from the President 1 This is the 19th SAS Sustainability Report, which has been subject to third-party review since 1997. This Sustainability Report describes This is SAS 2 SAS’s most essential environmental and societal aspects during the 2013/2014 fiscal year (or FY2014). SAS has self-declared the Annual Summary of our strategy 3 and 2013/2014 Sustainability Report to be Application Level A+, in Sustainability work in brief 4 accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines version 3.0. PwC has reviewed the 2013/2014 SAS’s view on sustainability 6 Sustainability Report and has confirmed it to be Application Level A+. The framework for civil aviation 7 The UN Global Compact, ISO 14001 and the Carbon Disclosure Project were taken into consideration in the preparation of this Sustainability Management system SAS Governance 8 Report. The SAS Annual Report with a sustainability overview and the separate Sustainability Report for the 2012/2013 fiscal year were pubSAS’s CSR agenda, priorities and aspects 10 lished in February 2014. SAS initially planned to report the 2013/2014 SAS’s sustainability related policies and strategies 11 fiscal year Sustainability Report according to GRI G4 but later descided to wait until the 2014/2015 fiscal year. Stakeholders and collaboration 12 Readers guide to this Sustainability Report SAS’s social responsibility 14 • The SAS Group is referred to as SAS in this Sustainability Report. Key social figures  18 • The fiscal year is from November 1 through October 31. SAS’s environmental responsibility  19 • SAS consists of Scandinavian Airlines (incl. SAS Maintenance Production, SAS Cargo Group A/S and Blue1) and SAS Ground Handling. Key environmental figures 26 • The KPIs reported in this Sustainability Report generally cover (unless About GRI 28 specifically stated): GRI Cross Reference List 29 – Financial KPIs: SAS – Environmental KPIs: flight related: flights flown on SK flight number. Accounting Policies for Sustainability Ground related: SAS Reporting 2013/2014 fiscal year 38 – Social KPIs: SAS (for sick leave, Blue1 is reported separately) Sustainability terms, definitions and concepts 40 External review: Material sustainability information and EU-ETS Assurance Report 42 All material sustainability information in the Annual and Sustainability Reports for the 2013/2014 fiscal year has been reviewed by PwC. The Auditor’s report of the Sustainability Report can be found on page 42. PwC has verified the systems and reports regarding the EU trading scheme for emission allowances for flights on SK flight number. Contact information Lars Andersen Resare, Head of Environment and CSR +46 70 997 23 46, lars.andersen@sas.se Strengthened position in a challenging market In the 2013/2014 fiscal year, SAS experienced positive passenger growth of 6.3%. In parallel, we increased productivity and lowered costs. We can see that our strategy is having an effect and our competitiveness is being strengthened. Concurrently, the year was marked by intense competition with strong price pressure, which have fundamentally changed the commercial terms in the market. SAS has continued to deliver promised efficiency enhancements and it is pleasing to see our strategy having an impact. Unit cost is steadily improving and we have experienced strong passenger growth. SAS posted positive earnings before tax and nonrecurring items, including a positive effect from amended pension terms, for the full-year 2013/2014. This was in line with our forecast, but also clearly shows the impact of market trends on SAS. The intense price pressure during the year has significantly impacted the entire industry and escalated the reshaping of the European airline industry. The new norm with external production models, the formation of proprietary low cost carriers and using staffing agencies is becoming increasingly established and is radically changing competitive conditions. To meet market challenges and strengthen competitiveness, SAS has initiated discussions with the trade unions to achieve increased flexibility and reduced complexity. In parallel, SAS has intensified measures linked to the company’s strategic priorities: to establish an efficient operating platform, to win the battle for Scandinavia’s frequent travelers and to invest in our future. Regardless of the turmoil in the airline industry, and the implications that this has had on SAS, it is our firm belief that our long-term competitiveness will only be ensured if we continue to act responsibly. SAS’s work on sustainable development is always based on ensuring social, environmental and financial responsibility, and continuous improvement efforts. During the fiscal year, SAS took many important steps in terms of sustainable development. We continued our efforts on increasing job satisfaction and reducing sick leave. Our efforts continued in the environmental programs established in our environmental management system certified according to ISO14001. Environmental responsibility is central to SAS’s business, and the company’s commitment to continuous reductions of climate-impactOur milestone target is to reduce flight emissions by 20% in 2015 coming emissions is sharply in focus. SAS supports IATA’s vision of makpared with 2005. ing it possible to fly without greenhouse gas emissions by about 2050. At the end of the 2013/2014 fiscal year, we achieved a 19.1% reduction in CO2 emissions per passenger kilometer compared with the fullyear 2005. At the same date, total CO2 emissions were reduced by 12.5%. During the fiscal year, SAS’s climate index improved by 2 percentage points, and carbon emissions per passenger kilometer decreased to 100 grams, a 3.4% reduction. The improvement is primarily due to the fleet renewal and more efficient ways of operating existing aircraft. During the year, SAS also conducted two flights with blend-in of synthetic JET A1 based on reused mineral oils and decided to start a blendin on a regular basis from Oslo Gardermoen from March 2015. As we enter a new fiscal year, we are well aware that we have just begun our journey on safeguarding the long-term competitiveness of SAS. However, we are equally aware that active and structured sustainThis is the symbol for the SAS environmental program, which comability initiatives are the very foundation for our future success – in terms prises all the environmental measures contained in the SAS enviof customer loyalty, employee preference and operational efficiency. ronmental management system. One of the areas where the symbol can be found is on the engines of the SAS Boeing 737NG fleet. Rickard Gustafson President and CEO SAS Sustainabilit y Repor t November 2013 – October 2014 1 This is SAS SAS consists of Scandinavian Airlines (incl. SAS Maintenance Production, SAS Cargo Group A/S and Blue1) and SAS Ground Handling. Scandinavian Airlines and Blue1 have their own Air Operations Certificates (AOC). All commercial functions, Sales & Marketing and staff units, such as purchasing, human resources, finance, legal, Environment and CSR, etc. are centralized at SAS. The head office is located in Stockholm. Passenger transport 2013/2014 fiscal year. SGH includes, for example, passenger and SAS primarily conducts passenger transport in its main market, the lounge services, loading and unloading, de-icing and towing of airNordic region, through the airline Scandinavian Airlines on the SK flight craft. With the same metrix, SGH provided ground handling to 75% of number. SAS’s share of total traffic in its home market (measured in all flights with an SK flight number. The remaining 25% was provided by number of passengers) was 35% in the 2013/2014 fiscal year. external ground handling suppliers at locations were SGH is not presSAS is the largest airline in the Nordic region in terms of revenue, ent. SAS own 90% of SGH. passengers and flights. Its network is mainly dimensioned according to business travelers’ needs, but leisure travel is an expanding segment Technical maintenance and represents a growing share of revenue. The main bases are CopenScandinavian Airlines and Blue1 have their own technical maintenance hagen Kastrup, Oslo Gardermoen, Stockholm Arlanda and Helsinki where appropriate and profitable. SAS Maintenance Production is part Vaanta. Flights are operated with aircraft and crew on SK flight numbers of Scandinavian Airlines and conducts technical maintenance at Scanwithin the organization, as well as in wet lease operations with internal dinavian Airlines’ home bases. Each organization has its own airlines as and external suppliers. Based on the fuel consumed, 97% of all flights the largest customers but also offers their services to external airlines. with an SK flight number were flown by Scandinavian Airlines (incl. The respective airlines also buy a growing share of their need for techniBlue1) during the 2013/2014 fiscal year. The remaining 3 % were flown cal maintenance services from other suppliers. Based on the number of by external suppliers. work hours, Scandinavian Airlines represented 89% of SAS Maintenace Production customers during the 2013/2014 fiscal year. The remainCargo transport ing 11% was external customers. With the same metrix, SAS MainteSAS offers freight and mail services. These services are provided by the nance Production provided 60% of Scandinavian Airlines maintenance wholly owned subsidiary, SAS Cargo Group A/S (SCG). SCG is manwork. The remaining 40% was provided by external suppliers. aged from Copenhagen and includes an independent full-service provider of freight forwarding services, Trust Forwarding. The actual Scandinavian Airlines aircraft fleet handling of freight and mail is carried out by ground handling agents. Scandinavian Airlines has a network of destinations with varied passenSCG’s subsidiary, Trust Forwarding, is 100% owned by SCG and its ger volumes and distances, which requires a fleet of aircraft of different environmental data and results are included in SCG’s data and results. sizes and range to make the offering attractive to business and leisure travelers. Scandinavian Airlines (incl. Blue1) had 138 aircraft in its own Ground handling operations at year-end and the fleet comprised 12 long-haul aircraft, SAS Ground Handling (SGH) operates at airports in Norway, Swe109 short-haul aircraft, and 17 regional jets. There are also nine aircraft den and Denmark. Customers include airlines within SAS and SAS’s on wet lease. The average age of the aircraft fleet was 11.2 years. Scanpartners and external customers. Based on the number of weighted dinavian Airlines has renewed its fleet by introducing six newer aircraft landnings, 71% of SGH customers were flights with an SK flight numand phasing out two old aircraft during the fiscal year. ber and the remaing 29% comprised external customers during the 2 SAS Sustainabilit y Repor t November 2013 – October 2014 Summary of our strategy Strategy Targets Examples of activities in 2013/2014 Outcome 2013/2014 1) Establish • SEK 3 billion in cost-effi• Changed collective agreements and pension terms • Unit cost down 3.9% an efficient ciency enhancements in implemented • Aircraft utilization up 3.6% 2012 to 2015 • Reductions made in administration production • Block hours, pilots up 3.0% • SEK 2.1 billion in further platform cost-efficiency enhance• New IT supplier • Block hours, cabin crew up 5.7% ments with full effect in • Further reduction in administration of 300 FTEs initiated • Punctuality raised 1.8 percentage points 2017 • 50% personnel reduction at Blue1 • New supply chain unit for optimization of external costs • E xpansion of wet lease production • Simplified processes through Lean 2) Win the • Increase the number of • SAS Go and SAS Plus service concepts strengthened • Passengers up 6.3% battle for frequent travelers in • Rejuvenate the EuroBonus offering • Load factor up 1.3 percentage points Scandinavia who travel Scandinavia’s with SAS • New domestic lounges in Oslo and Gothenburg • 500,000 new Euro­Bonus members frequent • Raise customer satis­ • Introduction of Fast Track in Stavanger, Bergen and Trondheim travelers faction • Automatic boarding and baggage drop • More EuroBonus • More than 50 new routes launched in 2013/2014 members 3) I nvest in • Streamlining, increasing • Cabin interior upgrades for the medium-haul fleet and upgrades • One type of medium-haul aircraft at our future efficiency and modern­ of cabin interiors for SAS long-haul aircraft with delivery ahead each base izing the aircraft fleet of 2015 • Only Next Generation aircraft • Increased fuel efficiency • Phasing out of the Boeing 737 Classic • Carbon dioxide emissions down 3.4% • Investing in improved • Introduction of new leadership and employee models • Leadership index 67 (67) leadership in the organization • Job satisfaction 58 (57) Value creation Shareholder value Customer value Sustainability SAS’s overriding target is to create value for its shareFrequent travelers comprise the group that values the Today’s travelers are aware of what is required to holders. Given the ongoing extensive changes to the SAS offering highest. In 2013/2014, SAS invested secure a sustainable society in the long-term. SAS European airline industry with intensified competiin product improvements, such as new lounges and contributes by providing a well-tailored offering of tion as a result, SAS has initiated discussions with its more Fast Track facilities as well as continued develfrequent flights, which are produced with a conunions addressing how to respond to the new indusopment of the EuroBonus customer loyalty program stantly declining climate and environmental impact try requirements relating to flexibility and the need to that further strengthened the offering to frequent travas well as with good ethical standards and secure reduce complexity. SAS intends to reassess its EBIT elers. Customer satisfaction at SAS has stabilized at a employment terms. The target for SAS is a 20% margin and equity/assets ratio targets based on the high level and rose one point during the 2013/2014 reduction in flight emissions by 2015 compared with outcome of these discussions. The 20% target for fiscal year to 72 in October 2014. 2005. financial preparedness stands firm however and is expected to continue to improve. EBIT margin Customer Satisfaction Index (CSI) SAS’s reduction in carbon emissions per passenger 8 kilometer for 2013/2014 compared with 2012/2013. 80 6 -3.4% 4 75 2 70 0 -2 65 -4 -6 60 -8 Dec Dec Dec Oct Oct Oct Dec Dec Dec Oct Oct Oct 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 09 10 11 12 13 14 SAS Sustainabilit y Repor t November 2013 – October 2014 3 Sustainability work in brief • SAS introduced six new aircraft and retired two older aircraft in Scandinavian Airlines’ fleet. • SAS’s total CO2 emissions from flight operations increased 2.0% during the fiscal year, while the total number of tonne kilometers increased 4.3% compared with the 2012/2013 fiscal year. • SAS’s relative passenger-related CO2 emissions decreased during the period to 100 grams (104) per passenger kilometer compared with 2012/2013 fiscal year. • SAS’s relative cargo related CO2 emissions increased during the period to 528 grams (510) per cargo tonne kilometer compared with the 2012/2013 fiscal year. • The rolling 12-month Fuel Efficiency Index improved 0.1.% compared with the 2012/2013 fiscal year. • Energy consumption in facilities was reduced by 16.3% compared with the 2012/2013 fiscal year. • Fossil fuel consumption by ground vehicles fell 21.4% compared with the 2012/2013 fiscal year. • SAS complied with the EU-ETS regulations for 2013. • Job satisfaction at SAS increased one unit to 58 (57). • Sick leave declined to 7.8% (8.0) in SAS (excl. Blue1) and to 5.4% (5.6) in Blue1. SAS’s work on sustainable development is always based on ensur14001 environmental management system. SAS re-certified its ISO ing social, environmental and financial responsibility, and continuous 14001 certificate in 2013. This guarantees that work can be conducted improvement efforts. in a structured manner in order to maintain the legal requirements perStructured long-term efforts allow clear measurable improvements taining to the environmental impact of the SAS’s operations, while the to be achieved and sustainability-related risks to be minimized. Utilizing environmental improvement initiatives are placed in clearer focus by clearly defined management systems to maintain, for example, flight the management and Board. Finally, the management system is examsafety, HR processes, quality work and environmental management, is ined and audited by an external party, thereby creating the transparintegral for a professional operator in a regulated and competitive marency and credibility warranted by the issues. Furthermore, SAS has its ket. For example, in 2010, SAS elected to be certified in line with the ISO Sustainability Report reviewed by an external party. SAS flight operations, climate index SAS flight operations, CO2 gram/passenger kilometer1 Index Co2 gram/passenger kilometer 100 108 98 106 96 104 94 102 92 100 90 98 2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY12 FY13 FY14 Climate index consists of emissions of carbon dioxide (2/3) and 1) New calculation method as of November 2011. nitrogen oxides (1/3) related to traffic measured in passenger kilometers with full-year 2011 set as Index 100. 4 SAS Sustainabilit y Repor t November 2013 – October 2014 SAS’s stakeholders generally emphasize environmental responsibility, 2% particularly regarding SAS’s fulfillment of requirements on reducing climate-impacting emissions. Accordingly, environmental responsibiliCommercial air ties comprise the largest part of SAS’s reported sustainability practices. However, social responsibility – in the broadest sense of the term – is transport’s share equally important for SAS. of global CO2 To communicate the sustainability initiatives and their results, SAS emissions. endeavors to maintain a high level of quality in its sustainability reporting; work that is also driven by external requirements and stakeholder expectations. SAS’s long-term goals remain firmly in place and sustainability reporting will maintain the high standard, for which SAS has received 6 praise from extarnal stakeholders. Despite market turmoil in the airline industry in recent years, commitment to sustainability-related issues has not waned. SAS hopes that Newer aircraft phased active and structured sustainability initiatives will create increased cusinto Scandinavian tomer loyalty. Ultimately, customers decide the significance of susAirlines’ fleet. tainability aspects when they choose their air travel supplier. SAS’s approach is that this is a core issue in producing services and SAS encourages all stakeholders to adopt the same approach. Sustainability-related KPIs1 100 Nov 2013– Nov 2012– Nov 2011– SAS’s average CO2 Oct 2014 Oct 2013 Oct 2012 emission per pas­ Revenue, MSEK 38,006 42,182 42,419 senger kilometer EBT before nonrecurring items, MSEK 347 919 21 EBIT margin, % 0.4 6.2 –1.6 in the 2013/2014 Number of passengers, millions8 27.1 28.1 28.2 fiscal year. Average number of employees4, 12,329 14,127 14,8972 of whom women, % 40 39 382 Sick leave, %3 7.8 8.0 7.12 Total number of occupational injuries 270 2805 2572 19% Climate index 92 945 985 Reduced average CO2 emissions, 000s tonnes 3,890 3,8155 3,9195 CO2 emission per NO X emissions, 000s tonnes 16.4 16.25 15.95 passenger kilomeCO2 gram/passenger kilometer 100 1045 1085 Fuel consumption airline operations, ter in the 2013/2014 000s tonnes 1,235 1,2115 1,2445 fiscal year compared Fuel consumption ground operations, with 2005. 000s liters7 1,625 6 1,776 5,6 1,778 5 Water consumption, 000s m3 63 995 1555 Energy consumption, ground, GWh 125 1495 1725 Unsorted waste, 000s tonnes7 0.3 0.45 0.75 94B Hazardous waste, 000s tonnes7 0.1 0.25 0.25 External environment-related costs, MSEK 364 3135 2752,5 SAS score in CDP 1) Accounting policies on page 38. (Carbon Disclosure 2) Pertains to January–October 2012. 3) Applies to SAS excl. Blue1. Project) 2014. 4) Source: Note 3 on page 39 in SAS Annual Report with sustainability overview November 2013–October 2014. 5) SAS excl. Widerøe. 6) Includes only ground operations at SAS main bases; Stockholm, Oslo and Copenhagen. 7) Includes only ground facilities, including technical maintenance. 8) Scheduled traffic. SAS Sustainabilit y Repor t November 2013 – October 2014 5 SAS’s view on sustainability Responsibility for sustainable development tions in a number of countries, mainly in the Nordic region. Competition For SAS, sustainable development entails a simultaneous focus on in the airline business in Europe is fierce. Employees play a key role in sustainable profitability and financial growth, gradual environmental creating added value for the customer offering. improvements and social responsibility. As an employer, SAS’s responsibility is to ensure decent work conSAS is convinced that financially sustainable operations require ditions and work environment. SAS is also responsible for providing social and environmental responsibility, and that work on sustainabildevelopment opportunities as professionals and as human beings. ity issues contributes to value growth and competitiveness in a variety As a buyer, SAS uses the services of a number of subcontractors, of ways. thereby contributing to economic and social welfare in the countries SAS has a considerable social impact, both as a major employer and and communities where its businesses operate. contractor, and by maintaining infrastructure for society. At the same As a supplier, SAS has a responsibility to deliver products and sertime, aircraft operations in particular have an adverse environmental vices that ensure consumer health and safety, and are reliable, environimpact, primarily through emissions of greenhouse gases and noise mentally adapted and produced under decent conditions, etc. around airports. SAS takes its responsibility seriously and despite the turbulent civil Financial responsibility aviation market in recent years, SAS has chosen to maintain its commitEvery corporation has a responsibility to comply with legal requirement to sustainability-related issues. ments and to maintain a high standard of business ethics as well SAS’s sustainability work is based on its policies, structured busias ensuring compliance with national policies and laws on financial ness processes and the commitment to adhere to the principles of the responsibility. UN Global Compact, the SAS Code of Conduct and SAS’s priorities and An analysis of SAS’s statement of income reveals that major porpromises. tions of revenue and expenses and essential industry-specific earnings Work is focused on minimizing sustainability-related risks and capmeasurements are items relevant from an environmental and/or social turing potential opportunities to avoid unnecessary costs and capture perspective. In brief, the highest possible financial return is generated potential savings. A well-structured sustainability effort creates value by the best possible resource utilization and management of the comand supports our customers’ purchasing behavior. pany’s assets, both human and financial. Optimal resource utilization means flying fuel-efficiently and optimizing capacity for carrying pasEnvironmental responsibility sengers and freight. Lower fuel consumption leads to lower fuel costs The environmental impact of civil aviation primarily comprises emisand at the same time reduces the charges SAS pays for emissions. sions from consumption of non-renewable fuels and noise. Aircraft The same applies to all other activities that, in addition to environoperations often account for more than 95% of the total environmental mental considerations, have strong financial incentives to reduce conimpact of an airline. sumption of energy and other resources. SAS’s environmental responsibility is to comply with relevant legislation and to ensure mininal total long and short-term emissions and Business relations other environmental impact. Anti-trust issues are always in focus for the aviation industry. The SAS Competition Law Compliance Program encompasses all relevant Social responsibility employees and is designed to ensure that SAS complies with laws, regSAS’s social responsibility primarily encompasses its own employees ulations and practices in its area of operation. Regulations relating to and the environment that are reliant on and impacted by SAS’s operabribery and other improper actions are particularly strict. 6 SAS Sustainabilit y Repor t November 2013 – October 2014 The framework for civil aviation Competition agement, new fuels and coordinated actions to improve the infrastrucThe market is characterized by increasingly fierce competition and ture and the conditions under which air transport operates. intensifying price pressure, affecting margins and profitability for the To achieve this vision, IATA and other areas of the airline industry entire industry. The outlook for the global market is uncertain and sushave agreed on a joint target, which will subsequently be adopted by ceptible to effects from different global events. SAS has competition the entire airline industry and is now set to be further developed by from low-service airlines on most short-haul routes and competition is ICAO: increasing on long haul. Although views vary regarding future trends in • Improvement of fuel efficiency by an average of 1.5% annually until air transport, according to industry organizations the Middle East and 2020 Asia appear to be showing the fastest growth – especially China and India – while mature markets in the industrialized West will report lower • Carbon-neutral growth from 2020 growth figures. Furthermore, primary growth is expected to take place • 50% reduction in greenhouse CO2 emissions by 2050, compared with on longer routes that offer no other real alternative to air transport. 2005 levels Source: www.enviro.aero Labor The civil aviation industry is moving toward new or re-shaped employSustainability-related, market-based measures, ment models to lower costs and increase flexibility. For the last few taxes and charges years, SAS has been working with the unions to reduce costs and Civil aviation pays the costs of the infrastructure it needs and uses to increase flexibility within the existing employment model. Regardless of operate flights, meaning airports and air traffic control. The cost of the employment model, it is crucial that the employer upholds its oblisecurity is also financed within the industry. gations regarding social responsibility toward society in general and its There are various environmental taxes and charges related to noise, employees. emissions or number of passengers. One example of a market-based In the opinion of SAS, there is uncertainty concerning the rules govmeasure is the EU Emissions Trading Scheme regulations (EU-ETS), erning where employees are based and where the work is carried out. under which the civil aviation industry pays for its carbon emissions SAS’s position in this matter is clear. Society must clarify and create within the EU based on an established market-based measure. the prerequisites for a level playing field within the industry whereby SAS’s opinion is that market-based measures should not distort employees are employed under local terms, where they are based and competition, should address the emissions targeted for reduction where their work is carried out. When based in Scandinavia, employees needs and should create an incentive for continuous improvement. should be covered by Scandinavian employment terms, work legislaSAS has supported the development of a global, market-based solution and tax regimes. tion for airline emissions for a long time. The UN aviation organization ICAO is responsible for creating such a solution in the next few years Aviation industry moving toward zero emissions for implementation by 2020 at the latest. The key elements of a global SAS fully supports IATA’s vision that, by 2050, it will be possible to fly solution should not distort competition and should incorporate the commercially without any climate impact. This vision is to be realized UN’s CBDR principles (Common But Differentiated Responsibility). through a combination of new technology, more efficient air traffic manSAS Sustainabilit y Repor t November 2013 – October 2014 7 Management system SAS Governance Board of Directors Group Management The Board of Directors consists of six to eight members elected by the The Board appoints the President of SAS AB, who is also Group CEO. shareholders’ meeting. There are also three employee representatives The Board has delegated responsibility for the day-to-day managewho are appointed by SAS’s employee groups in Denmark, Norway and ment of company and Group operations to the President. Group ManSweden. agement comprised eight members, including the President. Group The Board’s work is governed by the Swedish Companies Act, the ArtiManagement normally has minuted meetings every week. Group Mancles of Association, the Code of Conduct and the formal work plan adopted agement’s management and control of operations are based on a numby the Board each year. The Board’s work follows a plan intended, among ber of guidelines and policies regarding financial management and other things, to ensure that the Board receives all necessary informafollow-up, communication issues, human resources, legal issues, the tion. At its meetings, the Board discussed the regular business items Group’s brands, business ethics and environmental matters. presented at the respective meetings including business and market conditions, financial reporting and follow-up, the company’s financial position and investments. The Board also discussed any sustainability-related information of material importance. Management CSR Development Board of Directors Group Management Commercial, Operations and Transformation • Follows the Swedish model for Code of Corpo• Sets the framework and decides on the CSR • Responsible for integrating the CSR agenda, rate governance, “Hållbart företagande” agenda, policies, strategies and goals policies, strategies and activities in the every• Sets guidelines for SAS’s CSR agenda, poli• Responsible for the Corporate Manual which day business cies, strategies and goals comprises the basis for SAS work with CSR • Responsible for the work on following up and • Conducts internal control to ensure that the • Assesses risk and opportunities related to reporting on safety, quality and other CSR Code of Conduct is implemented CSR issues issues • Submits the annual report and reviews the • Responsible for the implementation of the • Responsible for dialog with internal and sustainability report Code of Conduct external stakeholders Environment & CSR Human Resources, Finance & Legal • Supports and consults the management on CSR issues with focus • Supports and consults the management and organization on on environmental responsibility Social and Financial Responsibility issues • Prepares, coordinates and develops the CSR agenda • Develops the work with Social and Financial Responsibility and • Ensures compliance with legislation and own commitments contributes to sustainability reporting and dialog • Conducts sustainability reporting and dialog • Maintains the Environmental Management System • Coordinates established CSR-related networks and forums Environment & CSR work within SAS a key role in implementating and following up the Code. An extensive SAS has a central department for Environment & CSR that reports to training program supports the Code and the goal is for all personnel senior management. The task of Environment & CSR is to support manto participate in the program. The Code’s whistleblower function was agement in CSR-related matters, both internally and externally. In addiused in five cases. Three cases were dismissed without further action tion to its supporting role, Environment & CSR has responsibility for and two led to some action after investigations. maintaining and developing the CSR Agenda, fuel-saving activities, compliance with EU-ETS/MRV, ISO 14001 certification, coordination of Environmental Management System alternative fuel activities and support for the organization in CSR issues. SAS’s environmental management system encompasses all activities The department channels and collects information through a “Susat SAS. The system focuses on activities around the main bases (Stocktainability network” and groups within the environmental management holm, Copenhagen, Oslo and Helsinki), but also includes other geosystem. graphical areas through follow-up programs and contracted services. The system is based on shared environmental and sustainability Code of Conduct policies, the Code of Conduct, the UN Global Compact, airline operaTo summarize and clarify SAS’s stated priorities, promises, policies tional standards and ISO 14001. It provides guidelines for a continuand other regulations, the SAS Board of Directors has issued a Code of ing cycle of planning, implementation and evaluation, as well as the Conduct that applies for all SAS employees. To underscore the Code’s improvement of processes and activities to meet operational and importance, there are clear rules and structures for reporting and environmental targets. SAS has a review process that also integrates addressing suspected violations. Supervisors and other managers play environmental reports and the most important aspects of CSR in 8 SAS Sustainabilit y Repor t November 2013 – October 2014 existing quality/security inspections. This is part of our endeavor to programs. Proactively working with its environmental impact in a strucachieve continuous improvements. tured environmental management system provides a company with control and the capacity to deal rapidly with changing requirements in UN’s Global Compact, GRI and CDP the business environment and those demanded by certain customer SAS joined the Global Compact in 2003 and participates in the Global groups. Compact’s Nordic Network. One criterion for publishing company inforAnother example is the ability to impose demands on product and mation on the Global Compact website is an annual update of the mateservice suppliers, where, thanks to favorable insight and monitorrial, the Communication On Progress (COP). The most recent update ing, there is the potential to contribute to exerting positive influence on of SAS’s information was completed in April 2014. The UN Global Comdevelopments at individual suppliers. pact is a pivotal component of the SAS Code of Conduct and the requirements imposed on the company’s suppliers. SAS’s sustainability Managing sustainability-related data reporting observes the guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) The various operations in SAS report once a year on measures for the and is reviewed by an external auditor. GRI is a framework designed for purpose of improving the sustainability work through internal selfsustainability-related information and performance. SAS reports to the assessments. CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project). In 2014, SAS scored 94B. Reporting covers such areas as community involvement, supplier contacts, cooperation with internal and external stakeholders, Sustainability-related business opportunities and risks work environment, training, conflicts and efforts involving the Code of Management of sustainability-related risks is integrated with SAS’s Conduct and the UN Global Compact. Relevant sustainability data is comprehensive risk management. In general, it can be concluded that reported monthly, quarterly or annually, while data concerning employrisks are reduced – and, indeed, certain opportunities offer tangible ees is followed up at a local level on an ongoing basis. business potential – by having proactive and effective sustainability SAS Sustainabilit y Repor t November 2013 – October 2014 9 SAS’s CSR agenda, priorities and aspects SAS Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Agenda • Legal Requirements Environmental Responsibility Financial Responsibility Social Responsibility • Own Vision / Strategies / Goals • ISO 14001 • Proftable Business • L abor Practicies & Descent • Compliance / Due Diligence • Environmental Programs • Anti-Corruption Work • Stakeholder Dialog • Business Ethics • Human Rights • Monitoring / Reporting • Diversity & Equality • Product Responsibility • Social Involvement SAS’s CSR Agenda umes, legal requirements, the risk of incidents and deviations, and end SAS is constantly reviewing its CSR agenda with respect to priorities, stakeholder groups’ demands and expectations. activities, progress, etc. SAS’s most significant environmental aspects derive from: • emissions from using fossil jet fuel Priorities SAS’s stakeholders generally place the greatest importance on envi• noise from aircraft ronmental responsibility, particularly relating to how SAS handles the • emissions from diesel and gasoline consumption demand for reducing greenhouse gas emissions. • energy use in facilities, Accordingly, environmental responsibility comprises the largest part • fuel and glycol spillages of SAS’s reported sustainability work. For SAS, social responsibility on a broad scale is just as important, but is not given the same amount • waste of space in this report. SAS will conduct an updated materiality analysis in preparation for the 2014/2015 fiscal year sustainability reporting SAS makes a distinction between direct and indirect environmental according to GRI G4. aspects. Direct environmental aspects are the environmental effects over which SAS has direct control, while the indirect features are Social aspects those that can be influenced only to a greater or smaller degree. This Examples of priority social aspects at SAS are employee satisfacis of major significance to improvement programs where controllable tion, occupational injuries, work conditions, sick leave and diversity effects can be governed by guidelines and policies, while an indirect and equality. SAS continuously follows up the development of these environmental aspect must be governed through purchases, contracts, aspects to increase employee satisfaction and reduce costs. cooperative agreement, dialogs and monitoring. SAS discloses social key performance indicators on page 18. One example of a direct environmental aspect is jet fuel, the combustion of which emits greenhouse gases to the atmosphere. An indirect enviEnvironmental aspects ronmental aspect could be an agreement regarding hotel stays for SAS Environmental aspects are identified using a proprietary method in the crews, etc., where the service creates emissions to air, land and water. certified environmental management system. The degree of signifiSAS disclose environmental key performance indicators on page cance of the environmental aspect is governed by such factors as the 26–27. scope of the environmental consequences, emissions/wastewater vol10 SAS Sustainabilit y Repor t November 2013 – October 2014 SAS’s sustainability related policies and strategies Sustainability policy goals. Each unit is responsible for setting specific targets and working For SAS, sustainable development means a simultaneous focus on to achieve them. financial, environmental and social responsibility. The objective is to The activities under SAS’s environmental programs are to be coorcontribute to the creation of long-term growth in shareholder value. dinated and integrated with production, quality and financial activities SAS aims to follow strong sustainable practices and encourages its and comply with applicable legislation and other requirements. stakeholders to do the same. The overall goal for SAS’s environmental programs is to create long• Sustainable development is an integrated part of SAS’s business term value growth for its owners and contribute to SAS meeting its goals. activities and is closely linked to our ability to fulfill and develop the priority program, Care. Environmental goals 2015 • To contribute to sustainable development, everyone, in their daily The environment goals for 2015 lay the foundation for ensuring that work, must take financial, environmental and social considerations SAS’s operations are sustainable in the long term. The work on the necinto account. essary measures are a natural, integrated part of the SAS environmental programs conducted under the SAS environmental management Sustainable development strategies system certified according to ISO 14001. The deterioration in market SAS aims to: conditions has not affected SAS’s goals. The goals are detailed below. • create a culture among its employees based on strategic decisions and a commitment to environmental work. SAS will reduce: • use documented sustainability appraisals as a basis for all decisions. • flight emissions by 20% in 2015 compared with 2005. • engage in strategic sustainability communication with relevant stake• ground-related energy consumption by 15% in 2015 compared holders. with 2010. • promote tomorrow’s solutions through alliances and proactive • ground-vehicle consumption of fossil fuels by 10% at SAS’s major demand of better sustainability performance from our suppliers and airports in Scandinavia by 2015 compared with 2010. stakeholders. • noise on take-offs with 15% in 2015 compared with 2010. Environmental vision SAS’s Quality Policy SAS intends to be a part of the future long-term sustainable society and SAS is committed to satisfing customers’ expectations for a safe and support IATA’s vision of flying without greenhouse gas emissions by efficient operation. Safety is SAS’s foremost quality parameter. around 2050. The following order of priorities is always applied: • Safety and security Eco-political vision • Punctuality SAS’s eco-political vision is for all four transport sectors – road, rail, sea and air – to pay for investments and infrastructure, other social costs • Care (such as accidents) and environmental impact according to the “polluter pays” principle. Subsequently, all four sectors should compete in SAS believes that quality is the concern of everyone. a competitively neutral transport system, based on a holistic approach. Continuous improvements are to be achieved at all times through the dedication of our employees, established standards and measureEnvironmental policy ments and by cooperation with auditors. SAS is to have an environmental program on par with leading industry SAS is to control its risk exposure and ensure risk awareness in daily competitors that attracts employees, customers, and investors and is work at all levels. perceived as positive by other stakeholders. All flights are be serviced and operated in accordance with estabSAS is to contribute to sustainable development by optimizing lished procedures based on authority regulations, company requireresource use, seeking the use of renewable energy and minimizing its ments and safe operational practice. environmental impact throughout its operations. Activities at SAS are to be performed in such a way that they contribSAS’s environmental programs and activities are based on conute to minimizing the negative effect on the environment. tinuous improvement, with reference to SAS’s overall environmental SAS Sustainabilit y Repor t November 2013 – October 2014 11 Stakeholders and collaboration SAS has a long tradition of a well-developed and fruitful cooperation with ments in external and internal operational prerequisites or accelerata wide range of stakeholders and involvement in community-related ing the development of alternative jet fuels. issues. 3. Understanding the development of employment models accepted by For some time now, SAS has worked to systematize, strengthen and civil aviation in Europe with a focus on Scandinavia. further develop relations with external stakeholders. This contributes to creating the premises for the conditions underlying SAS’s competitiveSAS prioritizes close collaboration with customers, authorities, suppliness and operational framework. ers and airports in order to create prerequisites to develop solutions to All stakeholders seeking contact with SAS are offered the opportuimprove SAS’s sustainability performance. One example is a growing nity of a dialog with the company. number of sustainability related questionnaires to SAS suppliers. During the last few years sustainability issues have gained greater SAS engages in dialog with parties that want knowledge, drive importance for SAS stakeholders, primarelly from the public adminischange or support SAS in different ways, for instance, employees, parttration and the business sector. One example is the increasing number ners, experts, NGOs, researchers, etc. Examples of issues may include of sustainability related questionaires from corporate customers and aviation’s impact as an enabler for globalization or different views on request for on-site audits. SAS’s sustainability performance. During the 2013/2014 fiscal year, SAS was engaged in dialog and SAS participates in national industry or employee organizations in cooperation with stakeholders regarding terms and conditions for avian effort to create greater understanding for the terms and conditions ation from a sustainability perspective. There were three areas of prifor the aviation industry. Together with other Nordic companies that mary focus: are a part of the UN Global Compact, SAS participates in the UN Global 1. Creating a more profitable SAS. Compact Nordic Network. SAS is also a member of national or Nordic 2. Improving fuel efficiency in SAS’s aircraft operations through adjustcorporate networks whose primary task is to make social responsibilExamples of stakeholder groups engaged by SAS Employees Customers Owners, investors and • Employee index PULS • Customer surveys financial analysts • Performance reviews • Interviews • Regular Board meetings • Whistleblower function • Customer Satisfaction Index (CSI) • Annual General Shareholders’ Meeting • Employee meetings at all levels including • Image index • Surveys meetings related to ISO 14001 • Contract customers are offered carbon dioxide • Teleconferences • Dialog and close cooperation with labor unions compensation • Regular meetings with investors and analysts • Direct dialog in meetings and ongoing contact with several thousand customers • Social media Partnerships and networks NGOs Industry organizations • Star Alliance • Dialog with, for example, Bellona, WWF, ZERO • ICAO’s Committee on Aviation Environment • Global Compact Nordic Network and the Norwegian Society for the Conservation Protection (CAEP) • CSR Sweden of Nature • Association of European Airlines (AEA) • IATA, ATAG, SAFUG and Sustainable Biofuel • IATA and ATAG Network • Air Carbon Initiative (ACI) • NHO Klimatpanel, Baltic Development Forum, etc. • Conf. of Swedish Enterprise • Conf. of Danish Industries • Conf. of Norwegian Enterprise, etc. Authorities Suppliers Manufacturers • Close contact with relevant national and interna• Purchasing negotiations with prioritized suppli• Ongoing dialog with manufacturers of aircraft, tional authorities, politicians, airport owners and ers based on the SAS’s purchase policy and engines and equipment that are better adapted to air traffic control management adherence to the principles of the Global Comthe environment and work equipment products, • Together with AEA, IATA and Star Alliance, dialog pact, etc. services, chemicals, etc. meetings are held with relevant authorities • Dialog with energy energy and fuel suppliers Mass media Schools and universities Airports and air traffic control • Daily communication and dialog with media • Support of and dialog on essays and doctoral management • Interviews theses • Partnership and cooperative models established • Articles and opinion pieces • Presentations and participation in conferences with airport owners and air traffic control manage• Social media, for example, facebook.com/SAS and debates ment at the most important airports or twitter.com/SAS • Focus on punctuality, efficiency and reduced environmental impact 12 SAS Sustainabilit y Repor t November 2013 – October 2014 Stakeholder cooperation on alternative and sustainable jet fuels In November 2013, NISA (Nordic Initiative Sustainable Aviation) was launched with SAS as a driving force. The initiative brings together Nordic aviation stakeholders with a direct or indirect interest in ensuring long-term sustainable aviation. The logic is that a sector that cooperates has greater power to promote its interests in these issues. Starring actors and dialog partners are a number of airlines in the Nordic region as well as the largest airport owners in Denmark, Finland, Norway and Sweden. Aviation industry organizations in those countries, the respective aviation authorities and IATA, Boeing and Airbus are also active participants in the initiative. The partners are to establish a regional body with the aim of facilitating and strengthening the conditions for commercial and continuous access to sustainable jet fuels. Part of the work is to identify the level of the sustainability aspects and other goals that may be expected to be achieved over the different pathways and timeframes in light of national legislation, EU Sustainability Criteria and internationally sustainability guidelines. Accelerating commercial access to sustainable jet fuel will lead to reduced emissions. The outcome is aimed primarily at airlines in the Nordic countries, and of course, other off-takers. This will greatly benefit society as a whole since the developments described also generate jobs and further advancements of new technology. Coordination is essential with initiatives and activities set up by such industry organizations as the IATA and ATAG, UN bodies including ICAO, such EU initiatives as Flight Path 2020 and, of course, other initiatives on global, regional and national levels. ity and social engagement a natural part of companies’ daily work and Research and development (R&D) to also encourage the reporting of these issues. Relations and coopSAS contributes in many ways to the emergence of a sustainable socieration with parties responsible for airports and air traffic control are ety. Among them are the commitment to and support of the developof great importance. For many years, SAS has participated in adapment and dissemination of such green technologies as sustainable tation and development programs with, for example, Swedavia (airjet fuel and environmentally adapted flights. In the 2013/2014 fisport agency) and LFV (air navigation agency) in Sweden, Avinor (airport cal year, SAS was involved in the Sustainable Aviation Fuel User Group and air navigation agency) in Norway and in Denmark with CPH A/S whose goal is to accelerate the development, certification and commer(Copenhagen airports). Environmental impact is reduced as a result of cial use of environmentally and socially sustainable aviation fuel. SAS logistical improvements at the airports and Scandinavian airspace. also cooperates with the Scandinavian suppliers of air traffic control for Cooperation with central players in aviation, components, equipthe purpose of speeding up the development of more efficient use of ment and catering is essential in promoting sustainable development air space. SAS engages in technology advances that benefit the entire in all areas. Fuel consumption, sustainability criteria and environmenindustry. However, SAS does not conduct any proprietary research tal impact are key parameters in the decision-making process in prepand development. SAS also plays a leading role internationally in draftarations for placing orders or leasing new aircraft. This also applies to ing environment-related norms and standards for air transport. SAS is changes in service concepts, etc. represented on a number of committees, projects and working groups The media attention on aviation’s negative environmental impact is a related to the environment and corporate social responsibility, for challenge for the entire airline industry. SAS has chosen to take a leadexample, IATA, ICAO, AEA, N-ALM and SESAR JU. ing role in the debate as a feature of its efforts to link the brand with responsible management of both climate and social issues. Employee attitudes toward the company and its ability to meet their demands in terms of the work environment and other significant factors that affect commitment and loyalty are gauged continuously. SAS Sustainabilit y Repor t November 2013 – October 2014 13 SAS’s social responsibility For social responsibility, the following areas are prioritized in SAS’s CSR Leadership development agenda: labor practices & decent work, human rights, diversity & equalWith regard to developing social responsibility, management is key in ity, product responsibility and social involvement. setting examples and interpreting and implementing SAS’s strategies. SAS continued to work with the leadership “role” model” with the Labor practices & decent work watchwords of consistent, honest and reliable. Managers must be selfSAS is a large employer. The responsibility connected to labor practices aware and mature, and know how personal qualities are to be used to and work conditions is very important. SAS has good cooperation with achieve a trustful working relationship with personnel. During the fisthe union organizations associated with these issues. cal year, leader seminars was conducted with all managers and Group Management worked with the “role model” and discussed activities for Cultural development improving leadership, employee motivation and comittment. Development of social responsibility is largely built on the SAS corpoIn the 2014/2015 fiscal year, SAS will continue to develop the leadrate culture. SAS’s strategic cultural work thus focuses on increasing ership “role model” and intensify its focus on leadership. employee engagement, and increasing understanding of the values that form the basis for how the business is run. The goal is to generate Employee surveys positive effects in the relationship with customers and to strengthen The PULS, SAS’s annual employee survey, conducted during 2014 SAS’s competitiveness. showed that job satisfaction at SAS increased to 58 from 57 last year. This result is not satisfactory. In the 2012/2013 fiscal year, SAS manOrganizational development agement initiated long-term activities to re-engage the organization. During the 2013/2014 fiscal year, work continued on implementing a The activities include “Fixing the Everyday,” comprising working with centralized and more streamlined organization. Most of the changes were Lean, communicating a clear vision for the future, and first and foreimplemented in the 2012/2013 fiscal year, although according to plan, most further improving leadership. These activities continued during some changes were carried out in the 2013/2014 fiscal year. Approxethe 2013/2014 fiscal year and will be continued in the 2014/2015 fismately 1,000 positions will be centralized or made redundant in admincal year. The survey generally indicates a strong long-term commitistration after all of the changes have been implemented. A decision was ment since loyalty is high among employees in SAS. made in the 2013/2014 fiscal year to further reduce adminsitration by 300 positions. The process of outsourcing SAS Ground Handling continHuman resource development ued in the 2013/2014 fiscal year. The process is ongoing. Human resources development is an important, ongoing activity throughout SAS. Flight crew and operational ground staff are covAdjustment and redundancy ered by a number of license and competency requirements from EUThe process of centralizing and managing the redundancies connected OPS and the IATA through the IOSA (IATA Operational Safety Audit). with the organizational changes was handled through negotiations with The mandatory training programs were carried out according to plan labor unions in compliance with national laws and agreements. for different personnel groups regarding hazardous goods, passengers’ rights, IT security and food safety, etc. SAS has approximately Cooperation with labor union organizations 640 managers at different levels in the organization. More than half of Cooperation in day-to-day operations with labor unions is mainly carthe managers are located in daily operations with direct customer conried out nationally, where dialog is conducted with the labor unions that tact, such as sales, airport services and onboard service. The managhave collective agreements with SAS. Cooperation takes place within ers’ skills development is based and evaluated on SAS’s role model for the framework of national laws and agreements affecting the unit conleadership. A systematic evaluation process is continuously performed cerned. for existing managers, and also to identify persons who may meet manSAS and different unions conducted activities during the fiscal year ager requirements in the slightly longer term. The aim is for all potenin order to lower costs and increase flexibility in existing union agreetial managers to have an individualized development plan. The “role ments. model” that the manager process is based on reflects general personal Employee representatives from the Scandinavian countries sit on attributes as well as SAS’s business objectives. Evaluation focuses on the SAS Group Board of Directors. The employees elect representatives the individual’s performance, ability to change, leadership, potential from units in the Group’s Scandinavian operations. Group Management and ambition. is engaged in an ongoing discussion with union representatives, above During the 2013/2014 fiscal year SAS introduced an “employee all on issues concerning personnel and cost reductions, organizational model” that reflects the “leader model.” structure and the need for a more customer-oriented culture. Training in the Code of Conduct and SAS’s environmental efforts is continuous. During the year, approximately 1,650 of SAS’s employees Contract negotiations and disputes conducted e-learning in the Code of Conduct and approximately 980 For the last few years, SAS has been working with the unions to reduce conducted e-learning in SAS’s environmental work. SAS’s employees costs and increase flexibility within the existing employment model. had access to more than 200 different online courses during the year. No organized labor conflicts or strikes occurred during the 2013/2014 fiscal year. Courses and training All legal disputes of material importance are reported in the statutory To retain and develop employee skills, extensive training programs are Report by the Board of Directors on page 24 of the SAS Annual Report carried out each year. During the 2013/2014 fiscal year, Scandinavian with sustainability review, November 2013–October 2014. Airlines’ employees attended an estimated 565,000 hours of training, of which the major part pertained to obligatory training. A growing share of SAS’s training takes place through online courses, or e-learning. 14 SAS Sustainabilit y Repor t November 2013 – October 2014 SAS takes it social responsibility seriously The civil aviation industry is moving toward new or re-shaped employment for a level playing field within the industry whereby employees are employed models to lower costs and increase flexibility. For the last few years, SAS has under local terms, where they are based and where their work is carried out. been working with the unions to reduce costs and increase flexibility within When based in Scandinavia, employees should be covered by Scandinavian the existing employment model. Regardless of the employment model, it is employment terms, work legislation and tax regimes. crucial that the employer upholds its obligations regarding social responsiSAS has during the fiscal year had a dialog with different stakeholders in bility toward society in general and its employees. order to clarify the prerequisites for these important social issues within EU In the opinion of SAS, there is uncertainty concerning the rules governing and Scandinavia. These efforts have received considerable attention in sevwhere employees are based and where the work is carried out. SAS’s posieral political circles but not yet resulted in any concrete initiatives. SAS’s tion in this matter is clear. Society must clarify and create the prerequisites commitment to this work continues. SAS Sustainabilit y Repor t November 2013 – October 2014 15 E-learning cannot always replace classroom instruction, but thanks to and equality in all its forms. Union membership is high at SAS in the its greater flexibility and availability, more courses can be offered at a Nordic region and labor organizations hold a strong position. Colleclower cost. tive agreements define working hours, pay and other terms of employment in great detail. With the same conditions for the same tasks, there Work environment is also complete equality between men and women in these issues. Sick leave In general, SAS is dominated by women in such professions as cabin SAS’s goal is that the work environment should be as healthy as poscrew, administrators, assistants and passenger service at the airports, sible and that sick leave and the number of injuries should be continuwhile men dominate in the areas of pilots, technicians, aircraft mainously reduced. tenance, loading and unloading of baggage. Women also have more During the 2013/2014 fiscal year, total sick leave in SAS (excl. Blue1) part-time positions than men. Of the Scandinavian Airlines pilots, 95% decreased to 7.8% (8.0%) and in Blue1 to 5.4% (5.6%). Long-term sick are men, while the recruitment base for female pilots is small since few leave, 15 days or more, accounted for 4.9% of the total sick leave in SAS choose the profession. (excl. Blue1) and 2.3% in Blue1. When it comes to cabin crew, 82% are women. Senior management During the 2013/2014 fiscal year, sick leave among some employee in the Group is dominated by men. SAS Group Management groups increased. This was the case for cabin crew in Sweden and currently consists of one woman and seven men. The figure for the pilots, and although sick leave declined during the year it remained at a management level directly reporting to Group Management is 24% high level for cabin crew in Norway. Analysis carried out during the year women. revealed that there was no single explanation for the negative trend and SAS has set the target of gender distribution to be the same as the level of sick leave. The fact that sick leave differed substantially between gender distribution in the company as a whole (but no less than 40%) identical employee groups underlines this point. There are many difacross the Group’s internal boards by 2020. 20% of the SAS internal ferent explanations for this and, accordingly, SAS management conboard in SAS Cargo Group in Denmark is women. ducted a number of activities during the 2013/2014 fiscal year in a bid Each year, equal treatment plans are drawn up in Sweden based on to address sick leave. Examples are improved follow-up and support for analysis and surveys of a number of factors, ranging from sick leave to employees during sick leave. bullying and harassment. A reference group representing the parties provides support. Occupational injuries The number of occupational injuries in SAS was 270 (280) during the Product Responsibility fiscal year. The highest occupational injury frequency was seen in SGH SAS takes its responsibility in maintaining the highest standards regardin Denmark. The extent of the occupational injuries means that SAS will ing product responsibility. As an airline, the organization is highly regcontinue to prioritize preventive efforts, particularly in the areas where ulated from a flight safety and security standpoint. SAS is regularly the greatest challenges are present. audited, reviewed both by external parties, partners and customers. Apart from sick leave and occupational injuries, each administrative Work conditions regarding working hours for airline personnel are unit works actively to ensure a well-functioning work environment. also regulated by relevant authorities. SAS also has strict policies and These efforts takes place in collaboration with safety representafollows applicable legislation regarding, food safety, IT security, etc. tives, supervisors and labor-management joint safety committees that cover all employees in each country. Punctuality and Regularity One important aspect of SAS’s product responsibility is the ability to Company health services deliver passenger transport that is both conducted as planned and on The company health services or health, safety and environment (HSE) time. SAS has an extensive continuously ongoing work in order to monifunction that supports the whole organization offers services through tor and address different aspects of punctuality and regularity. This work in-house or outsourced resources with therapists, stress and rehabilihas resulted in a number of top positions in the monthly external reporttation experts, ergonomics and engineers. ing regarding arrival puncuality from FlightStats (Global Airlines, Major The function also offers special services, including aviation mediAirlines by Region). cine, stress management, follow-up of sick leave, health profiles, ergonomics and advice in handling chemicals. Social involvement Investments are made in large parts of the organization in different Preparedness for Air Ambulance operations forms of health-promoting activities both in the workplace and during SAS has an agreement on a commercial basis with the Swedish govleisure time. ernment to make two specially equipped Boeing 737s available as air ambulances within the framework of the Swedish National Air MedeHuman Rights vac (SNAM) in case of emergency. A corresponding agreement exists SAS is a large buyer of products and services and has a responsibility to with the Norwegian Armed Forces according to which SAS is to make ensure that human right issues are adressed in a correct manner. SAS a remodeled ambulance service 737-700 available for medical evacincludes sustainability related issues in its purchasing policy and all uation within 24 hours, following the same principle as with SNAM. If applicable contracts. needed, a second aircraft must be made available within 48 hours. SAS’s personnel participated in a number of fundraisers for Save Diversity and equality the Children. All parts of SAS have had varying degrees of contact with SAS’s diversity policy is based on equal treatment of all employees and schools and universities and participated in a dialog about air travel and job applicants. Work on equal treatment includes promoting diversity its environmental impact. 16 SAS Sustainabilit y Repor t November 2013 – October 2014 Christmas flight dinavian countries and makes business travel easier in Europe and to In December 2013, SAS supported the Norwegian “Christmas flight.” other continents. The Christmas flight is an aid campaign carried out by SAS employGiven increasing globalization, airlines facilitate business and other ees, who cooperate with other volunteers throughout the year to collect contact opportunities where efficient transportation to, from and within goods and contributions from various partner companies and private the countries is more or less a prerequisite for economic development individuals. SAS provides an aircraft with full operational support, pilots and progress. The airlines also contribute expertise and transfers of and crew volunteer in their free time and the fuel is sponsored by a fuel technology and make necessary investments in infrastructure. supplier. This flight was also conducted in December 2014 with SAS support. SAS’s contribution to the economy SAS creates employment and value. In the 2013/2014 fiscal year, SAS Metrology data provider paid wages and salaries totaling MSEK 7,366, of which social security Every day SAS supplies over 5000 weather observations to different expenses were MSEK 1,410 and pensions MSEK 33. SAS endeavors to meteorological offices to provide society with updated and relevant achieve market pay for all employee groups. meteorological forecasts. SAS also benefits from these observations since it can usa the data to plan flight more efficient. Costs of sick leave and accidents Sick leave and occupational injuries constitute a large expense for the Financial aspects of social responsibility individual employee and the employer, as well as for society as a whole. SAS’s first social responsibility is to its own employees and the comSick leave is affected by a number of factors such as risk of infection munities dependent on and affected by SAS’s operations. For employand accidents as well as physically and mentally stressful working enviees, this includes issues concerning human resources development, ronments. pay and work environment. In addition, SAS is to contribute to social SAS’s companies employ various methods to prevent short and progress wherever it operates and be a respected corporate citizen. Air long-term sick leave. SAS’s own calculation of costs for sick leave inditravel helps improve labor market conditions in rural areas in the Scancates a cost exceeding MSEK 245 for the 2013/2014 fiscal year. SAS Sustainabilit y Repor t November 2013 – October 2014 17 Key social figures SAS’s work environment and sick leave KPIs SAS’ flight operations (excl. Blue1 flight operations) SAS Commercial and Sales & Marketing DK NO SE DK NO SE No. of employees October 2014 (head count) 1,894 1,765 1,513 No. of employees October 2014 (head count) 43 56 392 of whom women, % 51.5 56.7 52.9 of whom women, % 62.8 58.9 62.0 Total sick leave, % 9.3 11.0 12.2 Total sick leave, % 2.5 3.6 2.9 Long-term sick leave (more than 14 days), % 5.0 7.0 8.3 Long-term sick leave (more than 14 days), % 1.0 2.7 1.9 Total number of occupational injuries with one Total number of occupational injuries with one day’s sick leave or more 40 11 13 day’s sick leave or more 0 0 0 Occupational injury frequency lost Occupational injury frequency lost time-to-injury rate (H-value) 17 5 6 time-to-injury rate (H-value) 0 0 0 SAS Maintenance Production SAS Administrative functions and others DK NO SE DK NO SE No. of employees October 2014 (head count) 471 407 488 No. of employees October 2014 (head count) 172 73 251 of whom women, % 3.0 4.4 5.5 of whom women, % 42.4 42.5 47.4 Total sick leave, % 3.3 5.7 3.9 Total sick leave, % 1.6 4.7 3.1 Long-term sick leave (more than 14 days), % 1.2 3.6 2.5 Long-term sick leave (more than 14 days), % 0.9 3.6 2.2 Total number of occupational injuries with one Total number of occupational injuries with one day’s sick leave or more 15 1 1 day’s sick leave or more 0 0 0 Occupational injury frequency lost Occupational injury frequency lost time-to-injury rate (H-value) 19 1 1 time-to-injury rate (H-value) 0 0 0 SAS Ground Handling Blue1 (the whole organization) DK NO SE FI No. of employees October 2014 (head count) 2,254 2,964 1,804 No. of employees October 2014 (head count) 347 of whom women, % 30.0 31.9 33.7 of whom women, % 47.0 Total sick leave, % 5.3 9.7 8.0 Total sick leave, % 5.4 Long-term sick leave (more than 14 days), % 3.1 7.2 4.5 Long-term sick leave (more than 14 days), % 2.3 Total number of occupational injuries with one Total number of occupational injuries with one day’s sick leave or more 102 46 35 day’s sick leave or more 6 Occupational injury frequency lost Occupational injury frequency lost time-to-injury rate (H-value) 28 12 12 time-to-injury rate (H-value) 13 SAS SAS DK SAS NO SAS SE SAS Total (excl. Blue1) Blue1 No. of employees October 2014 (head count) 4,834 5,265 4,448 14,547 347 of whom women, % 36.5 38.5 40.4 38.4 47.0 Total sick leave, % 6.3 9.5 7.7 7.8 5.4 Long-term sick leave (more than 14 days), % 3.4 6.6 4.8 4.9 2.3 Total number of occupational injuries with one day’s sick leave or more 157 58 49 264 6 Occupational injury frequency lost time-to-injury rate (H-value) 22 8 7 12 13 SAS sick leave (excl. Blue1) SAS H-value (excl. Blue1) % 10 20 8 16 6 12 4 8 2 4 0 0 Jan–Oct 12 FY13 FY14 Jan–Oct 12 FY13 FY14 18 SAS Sustainabilit y Repor t November 2013 – October 2014 SAS’s environmental responsibility The following areas are prioritized under environmental responsibilleakage and storage. The reason for the dispensation is that there is no ity in SAS’s CSR agenda: comply with relevant legislation and ensure certified alternative to halon for extinguishing fires in aircraft engines, minimal total long and short-term emissions and other environmencabins and aircraft toilets. tal impact. Scandinavian Airlines estimates that around one kilogram (27) of halons were emitted during the 2013/2014 fiscal year. “Polluter pays” principle Read more about environmental compliance and permits in the SAS fully endorses the “polluter pays” principle and is prepared to take Report by the Board of Directors on pages 19–25 of the SAS Annual responsibility for its share. This assumes that any charges imposed on Report with sustainability review, November 2013-October 2014. the company are based on scientific findings and that the total climate Every new construction or other change in ground use requires impact of competing modes of transport is taken into consideration. authorization from local authorities. Biological diversity is normally an approval criterion. Biodiversity, airport concessions and other environCO2 vs. nitrogen oxides mental aspects regarding airport operations are reported in each airTo date, the climate impact of air transport has focused on CO2 emisport’s own sustainability reports. sions. However, the focus is shifting to also include other climate effects, primarily nitrogen oxides and water vapor. SAS and the airline SAS Environmental Program industry recommend the ECAC’s model of differentiated landing fees The method SAS uses to achieve its environmental goals is to operbased on nitrogen oxide emissions. ationalize its strategies through activities conducted in environmental programs within the environmental management system certified Biodiversity according to ISO 14001. Throughout the year, numerous activities were Biological diversity is affected by airline operations in different ways. conducted in a wide range of areas. Air travel in itself affects biological diversity to a limited extent through Since emissions related to consumption of jet fuels are the most emissions, primarily of nitrogen oxides. Other aspects include facilities material environmental aspect the activities are focused on the goal of and the use of airports, which can affect water, flora, fauna and nearby reducing flight emissions by 20% by 2015 compared with 2005. The residents depending on geographic location and by utilizing large prerequisites for all activities are that they are well within the limits of areas. Airlines purchase services from airports with private or public applicable legal requirements, flight safety limits, etc. investors. SAS has defined environmental programs within the following areas: • Fleet renewal Environmental compliance and permits • More efficient planning of SAS aircraft Airline operations have no separate licenses or environmental permits for operation; instead, they are subject to environmental policies set by • More efficient usage of SAS aircraft in day-to-day operations each airport. These usually involve noise, rules for using de-icing fluids • Continuous aerodynamic, weight and efficiency follow up and modifiand limits on emissions to air, soil and water. Environmental approvals cation of SAS aircraft are also part of the process to certify aircraft in the three Scandinavian • Environmentally adapted products countries, and included in the terms of technical aircraft maintenance. • Alternative sustainable jet fuels In all three Scandinavian countries, SAS participates in voluntary cooperation with various players at the airports in several areas, such as • Stakeholder dialog/work with ATM & airports and aircraft & engine working on local emissions of particles, measurement of electricity conManufacturers sumption in buildings and the reduction of emissions from arcraft and • Single European Sky ground vehicles. This cooperation also includes compliance with individual legal requirements. Discussions with airport operators in the Fleet renewal Scandinavian countries indicate that the demands on, for example, SAS’s strategy is to replace older aircraft with newer ones. During the emissions related to vehicles and equipment will be intensified. fiscal year, SAS introduced six newer aircraft, with two replacing the last In general, there is a trend toward introducing tougher restrictions previous generation Boeing 737 Classics that were retired at the beginfor permitted approach and take-off paths. Deviations generally result ning of the fiscal year. in fines for the airline. Also, the general trend is toward greater use of After a full 12 months period of operation without the MD-80s environment-related surcharge systems and operational limits. retired in the 2013/2014 fiscal year, the results are clear. The average The twofold purpose is to reduce local environmental impact and emission per passenger kilometer on flights between Copenhagen and create incentives for airlines to use aircraft with the best available techLondon (and vice versa) has been reduced by more than 20% with an nology from an environmental perspective. A320 in 2014, compared with the same route with a MD-80 in 2013. During the 2013/2014 fiscal year, Scandinavian Airlines received The calculated noise area, 85 dB area in km² per departure, has also five (nine) reports of noise violations at airports. been reduced by approximately 55%. SAS Oil is a jet fuel distribution company for SAS at Copenhagen, During the year, SAS used a number of wet lease operators for Oslo and Stockholm airports. Through SAS Oil, SAS is a minority owner flights with SK flight numbers. One of these suppliers uses brand new of a number of smaller companies that deliver jet fuel. SAS has ensured ATR72600, which is the latest development in the turbo prop segment that these companies have the necessary permits, contingency plans with 70 seats in the SAS configuration. and insurance. No severe incidents breaching any environmental perSAS plans to introduce three newer Boeing 737s and an A330E durmits were reported in the 2013/2014 fiscal year. ing the 2014/2015 fiscal year. Airline operations have a legal dispensation for the use of halogen The A330E is a part of the order of eight A350s and four A330Es and submit annual reports to the authorities on consumption, including placed during 2013 with delivery in 2015-2021. The A330E is marginSAS Sustainabilit y Repor t November 2013 – October 2014 19 ally more fuel efficient than today’s A330 but it has an increased range, ing 737NGs or Sharklets on Airbus A320s. This can potentially reduce meaning that it can operate on routes currently served by the A340 at the fuel consumption by 1–5% depending on the stage length for cerapproximately 20% less fuel consumption per seat. When the A350 is tain airlines. SAS has installed winglets on a number of Boeing 737NGs introduced, it will be possible to reduce fuel consumption by approxiwhere it is profitable from a sustainability perspective. mately 35% per seat and generate 50% less noise compared with an Examples of weight reduction include the replacement of the brakes A340. on Boeing 737-800s with lighter versions in composite material or By 2016, SAS also plans to introduce the Airbus A320neo that will installing lightweight seats in a number of Boeing 737NGs and Airbus have 15% lower fuel consumption and generate 50% less noise than A320s. When older seats are replaced, approximately two kilos per seat the existing Airbus A320s. are saved, amounting to 360 kilograms saved on a B737-800. These modifications will continue in the 2014/2015 fiscal year. Apart from More efficient planning of SAS aircraft modifying the aircraft, work is also constantly performed to reduce SAS currently operates aircraft of varying sizes and performance. the weight of all material and products included in SAS’s service offerSAS’s own fleet ranges from 88 to 264 seats, capable of flying routes ing. Examples include optimizing the amount of water filled for toilet for which the aircraft is airborne for between 20 minutes and more than use, replacing carts with lighter versions, replacing glass bottles with a 11 hours. The aim is to create conditions for flying as profitably and plastic alternative, optimizing the amount of products served and used energy-efficiently as possible depending on demand, time of day and based on analysis of actual demand. destination. An example of better technology is the ongoing engine upgrade proOne example is to use aircraft of the appropriate size. For examgram under the framework of the ordinary technical maintenance of ple, SAS has Boeing 737NGs and A320-family aircraft. They have 120, most of the Boeing 737NG fleet. In practice, this entails that the engines 141 and 183, and 141, 168 and 198 seats, respectively. This provides are upgraded to the latest version (“Tech Inserts” or “Evolution”). extensive flexibility according to demand, which guarantees the lowMore than half of the fleet’s engines on the Boeing 737, which were est possible total emissions at any given time. Flying aircraft that are delivered prior to 2006, have now been upgraded and are thus about too large generates unnecessary emissions even if it generates a bet3% more fuel efficient than originally delivered. Aircraft delivered after ter theoretical result per available seat kilometer. If we look at a Boeing 2007 already have “Tech Inserts” and aircraft delivered after the sum737NG on a typical domestic route, it is evident that the fuel consumpmer of 2011 have “Evolution.” tion and corresponding emissions are lower in a smaller aircraft. When using a B737-800 with 183 seats, the total fuel consumption (on averEnvironmentally adapted products age) is approximately 7–10% higher than a B737-700 with 141 seats. SAS strives to develop its customer offering in a more environmentally SAS also uses wet lease operations from external suppliers to fly shortadapted direction. This includes everything from locally produced and/ haul routes with demand at about 50 to 75 seats. The same comparison, or organic food to less material and ultimately, less waste needing to be as above, can be made between a Boeing 737-700 with 141 seats and sorted wherever customers encounter SAS during the ground process, a turboprop such as an ATR 72-600 with 70 seats for which fuel conin the lounge or onboard SAS aircraft. sumption is an average of more than 50% lower. It must be noted that As of today, SAS offers organic breakfast son its flights and a numjet and turboprop aircraft have different characteristics, such as seatber of organic items at its lounges. In connection with the development ing capacity, speed and range, but it is nevertheless important to have toward more electronic-based communication, less paper is being access to and the ability to plan each flight with the right type of aircraft. used and the use of “green IT” is increasing. Sorting and waste disposal from service and products on board is a focus area, but at the same More efficient usage of SAS aircraft in day-to-day time, represents a challenge. The challenge lies in the fact that there operations is limited space on board. There is also a restriction in disposing of SAS has an extensive long-term fuel saving program integrated in its meal service waste at airports because different national legislation is operations. An important aspect of increasing the fuel efficiency is to involved, making solutions complicated and, in some instances, imposmake sure that all employees in SAS’s airline operations have the presible. In some cases, we are forced to fly waste back to Scandinavia (for requisites and knowledge to be fuel-efficient. This entails involvement example, from the US). of all employee groups affecting the fuel consumption. Key functions Despite this, waste is an area in which efforts are being made to find are Flight, Groundand Technical Operations. the best possible solutions. For example, newspapers and aluminum Work is continuously ongoing with a large number of activities that cans from most domestic flights are recycled. focus primarily on established operational conditions, such as procedures and how they are implemented, and whether the available system Alternative sustainable jet fuels support is sufficiently optimized for higher fuel efficiency. Naturally, SAS has been working for many years with various activities designed all changes maintain a standard that meets the highest level of flight to accelerate the development of alternative and sustainable jet fuels. In safety requirements. During the 2013/2014 fiscal year, fuel efficiency the 2013/2014 fiscal year, SAS continued to conduct concrete discusimpoved by 0.1% compared with the 2012/2013 fiscal year. sions with a range of prospective stakeholders in connection with the production of alternative and sustainable jet fuels in Scandinavia. The Continuous aerodynamic, weight and efficiency follow-up Nordic Initiative for Sustainable Aviation (NISA). where SAS took the iniand modification of SAS aircraft tiative, was launched at the start of the fiscal year. SAS has clearly indiSAS modifies its aircraft continuously in order to modernize to betcated to existing and prospective producers of jet fuels that there is ter technology, improve aerodynamics or reduce weight. Examples of demand for alternative jet fuels if the price is competitive and sustainimproved aerodynamics include the installation of winglets on Boeability criteria are in place. 20 SAS Sustainabilit y Repor t November 2013 – October 2014 It is vital for SAS that the production of alternative sustainable jet fuels Throughout SAS’s continuous environmental work, SAS maintains diadoes not compete with food production or access to drinking water and logs and discussions with relevant aircraft and engine manufacturers, that it has minimal impact on biodiversity. as well as producers of interiors and other installations in the aircraft. Naturally, this is also the case in the decision-making process for which Stakeholder dialog/work with ATM and airports, and new aircraft to acquire for short and long-haul operations. The sustainaircraft and engine manufacturers ability criteria are very important aspects for SAS’s choice of suppliers. Since the early 2000s, SAS has been working with the parties responsible for air traffic control and airports in Sweden, Norway and Denmark Single European Sky in an effort to identify more efficient methods for controlling air traffic in SESAR (Single European Sky Air Traffic Management Research) is an the airspace and on the ground in these countries. EU initiative aimed at advancing tomorrow’s airspace and the air trafOne example is the Continuous Descent Approach from Top of fic management system in Europe. SAS is involved in SESAR and parDescent that has become standard during low and medium-peak traffic ticipates in efforts to enhance efficiency, capacity and safety, and to at an increasing number of airports. The Continuous Descent Approach reduce the environmental impact of flights. from Top of Descent entails that air traffic control allows the aircraft to approach in a continuous gliding descent without using unnecessary The long-term objectives for SESAR are: engine power. This is common at small airports where there is no other • threefold increase in capacity. air traffic close by, but still uncommon at large airports where other air • A tenfold increase in safety levels. traffic must be handled in parallel. This development derived from the demonstrations conducted in the early 2000s and the feasible changes • A 10% reduction in carbon emissions. have been implemented in everyday operations at Swedish airports. • Half the air traffic control costs. In recent years, SAS has been heavily involved in the establishment of more advanced solutions using satellite-based Required Navigation By 2020, this will lead to: Performance (RNP AR) rather than the traditional ground-based ILS. • Flight times that are 8–14 minutes shorter. Examples are the published and available S-curved approaches on runway 19R and the shortened curved approach to runway 26 at Stock• A reduction in fuel consumption of between 300 and 500 kilograms holm Arlanda. The potential benefits are reduced emissions due to per flight. shorter flying distances, and minimizing noise exposure in sensitive • A reduction in CO2 emissions of between 948 and 1,575 kilograms on areas close to the airport. average, per flight, compared with 2010. SAS is currently involved in a number of activities in Scandinavia that aim to demonstrate short-term potential environmental improvements within the framework of existing systems and methods. Renewable energy in the wings In November 2014, SAS conducted two flights with a blend-in of alternative and sustainable jet fuel. The first flight was conducted between Stockholm Arlanda and Östersund in Sweden with a 10% blend-in of an alternative and sustainable jet fuel based on reused vegetable oils. This was the first flight of its kind from Stockholm Arlanda. A week later a flight from Tromsø to Oslo Gardermoen was conducted with a 50% blend-in of the same type of fuel. The flight was first of its kind in Norway and will be followed by many more since SAS also intends to buy a certain amount of alternative and sustainable jet fuel with delivery at Oslo Gardermoen from March 2015. SAS Sustainabilit y Repor t November 2013 – October 2014 21 Follow-up of SAS’s most significant environmental aspects and environmental goals SAS’s most significant environmental aspects derive from emissions from using fossil jet fuel and noise from aircraft, while on-ground emissions derive from diesel and gasoline consumption, energy use in facilities, fuel and glycol spillages and waste. Emissions from using fossil jet fuel CO2 emissions from SAS’s Includes all flights flown with SK flight numbers. flight operations, 2013/2014 fiscal year 1,000 tonnes CO2 SAS flight operations used 1,235,000 tonnes of jet fuel in the Denmark 2013/2014 fiscal year. This corresponds to 3,890,000 tonnes of carDomestic flights 34 bon dioxide and with the aircraft used 16,400 tonnes of nitrogen oxide Flights to EU/EEA 411 emissions. Compared with the previous 12 months period , this repreFlight to outside EU/EEA 519 sents an increase of 75,500 tonnes of carbon dioxide and 282 tonnes Norway of nitrogen oxide. Relative to traffic growth, carbon emissions per passenger kilometer declined by 3.4%. Domestic flights 480 Flights to EU/EEA 319 During the period, SAS’s fuel efficiency improved and the relative Flight to outside EU/EEA 62 CO2 emission fell to 100 grams (104) per passenger kilometer. The Sweden positive trend was primarily due to fleet renewal, improved load facDomestic flights 229 tor and progress in the fuel efficiency activities. In the 2013/2014 fiscal Flights to EU/EEA 303 year, only occasional fuel leaks were reported when refueling aircraft on Flight to outside EU/EEA 133 SK flight numbers. These were handled in accordance with established Finland procedures. No fuel dumps were reported during the fiscal year. Domestic flights 1 Flights to EU/EEA 52 SAS’s goal is to reduce flight emissions by 20% in the 2014/2015 Flight to outside EU/EEA 0,4 fiscal year compared with 2005. At the end of the 2013/2014 fiscal EU/EEA year, we achieved a 19.1% reduction in CO2 emissions per passenDeparting EU/EEA1 for Scandinavia and Finland 667 ger kilometer compared with the full-year 2005. At the same date, Flights within EU/EEA1 1 total CO2 emissions were reduced by 12.5%. Departing EU/EEA1 for outside EU/EEA 1 Outside EU/EEA The work on the Environmental Program described on pages 19–21 Departing from outside EU/EEA bound for will continue in the 2014/2015 fiscal year. Activities will include fleet Scandinavia/Finland 675 renewal and fuel-savings measures that will positively contribute to Departing from outside EU/EEA bound for EU/EEA1 realizing the goal for the 2014/2015 fiscal year. or outside EU/EEA 1 Total 3,890 1) Excluding Denmark, Sweden, Norway and Finland that are reported separately. SAS Flight Operations, total CO2 emissions SAS Flight Operations, CO2 gram/passenger kilometer1 CO2 Co2 gram/passenger kilometer 4,500 108 4,200 106 3,900 104 3,600 102 3,300 100 3,000 98 2005 2010 2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY12 FY13 FY14 Total CO2 emissions (1,000 tonnes) 1) New calculation method as of November 2011. Tonne kilometers (millions) 2005 source: 2007 Annual and Sustainability Report 22 SAS Sustainabilit y Repor t November 2013 – October 2014 Aircraft noise Includes all flights flown with SK flight numbers. Average aircraft Noise, 85 dB area in km2 per departure The average noise per departure declined due to fleet renewal. Scandi2,4 navian Airlines received five (nine) reports of noise violations during the 2013/2014 fiscal year. The number of breaches has declined consider2,3 ably in recent years as a result of fleet renewal and structured improve2,2 ment activities, such as specific flight simulator training including scenarios flying to and from airports with strict noise regulations. 2,1 SAS’s goal is to reduce noise on take-off by 15% in the 2014/2015 2,0 fiscal year compared with 2010. By introducing newer aircraft, the 1,9 noise area exposed to 85 dB on take-off was reduced by 18.0% in 2010 2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 the 2013/2014 fiscal year compared with full-year 2010. Waste All waste where data is available. Mostly own produced waste from Total waste in tonnes ground facilities, including technical maintenance. 1,000 Waste is divided into unsorted waste and hazardous waste. Hazardous waste is strictly controlled by national authorities and is internally con800 trolled and evaluated by both airlines and suppliers. Data on Scandina600 vian Airlines, SGH, SCG and SAS Maintenance Production’s total waste quantities derives from a common data base with COOR. No signifi400 cant emissions or spillages were reported in conjunction with technical maintenance. 200 0 SAS has no overal goal on this aspect. The aspect is monitored, registered FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 and followed up in order to detect undesirable or unexplainable trends. Hazardous waste Unsorted waste De-icing fluid All de-icing fluids used by SGH directly on aircraft flown with SK flight Glycol1 use in m3 numbers and on SGH’s external customers’ aircraft in Scandinavia. 2,500 De-icing is unavoidable from a safety perspective. Glycol is used for pretakeoff de-icing ofaircraft. Consumption of glycol depends on the size 2,000 of the airline, both in number of flights and size of the aircraft. The 1,500 mix of glycol/water depends on the aircraft type, weather conditions, humidity, flight time, route/destination, etc. It is thus impossible to set 1,000 a reduction target for glycol consumption. Nonetheless, usage is fol500 lowed up to identify any undesirable deviations. Even if the amount of glycol has been reduced over the years, the amounts depend on 0 weather demands and can be considerable. Some spillage or leakage FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 of glycol may occur in exceptional circumstances. On these occasions, 1) Only main bases; Arlanda, Gardermoen and Copenhagen. there are specific measures to restrict or completely eliminate environmental impact. The remaining glycol is handled according to local regulations and/or reused, so that none or only a low amount is emitted to water. In the 2013/2014 fiscal year, SGH reported zero glycol spills from de-icing trucks or deposits. SAS Sustainabilit y Repor t November 2013 – October 2014 23 Fuel used on the ground Ground fuel used by SGH and SAS Maintenance Production. Ground fuel in 000s liters1 SAS focuses on reducing ground fuel through LEAN activities and 2,000 replacement of ground vehicles and equipment with more efficient alternatives to reduce environmental impact and enhance the work environ1,800 ment. 1,600 SAS’s goal is to reduce ground-vehicle consumption of fossil fuels 1,400 by 10% at SAS’s major airports in Scandinavia by the 2014/2015 1,200 fiscal year compared with 2010. Fuel consumption was reduced by 35% in the 2013/2014 fiscal year compared with full-year 2010. 1,000 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 Diesel consumption has been reduced significantly per departure in Diesel Petrol recent years. 1) Only main bases; Arlanda, Gardermoen and Copenhagen Energy Ground energy used in all owned or leased buildings used by SAS. Energy in GWh The work with increase energy efficiency continued in the 2013/2014 250 fiscal year for all owned or leased buildings. 200 SAS’s goal is to reduce total ground-related energy consumption 150 by 15% in the 2014/2015 fiscal year compared with 2010. Energy consumption was reduced by 37.1% in the 2013/2014 fiscal year 100 compared with full-year 2010. 50 In general, energy consumption is decreasing due to a lower number of 0 buildings used and a focus on increased energy efficiency. FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 Heat Electricity Chemicals treatment plants locally. There is an in-house treatment plant at SAS’s SAS Maintenance Production is the largest user of chemicals in SAS. home bases and there are contracts made with qualified companies to The chemical products are required by the aircraft manufacturers and collect and safely deliver the hazardous waste. authorities and cannot be replaced by SAS alone. The list of products is The aims of chemical purchasing activities include reduction in storlong, with many kinds of cleaners, paint, grease, oils, and glues for difage and the number of suppliers, as well as reducing environmentally ferent commodities such as rubber, textiles and metal. Maintenance hazardous waste. This work has resulted in optimized inventories and Production generate SAS’s highest share of hazardous waste. The use less storage and transportation involved in deliveries from suppliers. of these products sometimes results in waste and emissions to air and The number of products purchased has dropped by one third in these are handled by approved waste-management providers. total and SAS Maintenance Production’s own purchases have fallen by There are many devices in the hangars and documented activities in more than 90% since 2010. SAS has a Chemical Review Board tasked order to minimize the impact on the environment. These include active with following up and ensuring compliance with the environmental legcontact with the aircraft manufacturer to obtain approval for the subislation in the Scandinavian Countries and EU. Examples of other tasks stitution of certain products to more environmentally friendly products include establishing processes to follow the applicable specifications with less solvent and fewer toxic ingredients. Wastewater and air emisfor use on aircraft, ensuring reviews of environment aspects, ensuring sions along with the handling of hazardous waste are strictly controlled that hazardous products are replaced by less hazardous ones whereby national pollution control authorities and require regular reporting ever possible, ensuring that the number of different products is kept as and auditing. Wastewater is handled according to local regulations and low as possible and establishing processes for which waste, spills and in most cases, wastewater is treated in closed drainage and in-house emissions are reduced as far as possible. 24 SAS Sustainabilit y Repor t November 2013 – October 2014 Water Data for SAS’s total water quantities derives from a shared data base Water in 1,000 m3 with SAS’s facility management supplier, COOR. 150 SAS has no overal goal on this aspect. The aspect is monitored, reg120 istered and followed up in order to detect undesirable or unexplain90 able trends. However, SAS’s water consumption did decline by 57% in the 2013/2014 fiscal year compared with 2010. The reduction is due 60 to improved processes and less maintenance work conducted at SAS 30 Maintenance Production . 0 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 Emissions calculation and carbon offset mance of aircraft and are part of the landing fee. Other environmentThe SAS emissions calculator, which is available on the SAS website, related costs, such as costs for waste management, purification plants has been approved by a third-party review. The calculator provides and the costs for environmental staff, amounted to MSEK32. SAS has information about all SAS flights, with greenhouse gas emissions preno known major environment-related debts or contingent liabilities, for sented separately. Most calculators on the market calculate the emisexample in the form of contaminated soil. sions based on average fleet performance and a CO2equivalent based Costs for EU-ETS cannot be disclosed since the allowances under on different greenhouse gas emissions. SAS has chosen not to do so EU-ETS for the 2013 and 2014 calendar years are to be returned in because there is no consensus on how to calculate NOX, particles and April 2015. water vapor emissions to CO2 among scientists and experts. SAS offers the the option of offsetting carbon emissions from a specific flight in Environmental-related savings connection with the emissions calculator. The demand for this service is Scandinavian Airlines has an long term fuel-saving program. The calculated low and less than 1% of the customers who book travel via SAS’s webfuel efficiency improvement amounted to 0.1% in the 2013/2014 fissites use this option. The offer is also available for SAS Corporate Cuscal year compared with the 2012/2013 fiscal year. This corresponds to tomers and SAS offsets its own business travel. approximately MSEK 6 in cost savings. Financial aspects of environmental responsibility Environment-related investment SAS’s environmental work has several overriding purposes. Besides The investment made by SAS in accordance with the policies are to be enhancing resource efficiency and improving environmental perforboth environmentally and economically sound, thus contributing to mance, it includes ensuring that the operations comply with environSAS’s value growth and helping to ensure that SAS can meet adopted mental laws and regulations. Some of the most important financial future environmental standards. During the 2013/2014 fiscal year, no aspects of SAS’s environmental work are described below. significant environmental-related investments were conducted. This is because the preferred solution is leasing, rather than investing in airInfrastructure charges and security costs craft, vehicles, computers, etc. Air transport pays the costs for the infrastructure it needs and uses This means that SAS’s environment-related investments disclosed to conduct flights, meaning airports and air traffic control. During the in the Sustainability Report have decreased but not the actual renewal 2013/2014 fiscal year, these costs totaled MSEK 7,763 for Scandinaof vehicles, computers, aircraft, etc. It should also be noted that investvian Airlines. Correspondingly, Scandinavian Airlines also pays MSEK ments not emphasized in this section may also have a positive impact on 1,197 in security costs, which for most other modes of transportation the environment. are financed by taxes. Examples of activities where leasing has been used is the extensive change of aircraft during tha last years, exchange of computers, Environment-related costs exchange of ground vehicles, etc. These activities are not listed as SAS’s external environment-related costs were MSEK 364 for the environment-related investment since they are integrated in SAS’s con2013/2014 fiscal year. These costs comprised environment-related tinuous activities. However, they support SAS’s environmental goals. taxes and charges that are often linked with the environmental perforSAS Sustainabilit y Repor t November 2013 – October 2014 25 Key environmental figures Aspect Aspect Aspect Production Production Production Input (1) Input (1) Input (1) Input (2) Inputs (2) Inputs (2) FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 unit (1) FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 unit (2) Flight Operations Aspect Jet fuel – used 1,191 1,211 1,235 1,000 tonnes 3,741 3,992 4,164 million TK Jet fuel – CO2 3,752 3,815 3,890 1,000 tonnes 3,741 3,992 4,164 million TK Jet fuel – Nox 15.3 16.2 16.4 1,000 tonnes 3,741 3,992 4,164 million TK Jet fuel – HC 0.6 1,000 tonnes 3,741 3,992 4,164 million TK Aicraft Noise – takeoff 684 640 601 1,000 km 2 292 299 305 1,000 departures Jet fuel – CO2 passenger share 3,462 3,494 3,571 1,000 tonnes 32,005 33,633 35,604 million PK Ground Handling Aspect Vehicle Diesel – Fuel used 1,565 1,598 1,474 1,000 liters 202 196 199 1,000 departures Vehicle Diesel – CO2 4,166 4,254 3,926 tonnes 202 196 199 1,000 departures Vehicle Petol – Fuel used 80 56 47 1,000 liters 202 196 199 1,000 departures Vehicle Petrol – CO2 182 128 107 tonnes 202 196 199 1,000 departures Fuel spills 1 4 11 instances 202 196 199 1,000 departures Glycol used 1,186 2,463 1,535 1,000 m3 9.6 15.4 9.8 1,000 de-icings Technical Maintenance Aspect Vehicle Diesel – Fuel used 82 89 85 1,000 liters 130 131 133 1,000 departures Vehicle Diesel – CO2 217 238 226 tonnes 130 131 133 1,000 departures Vehicle Petrol – Fuel used 52 33 19 1,000 liters 130 131 133 1,000 departures Vehicle Petrol – CO2 118 76 43 tonnes 130 131 133 1,000 departures SAS Cargo Groups’ Aspect Jet fuel – CO2 cargo share 290 321 319 1,000 tonnes 541 629 604 million cargo TK CO2 – Truck Diesel used 2,680 2,936 2,918 tonnes 14,347 16,262 18,150 000 TK Energy. Waste and Water Energy 172 149 125 GWh 13.6 12.91 12.31 1,000 FTEs As of electricity 90 69 57 GWh 13.6 12.91 12.31 1,000 FTEs As of heating 81 81 68 GWh 13.6 12.91 12.3 1 1,000 FTEs As of heating oil (included in heating ) 2 GWh 13.6 12.91 12.31 1,000 FTEs Unsorted Waste 566 406 255 tonnes 13.6 12.91 12.31 1,000 FTEs Hazardous waste 172 223 138 tonnes 13.6 12.91 12.3 1 1,000 FTEs Water 146 99 63 1.000 m3 13.6 12.91 12.31 1,000 FTEs 1) SAS excl. Widerøe. 26 SAS Sustainabilit y Repor t November 2013 – October 2014 Relationship (1) to (2) Relationship (1) to (2) Result FY2013 Result FY2014 Result FY2013, % Result FY2014, % Kilo per TK 0.303 0.297 -4.7 -2.2 CO2 gram/TK 956 934 -4.7 -2.2 NOX gram/TK 4.05 3.95 -1.2 -2.5 HC gram/TK 0.13 85db area in KM per departure 2 2.14 1.97 -8.7 -7.9 CO2 gram/PK 104 100 -4.0 -3.4 1,000 liters per departure 8.1 7.4 5.5 -9.3 CO2 kilo per departure 21.7 19.7 5.5 -9.3 1,000 liters per departure 0.3 0.2 -27.6 -17.3 CO2 kilo per departure 0.7 0.5 -27.6 -17.3 Spills per 1,000 departures 0.02 0.06 Liter per de-icing 160 157 29.4 -1.7 1,000 liters per departure 0.7 0.6 7.9 -6.3 CO2 kilo per departure 1.8 1.7 7.9 -6.3 1,000 liters per departure 0.3 0.1 -36.5 -44.3 CO2 kilo per departure 0.6 0.3 -36.5 -44.3 CO2 gram/cargo TK 510 528 -4.7 3.5 CO2 gram/TK 181 161 -3.3 -10.9 MWh per FTE 11.6 10.1 -8.3 -12.3 MWh per FTE 5.3 4.6 -19.9 -13.4 MWh per FTE 6.2 5.5 4.6 -11.4 MWh per FTE 0.1 kilo per FTE 31.4 20.7 -24.2 -34.0 kilo per FTE 17.2 11.2 37.1 -35.2 m3 per FTE 7.6 5.1 -28.7 -32.7 SAS Sustainabilit y Repor t November 2013 – October 2014 27 About GRI GRI’s Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, version 3, stipulates that Financial responsibility SAS is to determine the entities whose performance is to be reported in Information regarding financial results can be found on page 1 and the Sustainability Report. The entities included in the SAS Sustainabilon page 19 and onward in the SAS Annual Report with sustainability ity Report November 2013–October 2014 are presented in the introreview, November 2013–October 2014. Information concerning SAS’s duction of SAS’s Accounting Policies for Sustainability Reporting on financial responsibility is provided on pages 17 and 25 in the SAS Suspages 38–39. The reporting boundary, including changes compared tainability Report November 2013–October 2014, where SAS’s indirect with previous reports, is disclosed in SAS’s Accounting Policies for Suseconomic impact is described. Information regarding market shares, tainability Reporting. etc. is found on pages 84–87, in the SAS Annual Report with sustainGRI’s Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, version 3, prescribes ability review, November 2013–October 2014. disclosure of GRI Application Level Criteria for organizations using the Guidelines. Environmental responsibility SAS’s main environmental impact is related to the combustion of nonC C+ B B+ A A+ renewable fuels. Thus, the major disclosures regarding environmental aspects are consumption of non-renewable fuels, emissions of CO2 and Self-declared √ NOX, and noise. This information is found on pages 5, and 26–27. TarThird-party Checked √ gets and results of SAS’s environmental work are disclosed on pages 22–27. On page 8, the organization and management SAS has self-declared its reporting to be Application Level A+. of SAS’s sustainability work are described, together with processes for PwC has audited SAS’s reporting and has confirmed it to be Applicafeedback and reporting of environmental data. tion Level A+. Regarding disclosure of management approach, as required by GRI, Social responsibility SAS has chosen to report on management approach as an integrated Labor practices and decent work: Relevant information regarding SAS’s part of the SAS Annual Report with sustainability review, November approach to labor practices and decent work is presented on pages 9 2013–October 2014 and the SAS Sustainability Report November and 14–18. Policies regarding labor practices and decent work are dis2013–October 2014. See below for further details regarding referclosed on SAS Group’s website (www.sasgroup.net). The process for ences to SAS’s management approach: handling issues regarding labor practices and managing feedback and reporting of labor data is described on page 8. All page references refer to the SAS Sustainability Report Human rights: Relevant information regarding SAS’s approach to November 2013–October 2014 unless otherwise specified. human rights can be found on pages 8 and 16 and in the GRI Cross-reference list. Guideline on Management Approach Society: Relevant information regarding SAS’s approach to commuA general description of SAS’s approach to responsibility for sustainnities, corruption, public policy, anti-competitive behavior, and compliable development is found on pages 6–9 where SAS defines social, ance, can be found on page 8 and in the SAS Code of Conduct available environmental, and financial responsibility, including SAS’s compreon the SAS Group’s website. For any significant case of non-complihensive objectives governing its operations. Strategies, values, and ance during the year information is disclosed in the Report by the Board extracts from policies guiding SAS’s operations can be found on pages of Directors on pages 19–25 in SAS Annual Report with sustainability 11 (policies, with relevance for sustainability, can also be found on the review, November 2013–October 2014. SAS Group’s website, www.sasgroup.net). Product responsibility: SAS mainly offers services. Where relevant, A description of the organization and management of SAS’s susinformation regarding service responsibility is disclosed as part of tainability work is provided on page 8. Relevant information concerning SAS’s social responsibility on page 16, otherwise it is commented on in both positive and negative aspects of SAS’s performance is disclosed the GRI Cross-reference list. throughout the report. The most significant aspects are commented on in the Board of Directors’ Report on pages 19–25 in the SAS Annual Report with sustainability review, November 2013–October 2014. Risks and opportunities are included in SAS Annual Report with sustainability review, November 2013–October 2014, on pages 7–15 and 81–83. 28 SAS Sustainabilit y Repor t November 2013 – October 2014 Sustainability Report – GRI Cross Reference List Core Indicator Page reference Reported Comments Profile Strategy & Analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision maker of the AR14 pages 2–3. organization about the relevance of sustainability to SR14 page 1. the organization and its strategy. 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. AR14 pages 81–83. Description of major risks identified and correspondSR14 pages 9 and 10. ing actions are described on pages 81–84 (AR14). SAS aspects are on pages 10 (SR14). Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of reporting organization. SR14 back cover. 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. AR14 inside front cover. 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including AR14 pages 66 and 92. Operational structure on page 66 (AR14), Joint Ventures main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, SR14 page 2 and Partners on page 92 (AR14). Airlines and operating and joint ventures. companies on pages 2 (SR14). 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters. SR14 back cover. SAS Group Frösundaviks Allé 1, SE-195 87 Stockholm, Sweden. 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates, AR14 pages 5-6 and 93. The main markets for SAS are described on page and names of countries with either major operations 5–6 (AR14). or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability isA map detailing all locations is found on page 93 sues covered in the report. (AR14). 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. AR14 pages 66 and 84–87. The legal form is described on page 66 and the largest shareholders on pages 84–87 (AR14). 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, AR14 page 5-6 and SAS’s main markets are described on pages sectors served, and types of customers/beneficiaries). 93. 5-6 (AR14). A map detailing all locations is found on page 93 (AR14). 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization, including: AR14 pages 26, 39 and 88. • Passengers served on pages 88 (AR14).) • Number of employees; • Net sales on page 26 (AR14) • Net sales (for private sector organizations) or • Total capitalization specified by liabilities and equity on net revenues (for public sector organizations); page 26 (AR14) • Total capitalization broken down in terms of debt • Number of employees on pages 39 (AR14) and equity (for private sector organizations); and • Quantity of products or services provided. 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period AR14 pages 7–15. regarding size, structure, or ownership. 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. SAS was awarded as best airline in the Swedish brand study on sustainability (Sustainable Brand Index) in 2014. Report Parameter Report Profile 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for SR14 front cover. information provided. 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). SR14 inside front cover. Previous reports can be obtained from the SAS website (www.sasgroup.net). 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) AR14 page 93. Annual reporting. 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its SR14 inside front cover. Inquiries regarding the Annual Report are handled contents. by Investor Relations and inquiries regarding the Sustainability Report are handled by the Head of Environment and CSR. Report Scope and Boundary 3.5 Process for defining report content, including: SR14 page 10. • Determining materiality; • Prioritizing topics within the report; and • Identifying stakeholders the organization expects to use the report. 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, SR14 inside front cover and subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, pages 38–39 (Accounting Polisuppliers). cies for Sustainability Reporting November 2013– October 2014). 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or SR14 inside front cover and boundary of the report. pages 38–39 (Accounting Policies for Sustainability Reporting November 2013– October 2014). AR14 = SAS Annual Report with sustainability review, November 2013–October 2014 SR14 = SAS Sustainability Report November 2013–October 2014 Reported Partially reported Not reported SAS Sustainabilit y Repor t November 2013 – October 2014 29 Core Indicator Page reference Reported Comments 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, AR14 pages 32–38. The accounting policies of the SAS Annual Report are leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other SR14 pages 38–39 described on page 32–38 (AR14). Any deviations from entities that can significantly affect comparability (Accounting Policies for Susthese principles in the Sustainability Report are defrom period to period and/or between organizations. tainability Reporting scribed in the Accounting Policies for Sustainability November 2013–October Reporting November 2013–October 2014. 2014). 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of AR14 pages 32–38. The accounting policies of the SAS’s Annual Report calculations, including assumptions and techniques SR14 pages 38–39 are described on page 32–38. Any deviations from underlying estimations applied to the compilation of (Accounting Policies for Susthese principles in the Sustainability Report are dethe Indicators and other information in the report. tainability Reporting scribed in the Accounting Policies for Sustainability ReNovember 2013–October porting November 2013–October 2014. 2014). 3.10 E xplanation of the effect of any re-statements of AR14 pages 19–25 and Any significant restatements regarding the financial information provided in earlier reports, and the 32–38. reports are disclosed in the Report by the Board of Direasons for such re-statement (e.g., mergers/ SR14 pages 38–39 rectors on pages 19–25 or in the accounting policies acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature (Accounting Policies for on pages 32–38 (AR14). Restatements regarding the of business, measurement methods). Sustainability Reporting Sustainability Report are disclosed in Accounting PoliNovember 2013–October cies for Sustainability Reporting November 2013–Oc2014). tober 2014. 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods SR14 pages 38–39 in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods (Accounting Policies for Susapplied in the report. tainability Reporting November 2013–October 2014). GRI Content Index 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard SR14 pages 29–37. Disclosures in the report. Assurance 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking AR14 page 77. The Auditor’s report of the Annual Report is found on external assurance for the report. If not included in SR14 page 42. page 77 (AR14). The auditor’s assurance report of the the assurance report accompanying the sustainability Sustainability Report is found on page 42 (SR14). report, explain the scope and basis of any external assurance provided. Also explain the relationship between the reporting organization and the assurance provider(s). Governance Governance 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including AR14 pages 66–73. The Corporate Governance Report on pages 66–73 committees under the highest governance body (AR14) discloses detailed information on the goverresponsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy nance structure. or organizational oversight. 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance AR14 pages 72. Fritz H. Schur, the SAS Group Chairman, does not hold body is also an executive officer (and, if so, their any executive position in SAS. function within the organization’s management and the reasons for this arrangement). 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, AR14 pages 72–73. The majority of the members of the Board of Directors state the number of members of the highest goverare defined as independent from major shareholders nance body that are independent and/or non-execuas described on pages 72–73 (AR14). All of the memtive members. bers of the Board of Directors are non-executive except for the union representatives who are elected through the trade unions’ own process. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to AR14 pages 66–68. The Annual General Shareholders’ Meeting is the main provide recommendations or direction to the highest SR14 page 14. mechanism for shareholders to provide recommendagovernance body. tions or direction to the Board of Directors as described on pages 66–68 (AR14). SAS has union representatives on the Board of Directors as described on page 14 (SR14). 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the AR14 pages 39–40. As stated on pages 39–40 (AR14), executive compenhighest governance body, senior managers, and execsation comprises only fixed remuneration for the utives (including departure arrangements), and the 2013/2014 fiscal year. organization’s performance (including social and environmental performance). 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body AR14 pages 66–68 and The majority of the members of the Board of Directors to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. 68-69. are defined as independent from major shareholders as described on pages 68–69 (AR14). The Nomination Committee evaluates the work, competence and composition of the Board of Directors on an ongoing basis as described on pages 66–68 (AR14). AR14 = SAS Annual Report with sustainability review, November 2013–October 2014 SR14 = SAS Sustainability Report November 2013–October 2014 Reported Partially reported Not reported 30 SAS Sustainabilit y Repor t November 2013 – October 2014 Core Indicator Page reference Reported Comments 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and experAR14 page 67 and pages The Nomination Committee evaluates the work, tise of the members of the highest governance body 67–68. competence and composition of the Board of for guiding the organization’s strategy on economic, Directors on an ongoing basis as described on environmental, and social topics. page 67 (AR14). The Board of Directors prior and current engagements are disclosed on pages 67–68 (AR14). 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, AR14 inside front cover. codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, SR14 page 11. environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation. 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overAR14 pages 67–68. The Board of Directors have sustainable development seeing the organization’s identification and manageSR14 page 8. on their agenda as described on pages 67–68 (AR14). ment of economic, environmental, and social perforThe organization and structure of the SAS’s sustainmance, including relevant risks and opportunities, ability work is described on page 8 (SR14). and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance AR14 pages 66–68. The Nomination Committee evaluates the work, combody’s own performance, particularly with respect to petence and composition of the Board of Directors on economic, environmental, and social performance. an ongoing basis as described on page 67 (AR14). The Annual General Shareholders’ Meeting is the main forum for all shareholders to evaluate the Board of Directors as described on pages 66 (AR14). Commitments to External Initiatives 4.11 E xplanation of whether and how the precautionary SR14 pages 9, 18 and 23. SAS has joined the UN Global Compact, which preapproach or principle is addressed by the organization. scribes the precautionary approach as one of their ten principles. The precautionary approach is also a principle of the Rio Declaration, which is a part of both the SAS Code of Conduct and the SAS’s Purchasing Policy. SAS’s commitment to the UN Global Compact is described on page 9 (SR14). Examples of how the precautionary approach has been applied are provided on page 18 onwards (SR14) regarding SAS Environmental Programs and on 23 (SR14) regarding SAS Tech’s activities to reduce and replace chemicals. 4.12 E xternally developed economic, environmental, and SR14 pages 7 and 9. social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses. 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry SR14 pages 12–13 . SAS is members of several industry and business associations) and/or national/international advocacy organizations. The memberships stated on pages 12– organizations. 13 (SR14) are considered the most important. Stakeholder Engagement 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the SR14 page 12. organization. 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders SR14 pages 12–13. General selection criteria are not used since SAS nevwith whom to engage. er denies a stakeholder an opportunity for dialog. 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including SR14 pages 12–13. The approach to stakeholder engagement is frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder described on page 12–13 (SR14). In the table on page group. 12 (SR14) specific dialogs with stakeholders are described, with the frequency depening on the nature of the dialog. 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised SR14 pages 12–13. through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. AR14 = SAS Annual Report with sustainability review, November 2013–October 2014 SR14 = SAS Sustainability Report November 2013–October 2014 Reported Partially reported Not reported SAS Sustainabilit y Repor t November 2013 – October 2014 31 Performance Indicators Page reference Reported Comments Economic Economic Performance EC1 Economic value generated and distributed. AR14 pages 26–27. Economic value generated and distributed is disSR14 pages 17 and 25. closed on pages 26–27 (AR14). Sustainability specific economic values are disclosed on pages 17 and 25 (SR14). SAS is aware that this indicator is not reported in line with the GRI protocol. SAS has decided to report as it has in previous years. EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportuniSR14 pages 19–21 Perspectives on climate change, including risks and ties for the organization’s activities due to climate and page 25. opportunities, are described on pages 19–21 (SR14). change. SAS’s activities to reduce the emissions and the impact on climate change are described throughout the Sustainability Report. The financial implications of environmental related costs are described on pages 25 (SR14). EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan AR14 pages 46–49. SAS’s defined benefit pensions are disclosed in Note obligations. 15 on pages 46–49 (AR14) in accordance with IAS 19. EC4 Significant financial assistance received from AR14 page 86. SAS receives no significant subsidies. In the airline ingovernment. dustry, all operators may be eligible to a discount during the first months of operation on a new flight connection. Some connections to smaller airports, notably in Norway and in Sweden, are subject to a public procurement process, where the winning tender results in the operator being awarded a fixed sum for operating a flight connection under given frequencies, airplane sizes and timeframes. Due to the open procurement process, SAS does not consider this to be a form of subsidy. The Scandinavian governments are major shareholders of SAS as stated on pages 86 (AR14). Market Presence EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on SAS promotes the consideration of local suppliers. locally-based suppliers at significant locations of Fuel is, for example, never sourced from only one supoperation. plier since SAS’s Purchasing Policy encourages the use of multiple suppliers for significant purchases. Catering and waste disposal is, for example. usually provided by local suppliers. However, SAS does not collect data at an aggregated level for this indicator. EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior SAS employees are based in the Nordic countries. management hired from the local community at SAS seeks to attain as high a level of locally recruited significant locations of operation. management as possible, due to both better knowledge of local markets and lower cost compared with expatriates. However, SAS does not collect data at an aggregated level for this indicator. Indirect Economic Impacts EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investSAS’s airline operations are an important part of the ments and services provided primarily for public transportation infrastructure in all countries where it benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono operates. All in-kind or pro-bono engagements reengagement. garding infrastructure, for example, free or subsidized airline tickets, are conducted by each subsidiary itself since the subsidiaries are best suited to decide which engagements to support. However, SAS does not collect data at an aggregated level for this indicator. Examples of humanitarian assistance and partnerships are described on page 16 (SR14). EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect SR14 page 13. Research and development are described on page 13 economic impacts, including the extent of impacts. (SR14). Environmental Materials EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. SAS does not use any material for producing air transport. EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. SR14 pages 5 and 26–27. The jet fuel consumed by SAS is the dominant source of energy. All certified jet fuels are fossil based. Direct energy consumption is reported on the following pages: Jet fuel – pages 26–27 (SR14). Diesel/petrol – pages 26–27 (SR14). AR14 = SAS Annual Report with sustainability review, November 2013–October 2014 SR14 = SAS Sustainability Report November 2013–October 2014 Reported Partially reported Not reported 32 SAS Sustainabilit y Repor t November 2013 – October 2014 Performance Indicators Page reference Reported Comments EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. SR14 pages 5 and 26–27. SAS reports energy use in kWh or GWh as applicable. SAS does not convert these figures into joule. Reporting this indicator by primary source is not considered relevant since jet fuel is the dominant source of energy for SAS. EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency SR14 pages 19–21 and 27. SAS reports efficiency as fuel consumption relative to improvements. passenger kilometers on pages 27 (SR14). The fuel-saving programs are described on pages 19–21 (SR14) EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable SR14 pages 19–21 and 27. SAS reports efficiency as fuel consumption relative to energy based products and services, and reductions passenger kilometers on pages 27 (SR14). The in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. fuel-saving programs are described on pages 19–21 (SR14). The option for customers to offset the CO2 emissions from their flight is described on page 27 (SR14). The research into jet fuel that partly based on renewable resources is described on page 20 -21 (SR14). EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption Indirect energy consumption (excluding purchased and reductions achieved. electricity) is not considered material for SAS. Regarding to employee business travel, the vast majority of flights made by employees are reported in terms of direct greenhouse gas emissions and are CO2-compensated. Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. SR14 pages 5 and 26–27. Water withdrawal as a total figure is disclosed on pages 26–27 (SR14). Dividing it by source is not deemed material. Biodiversity EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed SAS’s impact on biodiversity is described on page in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high 18 (SR14). SAS does not generally own land. For biodiversity value outside protected areas. locations where SAS’s operations may have an indirect significant impact on biodiversity, SAS is involved in dialogs with airport operators as described on pages 12–13 (SR14). SAS, through Star Alliance, has a partnership agreement – Biosphere Connections – with a group of international organizations such as UNESCO, IUCN and Convention of wetlands (Ramsar) as described on http://www.staralliance.com/en/about/initiatives/ environment/ EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, SR14 pages 12-13. SAS’s impact on biodiversity is described on page 18 products, and services on biodiversity in protected (SR14). SAS does not generally own land. For areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside locations where SAS’s operations may have an indiprotected areas. rect significant impact on biodiversity, SAS is involved in dialogs with airport operators. An example is described on pages 12–13 (SR14). Emissions, Effluents, and Waste EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions SR14 pages 5 and 26–27. SAS reports on direct greenhouse gas emissions on by weight. pages 4 and 26–27 (SR14). EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions SAS does not consider other indirect greenhouse gas by weight. emissions to be material compared with direct emissions, which comprise the most significant environmental impact of SAS’s operations. Regarding to employee business travel, the vast majority of flights made by employees are reported in terms of direct greenhouse gas emissions. EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and SR14 pages 18–20, 22 and Greenhouse gas emissions are the most significant reductions achieved. 26-27. environmental impact generated by SAS. Accordingly, initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions are presented throughout the Report. Reductions achieved, both absolute and relative, are presented on pages 18–20 (SR14). EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. SR14 page 18. SAS’s airline operations have an exemption to use halons and submit annual reports to the authorities. The reason for the exemption is that there are no safe alternatives to halons as a fire extinguishant. The amount of halons used is disclosed on page 18 (SR14). Any emissions of halons will be disclosed in the Sustainability Report. EN20 NOX and other significant air emissions by type and SR14 pages 4 and 26–27. SAS reports NOX emissions. Other types of emissions weight. are not considered material in relation to the emissions of CO2 and NOX. AR14 = SAS Annual Report with sustainability review, November 2013–October 2014 SR14 = SAS Sustainability Report November 2013–October 2014 Reported Partially reported Not reported SAS Sustainabilit y Repor t November 2013 – October 2014 33 Performance Indicators Page reference Reported Comments EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. SAS does not report on discharges to water since SAS’s normal operations do not generate any material discharges. EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. SR14 pages 26–27. Waste is separated into unsorted waste and hazardous waste. EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. AR14 pages 19–25. All significant spills are disclosed in the Sustainability SR14 pages 21 and 26–27. report and/or the Report by the Board of Directors. Products and Services EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of SR14 pages 18–20. The purposes of the SAS’s environmental efforts are products and services, and extent of impact all focused on reducing the environmental impact of mitigation. the services provided. Examples are SAS’s goal to reduce flight emissions by 20% in the 2014/2015 fiscal year compared with full-year 2005, as described on pages 18-20 (SR14), and SAS’s work on alternative sustainable jet fuel is described on page 20 (SR14). EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging The products sold by SAS are not considered material. materials that are reclaimed by category. Compliance EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number AR14 pages 19–25. SAS discloses significant fines on a subsidiary by subof non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with sidiary basis and/or in the Report by the Board of Dienvironmental laws and regulations. rectors. No fines were levied in the 2013/2014 fiscal year. Transport EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting SR14 pages 26–27. The fuel consumption by SAS ground operations’ products and other goods and materials used for the vehicles includes transportation of goods at the airorganization’s operations, and transporting memports where these operations are conducted. The bers of the workforce. transportation of workforce members is included in the figures for SAS’s environmental impact. Overall EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and SR14 page 25. SAS discloses sustainability-related charges, costs and investments by type. investments on page 25 (SR14), due to the long history of reporting on internal definitions that are similar but not exactly the same as those prescribed in the indicator protocol. Social Performance: Labor Practices & Decent Work Employment LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment AR14 page 39. The workforce, in terms of number of employees, contract, and region. SR14 page 18. is reported in accordance with SAS’s Accounting Policies for Sustainability Reporting November 2013– October 2014 . SAS only reports total workforce by region, not by employment type or contract. LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age SAS does not report detailed turnover figures. group, gender, and region. Employee turnover is not deemed a significant key performance indicator at an aggregated group level. Labor/Management Relations LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective SR14 page 14. In general, all SAS employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. bargaining agreements. The main exception is senior management at Group level. LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant Information, consultation and negotiation procedures operational changes, including whether it is specified with employees regarding significant operational isin collective agreements. sues are regulated by national laws and regulations. Accordingly, minimum notice periods are not reported. Occupational Health and Safety LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal SR14 page 15. Joint management-worker health and safety commitjoint management-worker health and safety committees cover all SAS employees. tees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and AR14 pages 1 and 17. absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities SR14 pages 16 and 18. by region. LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and SR14 page 16. SAS does not have any specific programs, although risk-control programs in place to assist workforce the HSE department described on page 16 (SR14) conmembers, their families, or community members tinuously assists all SAS personnel regarding health regarding serious diseases. issues, for example, stress or HIV/AIDS. Training and Education LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by SR14 pages 14 and 16. SAS reports total hours of training, not per employee employee category. or employee category. AR14 = SAS Annual Report with sustainability review, November 2013–October 2014 SR14 = SAS Sustainability Report November 2013–October 2014 Reported Partially reported Not reported 34 SAS Sustainabilit y Repor t November 2013 – October 2014 Performance Indicators Page reference Reported Comments LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learnSR14 pages 14 and 16. SAS’s work on skills management is described on ing that support the continued employability of empages 14 and 16 (SR14). Programs to support employees and assist them in managing career endings. ployee career transitions are available both from SAS’s own activites and through those provided by local/regional/national governments. Sabbatical periods and severance pay are regulated by national laws and rules. Solutions for restructuring etc. are handled in dialog with the parties concerned since the Scandinavian countries have a long history of close cooperation between businesses, trade unions and government . LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular All employees have the right to receive annual perforperformance and career development reviews. mance and career development reviews. Diversity and Equal Opportunity LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown AR14 pages 72–75. The Board of Directors and management are presentof employees per category according to gender, age SR14 page 18. ed on pages 72–75 (AR14). A gender breakdown of group, minority group membership, and other employees is presented on page 18 (SR14). No further indicators of diversity. indicators of diversity are aggregated at company level. LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee The vast majority of all SAS employees are subject to category. collective bargaining agreements that define salary and other benefits, equal for both women and men as described on page 14 (SR14). As a result, no indicator on salary ratio is reported. Social Performance: Human Rights Investment and Procurement Practices HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investThe SAS General Terms & Conditions includes clauses ment agreements that include human rights clauses regarding the UN Global Compact’s 10 principles. or that have undergone human rights screening. The majority of SAS’s suppliers are assessed in terms of sustainability related issues. HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors The SAS General Terms & Conditions includes clauses that have undergone screening on human rights and regarding the UN Global Compact’s 10 principles. actions taken. HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and SR14 pages 14 and 16. SAS provides an e-learning program for its Code of procedures concerning aspects of human rights that Conduct. The number of employees that completed are relevant to operations, including the percentage the program during the fiscal year is reported on pagof employees trained. es 14 and 16 (SR14). Non-Discrimination HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and Incidents can be reported in three ways: the whistleactions taken. blower function as mentioned on page 8 (SR14), safety representatives, and management and HR representatives. Incidents are not publicly reported due to the potential confidentiality of the information. Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining HR5 Operations identified in which the right to exercise SAS endorses the UN Global Compact, whose ten freedom of association and collective bargaining may principles are based on the UN Declaration on Human be at significant risk, and actions taken to support Rights, the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles these rights. and Rights at Work, the UN Rio Declaration on Environment and Development and the UN Convention against Corruption. SAS endeavors to act responsibly in the countries and contexts where the company operates. This means, for example, that SAS is always to be associated with respect for human rights, acceptable labor standards, social considerations and sustained environmental work. A self-assessment of the Global Compact principles (including human rights) is performed every year. Child Labor HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for SAS endorses the UN Global Compact, whose ten incidents of child labor, and measures taken to principles are based on the UN Declaration on Human contribute to the elimination of child labor. Rights, the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, the UN Rio Declaration on Environment and Development and the UN Convention against Corruption. SAS endeavors to act responsibly in the countries and contexts where SAS operates. This means, for example, that SAS is always to be associated with respect for human rights, acceptable labor standards, social considerations and sustained environmental work. A self-assessment of the Global Compact principles (including human rights) is performed every year. AR14 = SAS Annual Report with sustainability review, November 2013–October 2014 SR14 = SAS Sustainability Report November 2013–October 2014 Reported Partially reported Not reported SAS Sustainabilit y Repor t November 2013 – October 2014 35 Performance Indicators Page reference Reported Comments Forced and Compulsory Labor HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for SAS endorses the UN Global Compact, whose ten incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and meaprinciples are based on the UN Declaration on Human sures to contribute to the elimination of forced or Rights, the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles compulsory labor. and Rights at Work, the UN Rio Declaration on Environment and Development and the UN Convention against Corruption. SAS endeavors to act responsibly in the countries and contexts where SAS operates. This means, for example, that SAS is always to be associated with respect for human rights, acceptable labor standards, social considerations and sustained environmental work. A self-assessment of the Global Compact principles (including human rights) is performed every year. Security Practices HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the orgaSAS does not employ security personnel in its operanization’s policies or procedures concerning aspects tions since this is the responsibility of the airport operof human rights that are relevant to operations. ators. However, the personnel of SAS’scentral security department, who are are responsible for companywide security, are introduced to the Code of Conduct, as all SAS employees are. Indigenous Rights HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights No incident of violations involving rights of indigenous of indigenous people and actions taken. people was reported during November 2013–October 2014. Social Performance: Society Community SO1 Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs SAS is constantly involved in stakeholder dialogs and practices that assess and manage the impacts in order to assess and manage impact on of operations on communities, including entering, communities. operating, and exiting. Corruption SO2 Percentage and total number of business units SAS considers all business where valuable resources analyzed for risks related to corruption. are handled to be at risk of corruption, and therefore all employees are covered by the SAS Code of Conduct. Comprehensive guidelines are also available for all employees regarding situations where risks related to corruption and other issues of unethical behavior are present. As a result, all business units are continuously analyzed for corruption-related risks. SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s SR14 page 14. SAS provides an e-learning program for its Code of anti-corruption policies and procedures. Conduct. The number of employees that completed the program during the fiscal year is reported on pages 14 (SR14). All key personnel have been trained in the SAS Competition Law Compliance Program. SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. SAS has not been the victim of any material crime or instance of fraud. SAS takes substantial measures to ensure that ethical behavior is a core value in all business relationships through the Code of Conduct and the SAS Competition Law Compliance Program. Public Policy SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public SAS Code of Conduct The SAS Code of Conduct states that “communication policy development and lobbying. work is to be conducted on a high, professional level and follow the laws and regulations that apply to listed companies. Internal and external communication is used to create insight, understanding, motivation, strength, willingness to change, sound labor standards and a good reputation. The main principle is that central functions are responsible for all communication affecting overarching issues in SAS.” In addition, the public affairs department manages all communication activities with authorities and politicians. Many of the organizations of which SAS is a member (AEA and IATA) carry out lobby activities. However, SAS does not make any contributions or give other support, direct or indirect, to political parties or individual politicians. Employees are also not permitted to make contributions at SAS’s expense or provide assistance in the form of funds or resources from SAS. For more information, see also the SAS Code of Conduct available at www.sasgroup.net under the heading “Sustainability.” AR14 = SAS Annual Report with sustainability review, November 2013–October 2014 SR14 = SAS Sustainability Report November 2013–October 2014 Reported Partially reported Not reported 36 SAS Sustainabilit y Repor t November 2013 – October 2014 Performance Indicators Page reference Reported Comments Anti-Competitive Behavior SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive SAS has an extensive program, SAS Competition Law behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their Compliance Program, to ensure that professional busioutcomes. ness relations are maintained. SAS has not been the victim of any material crime or instance of fraud. Compliance SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number AR14 page 25. SAS discloses significant fines on a subsidiary by subof non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with sidiary basis and/or in the Report by the Board of Dilaws and regulations. rectors. No significant fines were levied in the 2013/2014 fiscal year. Social Performance: Product Responsibility Customer Health and Safety PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of AR14 pages 23-24. Flight safety is a main concern of SAS, and all of its airproducts and services are assessed for improvement, lines are certified in accordance to IOASA (IATA Operaand percentage of significant products and services tional Safety Audit). Further details about SAS’s apcategories subject to such procedures. proach to customer safety can be found on pages 23-24 (AR14). PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with AR14 page 24. SAS reports a risk index for Scandinavian Airlines and regulations and voluntary codes concerning health deviations in accordance with ICAO’s rules and regulaand safety impacts of products and services during tions on page 24 (AR14). SAS considers flight safety to their life cycle, by type of outcomes. be the most relevant indicator for customer health and safety. Products and Service Labeling PR3 Type of product and service information required by All airline travel has substantial information requireprocedures, and percentage of significant products ments. SAS strives to adhere to all laws and regulaand services subject to such information requiretions regarding service information. However, data on ments. information requirements are not publicly communicated. PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including AR14 page 15. SAS publishes results of its customer satisfaction results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. surveys or other customer satisfaction measures per entity and at an overall level. Marketing Communications PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and volSR12 page 6. The SAS Code of Conduct and SAS Competition Law untary codes related to marketing communications, Compliance Program both include the subject of marincluding advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. keting and communications. Compliance PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for nonAR14 page 24. SAS discloses all significant legal actions, including compliance with laws and regulations concerning fines for non-compliance concerning the provision the provision and use of products and services. and use of services, see page 24 (AR14) for further details. AR14 = SAS Annual Report with sustainability review, November 2013–October 2014 SR14 = SAS Sustainability Report November 2013–October 2014 Reported Partially reported Not reported SAS Sustainabilit y Repor t November 2013 – October 2014 37 Accounting Policies for Sustainability Reporting 2013/2014 fiscal year “SAS” or “The SAS Group” is used throughout the Report when the uary 2015. The SAS Group Board of Directors submitted the Annual total operations are referred to. Report with sustainability review, November 2013–October 2014 in For the the 2013/2014 fiscal year, SAS reports its general susJanuary 2015, and was informed of the Sustainability Report. tainability results divided into the same segments as disclosed in the Annual Report: Limitations • Scandinavian Airlines comprises all operations in the SAS ConsorThe main principle for sustainability reporting is that all units and comtium, including SAS Maintenance Production, SAS Cargo Group (SCG) panies controlled by SAS are accounted for. This means that sustainand Blue1. ability-related data for divested companies owned by SAS during the period is reported wherever possible. The same accounting policies as • SAS Ground Handling (SGH). for financial information in the Annual Report with sustainability review are intended to be used for financial information in the Sustainability For environmental responsibility, SAS strives to distinguish between Report. airline and ground operations. Accordingly, the following divisions have SAS has a number of production indicators (such as passenger been made: kilometers and tonne kilometers). There are differences between the • Airline operations with an SK flight number. Annual Report and the Sustainability Report as regards the disclo• Ground handling in SAS Ground Handling (SGH). SGH conducts sure of the number of passenger kilometers. The Annual Report uses ground handling for Scandinavian Airlines, Blue1 and other customRevenue passenger kilometers (RPK) where paying passengers are ers, such as other airlines. included, while the Sustainability Report uses passenger kilometers (PK) where all passengers are included. • Technical maintenance in SAS Maintenance Production. SAS MainteStandard definitions for environmental and social data have been nance Production conduct technical maintenance primarily for Scanapplied throughout SAS. None of the limitations are considered to have dinavian Airlines but also for other customers, such as other airlines. any substantial significance. • Freight and mail services within SAS Cargo Group A/S (SCG). • Facilities owned or leased by SAS. Changes in accounting policies and calculating principles The sustainability information in the Sustainability Report is affected by SAS still holds interests in Air Greenland, Estonian Air and Widerøe but the following changes: these are not disclosed since SAS is no longer a majority shareholder Carbon emissions per passenger kilometer are calculated based and is divesting the current holdings. SAS’s structure is presented on on the fuel used for passenger transport. Carbon emissions per cargo page 66 in the SAS Annual Report with sustainability review, November tonne kilometer are calculated based on the fuel used for cargo trans2013–October 2014. port. The result was recalculated from the 2012/2013 fiscal year in order to be comparable. The previous method (all carbon emissions Sustainability reporting divided by all passenger kilometer) continues to be used in order to folSAS’s Sustainability Report has been prepared in accordance with the low up and disclose the flight emissions goal the 2014/2015 fiscal year. SAS Accounting Policies for Sustainability Reporting. SAS has also Ground fuel and de-icing fluid consumption in SAS Ground Handling applied the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) Sustainable Reporting is, from this report, disclosed for SAS ‘smain bases in Denmark, NorGuidelines, version 3.0. GRI cross-references are available on page way and Sweden. Results since 2010 have been recalculated. 29–37. These indicate where the GRI indicators are found in the SAS Climate index is, from this report, calculated using tonne kilomeSustainability Report November 2013–October 2014, and also comter instead of passenger kilometer. Results since base year 2011 have ment on non-applicable GRI-indicators. The Sustainability Report also been recalculated. covers all important principles in the UN Global Compact. GRI’s SusNitrogen oxides (NOX) and HC emissions from SAS’s Boeing tainability Reporting Guidelines, version 3, contains ten reporting 737NG fleet are calculated based on the engines mounted on the airprinciples, which were taken into account in preparing the SAS Sustaincraft at the beginning of the month of the performed flight. This method ability Report November 2013–October 2014. is applied since an engine upgrade program is ongoing, with three different engine specifications applicable to each subtype in the Boeing Scope of the Sustainability Report 737NG fleet. The engine specification is constant for all other aircraft SAS’s Sustainability Report should contribute to the evaluation and types. understanding of SAS’s operations. The report is an overview of SAS’s structured sustainability work. The goal of the SAS Sustainability Principles for reporting and calculating environmental data Report November 2013–October 2014 is to disclose all information Reported environmental information is based on the following calculanecessary to provide the reader with a fair overview of SAS’s environtions and/or factors: mental, social, and financial responsibilities. • Distance, based on WGS84 Great Circle Distance (GCD) calculations SAS Annual Report with sustainability review, November 2013– between airport reference points as defined in national AIPs. October 2014 includes a general overview of SAS’s sustainability • Passenger weight for TK calculations in 100 kilograms for any person efforts on pages 16–17 and the sustainability information in the Report with hand luggage and checked luggage transported. This does not by the Board of Directors on pages 19–25. including active crew. The ultimate responsibility for SAS’s sustainability aspects, and their integration in operational activities, lies with Group Management. The • Cargo and mail, actual weight is used. Sustainability Report was reviewed by SAS Group Management in Jan38 SAS Sustainabilit y Repor t November 2013 – October 2014 • Fuel density (kg per liter): nected to activities implemented in 2011. The climate index is calcu– Jet A/A-11: Actual density or 0.8 lated by using the quantity of emissions of carbon dioxide and nitrogen – Diesel: 0.84 oxides in relation to production. Even though there is no consensus – Petrol: 0.73 regarding the weighting between the effect of different greenhouse – Heating oil: 0.84 gases on total impact on climate change, SAS has decided to base the • CO2 factor (per weight unit of fuel): calculation on the assumption from, among others, Cicero that 1.5 is a – Jet A/A-11: 3.15 reasonable multiplicator given the currently available knowledge. Read – Diesel: 3.17 more about Cicero that provided basic data for IPCC, for example, on – Petrol: 3.12 www.sasgroup.net under the heading Sustainability. This gives a ratio – Heating oil: 3.17 of 2/3 carbon dioxide to 1/3 other climate changing emissions such as nitrogen oxides, water vapor and particulates. Nitrogen oxides have • Energy conversion of fuels (GWh per 1,000 tonnes): been chosen as a non-CO2 indicator for the climate index. Until clearer – Jet A/A-1: 12.0 directives are given regarding how the total climate effect are to be cal– Diesel: 12.0 culated, every emission is reported separately. – Petrol: 12.2 – Heating oil: 12.0 Environmental aspect Weighting Production factor • Nitrogen oxides (NOX), factors (per weight unit of fuel): Carbon dioxide 67% Tonne Kilometer (TK) – Jet A/A-12 Between 0.00694 and 0.01932 Nitrogen oxides 33% 1. Fuel density and CO2 factor for Jet A/A-1 is calculated according to approved MRV-plan. 2. Varies per aircraft/engine combination. The climate index is designed for SAS to present month-to-month trends. This assumes that the methodology is not changed. Carbon emissions per passenger kilometer and cargo tonne kilometer Principles for reporting and calculation of social data SAS has, from this report, chosen to apply a calculation method to The following principles for calculating and reporting of social data have divide the amount of fuel used for passenger and cargo transport been used. before dividing the amount by passenger or cargo tonne kilometer. The Occupational injuries (H-value): method is based on the IATA Carbon Calculator Tool. The assumption Frequency of occupational injuries (H value) is calculated using the is that fuel usage is proportional to weight. Passenger fuel usage is the following formula: ratio of total passenger weight to total weight multiplied by the total fuel No. of occupational injuries with minimum of one day’s absence used. The rest is allocated to cargo transport. x 1,000,000 total number of performed working hours per year Total Passenger Fuel Usage = [(Total Passenger Weight / Total Weight)] x Total Fuel Used Number of employees: Where, In the Sustainability Report, the number of employees is based on the Total Weight = Total Passenger Weight + Total Freight/Cargo Weight number of persons during the month of October and sick leave statisTotal Passenger Weight (kg) = (Number of Seats * 50 kg) + (Number of tics calculated for the fiscal year. These are employees having a budPassengers * 100 kg) geted or actual schedule and/or who were sick during the period. The calculation method allocates 50 kilograms per seat to the prereqSick leave: uisites for passenger transport and the same weight per passenger as Blue1 discloses sick leave separately. Sick leave for SAS (excl. Blue1) used in all other calculations applied within the industry. is reported as the number of hours sick in relation to actual or planned For cases when flights were conducted without passenger sor working hours. For Blue1 sick leave is reported as the percentage of freight/cargo transport, all carbon emissions was allocated as passensick leave in relation to planned work time. For sick leave, absence due ger transport. Examples of these flights are training flights, positioning to sick children is excluded. Long-term sick leave (more than 14 days) is flights between scheduled flights, flights to from maintenance, etc. reported as a percentage of total sick leave. The reason for this changed calculation method is to achieve more precise carbon emissions per production unit calculations. The previPrinciples for reporting and calculation of external ous calculation method essentially involved double accounting, with and other environmentally related costs emissions per passenger kilometer includinf the fuel used for freight/ Where possible, environmentally related costs are based on information cargo transport and visa versa. directly from the accounting system. When this has not been possible, for example, for calculations of certain charges and taxes that are included in Climate index landing charges, estimates were used based on the number of passenSAS has chosen to construct an climate index for flight operations. The gers to a certain destination and the charge or tax per passenger. most recent base year is full-year 2011, used to follow up progress conSAS Sustainabilit y Repor t November 2013 – October 2014 39 Sustainability terms, definitions and concepts A E ATAG Air Transport Action Group is an independent coalition of organiEnvironmental impact of leased aircraft Fuel consumption and zation and companies throughout the air transport industry . emissions from leased aircraft and aircraft leased including the crew Average number of employees Average number of employees is (wet lease), are included in the reported data for Scandinavian Airlines. defined as the average number of employees expressed in full time Environmentally related charges Charges imposed by the airport equivalents, excluding leave of absence, parental leave and long-term operators to motivate aircraft operators to operate aircrafts with high sick leave. This definition is also used in the financial reporting. Someeco-efficiency with respect to noise and other emissions such as of times the term FTE (Full Time Equivalent) is used. NOX , as well as surcharges imposed by airport operators to motivate airB craft operators to avoid take-offs and landings at night. In some cases, the environmentally related charges are considered income-neutral, Biofuels Solid or liquid fuel with biological origin. Liquid fuels for vehimeaning that the total income of the airport remains unchanged by cle/ship/aircraft engines. To various degrees considered carbon neureductions in other charges. The methods for classifying aircraft differ tral. The EU renewables directive (2009/28/EC) and biofuels directive between countries and airports within countries. Although the charges (2003/30/EC) define the EU’s mandates on biofuels and degree of carare differentiated based on the eco-efficiency of the aircraft, they are bon neutrality. ultimately balanced in such a way as to amount to the total cost deterC mined by the airport operator. CAEP Committee on Aviation Environmental Protection, technical Environmentally related investments Investments in assets to precommittee of the ICAO (see definition) charged with developing and vent, reduce or restore environmental damage arising from operations establishing rules and recommending measures to reduce the environand/or aimed at meeting upcoming, more stringent environmental mental impact of aviation. requirements. Carbon dioxide (CO2) A colorless gas that is formed in the combustion Environmentally related taxes Taxes that, in contrast to other corpoof all fossil fuels. The airline industry’s CO2 emissions are being reduced rate taxation, are motivated by environmental grounds. Examples are based on a changeover to more fuel-efficient aircraft, something that is the environmentally motivated passenger charge in the UK and the also desirable from a financial standpoint since lower fuel consumption environmentally related fiscal CO2 charge in Norway. The charge on glyautomatically means lower costs. col in Norway is also included as a part of the environmentally related taxes. Carbon monoxide (CO) A toxic and combustible gas formed by incomplete burning of substances containing carbon, for example, fossil External environmentally related costs The sum of environmental fuels. charges and environmentally related charges and taxes. Cargo tonne kilometer Cargo tonne kilometers, includes all freight F and mail (in metric tonne) multiplied by the great circle distance flown Fossil fuels Fuels consisting of organic carbon and hydrogen comfor all flights performed. pounds in sediment or underground deposits – especially coal, oil and Certification requirements The ICAO’s minimum requirements for natural gas. certification of aircraft types, such as limits for noise and emissions of carbon dioxide, nitrogen oxides and hydrocarbons. G CFCs A group of clorofluorocarbons that may also contain hydrogen Global Compact A challenge from the former UN Secretary Genand /or bromide. A class of stable chemical compounds mostly known eral Kofi Annan to business and industry to live up to ten principles of under the trade names Freon or Halon. Manufacture prohibited by Monhuman rights, employee rights, the environment and anti-corruption, treal Protocol because of negative effect, depletion of the Ozone Layer. as formulated by the UN. www.unglobalcompact.org Aviation has exception for use under a critical use clause due to lack of Glycol An alcohol that is sprayed on the aircraft in cold weather to preapproved alternatives. Research for alternatives is ongoing. vent ice formation. Today, a non-toxic propylene glycol is used. Some Charges for the infrastructure Charges imposed by the operators of 80% of the glycol runs off the aircraft when applied, and seeps into the the infrastructure and which are intended to cover operating and capital ground unless collected. A further 15% is emitted to the air and is thus costs for airlines and air traffic management. dispersed in the vicinity of the airport. The airports are responsible for CO2 Carbon dioxide (see definition). collecting the glycol runoff for reuse. CO2 passengeror cargo share The amount of carbon emissions from GRI Global Reporting Initiative. An organization aiming to provide compassenger or cargo transport. panies and organizations with a global sustainability reporting frameCode of Conduct Business ethics rules and guidelines. work and thereby facilitate comparisons between companies from a social, environmental and economic perspective. www.globalreportD ing.org dB Decibel, a logarithmic unit of measurement that expresses the magGreen Approach In a Green Approach, the approach begins from from nitude of a physical quantity relative to a specified or implied reference the Top of Descent (ToD) using a Continuous Descent Approach (CDA) level. with minimum thrust. Drop-in fuel A fuel that is chemically indistinguishable from convenGreenhouse effect Carbon dioxide and other gases trap and reraditional jet fuel. This means that no changes would be required in aircraft ate incoming solar radiation that would otherwise be reflected back or engine fuel systems, distribution infrastructure or storage facility. It into space. The problem is that emissions of greenhouse gases have can be mixed interchangeably with existing jet fuel. increased. Most scientists agree that heavy human use of fossil fuels is 40 SAS Sustainabilit y Repor t November 2013 – October 2014 causing global warming. Carbon dioxide is formed in the combustion O of all fossil fuels, but burning of biofuels only emits an amount of carOccupational injuries Occupational injuries is the number of injuries bon equal to that absorbed during growth, producing no net emissions. employees incur by accidents at the workplace resulting in at least one However, use of coal, oil and natural gas produce a net increase, since day of absence. they release carbon that has been bound in the earth’s crust. The freon substitute HFC, methane and nitrous oxide are other powerful greenOther environmentally related costs Costs for waste management, house gases. Other gases that contribute to the greenhouse effect are purification plants, permits, any fines and charges for permit deviation, CFCs (see definition), methane and nitrous oxide. costs for remediation measures, etc. as well as internal reported costs for environmental work, for example, costs for persons and organizaH tions working with environmental issues, costs for sustainability reportHalons See CFCs. ing etc. HC Hydrocarbons (see VOCs). P Heavy metals Certain high-density metals, such as cadmium and merPK (used in the sustainability-related reporting) Passenger Kilocury, which both have acute and chronic toxic effects. meters, includes all passengers (100 kilograms per passenger includig Hydrocarbons See Volatile organic compounds. luggage) excluding active crew multiplied by the great circle distance flown for all flights performed. I PULS The Swedish acronym for SAS’s employee surveys conducted via IATA The International Air Transport Association represents, leads and individual questionnaires. serves the airline industry. Its members comprise all major passenger and cargo airlines R ISO 14000 A series of international environmental standards develRPK (used in the financial reporting) Revenue Passenger Kilomeoped by the International Organization for Standardization. The general ters, utilized (sold) capacity for passengers expressed as the number guiding principles for ISO 14000 are identical to those in the quality of seats multiplied by the distance flown. Revenue passengers include standard ISO 9000. There are several environmental standards in the only those paying at least 25% of the regular ticket price. ISO 14000 family, such as for environmental management systems S (ISO 14001), environmental labeling, environmental audits and lifecycle analyses. SAFUG Sustainable Aviation Fuel Users Group. Aviation industry organization focused on accelerating the development and commercializaJ tion of sustainable aviation fuels. Jet A-1 Common jet fuel specification outside North America. Jet A and Sustainable development means that when mankind satisfies its Jet A-1 are very similar and throughout this Sustainability Report the needs to today, it does so without limiting the opportunities for future term jet fuel is used to describe fuel used by the aviation industry. generations to satisfy theirs. K T Kerosene The common name for petroleum-derived jet fuel such as Tonne kilometers The number of transported metric tonnes of pasJet A-1. Kerosene is one of the fuel sources that can be made by refining sengers and cargo multiplied by the distance flown. crude oil. It is also used for a variety of other purposes. V M Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC) Emitted during incomplete comMRV Monitoring, Reporting and Verification of CO2 emissions and probustion of fossil fuels – in aviation mainly when the engine is run at low duction in tonne-kilometers in the EU Emissions Trading Scheme. speed and the temperature in the combustion chamber is low. This category also includes all types of solvents that evaporate from detergents N and paints, among other things. With effect from April 1, 2002, only airN-ALM The Nordic Working Group for Environmental Issues in Avicraft with low VOC emissions are permitted in the EU. ation, composed of civil aviation, environmental and communication authorities and airlines in the Nordic countries. W Nitrogen oxides (NOX) Formed during combustion in all in engines. Weighted noise contour The weighted noise contour is calculated For aircraft engines since the high temperature and pressure cause the based on the number of takeoffs per day at a given airport, with regard atmospheric nitrogen and oxygen to react with each other, mainly durto the aircraft types the airline uses at that airport. The weighted noise ing takeoff and ascent when the engine temperature is at a maximum. contour defines the area in km2 that is subjected to a noise footprint of Noise Environmentally detrimental, undesirable sounds. The envi85 dB(A) or more in connection with take-off. ronmental impact of air traffic in the form of noise is primarily of a local nature. Noise is normally described and measured in dB(A), an A-weighted sound level. NOX Nitrogen oxides (see definition). SAS Sustainabilit y Repor t November 2013 – October 2014 41 Assurance Report Auditor’s Combined Assurance Report on the Sustainability Report To SAS AB (publ) dards on Auditing and Quality Control and other generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. Hence, the conclusion based on our limIntroduction ited assurance procedures does not comprise the same level of assurWe have been engaged by the management of SAS AB (publ) to underance as the conclusion of our reasonable assurance procedures. Since take an examination of the SAS Sustainability Report for the year 2014. this assurance engagement is combined, our conclusions regarding the reasonable assurance and the limited assurance will be presented Responsibilities of the Board and Management for the in separate sections. Sustainability Report Our reasonable assurance engagement includes the following: The Board of Directors and the Group Management are responsia. Financial indicators (except environmental-related costs) found on ble for the preparation of the Sustainability Report in accordance with page 5, the applicable criteria, as explained on page 38 in the Sustainability b. Jet fuel and carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions related to SAS flight Report, and are the parts of the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines operations G3 (published by The Global Reporting Initiative, GRI) which are applicable to the Sustainability Report, as well as the accounting and calcuOur procedures are based on the criteria defined by the Board of Direclation principles that the Company has developed. This responsibility tors and the Group Management as described above. We consider includes the internal control relevant to the preparation of a Sustainthese criteria suitable for the preparation of the Sustainability Report. ability Report that is free from material misstatements, whether due to We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient and fraud or error. appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusions below. Responsibilities of the auditor Conclusions Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the Sustainability Based on the limited assurance procedures we have performed, nothReport based on the procedures we have performed. ing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the SustainWe conducted our engagement in accordance with RevR 6 Assurability Report, is not prepared, in all material respects, in accordance ance of Sustainability Reports issued by FAR. The engagement with the criteria defined by the Board of Directors and Group Manageincludes a limited assurance engagement on the complete Sustainment. ability Report and audit of certain information as specified below. The In our opinion the information in the Sustainability Report which has objective of an audit is to obtain reasonable assurance that the inforbeen subject to our reasonable assurance procedures have, in all matemation is free of material misstatements. A reasonable assurance rial respects, been prepared in accordance with the criteria defined by engagement includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supportthe Board of Directors and Group Management. ing the quantitative and qualitative information in the Sustainability Report. A limited assurance engagement consists of making inquiStockholm, 21st January 2015 ries, primarily of persons responsible for the preparation of the Sustainability Report, and applying analytical and other limited assurance PricewaterhouseCoopers AB procedures. The procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement vary in nature from, and are less in extent than for, a reasonable Bo Hjalmarsson Fredrik Ljungdahl assurance engagement conducted in accordance with IAASB’s StanAuthorised Public Accountant Expert Member of FAR 42 SAS Sustainabilit y Repor t November 2013 – October 2014 SAS destinations Longyearbyen Existing routes New routes for 2014 New route Stockholm–Hong Kong opens in autumn 2015 Kirkenes Alta Tromsø Narvik/ Evenes Kiruna Kittila Bodø Luleå Reykjavik Oulu Skellefteå Beijing Tokyo Chicago Umeå Kristiansund Trondheim Vaasa New York Molde Shanghai San Francisco Washington D.C. Östersund Ålesund Houston Hong Kong Sundsvall Tampere Turku Bergen Helsinki St. Petersburg Oslo Haugesund Stavanger Stockholm Aberdeen Kristiansand Gothenburg Linköping Visby Aalborg Edinburgh Helsingborg/ Moscow Kalmar Ängelholm Ronneby Aarhus Newcastle Billund Copenhagen Palanga Dublin Leeds Malmö Vilnius Manchester Gdansk Hamburg Birmingham Amsterdam Bremen Warsaw London Poznan Bristol Hanover Berlin Düsseldorf Wroclaw Brussels Frankfurt Prague Paris Luxembourg Stuttgart Munich Salzburg Budapest Innsbruck Zurich Sochi Geneva Milan Venice Bucharest Bologna Pula Biarritz Montpellier Sarajevo Nice Split Pisa Bastia Dubrovnik Pristina Barcelona Madrid Rome Lisbon Thessaloniki Olbia Naples Palma de Mallorca Faro Alicante Cagliari Palermo Athens Malaga Alanya Santorini Larnaca Chania Tel Aviv Malta Gran Canaria Tenerife Las Palmas Our Vision Our Promise Our vision is to make life Makes your travel easier easier for Scandinavia´s frequent travelers. With SAS you are part of a community Our DNA experiencing easy, joyful and reliable We are Scandinavian by name and by services, delivered the Scandinavian way. nature and our operational promises are: • Safety • Punctuality • Care www.sasgroup.net SAS AB (publ) Corp. Reg. No.: 556606-8499. Domicile: Stockholm. Street address: Frösundaviks Allé 1, Solna, Sweden. Postal address: SE-195 87 Stockholm, Sweden. Telephone: +46 8 797 00 00.
