The Quality of Life Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 The Quality of Life Hayleys is one of Sri Lanka’s most diversified companies, working in several key growth industry sectors that we dominate. Not everyone knows the full extent and diversity of our activities, yet for 137 years, we have been changing and improving the quality of ordinary people’s lives in thousands of ways… through the world-class products and services we market, through our many business partnerships and the employment and value we create. Because the quality of our results depends on the quality of our work... and our work is all about the quality of life. Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Contents Introductory statements 8 About Hayleys PLC’s reporting 10 Financial & operational highlights 17 Chairman’s review 22 Sustainability at Hayleys 30 Management discussion and analysis 36 Our global footprint 40 Financial review 44 Sustainability review 55 Community engagement Sector Reviews 63 Fibre 17 70 Hand Protection 75 Purification 80 Textiles 85 Construction Materials 91 Plantations 97 103 Agriculture Consumer 55 107 Leisure and Aviation 113 Power and Energy 118 Transportation and Logistics 124 Investment and Services Governance reports 130 The board of directors 134 Group management committee 136 Governance report 148 Risk Management 153 Annual report of the board of directors 128 168 161 Chairman/Chief Executive’s and Group Chief Financial Officer’s Responsibility Statement 162 Directors’ Statement on Internal Controls 163 Nomination Committee Report 164 Remuneration Committee Report 165 Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities 166 Audit Committee Report Financial reports About Hayleys PLC annual reporting 171 Independent Auditors’ Report 172 Income Statements The Group is fully committed towards supporting 173 Statements of Comprehensive Income developments in corporate reporting that provide 174 Statements of Financial Position stakeholders with balanced and relevant information. 176 Statements of Changes in Equity In doing so, we embark on our 3rd Integrated Annual 181 Statements of Cash Flows Report, through which we aim to provide insights into 184 Notes to the Financial Statements the Group’s strategy, performance and governance, in a 272 Ten Year Summary concise yet comprehensive manner. 273 Value of Real estate 274 Country Report 276 Share Information 279 History of Dividends and Scrip Issues 281 Quarterly Performance View this Annual Report 284 Group Companies 287 GRI Content Index Tool online at 291 Glossary of Financial Terms www.hayleys.com 292 Notice of Meeting 293 Form of Proxy 295 Investor Feedback Form The Quality of Life Vision To be Sri Lanka’s corporate inspiration at all times Mission Delivering superior shareholder value by unleashing the full potential of our people and achieving leadership in all our domestic and global businesses Values INTEGRITY ENDURING CUSTOMER A WILL TO WIN Ethical and transparent in all our VALUE Exhibiting the will to win which dealings Enhancing experiences for every is important to Hayleys and its customer, from the rural farmer to the shareholders global consumer RESPECT FOR GOOD CITIZENSHIP TEAMWORK PEOPLE Caring for the communities in which Working with each other and with our Treating everyone with respect and we work, actively supporting their partners across boundaries, to make dignity, providing for the development growth and being environmentally things happen of our people and rewarding them for responsible in all we do good performance ACCOUNTABILITY Holding ourselves responsible to deliver what we promise Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 The Hayleys story Commencing commercial operations in 1878 as Chas. P. Hayley & Co., we became a public company in 1954 as Hayleys Ltd. Embracing innovation and entrepreneurship, we have added value for people and businesses across the country and beyond. It is this spirit that has characterised our growth and the building of a strong and successful enterprise that is active in local and global markets. In addition to Sri Lanka, Hayleys today has manufacturing facilities in Indonesia and Thailand, and marketing operations in Australia, India, Bangladesh, Italy, Japan, The Netherlands, UK and USA. The Group accounts for 2.9% of Sri Lanka’s export income, and 3.9% of tea and 3.4% of rubber production. 1878 1954 1958 1968 Charles Pickering Hayley forms Hayleys Ltd., becomes a public Shipping agency department is Haychem Ltd., a collaboration with Chas P. Hayley & Co. in Galle. Company. formed, later to be reconstituted as Bayer of Germany, is formed to Maritime Agencies Ltd. (forerunner of formulate agrochemicals. Hayleys Advantis Ltd.). 4 The Quality of Life 1973 1976 1991 2011 Haycarb Ltd., is formed to pioneer the Dipped Products Ltd., is incorporated Hayleys ventures into Hoteliering Hayleys enters in to the aluminium manufacture and export of activated to pioneer manufacture of Rubber through its subsidiary Carbotels Ltd. extrusions industry by acquiring the carbon from coconut shell charcoal. Gloves. Employee share ownership schemes Alumex Group. Hayleys re enters and are introduced within the Group. wins the Best Corporate Citizens Award Hayleys steps into the business of for the 4th consecutive year that it took plantations. part in the competition. The Hayleys PLC Group’s beginnings date “Our rich heritage has been the The indomitable spirit of our people and back to 1878, when it was founded by Charles foundation for our years of consistent their drive for excellence has pushed us to Pickering Hayley to engage in trading of consistently seek exciting opportunities in success in the many spheres of local products such as spices, coir yarn and new industry spaces, and we now operate essential oils. After venturing beyond the initial business we have entered...” in 12 diverse industry sectors with a broad operations in Galle by forming a partnership coverage of Sri Lanka’s agriculture, industry in Colombo the business prospered and and service sectors. Today the Group has progressed to formation of Hayley & Kenny comprehensive agricultural solutions. In 1973, manufacturing facilities in Indonesia and Ltd and its subsidiary Chas P Hayley & Co., Ltd, the Group pioneered the manufacture of Thailand, and marketing operations in Australia, two limited liability companies. Hayleys Ltd coconut shell based activated carbon in Sri India, Bangladesh, Italy, Japan, The Netherlands, was formed in 1952 to acquire the undertaking Lanka through the establishment of Haycarb UK and USA. Innovation has always been at of Hayley & Kenny Ltd and was subsequently Ltd, which is now the world’s largest producer, the core of our existence and we have pushed registered as a public company in 1954. In being globally renowned for high quality boundaries and redefined industry standards in 1958, the Group forayed into the transportation products and sustainable manufacturing multiple spheres of our operations, introducing industry with the formation of its shipping methods. The year 1976 marked the Group’s numerous ‘industry firsts’. In essence, as we agency business; consistent diversification and pioneering entry into rubber gloves, with the evolved from a single business entity to one of expansion in this industry space has resulted formation of Dipped Products Limited, now Sri Lanka’s most respected, diversified Groups, in the emergence of Hayleys Advantis, which among the top 5 global manufacturers of nonwe have created sustainable value to all our is currently Sri Lanka’s largest transportation medical rubber gloves. Further diversification shareholders, customers, employees, business solutions provider. The Group ventured in to was pursued in 1991 as the Group entered the partners and the community at large. We take manufacture of agricultural machinery and leisure and plantation sectors, both of which immense pride in having shaped their quality of spraying equipment in 1964 while formulation now have significant market positions. In 2011, life for a period of over 13 decades. & distribution of Agrochemicals commenced the Group expanded its operations to the in 1968, and strategic expansions to synergistic aluminium extrusion industry with the purchase areas of operation in subsequent years has of Alumex Ltd, which has become Sri Lanka’s enabled the Group’s agriculture sector to leading manufacturer of aluminium profiles. position itself as an integrated provider of 5 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Awards Our quest for business excellence and benchmark quality standards have been endorsed and recognised with multiple awards over the years. This year has been no exception; depicted here is a selection of the top awards and recognition received by both the holding company and subsidiaries during 2014/15. 6 The Quality of Life 7 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 About Hayleys PLC’s reporting Welcome to our report for 2014/15 The 2014/15 report builds on the insights, understanding and stakeholder feedback of the past three years and seeks to provide a detailed overview of the group’s financial and nonfinancial performance for the period 1 April 2014 to 31 March 2015. 8 The Quality of Life DIVERSIFIED BUSINESS PORTFOLIO We are committed to operating in accordance We are one of Sri Lanka’s most diversified conglomerates with business interests with best practices in business integrity and spanning 12 sectors with a broad coverage of the country’s agriculture, manufacturing and service sectors. ethics and maintaining the highest standards of GLOBAL PRESENCE financial reporting and corporate governance. Our products are sold in all continents of the world. We have strengthened our The Group is fully committed towards supporting Sri Lanka Accounting Standards position outside our traditional markets developments in corporate reporting that Integrated Reporting Framework issued by through customer acquisition and provide stakeholders with balanced and relevant the IIRC expansion of distribution networks. information on our value creation process. In Global Reporting InitiativeG4 standards doing so, we embark on our 3rd Integrated Annual Companies Act No 7 of 2007 MARKET DOMINANCE Report, through which we aim to provide insights Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Generates 2.9% of Sri Lanka’s export into the Group’s strategy, performance and Exchange income governance with the objective of demonstrating Code of Best Practise on Corporate World’s leading manufacturer of coconut shell based activated carbon with 16% how we create value for our stakeholders. In Governance issued jointly by the Institute market share preparing this report, we have adopted the of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka and 5% global market share of non-medical Integrated Reporting Framework issued by the the Securities and Exchange Commission rubber gloves International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC). of Sri Lanka Sri Lanka’s leading aluminium extrusion Principles of the United Nations Global manufacturer 3.9% and 3.4% of the country’s tea and Scope and Boundary Compact (UNGC) rubber production This report covers the aspects that are deemed material to the Group’s strategic direction and Precautionary Principle EMPLOYER OF CHOICE stakeholders as determined by the process Hayleys PLC applies the precautionary approach, Our global team of high performing described in page 23 of this report. The report prescribed under the Principles of the UNGC, employees consist of 35,093 engaged has been prepared in accordance with the Global across all group companies when determining individuals, who are given unique Reporting Initiative G4-Core criteria and aspects the balance between expansion and social and opportunities for development in a and indicators have been selected to best reflect environmental sustainability. dynamic work environment. the impacts of its diverse industry exposures. Assurance PREFERRED BUSINESS PARTNER The Report covers the performance of the External assurance on the financial reports and We have built long-term relationships with businesses of Hayleys PLC and 156 subsidiaries, Director’s Statement of Internal Controls and local and global suppliers, and responsible based in Sri Lanka, Indonesia, Thailand, Australia, Sustainability Reporting has been provided by purchasing has enabled us to improve social and environmental impacts across India, Bangladesh, Italy, Japan, Netherlands, UK Messrs Ernst & Young, Chartered Accountants. our supply chains. and USA as discussed in page 31 to 35. In certain disclosures pertaining to social and environmental Feedback RESPONSIBLE CORPORATE CITIZEN impacts, the discussion is limited to the domestic We understand that Integrated Reporting is The Sustainability perspective is focal to operations and is noted accordingly. The Group evolving principle, and welcome your feedback, every aspect of our operation. A range of adopts an annual reporting cycle and this year’s suggestions and other comments on our Annual community engagement initiatives have report covers the period from 1st of April 2014 to Report. Our contact details are as follows; touched the lives of numerous people in 31st of March 2015. the communities we operate in. Corporate Affairs Unit, Hayleys PLC Our carbon footprint for the year was Guiding principles Email: info@cau.hayleys.com 95,043 tCO2e We subscribe to and report under several domestic and international regulations, standards and frameworks, the more significant of which are the following; 9 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Financial & operational highlights 2015 2014 Change % Earnings Highlights and Ratios Revenue Rs. mn 92,562 80,479 15 Results from operating activities Rs. mn 8,511 7,196 18 Profit before tax Rs. mn 6,400 5,083 26 Profit after tax Rs. mn 4,886 3,709 32 Profit attributable to owners of the parent Rs. mn 2,581 1,809 43 Dividends Rs. mn 450 375 20 Gross profit % 23.0 23.3 (1) Operating Profit Margin % 9.2 8.9 3 Net Profit Margin % 5.3 4.6 15 Earnings per share (basic) Rs. 34.42 24.11 43 Return on Assets % 5.2 4.6 15 Return on Capital Employed % 11.6 11.6 0 Interest cover No. of times 4.0 3.0 32 Financial Position Highlights and Ratios Total Assets Rs. mn 93,326 81,305 15 Total Debt Rs. mn 29,062 25,825 13 Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent Rs. mn 29,104 23,723 23 Gearing % 39.7 41.5 (5) Debt/Equity % 65.7 71.1 (8) Equity Asset ratio % 47.4 44.7 6 Net assets per share Rs. 388.05 316.31 23 Current ratio No. of times 1.3 1.2 6 Quick asset ratio No. of times 0.8 0.8 8 No. of Shares in issue Number (mn) 75 75 0 Market / Shareholder Information Market value per share 31st March Rs. 300.00 285.00 5 Dividend per share Rs. 6.00 5.00 20 Company market capitalization 31st March Rs. mn 22,500 21,375 5 Group market capitalization 31st March Rs. mn 56,147 48,208 16 Price earnings ratio No. of times 8.72 11.82 (26) Dividend yield ratio % 2.0 1.8 11 Dividend payout ratio % 17.4 20.7 (16) Dividend Cover No. of times 5.7 4.8 19 Others Economic Value Generated Rs. mn 25,071 21,002 19 Economic Value Distributed Rs. mn 20,524 17,596 17 Government Rs. mn 1,615 1,637 (1) Employees Rs. mn 14,018 11,298 24 Others Rs. mn 4,891 4,661 5 Value Added per employee Rs. mn 0.71 0.58 23 Group employment Number 35,093 36,224 (3) 10 The Quality of Life Rs. 93.3bn 35,093 Rs. 6.4bn Total Assets Employees Profit Before Tax 11.6% Rs. 22.5bn Rs. 34.42 Return on Market Earnings per Capital Capitalisation share Employed Performance highlights Financial Performance l Consolidated Revenue expansion of l Pre-tax profit growth of 26% to Rs. 6.40 billion, with 15%, supported by broad based growth 3 sectors crossing the Rs. 1.0 billion in profits. in all business sectors. l 43% increase in Earnings Per Share to Rs. 34.42 Economic l Asset growth of 15% to Rs. 93.33 billion Environmental Performance l Carbon Footprint increased by 18% to 95,043 l Sector companies have obtained numerous tonnes of CO2 equivalent local and international environmental l Increased focus on energy and water accreditations, including ISO 14001, Rainforest Environmental conservation Alliance Social Performance l Group staff retention rate of 99% l Community engagement: l Total training hours 34,941 Beneficiaries of Puritas Sath Diyawara : 15,000 people Social Plantation sector : 150,000 people Seaweed project : 1000 families Firstlight by DPL : 500 people 11 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Group structure Our businesses divide broadly into Manufacturing, Agriculture & Plantation and Services Manufacturing 47% Fibre Hand Protection Purification Rs. 43.2bn We are Sri Lanka’s leading Ranked amongst the top 5 We are the world’s largest Revenue manufacturer and exporter global manufacturers in the manufacturer of coconut-shell of value added coconut fibre hand protection industry, our based activated carbon with products. Reputed globally focus on product innovation a global reputation for quality Agriculture & Plantations for its innovative and tailorcoupled with our understanding combined with innovative 23% made solutions, the sector of client requirements sharpened and sustainable methods of manufactures and distributes over four decades provides us a production. Drawing from over 38 more than 105 products in competitive edge in an industry years of experience, we produce over 1200 variations locally and with a large number of players. high quality activated carbon for internationally. a full spectrum of applications for water treatment, gold extraction, air purification and energy storage. Rs. 21.1bn Revenue Services Leisure & Aviation Agriculture Consumer 30% We are an industry pioneer in Products We represent globally renowned We are a leading player in the agricultural innovation and brands including Proctor and country’s leisure sector, owning our business is characterised Gamble, Phillips Lighting and and operating 7 resort properties by strong market positions in Fujifilm in marketing a wide range through the Amaya Resorts multiple business lines including of consumer goods through an and Spas chains of hotels and export of processed fruits and extensive distribution network. 1 city hotel, The Kingsbury. vegetables, crop protection and We also engage in destination crop production together with a management, general sales commitment towards sustainable agencies and outbound travel agriculture and supporting operations. livelihoods of our out-growers. Rs. 28.2bn Revenue 12 The Quality of Life For 137 years, we have been changing and improving the quality of ordinary people’s lives in thousands of ways… Textiles Construction Plantations Materials We are Sri Lanka’s premier We are amongst the country’s We are a leading textiles manufacturer of aluminium largest plantation sector manufacturer supplying fabric extrusions, offering a operators, with subsidiaries Kelani to leading global fashion brands comprehensive range of Valley Plantations PLC (KVPL) and with the capability of catering to architectural, residential and Talawakelle Tea Estates PLC (TTE) the customers’ entire portfolio of industrial products to the top and collectively accounting for 3.9% requirements. middle tier of the construction and 3.4% of Sri Lanka’s tea and industry. rubber production. Power & Energy Transportation & Investments & Logistics Services We specialise in providing a range We supply close to 2% of the We are the undisputed leader of Business Process Outsourcing country’s total renewable in Sri Lanka’s transportation and (BPO) solutions to domestic energy supply, with an installed logistics industry, offering a vast and overseas corporates and capacity of 35 MW generated gamut of services from packing Shared Services Operations (SSO) through various joint ventures personal effects, providing catering to the Group’s diverse in hydro and wind power plants. logistics support services for industry sectors. The sector also engages in the national infrastructure projects supply of industrial raw materials, and the global movement of medical equipment, building cargo. management solutions, chemicals and dye under the industrial input sector. 13 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014 2014/15 Dominating through Quality In today’s interconnected economy the ability to manage the complexity of business and societal challenges helps ensure sustained growth. 14 The Quality of Life 15 15 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Harnessing the potential of markets and business by putting values into action is the basis of the United Nations Global Compact. Hayleys has been a subscriber and an active supporter since 2001 and the Compact’s 10 principles for responsible business are incorporated into the company’s governance framework. Mohan Pandithage Chairman and Chief Executive View Chairman’s Review online at www.hayleys.com 16 16 The Quality of Life Chairman’s review A continued focus on value creation Our Group companies are market leaders in their respective fields with proven track records of innovation and service excellence, well positioned for growth. Dear Shareholder the earnings capacity of the Group supporting Construction Materials sectors focussed It is with great pleasure that I present the Annual the medium to long term stability and the on demand generated within the country. Report of Hayleys PLC for the financial year growth of the Group. Economic conditions within the country were ended 31st March 2015. Hayleys has turned in conducive to business growth with GDP growth a strong performance with all sectors recording Delivering Value rate of 7.4% and GDP per capita increasing from growth and increased profitability contributing The Group achieved a top line growth of 15% USD 3,280 to USD 3,625 driven by rebound in to a group profit before taxation of Rs. 6.4 bn, during the year, to reach a record high of Rs. consumption, which grew 7.6 % in real terms the highest profits recorded in the history 92.56 billion. It is noteworthy that this top line and accounted for 79% of GDP. The strong of the Group and total asset growth of 15% growth was broad based and supported by all economic recovery in the US coupled with from the previous year. Our Group companies our industry sectors. Despite multiple industry concerted efforts to enhance market shares in are market leaders in their respective fields challenges, the Group’s pre-tax profit grew by key markets enabled growth of our exports. A with proven track records of innovation and 26% to achieve the highest ever profit level in strengthening dollar provided some support for service excellence, well positioned for growth. the Group’s operating history of Rs. 6.40 billion. the competitiveness of our exports, underlining Strong leadership at sector level supported by The strong performance can be attributed to the importance of a market based exchange objective review at the group level has been the focused and strategic approach adopted by rate. Nonetheless, pressure on margins was key to driving a balanced performance across all the sectors towards value creation. prevalent due to lacklustre growth and a sectors which have developed an increasingly weakening currency in the Euro area. Political higher value adding focus building on their core Hayleys PLC successfully placed a Debenture of and economic downturn in established markets strengths. Notable achievements during the Rs.2 bn during the year to refinance short term for tea which include East European and Middle year were the return to profitability of Hayleys borrowings and restructure the debt portfolio of East countries impacted the performance of MGT Knitting Mills PLC, The Kingsbury PLC, and the Company. The issue was made at one of the the plantations sector. The sharp decline in the Fibre Sector which made a strong recovery lowest corporate debenture rate in the country. global fuel prices is positive for the Group, and built solid foundations for future growth. however it is essential that local furnace oil in Additions to our portfolio during the period A Conducive Business Environment particular which impacts cost of production is include investments in Power & Energy, Free The Group revenue comprise 57% generating allowed to decline in line with global market Zones in the Logistics sector, the acquisition from exports whilst Sri Lanka remained a prices in order to maintain a level playing field of Alufab PLC, Amaya Beach and a new joint key market with Transportation, Agriculture, with global competitors. The government has venture with S&T Interiors of Oman, expanding Consumer, Power & Energy, Leisure and indicated an intention to shift to a market based 17 17 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Chairman’s review Sector Revenue Contributions (Rs.’000) people in their homes and workplace from a variety of risks. This vibrant sector has invested Fibre in upgrading its technology and capacity to Hand Protection facilitate growth and production efficiencies to Purification Products cater to growth opportunities in the market. Textiles Construction Materials The Purification sector recorded a profit Agriculture before tax of Rs.1.1 bn. The increase in price Plantations of the primary raw material that could not be Leisure and Aviation adequately passed to end customers due to Consumer Products the prevailing market conditions including the Power and Energy depressed gold mining sector and competition Transportation & Logistics from Philippines, India and Indonesia impacted Investments and Services the bottom line. The depreciation of currencies 0 3,000,000 6,000,000 9,000,000 12,000,000 15,000,000 in markets in which Haycarb operates combined 2013/14 2014/15 to intensify pressures on margins. Revenue Growth 100,000 Rs. Bn Rs. Bn 6.4 93.3 15% 80,000 Asset 60,000 Profit Before Total Assets Growth Rs. Mn 40,000 Tax 20,000 0 fuel price formula, but the delay in doing so is engagement and supporting livelihoods in rural 10/11 11/12 12/13 13/14 14/15 damaging for all export oriented manufacturing communities with projects such as Firstlight companies. Emerging Asia continues to record and Haritha Angara which have also served Turnaround of the Textile sector after four years the strongest growth although the rate of to strengthen supply chains. These projects of losses was a key achievement reflecting the growth has been moderating due to a carefully also serve to demonstrate how the Group has spirit of Hayleys, as we emerged stronger with managed economic re-balancing in China. The embraced sustainability principles in resolving a sharp focus on innovation to deliver higher group is optimistic about the opportunities key social issues, strengthening the Group’s value addition. The company recorded a profit for growth in new markets both within the future in a holistic manner. before tax of Rs.86.4 mn and top line growth South Asian region and in countries that are of 7% supported by production efficiencies demonstrating positive signs of recovery. The Hand Protection sector has turned in a including enhanced employee productivity. strong performance for the year reflecting a The launch of INNO, Hayleys MGT’s own brand Adding Value to Exports top line growth of 12 % and a profit before tax of fabric developed in house was a first in the Hayleys group accounts for 2.9% of the country’s of Rs.1.5 bn. Its performance was supported Sri Lankan textile sector and signals a new exports in diverse sectors such as Hand by purposeful innovation facilitated by a deep phase of growth for the company. A financial Protection, Fibre, Purification and Agriculture understanding of customer requirements restructuring which included a rights issue with high levels of value added in the country. nurtured through strong customer relationships. strengthened the company’s balance sheet Hand Protection and Purification sectors Opening up new plants within the industrial and enabled investments for growth. A robust command respectable global market share in zones has been completed on schedule global apparel sector, the positioning of Sri their respective fields with a proven track record following disruptions in the previous year at one Lanka as an ethical sourcing destination and of innovation. Our export focussed sectors set of its key manufacturing locations. Increasing strong growth of the Sri Lankan apparel exports the benchmarks for ethical manufacturing in the awareness of health and safety issues globally is in 2014, augurs well for the textile sector in the country with a strong emphasis on employee a key driver of growth in this industry protecting company. 18 The Quality of Life Turnaround of the Textile sector after four years market leader in seed potato, seed paddy, stainless steel sprayers and the largest exporter of losses was a key achievement reflecting the of processed fruits and vegetables in the country contributing 44% of total processed spirit of Hayleys, as we emerged stronger with fruit and vegetable exports. This sector plays a key role in transforming the country’s agriculture a sharp focus on innovation to deliver higher sector to become more efficient and sustainable through farmer education with a field force value addition. of approximately 600 agriculture graduates, diploma holders and technicians who educate the farmers on balancing short term and long term productivity. Investments in research and development to produce high yielding, resilient seeds and slow release fertilizers towards optimal land productivity whilst minimizing the negative impacts on the environment Profit Before Tax Trend purchased to facilitate expansion in the future have provided a strong competitive edge. as there is potential for growth as applications 7,000 Notwithstanding the effects of a turbulent agri in the construction sector increase, replacing 6,000 business environment it was a remarkable year wood as a more cost effective material. The 5,000 for the Agriculture sector with all its diverse purchase of Alufab PLC during the year increases 4,000 business units achieving profits and the sector the Group’s dominance in this sector providing Rs. Mn overall exceeding its budgeted results & 3,000 the Group a broad base for developing the achieving before tax profit of Rs. 817 mn which 2,000 market to a higher level. A network of architects, is well above the previous year . 1,000 aluminium fabricators and dealers’ supports 0 our growth in this segment and we look to The Plantations sector was significantly 10/11 11/12 12/13 13/14 14/15 engage them in increasing the applications of impacted by instability and international trade aluminium in the construction industry for our sanctions in key tea import markets and also mutual benefit. falling global rubber prices. Labour productivity continues to be a key concern in the industry The Fibre sector also turned around with strong The Joint Venture partnership with S&T Interiors, as Sri Lankan workers produce 50% less top line growth of 18% and recorded a profit a leading interior designer based in Oman, although earning twice the daily wage of a before tax of Rs. 9.5 mn for the financial year was a key expansion of the clusters’ project Kenyan worker impacting the country’s ability 2014/15. Streamlining of operations to focus management activities which has already to compete effectively. Companies in the on high value adding products and improved secured the contract for the interiors of the sector invest significant resources in uplifting relationship management enabled the return proposed Movenpick City Hotel setting a solid the living conditions, health and education of to profitability. This sector is one of the Group’s foundation for growth of this new venture. employees’ families and significant progress has oldest business segments and the turnaround been made in all these areas. The Plantation is particularly satisfying as it demonstrates the Driving land productivity sector performance reflects a 15 month period Group’s ability to adapt over a century. Hayleys Agriculture sector supports the entire as the companies changed their year end to value chain in agriculture through provision of 31st March to fall in line with the Hayleys Group Construction Materials seeds, crop chemicals, fertilizer, agri equipment financial year. While revenue growth was 6% on The construction materials sector has recorded focussing on optimizing land productivity to an annualised basis, profit before tax for the 15 impressive revenue growth of 20% and drive food security in our island nation. This months was Rs.358 mn reflecting the increased profits of Rs.628.7 mn supported by stable sector is inextricably interwoven with the lives pressures on margins. Aluminium prices and the commissioning of of over 12,000 rural farmers supporting their its new powder coating plant. A land has been livelihoods with out-grower schemes which feed in to our value-added fruit and vegetable export business. Hayleys Agriculture is the 19 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Chairman’s review An economically significant player in a number Leisure and Aviation A notable achievement during the year for this of key sectors that contribute the country’s sector was the turnaround of The Kingsbury PLC which provided a boost to the sector’s socio economic progress, the Hayleys Group performance. Acquisition of Amaya Beach, Pasikudah added to the number of keys improves the quality of lives of Sri Lankans every managed by the Group but losses from the early stages of this operation together with day in numerous ways. pressure on margins eroded the profitability of the sector. The Aviation cluster portfolio is being rebalanced to increase the Aviation Supplies Business to reduce dependency on the General Sales Agency business. This sector has demonstrated strong top line growth of 13% although profitability declined marginally to Facilitating Trade business growth in the short term resulting in a Rs.550 mn. The Advantis Group is the largest player in decrease in revenue and reduced profits of the transportation and logistics in Sri Lanka Rs.32 mn. We expect a reversal of this in The Business Solutions sector provides shared and offers the most comprehensive service in 2015/16 as we expand the product range for services to the Group, BPO services to external the industry handling 14% of the total annual FMCG and increase the customer touch points clients, develops software and provides a container traffic in the country. Its financial for specialised products such as lighting and boutique consultancy service to clients who performance reflects its prospects for growth photo imaging . wish to set up their own shared services with top line growth of 19% and a profit before projects. A focus on expansion of its internal tax of Rs.1.3 bn. The establishment of Free Power & Energy client base has diminished the performance of Zones during the year by Advantis is a strategic The Power & Energy Sector of the Group the sector as it operates on a cost recovery basis investment supporting the country’s strategy comprises a complex portfolio of renewable for this business segment. However, we expect of becoming a regional maritime hub with the energy projects, building management this sector to deliver a strong performance potential to significantly change trade patterns, solutions, industrial raw materials and medical in the future due to the streamlining of its leveraging the country’s strategic geographic analytics which are all areas with high potential operations during the year coupled with strong location. This homegrown Sri Lankan company growth. Hayleys is a growing player in the focus on BPO. has been innovating services in the transport renewable energy sector supplying Sri Lanka’s and logistics sector using its knowledge of the renewable energy needs through hydro Leadership, Governance and Team industry and is well positioned for growth as the and wind power plants. Renewable energy Governance structures rely on a structured epicentre of global economic activity shifts to generation supported the performance of the review at Business, Sector, Group Management emerging markets in Asia. sector with a profit before tax of Rs. 824 mn Committee and Board levels on a monthly along with Building Management Solutions, basis which ensures that areas for concern are Consumer goods has historically been a key Industry Raw Materials and Medical Analytics. quickly identified and appropriate responses are driver of GDP growth and Hayley’s Consumer implemented within a short time frame. The Products has a portfolio of household brands A further 20MW wind project was commissioned objectivity of the review process is enhanced supported by an island wide distribution this financial year in the North with joint venture by the presence of independent directors at network to cater to the requirements of Sri partners which will add to the sector’s profit all sector level companies and at Group level Lankan consumers. A portfolio of global brands in the coming years. A further Rs. 800Mn is often adding a different perspective on matters of fast moving consumer goods and a growing being invested in a new hydro project which set before the respective Boards. This is key to presence in nutritional and healthcare products will be commissioned in the next financial year Hayley’s track record of delivering consistent makes this a vibrant sector with high growth bringing the hydro power supply to a total of growth in profits and expansion in business potential. Working capital management is key 10MW. portfolio for its shareholders. to profitability in FMCG and lengthening cycles necessitated the prudent option of curtailing 20 The Quality of Life Sector Operating Profit Contribution (Rs. ‘000) We are proud of our heritage and Fibre have built foundations to support Hand Protection our ambitious plans for growth in Purification Products our diverse areas of expertise. Textiles Construction Materials Agriculture Plantations Leisure and Aviation Consumer Products Dividends Power and Energy Given the results achieved this year while Transportation & Logistics keeping a view on the future, the Board of Investments and Services* Directors has proposed a first and final dividend 0 500,000 1,000,000 1,500,000 2,000,000 of Rs. 6.00 per share for the year under review. 2013/14 2014/15 *Investments and Services sector includes inter sector dividends Acknowledgements I salute my team for turning in a stellar performance and thank them for their hard work and dedication. Going forward, I count on your continued support as we look to raise the bar we have set for ourselves. Our business partners have been with us for many Strong leadership at all levels drives our every day in numerous ways. We are proud years and I thank them for the confidence performance and business expansion whilst a of our heritage and have built foundations placed in us to drive mutual growth. I extend commitment to governance, values and delivery to support our ambitious plans for growth in my sincere appreciation to the Board for their on all three pillars of sustainability ensures that our diverse areas of expertise. Forecasts of contribution enriching the rigour of reviews we do things right. Having the right people in the operating environment, both locally and and deliberations of matters set before the positions of leadership is essential to delivery of globally, are positive for the Group with recovery Board. My sincere appreciation of the insightful corporate goals and our ability to attract talent forecast in principal markets for most sectors. support and direction of the Co-Chairman facilitates the early identification and grooming New market development is on the cards for and the other Non Executive Directors must of successive generations of leaders at multiple a number of business sectors as we observe be placed on record as they have played a levels. I am encouraged by the agility and changing patterns in economic activity with significant role in developing the architecture of innovation ability of our leaders who have Asia being a beneficiary. We have also invested the Hayleys Group and its ability to deliver value. inspired and motivated their teams to deliver in a tea extracts manufacturing plant which is I thank all our stakeholders for their support and strategy according to plan making this year the expected to commence commercial operations look forward to delivering value for our mutual most impressive in the history of Hayleys. We in 2015/16 and we believe this will promote benefit. are also proud to be subscribers and supporters value added tea in developed markets which of the United Nations Global Compact and value the positive health impacts of Tea. We will strive to extend the ten principles of the are buoyant about our prospects for growth in compact in all areas of our operations. the financial year 2015/16 and confident about our ability to deliver enhanced value to our A Positive Outlook stakeholders. Mohan Pandithage An economically significant player in a number Chairman and Chief Executive of key sectors that contribute the country’s socio economic progress, the Hayleys Group 20th May 2015 improves the quality of lives of Sri Lankans 21 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Sustainability at Hayleys Improving the quality of ordinary people’s lives... We recognise the importance of our stakeholders in developing our competitiveness and make a cohesive effort to create common value... 22 The Quality of Life Our Value Creation Model and over the long-term. Our business model We recognise the importance of our is focused on relentlessly pursuing product Six types of capital are used in our stakeholders in developing our competitiveness and process innovations and leveraging on value creation process to generate and make a cohesive effort to create common our extensive distribution network and strong an array of world class products and value, jointly with stakeholders in a manner brands to create value. services. that is sustainable across the entire value chain What we Have What we Do Our Products Value Outputs Shareholder Product and Process 40,000 MT Activated Shareholder Equity Innovation Carbon Returns Rs. 29.10 bn Rs. 34.42 Earnings per share Staff attraction, retention 9000 MT of Knitted Fabric Rs. 6 Dividend per share debt and development Rs. 29.06 bn 13,031 MT Tea Payments to Customer Insights Employees Employees 3,300 MT Rubber Rs. 14.01 bn 35,093 Customer Services 990 MT Virgin Coconut Oil Tax Contributions: Risk Management Suppliers 7,200 MT Processed Fruits Rs. 1.61 bn Over 1,900 Financial Planning and Vegetables Carbon Footprint: CUSTOMERS Supplier Development 35 MW Power Generation 95,043 tCO2e Over 80,000 Community Engagement Natural Resources Environmental Preservation Raw Materials Energy Water To view this section online please visit www.hayleys.com 23 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Sustainability at Hayleys Concern for the Local Community Employee Welfare and Environment Engagement Development We emphasise the importance of water, The meaningful and active collaboration, We strive to foster a culture of mutual energy and emissions in environmental participation and dialogue between the respect and meritocracy among our conservation and strive to minimise our company and local communities employees, our most valuable asset. environmental footprint The Sustainability Strategy Sustainability Governance Hayleys is cognisant of the ever-increasing Hayleys PLC has in place a Group-wide relevance of integrating an organisation’s sustainability governance structure which sustainability drive with its business agenda. ensures that material sustainability issues The Group’s Sustainability and Corporate relating to the sectors and individual companies Responsibility Strategy framework thus focuses as well as factors which affect the Group on streamlining and optimising the combined holistically are captured in a timely and effect of the Group’s diverse business operations comprehensive manner. to encourage more strategic and robust sustainable initiatives from all Group companies. We strongly believe that this strategic approach towards sustainability would enable the Chairman & Chief executive Group to effectively address its business and operational challenges whilst effectively contributing towards the betterment of the SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNING COUNCIL environment and society at large. The Group’s Sustainability Framework CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY team Through the Group’s robust stakeholder engagement mechanisms, we have identified three key material areas in which the Group GROUPWIDE SUSTAINABILITY SECTOR SUSTAINABILITY is positioned to add substantial value. These INITIATIVES INITIATIVES focus areas form the Pillars of the Group’s Sustainability Framework and initiatives by the sectors and is aligned to the three areas of development given above. We promote increased employee awareness Engaging with our key stakeholders on a of our sustainability agenda through a high consistent basis is an important aspect of our level of employee engagement and the strategy formulation process, as it allows us to progressive enhancement of sustainability aptly recognise the requirements of different related processes and systems across all sectors stakeholder categories. Effective management of business. We are also committed to the of this process provides us the opportunity to annual communication of sustainability related generate sustainable value to our stakeholder performance through the Global Reporting groups whilst collaborating to achieve our Initiative (GRI) framework and the United strategic objectives. Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Principles. 24 The Quality of Life Stakeholder Engagement Diagram Shareholders Employees Trade Unions Hayleys Business Partners/Suppliers PLC Government Customers Local Communities Pressure Groups/Media Shareholders Employees Trade Unions Business Partners/ Suppliers We engage with shareholders annually Formal engagement is provided through We encourage transparent collective We organise annual conventions for business through the AGM and regularly performance appraisals, monthly cluster bargaining and all employees are given partners, distributors and dealers. Principals through quarterly financial reports, meeting and the CEO’s Forum. The the freedom to form/join worker unions are engaged regularly through visits and a announcements, press releases and employee intranet, quarterly internal of their choice. We maintain an ongoing robust communication system. In addition, the Group’s website. magazine and multiple events organised and open dialogue with all trade unions. the corporate website, brochures, DVDs by the Group Recreation Club also facilitate engagement. Supplier development Topics arising from engagement enable staff interaction and engagement. Topics arising from engagement include programmes, training, and engagement through included top-line and earnings remuneration considerations, other clubs and associations facilitate engagement growth, Return on Investment, benefits provided and worker health and with our suppliers. achieving sustainable growth and safety conditions among others maintaining high standards of Needs include ease of transactions, value governance and ethics. addition, business expansion and quality of services among others Government Customers Local Pressure Groups/ Communities Media Regular discussions with the Customers are engaged through We engage with communities around Corporate website, social media Government revolve around National ongoing comprehensive customer our operational areas and community channels, Annual Report and press Policy affecting our industries, relationship management programmes, partners through a range of ongoing releases are utilised to engage with the community development, conservation customer satisfaction surveys, as well development initiatives and project media/pressure groups and society at etc. The Group is represented in multiple as customer visits and reviews. Press based programmes. An open and large on an ongoing basis through the national committees and engagement is releases, other announcements and the ongoing dialogue is maintained with year. through regular meetings, presentations Group website are also used to engage community representative throughout and discussions with customers. the year as an ongoing process These groups show an interest in a wide area of topics including performance, Key topics of interest include payment Key areas of interest were product This stakeholder group demonstrated environmental and social impacts, of taxes, compliance to all relevant and service quality, new product an interest in, potential job creation, growth opportunities, new product and laws and regulations, environmental developments, value for money and ease sponsorships and development technology development among others. preservation and supporting community of transaction programmes, environmental impacts development among others. 25 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Sustainability at Hayleys Identifying Material Issues (CST) who are in charge of group wide The Group uses information obtained from sustainability initiatives and group sustainability stakeholder engagement processes to identify reporting. The CST utilises the inputs gained material issues taking in to account both from the stakeholder engagement process the Group’s strategic priorities and the likely to conduct materiality identification within significance of issues to key stakeholder groups. each sector. Impacts are identified based on This process has been refined over 3 years with the consequences to the stakeholders and inputs from the Sustainability Governing Council the business value drivers, together with which comprises the Group Management the likelihood of occurrence. Issues of high Committee (GMC) from each sector and the materiality are identified through mapping the Hayleys PLC Corporate Sustainability Team material aspects on a matrix of likelihood vs impact Identify matters that can Evaluate their significance Prioritize matters based on Determine matters to be impact our value creation to the company and the their relative importance disclosed in the Integrated process with reference impacted stakeholders Report. to inputs required for the process and the impact to stakeholders Engaging with our key stakeholders on a consistent basis is an important aspect of our strategy formulation process, as it allows us to aptly recognise the requirements of different stakeholder categories 26 The Quality of Life Having reviewed all indicators presented under the GRI (G4) Criteria, the Group has selected the following as having the most material impacts on its value creation process. 1 2 3 10 11 High 17 4 5 6 9 13 Significance to Stakeholder 12 15 19 20 34 7 16 Medium 14 21 22 23 25 26 28 29 8 35 24 27 30 31 32 33 36 Low 37 38 39 40 41 42 43 18 44 45 Low Medium High Significance to Group 1 Economic Performance 17 Training and Education 33 Supplier Assessment for Impacts on 2 Indirect Economic Impacts 18 Product and Service Labelling Society 3 Procurement Practices 19 Marketing Communications 34 Customer Health and Safety 4 Compliance EN 20 Materials 35 Overall 5 Employment 21 Bio-Diversity 36 Customer Privacy 6 Labour/Management Relations 22 Water 37 Environmental Grievance Mechanism 7 Child Labour 23 Supplier Environmental Assessment 38 Equal remuneration for men and 8 Compliance PR 24 Transport women 9 Energy 25 Diversity and Equal opportunity 39 Labour practices grievance mechanism 10 Emissions 26 Supplier Assessment for labour practices 40 Freedom of Association and Collective 11 Effluents and Waste 27 Non-Discrimination Bargaining 12 Anti-corruption 28 Product Responsibility-Compliance 41 Security Practices 13 Occupational Health and Safety 29 Forced or Compulsory labour 42 Assessment 14 Local Communities 30 Supplier Human Rights Assessment 43 Human Rights Grievance Mechanism 15 Products and Services 31 Market Presence 44 Public policy 16 Indigenous Rights 32 Anti-Competitive Behaviour 45 Grievance Mechanism for impact on society Internal Boundary External Boundary 27 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 28 The Quality of Life The Hayleys guarantee of Quality Stakeholders have been impressed again this year by the ways in which our strategy is being brought to life in different parts of the Group, and the above average results versus our peer group are testimony to this. 29 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Management discussion and analysis Improving the quality of ordinary people’s lives... We want to be part of every Sri Lankan life so that we can help impact lives in positive ways, from one end of the island to the other. That’s what we mean by working to improve the quality of life not just for a few people, but for everyone. 30 The Quality of Life Over the years, the Group has pursued diversification through focusing on Sri Lanka’s key growth industries and has successfully built a resilient model for value creation cutting across manufacturing, agriculture and service sectors. In an illustrious history spanning over 137 years, Hayleys PLC has evolved from an exporter of fibre to a diversified conglomerate with leading global and domestic market positions in 12 sectors of enterprise. Over the years, the Group has pursued diversification through focusing on Sri Lanka’s key growth industries and has successfully built a resilient model for value creation cutting across manufacturing, agriculture and service sectors. Our products are sold in all continents of the globe. With a total asset base of Rs. 93.3 billion and a market capitalisation of Rs. 22.5 billion as at end-March 2015, it is among one of Sri Lanka’s largest listed corporates. Core Areas of Operation KEY BUSINESS LINES DESCRIPTION SIGNIFICANCE GLOBAL MARKETS AND MANUFACTURING FIBRE Manufacture and sale of coconut-fibred based products including floor covering, erosion control Revenue Operating Profit solutions, brushes and horticultural products. 5% 1% Rs. 4.4 bn Rs. 66 mn 31 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Management discussion and analysis KEY BUSINESS LINES DESCRIPTION SIGNIFICANCE GLOBAL MARKETS AND MANUFACTURING HAND PROTECTION Manufacture and distribution of natural and synthetic latex based domestic, industrial and Revenue Operating Profit medical gloves. 16% 16% Rs. 14.9 bn Rs. 1.5 bn PURIFICATION Production of coconut-shell based activated carbon for a range of applications including Revenue Operating Profit water treatment, gold extraction, air purification and energy storage. 13% 13% Rs. 11.9 bn Rs. 1.3 bn TEXTILES Supplies knitted and dyed fabric to the Sri Lanka garment export industry. Revenue Operating Profit 9% 2% Rs. 8.5 bn Rs. 222 mn 32 The Quality of Life KEY BUSINESS LINES DESCRIPTION SIGNIFICANCE CONSTRUCTION Manufacture and distribution of aluminium MATERIALS extrusions for industrial and domestic Revenue Operating Profit construction purposes. 4% 6% Rs. 3.3 bn Rs. 624.6 mn AGRICULTURE AND PLANTATIONS AGRICULTURE Sale of Agricultural inputs and manufacture of processed fruits and vegetables, horticulture Revenue Operating Profit solutions and seeds. 9% 10% Rs. 8.4 bn Rs. 1.04 bn PLANTATIONS Cultivation and sale of tea, rubber and export of value added tea. Revenue Operating Profit 14% 6% Rs. 12.7 bn Rs. 566 mn 33 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Management discussion and analysis KEY BUSINESS LINES DESCRIPTION SIGNIFICANCE SERVICES TRANSPORTATION AND Provides a wide array of solutions in LOGISTICS transportation including International Freight Revenue Operating Profit Management, Terminals & Engineering, Marine Services and Integrated Logistics Services 15% 13% Rs. 14.2 bn Rs. 1.3 bn CONSUMER PRODUCTS Markets world-renowned brands of products and services in personal care, home-care, lighting, Revenue Operating Profit imaging and pharmaceuticals. 6% 1% Rs. 5.2 bn Rs. 140 Mn POWER AND ENERGY Industrial chemicals, machinery and equipment and after sales service in the B2B market and Revenue Operating Profit generation of renewable energy 4% 9% Rs. 3.2 bn Rs. 916 mn 34 The Quality of Life KEY BUSINESS LINES DESCRIPTION SIGNIFICANCE LEISURE AND AVIATION Sector operations consist of Hotels and Resorts, Aviation and Destination Management Revenue Operating Profit 5% 8% Rs. 4.8 bn Rs. 806 mn INVESTMENTS AND Includes Business Process Outsourcing, shared SERVICES service operations for internal Hayleys sector Revenue Operating Profit companies and domestic clients. 1% 14% Rs. 758 mn Rs. 1.4 bn* *Includes inter-sector dividends 35 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Management discussion and analysis Our global footprint In addition to Sri Lanka, the Group has manufacturing facilities in Thailand and Indonesia marketing offices in the USA, UK, Australia, India Italy, Japan, The Netherlands, Bangladesh and offers transportation and logistics solutions in Maldives 14.6% Revenue Rs. 13.6 bn 12.9% Revenue (Asia excluding Sri Lanka) Rs. 12 bn 1.5% Revenue Rs. 1.4 bn 8.9% Revenue Americas 60.1% Revenue Rs. 8.3 bn 2% Rs. 55.5 bn Revenue Includes indirect exports of 16.1 bn (17.6%) Rs. 1.9 bn 36 The Quality of Life Operating Environment Global economic developments impact our group operations as we derive 57% (including indirect exports) of our revenue from diverse markets Regions Customers Suppliers overseas and also rely on suppliers overseas to 5 Over 80,000 Over 1,900 provide various inputs in to our businesses. Global trends and developments also impact the growth We export to 5 regions Local and international Local and international around the globe and stability of the Sri Lankan economy which remains our principal market accounting for 43% of group revenue. Europe, Asia and the Americas are crucial markets for the Group accounting for 14.6%, 12.9% and 8.9% of Group revenue respectively. Global Economy Global economic growth was 3.4% in 2014 maintaining the same momentum witnessed in 2013. However, global growth was divergent as the US economy outperformed forecasts whilst the Eurozone and Japan notably performed below expectations. Key developments that shaped economic growth in 2014 include the sharp Islandwide decline in oil prices since September 2014, the strengthening of the US dollar vis a vis other major coverage currencies, and the increase in interest rates and risk spreads in emerging economies. Advanced economies continue to grapple with the legacies of the financial and Euro area crises with weak banks, high levels of public, corporate and domestic debt weighing down spending and growth. Ageing of the population, lower productivity growth, and weak capital accumulation are impacting advanced economies and emerging economies although capital growth is expected to recover in advanced economies. Evidence also suggests that oil importing countries such as US, Euro Area, China and India are increasing spending supported by increasing real incomes. Many oil exporting countries are moderating spending although to a lesser extent as they have sufficient financial reserves to support a gradual decrease in spending. Commodity markets have also declined sharply which has positive implications for importers of raw Our comprehensive business materials but negative implications for commodity framework was developed more than exporters. a decade ago to help grow a culture of empowerment and innovation, and it Overall these movements are expected to be has proven to be a robust system. positive for the Hayleys Group as exports to the US and Europe are denominated in US dollars for the Hand Protection sector which accounts for 37 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Management discussion and analysis approximately 15% of group revenue although IMF Data Mapper Real GDP growth (Annual percent change) the sharp devaluation of the Euro and lack of World Advanced economies growth momentum is likely to increase pressure on Emerging markets and developing economies margins. The purification sector continues to be Sri Lanka impacted by the declining prices for gold which in 15 turn has a negative impact on demand. We have witnessed the impact of the political turmoil in 10 principal markets for Tea including East European and Middle East countries on prices of Tea as they 5 declined sharply during the second half of 2014/15 with cost of production being higher than the net 0 sales average. Additionally, the decline in oil prices has made the synthetic rubber cheaper further depressing the prices of rubber. The Leisure sector 1980 1985 1990 1995 2000 2005 2010 2015 2020 will also be affected by the political and economic ©IMF, 2012 Source: World Economic Outlook (April 2015) turmoil in East Europe as arrivals from this key tourist market have declined significantly. Declining in April 2015, a gradual increase of the 0%-0.25% in the Euro area and there are early indications commodity markets will support the transportation policy interest rates of the US Federal Reserve is supporting improved financial conditions as well. and construction materials sectors as key inputs expected to commence in the 3rd quarter of 2015 The outlook for the Euro Area is positive with become cheaper. depending on progress towards the dual goals of growth forecast at 1.5% for 2015 supported by the maximum employment and 2% inflation. Overall, ECB interventions, lower oil prices, wage increases USA the US is expected to have strong growth of 3.1% and improved financial conditions, strengthening The US economy posted a relatively strong recovery in 2015 with positive knock on effects for the rest of the outlook for Hayleys Group as well as Europe is of 2.4% supported by improved labour markets the world which augurs well for the Hayleys group the largest destination for its export products. and accommodative monetary policy which has exports. supported increased spending/consumption. Asia Pacific Unemployment reached 5.5% in February 2015 Europe The Asia Pacific region continues to outperform supported by job creation although real wages Economic activity in Europe showed some positive other regions although growth moderated growth has been less than 1% raising concerns over signs of growth momentum reflecting lower oil from 5.9% in 2013 to 5.6% in 2014 weighted by sustainable spending growth in the US in the long prices and supportive financial conditions. Growth slowdowns in large economies like China Japan and term. However, there are signs that healthier wage in the Advanced European countries outside the Indonesia. The region is a net importer and decline data can be expected soon as large employers euro area was more robust with strong growth 0f in oil prices is expected to spur GDP growth by plan wage increases. The economy has also been 2.6% from UK and most other countries recording approximately 1.5% due to increasing purchasing resilient against the strengthening of the dollar as growth rates of around 2%. The risks are also more power across the region. The slowdown in China is net exports account for only 14% of GDP, although balanced than previously with upside risks arising viewed as a shift to a sustainable pace and growth developments in this area need to be watched from larger than anticipated effects of the lower fell to 7.4% in 2014 and is expected to decline carefully as corporate profits in the 4th quarter fell oil prices while the main downside risks arise from to 6.8% in 2015 as per IMF April 2015 forecast as by 6.4% from the 4th quarter in 2013 as income knock on effects of stagnation and persistent previous excesses in real estate, investment and from overseas markets declined. Both households inflation in the Euro area. UK growth was driven by credit continue to unwind. Japan which ended and corporates will benefit from lower oil prices improved labour markets and financial conditions 2014 with -0.1% growth is expected to perform offsetting the impact of declining investments in oil with lower oil prices are expected to support better in 2015 with a forecast of 1% supported by on GDP growth. These factors, together with the growth in 2015. Growth in the Euro Area was the weaker yen, higher real wages and equity prices strengthening of bank, corporate and household relatively weaker at 0.9% as it copes with structural and lower commodity prices. India’s economic balance sheets is expected to continue to offset problems slowing the pace of recovery and weak performance is expected to strengthen from effects of further strengthening of the US dollar. investment except in Ireland, Germany and Spain. 7.2% in 2014 to 7.5% in 2015 strengthened by Quantitative easing by the Federal Reserve ended The asset purchase programme commenced in the recent policy reform which is expected to boost in October 2014 as the economy strengthened. 1st quarter of 2015 by the European Central Bank is investment and lower oil prices which will raise According to the World Economic Outlook expected to address the low inflation experienced disposable incomes and drive down inflation. The published by the International Monetary Fund 38 The Quality of Life Group strategy during the year was aligned 4,000 Per Capita GDP (USD) to respond to the opportunities in the local 3,500 3,000 market which included a financial 2,500 2,000 restructuring converting short term debt to 1,500 1,000 long term debentures, strengthening the 500 0 balance sheet. 10/11 11/12 12/13 13/14 14/15 positive developments in this region and their Per capita income grew to US$ 3,625 on target with 1 year treasury bill rate knock on effects on the country are expected to the goal of achieving a $ 4,000 per capita income 7.5 strengthen Hayleys prospects for growth in this by 2016 and is twice the per capita income of India. region. Unemployment was low at 4.3% with a labour force 6.1 participation rate of 53.3% and increasing labour 4.7 Sri Lanka productivity. The poverty headcount also declined Sri Lankan economic growth was robust at 7.4% during the year. These developments augur well for 3.3 in 2014, marginally higher than the GDP growth the disposable incomes stimulating spending. 1.9 recorded in 2013 of 7.2%. The rate of growth compares well with other South Asian and Asia Export earnings increased 7.1% to USD11.1 bn for 0.5 Pacific countries which experienced lower growth 2014, driven by strong growth in exports of textiles Jan-14 Feb-14 Mar-14 Apr-14 May-14 rates. Growth was supported by a strengthening and garments, coconut and tea. On the other Jun-14 Jul-14 Aug-14 Sep-14 Oct-14 Nov-14 Dec-14 industrial sector which benefited from recovery hand, Imports increased to US$ 19.4bn in 2014, a in key export markets and mega infrastructure moderated growth of 7.9% over the previous year. investments, accounting for 33% of GDP. Service Increases in imports of consumer and intermediate channels for remittances and higher levels for sector growth remained stable at 6.5% accounting goods were observed while investments goods had professional and skilled migration. Consequently, for 57% of GDP as increased tourist arrivals boosted declined during the year. The trade deficit declined the Balance of payments surplus improved from earnings from this key sector. Performance of as a percentage of GDP from 11.3% in 2013 to US$ 985 mn in 2013 to US$ 1,369 mn in 2014 . the agricultural sector was disappointing at 0.3% 11.1 % in 2014, while the current account deficit Gross Official Reserves are estimated at US$ 8.2 bn accounting for 10.3% of GDP as it was adversely contracted to US$ 2.0 bn amounting to 2.7% of by end 2014, equivalent to 5.1 months of imports. impacted by adverse weather conditions. GDP from 3.8% in 2013. Worker remittances grew by 9.5% to US$ 7 bn due to increased use of formal The government maintained its accommodative monetary policy stance, stimulating private sector investment and economic growth. Interest rates Sri Lanka GDP Growth Exchange Rates continued to be historically low, while inflation decreased to 2.1% by end 2014, averaging 3.3% for 12 300 1.6 the year. The Sri Lankan rupee remained relatively 10 250 stable depreciating 0.23% against a strengthening 1.2 8 200 US dollar but appreciating against the sterling pound by 5.35% and the Euro by 11.65%. 6 150 0.8 4 100 Group strategy during the year was aligned to 0.4 2 50 respond to the opportunities in the local market 0 0.0 which included a financial restructuring converting 0 10/11 11/12 12/13 13/14 14/15 1 2 3 4 5 short term debt to long term debentures, Pound Sterling US Dollar strengthening the balance sheet. GDP Growth (%) Services growth (%) Euro Japanese Yen Industry growth (%) Agriculture growth (%) 39 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Financial review Improving the quality of ordinary people’s lives... People are our business the thousands of people who trust in us to deliver the best choices, the best solutions, the best partnerships that bring win-win results for everyone. Both locally and internationally, we believe we can offer new and exciting ways for people to keep enhancing their quality of life... 40 The Quality of Life The Hayleys Group turned in another year of strong financial performance with consolidated Despite challenging industry landscapes in profit after tax for the year surging 31.7% to reach Rs. 4.89 billion. Despite challenging several of the Group’s key business lines, the industry landscapes in several of the Group’s key business lines, the diversity of its operations diversity of its operations enabled the Group to enabled the Group to demonstrate stability in its earnings profile. Total asset growth was demonstrate stability in its earnings profile. 14.8% during the year, as the Group continued to strengthen its market positions and geographical reach through acquisitions and FY 2015 FY 2014 y-o-y growth (%) organic growth. Revenue (Rs. mn) 92,561.87 80,478.61 15.01 Revenue EBIT (Rs. mn) 8,510.55 7,195.66 18.27 The Group’s consolidated revenue grew by Net Finance Cost (Rs. mn) 2,135.01 2,147.28 (0.57) 15.01% y-o-y to a record high of Rs. 92.56 billion Profit after tax (Rs. mn) 4,886.33 3,708.99 31.74 during the financial year 2014/2015. Growth EPS (Rs.) 34.42 24.11 42.76 was broad-based with all sectors recording top line growth. The key contributors to the Group’s DPS (Rs.) 6 5 20% revenue growth during the year were Hand Total Assets (Rs. mn) 93,326.50 81,305.09 14.79 Protection (16.17%), Transportation & Logistics Total Debt(Rs. mn) 29,062.18 25,825.47 12.53 (15.32%) and Plantation (13.70%) (Refer sector Total Equity (Rs. mn) 44,209.48 36,337.27 21.66 performance reviews for further details on Debt/Equity 0.66 0.71 (7.04) sectors). The Group’s revenue streams are well diversified with the contribution of an individual EBITDA/Debt 0.38 0.36 5.55 sector not exceeding 20% of consolidated Operating Cash flow/Debt cover 0.30 0.22 36.36 revenue. Export-oriented business interests have Current Ratio 1.25 1.18 5.93 also enabled the Group to be geographically Quick ratio 0.83 0.77 7.79 diversified, with revenue streams originating Share price (Rs.) 300 285 5.26 from multiple regions including Asia, Europe, America and Africa. Sector Revenue Contributions (Rs.’000) Earnings before Interest and Tax Group EBIT increased 18.3% to Rs. 8.51 billion Fibre during the financial year supported by revenue Hand Protection expansion, whereas growth in other income Purification Products was marginal. Administration and distribution Textiles expenses increased by 11.3% in line with Construction Materials capacity expansions in several business lines Agriculture and increased staff costs. Primary contributors Plantations to growth in consolidated EBIT* were the Hand Leisure and Aviation Protection (15.57%), and Purification (13.07%) Consumer Products Transportation (13.5%) sectors. Meanwhile, Power and Energy the Group’s consolidated EBIT margin widened Transportation & Logistics to 9.19% in comparison to the previous year’s Investments and Services 8.94%. Although several sectors including 0 3,000,000 6,000,000 9,000,000 12,000,000 15,000,000 Purification and Plantations experienced margin 2013/14 2014/15 compression due to volatilities in commodity *Before inter-sector adjustments 41 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Financial review prices, consolidated profitability was upheld by Net Finance Costs Group Profitability Trends wider margins in Hand Protection and Textiles Consolidated Net Finance costs declined by 100,000 25 0.57% to Rs. 2.13 billion, supported by the drop in market interest rates during the year, 80,000 20 despite a 12.53% increase in total borrowings 60,000 15 Rs. Mn to Rs. 29.06 billion. Although finance income % Group Profitability Trends contracted as yields on the Group’s fixed income 40,000 10 5,000 12 investments fell, a 11% reduction in finance 20,000 5 expenses allowed Net Finance cost to decline. 4,000 The Group pursued a strategy of converting its 9 0 0 short-term borrowings to longer-tenured loans, 10/11 11/12 12/13 13/14 14/15 3,000 Rs. Mn 6 % resulting in a decline in its Average Weighted Revenue (Rs.Mn) 2,000 GP margin (%) 3 EBIT margin (%) 1,000 Group Cost of Borrowing 3,000 12 0 0 10/11 11/12 12/13 13/14 14/15 2,500 Profit for the year 9 Profit after tax (Rs. Mn) 2,000 Group profit for the year increased 31.7% in ROCE (%) comparison to 2013/2014 to a record high of Rs. Mn 1,500 6 % Rs. 4.89 billion. Purification, Hand Protection and 1,000 Transportation sectors surpassed the 3 sectors demonstrating the stability in earnings 500 Rs. 1.0 billion profit before tax mark for the year. arising through diversification. The Group’s net profit margin widened to 5.3% 0 0 Sector profitability margins (%) during the year, from 4.6% the previous year, 10/11 11/12 12/13 13/14 14/15 supported by improved profitability margins in Finance Cost (Rs. Mn) several key business sectors. Non-controlling 2015 2014 Average cost of debt (%) interest grew by 21.3% to Rs. 2.31 billion Fibre 1.5% 0.5% whereas profit attributable to equity holders of Hand Protection 10.4% 6.8% Cost of Debt The Hayleys PLC Company the parent increased by 42.7% to Rs. 2.58 billion. Purification Products 10.9% 12.6% accounted for around 28% of the Group’s Overall, the Group’s Return on Capital Employed finance costs, followed by Leisure and Aviation (ROCE) remained relatively unchanged at 11.6% Textiles 2.6% 0.1% (13.2%) and Purification (12.6%). Overall, the during the period. Construction Materials 18.5% 16.9% Group’s average borrowing rate was around 8% Agriculture 12.3% 12.8% during the year. Shareholder Returns Earnings per share grew by 42.7% during the Plantations 4.1% 8.6% Taxation year to Rs. 34.42 whereas Dividend per share Transportation & 9.5% 9.5% was Rs. 6.00 during the year. The strong growth The Group’s total tax expense increased by Logistics in earnings together with improved investor 10.2% to Rs. 1.51 billion during the year, with Consumer Products 2.7% 4.5% all sectors turning to profitability during confidence resulted in the Hayleys’ share price Power and Energy 28.2% 29.9% the year. The largest contributors to the increasing by 5% to close the year at Rs. 300.00. Group’s tax expense during the year were Share price performance of the Group’s listed Leisure and Aviation 16.6% 19.0% subsidiaries was also strong during the year. the Transportation and the Hand Protection Investments and 183.7% 138.0% sectors. The effective tax rate of the Group was Services * 24%, compared to 27% the previous year; the reduction reflects higher profit contributions *Dividend income received by Hayleys PLC captured in from the Hand Protection sector where the the Investments and Services cluster. profit from local operations are taxed at 12%. Please refer Note 11 to the Financial Statements of this Annual Report, for further information on the Group’s tax expense. 42 The Quality of Life Shareholder Returns Asset Composition 2015 Group Funding Profile 35 8% 17% 30 49% 25 19% 20 Rs. 15 10 23% 60% 5 14% 0 10/11 11/12 12/13 13/14 14/15 9% PPE 1% Inventories EPS DPS Equity LT borrowings Investment properties Receivables ST borrowings Other non-current Other current assets assets Asset Growth Capital Structure Sector-wise Breakdown of Borrowings Group’s consolidated asset growth was 14.8% Equity funds accounted for 60.3% or Rs. 44.21 5.28% 7.86% during the year, led by additions to property, billion of the Group’s capital employed during 21.90% plant and equipment. Key acquisitions the year. Total borrowings increased 12.5% to 7.89% during the year were the purchase of Amaya Rs. 29.06 billion during the year, translating Beach Pasikuddah Hotel for an investment to a gearing ratio of around 40%. The debt 7.92% of Rs. 568 million and Alufab PLC for a total was utilised primarily to fund the Group’s new 12.73% consideration of Rs. 174 million. Other major acquisitions and investments during the year. 0.09% investments included Rs. 525 million equity We also pursued a strategy of restructuring 7.87% investment in Joule (Pvt) Ltd and Beta (Pvt) Ltd, several of our shortterm facilities to long-term 5.94% 12.39% two wind power plants. At Hayleys Company borrowings, taking advantage of the relatively 5.80% 4.32% level, investments in subsidiaries increased low interest rate scenario. The Group also raised Fibre Plantations marginally to Rs. 9.37 billion; with the objective Rs. 2.0 billion via a 4-year listed debenture, Hand Protection Transportation & Logistics Purification Products Consumer Products of diversifying its risk exposure the Company facilitating a reduction in its Average Weighted Textiles Power and Energy disposed 19.6% of its stake held in Hayleys MGT cost of debt. Approximately 42% of the Group’s Construction Materials Leisure and Aviation Agriculture Investments & Services Knitting Mills PLC during the year. Despite the borrowings now comprise of long-term debt disposal, we fully subscribed to outshare of compared to 35% the previous year. Hayleys MGT’s rights issue of Rs. 522 million in Cash Flow September 2014 as we are encouraged by the Approximately 21.9% of the Group’s debt lies Increased business volumes in most of the turnaround in the Company’s performance and with Hayleys PLC, with the balance spread Group’s industry sectors resulted in a stronger remain optimistic about its prospects. Overall, primarily between Leisure and Aviation (12.73%), cash flow generation during the year. Net Cash the Group’s asset composition was relatively Power and Energy (12.39%). Given the strong flow from operating activities increased by unchanged in comparison to the previous year. dividend up streaming from its subsidiaries, 55.4% to Rs. 8.63 billion during the reviewed Meanwhile, working capital requirements for the Company can comfortably meet its short period. Cash outflow from investing activities the year increased 9.14% to Rs. 18.53 billion and medium term debt repayment obligations. increased to Rs. 6.34 billion (2014: Rs. 3.69 billion) during the year, stemming primarily from the Stronger overall performance during the year as a result of acquisitions and investments as purification and plantation sectors. also resulted in an improvement in the Group’s discussed earlier. Meanwhile, net cash outflow debt protection metrics; EBITDA/Debt cover from financing activities was Rs. 233.28 million improved marginally to 0.38 times (2014: 0.35) during the year (compared to an inflow of whereas operating cash flow/ debt cover also Rs. 1.48 billion the previous year) due to widened to 0.30 times (2014: 0.22 times) settlement of debt. 43 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Sustainability review Improving the quality of ordinary people’s lives... We’re committed to sustainable business operations that take into account the many factors that go towards a truly environmentally friendly and community conscious business model... 44 The Quality of Life Environmental Natural Capital is a critical input to the Group’s Performance value creation process and all our sectors Natural Capital is a critical input to the Group’s value creation process and all our sectors continue to demonstrate strong commitment continue to demonstrate strong commitment towards ensuring that our impact on the environment is minimal. Our approach towards ensuring that our impact on the towards managing the environmental inputs and outputs of our processes are guided by environment is minimal the Group’s common Environmental policy, which details the requirements, performance criteria, guidelines and responsibility for all environmental aspects. Multiple sectors within the Group have obtained and Natural Inputs Value Creation Managing continue to comply with domestic and global Materials Process Outputs environmental certifications, demonstrating our Energy Emissions commitments towards safeguarding the natural Water Effluents capital. We also place particular emphasis on Waste the use of our products and take every effort to ensure that our products have the lowest possible adverse impact on the environment. Managing Inputs Sector Raw Materials Unit 2014/2015 2013/2014 Raw Materials The Group consumes a wide variety of raw PLANTATIONS Bought Leaf Kg 13,671,176 9,780,229 materials, which account for a significant Bought Latex Kg 280,211 527,311 portion of our manufacturing costs and PURIFICATION Coconut shell charcoal MT 105012 82346 determine the overall quality of our products. The Group’s raw material usage policy is centred FIBRE Raw, processed and other MT 29,317 23,162 on responsible product stewardship and the fibre materials practices of the 3R conceptreduce, reuse and Timber Square Meters 1,029,510 903,654 recycle for all raw materials that are procured. CONSTRUCTION Scrap metal Kg 1,827,104 1,915,585 Material usage is tracked on a consistent basis MATERIAL using suitable indicators across several of our sectors with actionable plans to optimise Table 1 : Raw material usage material usage. During the year, the usages of raw materials in our key manufacturing sector companies are given in Table 1. We hope to Energy l The Plantation sector engages in widen the scope and coverage of our material Our primary energy sources are fossil fuels, the generation of renewable energy tracking processes in the future. electricity from the national grid and renewable through four hydro plants and fuel energy. Total energy consumption during the wood plantation. The sector also Raw material consumption has increased in year increased over the previous year, in line installed energy efficiency capacitor line with the rise in operational activity for with the expansion of manufacturing capacities banks, equipment and lighting systems most of the Group’s sectors. We have focused and business operations, although energy whilst awareness programmes targeting on improving the quality and sustainability of intensity of several sectors improved. The sectors employees and resident communities our raw material sources by engaging with our have undertaken several initiatives to improve are conducted on a regular basis. suppliers to provide technical and financial energy efficiency and reduce dependence on support, as discussed further in subsequent fossil fuels including the following; sections of this report. 45 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Sustainability review l The Textile sector has introduced a range of variable frequency motors and drives to reduce power consumption and also installed energy efficient production machinery l In the Purification sector pollutant gases and heat discharged from the production process are used to generate electricity, which is supplied to the national grid. l The Fibre sector has installed a bioenergy plant in the industrial fibre facility to reduce dependence on fossil fuels l In the Leisure sector, energy efficient lighting and cooling systems have been implemented in all hotels, and awareness programmes on energy management are conducted for staff on a continuous basis. Hunas by Amaya generates hydro power which is used to power garden lights. For the first time the Group has obtained Method of Hazardous NonDisposal (MT) hazardous external assurance on its carbon footprint Water calculation. This has enabled the Group to Several sectors within the Group consume (MT) obtain more accurate and specific information significant amounts of water in their value Re-use 4224.01 regarding the Group-wide carbon footprint. creation process; resultantly conserving water Going forward we intend to utilise the inputs Re-cycle 215.1 is a key focus area in the Group’s environmental of this process to adopt a focused and strategic sustainability agenda. In addition to water Incineration 34.2 approach towards reducing our carbon stewardship, all our business sectors are Landfill 413.0 footprint in the future. mandated to ensure that water discharge meets On-site storage 43.67 117.74 all applicable regulatory requirements. Initiatives During the year under review, the Group’s total undertaken by the sectors to reduce the Composting 201.82 GHG emissions increased by 18% to 95,043 consumption and preserve the quality of water Other 384.42 321.86 tonnes carbon dioxide equivalent (tCO2e) as include recycling used water and engaging in operational activity increased across several Table 2: Waste disposal water treatment prior to discharge among others. sectors and due to the quality of data gathered. Carbon Footprint The Hand Protection, Textiles and Plantations Managing Outputs sectors were the key contributors to the The calculation of the carbon footprint is based Effluents and Waste increase in the carbon footprint during the on the WBCSD/WRI Greenhouse Gas Protocol All sectors engage in the segregation and year, whereas Purification, Transportation and Corporate Standard, and we have used the most disposal of waste, in compliance with regulatory Logistics and Agriculture recorded a decline in recent versions of applicable calculation tools. requirements and industry best practice. Details the carbon footprint. We have continued to extend our coverage of regarding the disposal of hazardous and noncalculation and our reporting of Greenhouse hazardous waste generated during the year Analysed based on the scope of emissions, Gas emissions now covers all our sectors are given in Table 2 in respect of Agriculture, Purchased Electricity under Scope 2 accounted under Scope 1 and 2, whilst Scope 3 remains Plantations, Purification, Construction Materials, for the largest share of emissions with a share selective based on data availability. The data Transport and Fibre. We hope to widen our of 42% followed by Stationary Combustion presented is analysed at Sector level and not coverage of this environmental indicator in the under Scope 1. Based on generation of carbon from an individual company perspective. This future. footprint by sector, the manufacturing sectors could result in differences in the assignment of Scopes for purchased electricity, although the of Textiles, Purification, and Hand Protection consolidated data remains unaffected. together with Plantations were the largest contributors to Group numbers. Although total 46 The Quality of Life Carbon Footprint by Sector and scope, tonnes CO2 Equivalent Sector Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 Other Sector Total % Share by Sector Total (14/15) sector (14/15) (2013/2014) Manufacturing Fibre 528 2,019 17 245 2,809 3.0 1,684 Hand Protection 9,775 5,627 45 684 16,132 17.0 11,716 Purification 6,595 5,430 101 660 12,785 13.5 18,705 Textiles 16,463 9,022 23 1,096 26,604 28.0 18,088 Construction Materials 2,269 2,669 15 324 5,279 5.5 4,776 Agriculture and Plantations Agriculture 1,565 746 31 90 2,432 2.6 2,495 Plantations 2,342 9,153 25 1,248 12,768 13.4 8,879 Services Transportation & Logistics 7,181 357 64 503 8,106 8.5 8,332 Consumer 9 27 14 219 269 0.3 336 Leisure & Aviation 1,855 3,218 49 391 5,513 5.8 3,809 Power & Energy 20 112 49 123 305 0.3 220 Investment & Services 547 1 66 614 0.6 106 Holding Company 8 1,264 154 1,426 1.5 1,401 Total by Scope 48,610 40,192 434 5,803 95,043 80,547 Agriculture and Plantation Sectors which are mitigate the risks arising from climate change Hayleys PLC Total highly vulnerable to inclement climatic and through its integrated environmental and social 1% 6% weather conditions as well as the Leisure Sector, sustainability management framework, which 39% in which the country’s natural landscape and strives to ensure the development of sustainable bio-diversity is an essential component of raw material suppliers, minimise the Group’s the value proposition. The Group attempts to carbon footprint and improve energy efficiency among others. 11% Emission IntensitytCO2e/Rs. million 42% Sector 1% (2014/2015) (2013/2014) Stationary Combustion Air Travel Fibre 0.64 0.45 Mobile Combustion Purchased Electricity Hand Protection 1.08 0.87 Fugitive Emmissions Other Purification 1.24 1.80 Textiles 3.11 2.26 GHG emissions increased during the year, most Construction Materials 1.56 1.70 of the Group’s sectors recorded a reduction in Agriculture 0.29 0.33 emission intensity during the year under review. Plantations 1.00 0.92 Impact of Climate Change Transportation & Logistics 0.57 0.68 Several of the Group’s key sectors are exposed Consumer Products 0.05 0.06 to potential risks stemming from climate Leisure & Aviation 1.13 0.87 change. This includes manufacturing companies Power & Energy 0.09 0.03 which utilise indigenous raw materials, Investments & Services 0.81 0.12 47 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Sustainability review Hayleys creates value for its employees primarily Gender Diversity by providing a great place to work as part of 42% highly motivated teams alongside people who are inspired to excel. Governance structures, policy frameworks, systems and processes 58% have been put in place to support employee Male Female productivity goals and how the Group creates value for employees Type of Employment 5% 7% Social Performance The Value Creators As a Group we are able to provide The Hayley’s team of 35,093 employees is spread exciting opportunities for talented and across all provinces in Sri Lanka and bound by ambitious professionals who aspire to 88% common goals and shared values, creating realise their full potential in their chosen value for our stakeholders. They are at the heart fields. Permanent Contract Casual of our innovations and growth, driving diverse businesses to dominant market positions through their collective efforts. A diverse mix of skills, talent and experience managed through governance structures and policy frameworks combined with an organisation culture developed over 137 year gives the Hayleys team a unique competitive advantage in today’s competitive landscape. As a Group we are able to provide exciting opportunities for talented and ambitious professionals who aspire to realise their full potential in their chosen fields. We also have the ability to attract top talent in the market through a combination of remuneration, benefits and potential for personal growth ensuring that there is a sufficient talent pipeline to build on our achievements. 48 The Quality of Life Creating Value for Employees Creating Value for Employees Great people, great teams, great place to work Compensation, Engagement Training & Recruitment & Rewards & Development Retention Recognition l Amount paid as l More than 150 Staff l Investment Rs. 50 mn l Equal Opportunity remuneration Rs 14 bn Events l 34,941 training hours Employer l Chairman’s Awards l 99% retention rate 10 Recipients Hayleys creates value for its employees primarily by providing a great place to work as part of highly motivated teams alongside people who are inspired to excel. Governance structures, policy frameworks, systems and processes have been put in place to support employee productivity goals and how the Group creates value for employees. HR Governance All human resource activity within the Group is co-ordinated centrally with HR departments of each sector to ensure uniformity in policy frameworks and application of the policies. The governance structure for the group is shown on page 50. The Group HR function has three specialised areas which are Industrial & Employee Relations, Talent Management and HR Administration. These three departments provide support to sector HR departments which are our front liners for Talent Management. 49 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Sustainability review Governance Structure Board of Directors Remuneration Committee Chairman and Chief Executive Group HR Industrial and Employee Talent Management HR Administration Relations Hand Construction Consumer Leisure & Power & Transportation Investments Fibre Purification Textiles Plantations Agriculture Protection Materials Products Aviation Energy & Logistics & Services UN Global Compact A sound HR Group policy framework was put Principles in place this year to ensure that all companies l Principle One Support and respect protection of internationally within the Group conform to agreed policies l proclaimed human rights Principal Two Ensure they are not that are in accordance with regulation and l complicit in human rights abuses Principle Three Businesses should standards of best practice voluntarily adopted uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to by the Group collective bargaining; l Principle Four the elimination of all A sound HR Group policy framework was put in have less stringent labour laws, the policy forms of forced and compulsory labour; in place this year to ensure that all companies framework developed for Sri Lanka is adopted l Principle Five the effective abolition of within the Group conform to agreed policies across all our operations. child labour; and that are in accordance with regulation and l Principle Six eliminate discrimination standards of best practice voluntarily adopted Recruitment in respect of employment and by the Group. Voluntary standards impacting Hayleys Group has long been recognised as occupation HR include the GRI G4 standards on Labour and a great place to start careers due to the many Human Rights and the UN Global Compact opportunities provided for development Principles 1 to 6. As most countries we operate through lateral movement across business 50 The Quality of Life HR Policy Framework Human Resources Talent Policies Management Health & Safety The Hayleys Way l Human Rights l Recruitment l Health & Safety l Code of Business l Whistleblower l Talent Management Conduct l Grievance Handling l Learning & Development l Anti-Sexual Harassment l Job Description & Job l Anti-Corruption & Evaluation Anti-Bribery l Performance l Leave Management l Industrial Relations l Exit Interview sectors, opportunities for promotion, needs and develop their potential in alignment Many of our Group companies are also competitive remuneration and benefits and a with corporate goals. Leadership development approved training organisations for National robust training and development programme. is a key area of focus to ensure retention of star Apprenticeship and Industrial Training Authority The Group focuses on recruitment of young performers and depth in succession planning. and have trained many apprentices during the qualified professionals at junior executive year. level who are included in a 3 month induction All permanent employees have bi-annual programme at sector level with high level performance evaluations to facilitate structured Employee Benefits mentoring and on the job experience. They are feedback on performance highlighting areas for As a diversified conglomerate, Hayleys Group then included in a Group induction programme improvement and other development needs. has a baseline package of benefits that are within 3 months of joining. The long induction This year we have introduced objective criteria applicable throughout the Group which programme ensures that they understand our for transfers increasing transparency in the include medical insurance covering both values and culture – the Hayleys Way. We also process. hospitalisation and out-patient treatments, recruit at other levels for our business needs workmen’s compensation for life and disability and ensure that sufficient training is provided We are also approved training organisations for both at work and during travel to or from work, to enable outstanding performance. We are an the following professional bodies: maternity leave, reimbursement of professional equal opportunity employer with zero tolerance subscriptions. Additionally, some sectors offer of child labour and forced labour in accordance l Institute of Chartered Accountants of additional benefits such as additional leave with the UN Global Compact principles. The Sri Lanka, allocations and discounted hotel rates. All Table inset indicate adherence to Group policy l Chartered Institute of Management permanent employees are enrolled in to the in this regard. During the year, we added a Accountants, UK statutory Employee Provident Fund and the total of 267 new recruits to the Group, which l Chartered Institute of Marketing, UK Employee Trust Fund for which the employer represented 0.8% of the total workforce. contributions amount to 12% and 3% of Consequently, employees who are members the gross salary with no further obligations. Talent Development of the above bodies have mentored trainees in The Group retirement gratuity policy offers Recruiting the crème de la crème of talent accordance with the rigorous practical training employees with over 20 years’ service rates means we have a pool of ambitious people who requirements of these bodies assisting them to which are above the statutory rate of ½ month are eager to develop themselves to become obtain qualifications that support lifelong career pay per year of service with a maximum of 1½ the next generation of leaders in the Group. development. month’s pay per year of service for employees A robust talent management framework is in with over 30 years’ service. Further information is place to monitor performance, identify training provided on page 194 on defined benefit plan obligations. 51 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Sustainability review Health & Safety Employee health and safety is a key focus area Average Training Hours Total Training Hours and a Group policy is in place in this regard which establishes a baseline standard across Gender Breakdown the Group. Many sectors which involve varying degrees of occupational health and safety risks Male 3.94 27,795 have in place more stringent policies that go Female 1.00 7,146 well beyond the legal requirements to manage Category Breakdown the risk. Sectors with higher levels of risk have established Occupational Health & Safety (OHS) Executive 7.44 20,187 Committees with workforce representatives and Clerical and Supervisory 1.38 4,652 management included in the committees to Manual 14.14 12,670 facilitate OHS risk management and implement use of protective equipment in the workplace. The following sectors have had zero incidents of adherence to minimum notice periods regarding Tamil catering to the needs of the employees in fatalities, injuries and occupational diseases with operational changes is observed. As a policy, the sector. no lost days or absenteeism recorded as a result Hayleys Group seeks proactive engagement with of the same: trade union representatives on a regular basis to Group-wide social activities are handled by identify areas of concern facilitating harmonious Hayleys Group Recreation Club to which l Power & Energy industrial relations. employees subscribe. Hayleys PLC also l Agriculture contributes in cash and kind to the activities l Consumer Employee engagement of the HGRC who have an active calendar to As a geographically and sectorally diverse Group, engage employees. Affairs of the Club are The Plantation Sector is the largest employer we rely on structured communication for Group managed by a committee that is elected in within the Group with a workforce exceeding level employee engagement. Consequently accordance with the constitution of the Club 22,000. The injury statistics are representative of we have upgraded our intranet to include a and they are aided by committees for sports, the number of people employed by the sector social networking interface enabling employees dance, entertainment and religious activities. in comparison to the other sectors. to share their ideas and capture best practice Teams are fielded for all mercantile sports for sharing with other sectors. The intranet events. HGRC also organises inter group events also hosts information relevant to employees to encourage team building and provide a No. of Lost Days 1,453 including the Code of Ethics, whistle-blowing forum to form relationships with colleagues in policies, other HR policies and useful information. other business sectors. The children’s Christmas We also publish a newsletter quarterly titled party, annual year end dance, family fun day Industrial Relations Connect in Sinhala and English which contains are highlights which employees look forward Our employees have freedom of association highlights of Group activities. The Plantations to. HGRC also provides death benefits, marriage and consequently, many of our operations have sector has their own newsletter in English & active trade unions that negotiate on behalf of their members. Approximately 69% of Group staff are covered by collective agreements. No. of Formal Workforce Sector Consequently, industrial relations is a significant Committees Representation aspect for the Group as it has a direct impact Agriculture 1 16% on our ability to fulfil customer orders on time, affects labour productivity and our reputation. Construction Material 1 100% A separate department of the Group HR function Fibre 4 13% supports our sector HR functions in this regard Plantations 3 5% as it involves specialised knowledge and skills. Purification 4 100% Collective Bargaining agreements are in place for Shared Services 1 100% the sectors specified in the table inset and strict Transport 1 100% Table 3: Health and Safety Committee Representation 52 The Quality of Life Sector Collective Bargaining % of employees covered by Minimum Notice Period observed Agreement in Place collective agreement regarding operational changes Plantations Yes 98% 1 month Purification Yes 60% 2 weeks Hand Protection Yes 56% Agriculture Yes 8% Fibre Yes 55% 1 month benefits and gifts for newborns. HGRC activities are in addition to sector welfare committees who have their own agenda. Consequently there are high levels of engagement at both Sector and Group level. Caring for Our Employees Hayleys PLC goes beyond regulation and l Assist in building new houses for the worker family voluntary standards to facilitate the socioLiving l Improvement to existing houses economic progress of our employees. In the Environment l Infrastructure support related projects Plantation Sector where many workers do Each family is assisted through continued pre-school, child support and not have their own home, we have initiated a medical facilities to enhance their quality of life. project – A Home For Every Plantation Worker. Health & l Preventive and curative health care for workers/families Employee Retention Nutrition l Maternal care – pre-natal & post-natal Our employee turnover is low at approximately l Expanded program on immunization 1%, a result of high levels of employee l Child development centres for child growth & development. engagement and robust HR policies applied in a consistent and fair manner. The programme empowers each employee through Estate Worker Cooperatives and enhances the individual’s value to the community. Employee Recognition Community The Chairman’s Awards which was launched in l Nursery and Pre school facilities for workers’ children Capacity Recreation facilities 2013 seeks to reward and recognize Building l Empowerment of workers through Estate Worker Housing exceptional teams and/or individuals across the Hayleys Group who have supported the Cooperatives Group vision and goals. The awards recognise l Skill & social development programmes innovative, creative and outstanding work, The programme also places special emphasis on training and guidance development and successful implementation of youth, empowering them with better life skills. of projects, policy and systems and work Empowerment performance which is above and beyond what l Monitoring of child development according to ILO standards is normally expected of an employee. This of Youth l Guidance provided in assistance to continue education programme plays an essential role in building a l Vocational training & awareness programs culture of continuous improvement, a culture of innovation and creativity. A Home for Every Plantation Worker 53 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Sustainability review The Chairman’s Awards which was launched in while providing the required support to achieve the stretched targets. We will leverage our 2013 seeks to reward and recognize diverse talent pool to develop a new generation of leaders who will have the opportunity to test exceptional teams and/or individuals across the and prove their mettle in our high performing teams. Hayleys Group who have supported the Group An aligned and entrepreneurial Group vision and goals We will look for stronger alignment of Group activities to drive synergistic growth for the Group. Transformation of processes and policies will be undertaken where necessary to ensure that we continue to be a fit for purpose organisation which is able to leverage the scale of the Group in response to the changing competitive landscape. As entrepreneurship is essential for growth, we will reward and encourage entrepreneurial behaviour within the organisation. Passionate Ownership A conglomerate needs to drive ownership of goals and results to ensure that every business takes responsibility for the contribution made to the whole in order to move together as a cohesive whole. However, we all share a common culture and values that is the thread that binds us all together. We have the capability to inspire each other to reach higher as we share best practice in each team and innovate in our areas of specialisation. Strategies will be implemented to create an engaging environment where individuals and teams will be successful. Chairman’s Awards 2014 Way Forward High performance leadership These Our employees are the value creators in the strategies will ensure that we are able to attract, Group and enabling and empowering them is develop and retain the next generation of key to our sustainable growth. We will focus on leaders who are empowered and accountable. three key areas in the coming year to ensure Our businesses will be supported to deliver that our employees efforts optimise growth and outstanding performance driven by leaders returns in a sustainable manner. who stretch the capabilities of our employees facilitating growth beyond their aspirations 54 The Quality of Life Community engagement Improving the quality of ordinary people’s lives... People are our business the thousands of people who trust in us to deliver the best choices, the best solutions, the best partnerships that bring win-win results for everyone. Both locally and internationally, we believe we can offer new and exciting ways for people to keep enhancing their quality of life... 55 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Community engagement Our approach towards engaging with the communities we operate in is based Our approach towards engaging with on meaningful and active collaboration, participation and dialogue which results the communities we operate in is based in mutually beneficial relationships. The community engagement projects initiated by on meaningful and active collaboration, the Group help in forming strong links with the local communities, enhancing corporate participation and dialogue which results in reputation and competitiveness, retaining employees and contributing towards the mutually beneficial relationships economic and social development of residents. During the year, sector companies engaged in numerous community engagement initiatives. From a holistic perspective, all initiatives carried out during the year aspired towards improving the Quality of Life of the communities we operate in. All projects can be classified into the following four key areas of focus. We hope to further the coverage of our community engagement disclosures during the next financial year, with the inclusion of Group-wide spend on community engagement activities. ds Hea hoo lt h e li an g Liv d Dev n Health and Sanitation Puritas Sath Diyawara atio l el o pin nit Focussed investments in improving health The Group’s Sa and living conditions and hygiene in local primary Quality communities with the objective of contributing motivation for of Life o ns towards the long-term improvement of health this project d i ti conditions is a key area of focus in the Group’s stemmed from on gC overall sustainability strategy. Accordingly, the the increasing Ot he Group-wide initiative ‘Puritas Sath Diyawara’ prevalence of in v rs Li v in g was launched in August 2014 as the Group’s Chronic Kidney I m p ro foremost CSR initiative for the financial year. Disease (CKD), particularly in the North Central Province of the country. CKD is estimated to have affected around 400,000 individuals and claimed more than 20,000 lives so far and is found to be spreading rapidly to North Western, Eastern and Uva Provinces. Affecting 56 The Quality of Life predominantly male farmers in agricultural areas, the disease has resulted in a multitude of socio economic challenges for farming communities and emerged as a major health problem in rural Sri Lanka. The objective of Puritas Sath Diyawara is to combat the rising prevalence of CKD by providing purified water to the families of the affected areas. During the year under review, the Group commissioned its first Reverse Osmosis Plant under this project in Maithreepura Padaviya at a total investment of Rs. 3.5 million with a targeted beneficiary population of over 1500. In addition to water purification, the project encompasses broader community development programmes as follows; l Knowledge hub consisting of a library and internet facility Purified drinking water for villagers through the Puritas Sath Diyawara Project l Sustainable environmental management via the established model organic farm Implemented initially at village level, the project density in the village. There are more than 30 l Awareness sessions / campaigns on safe will ultimately be transferred to the Community docking stations established in five villages. handling of pesticides, best agricultural, Based Organization (CBO) of the village. In health and sanitation practices order to ensure the equal and fare distribution Over the short-to medium term, 2 more projects l Health camps and screening of villagers of treated water, a distribution mechanism is are nearing completion while 4 more will be to identify the affected people and the established. A tailor mounted bowser attached commissioned, making it a total of 10 plants, level to a two wheel tractor will be used to distribute which will directly benefit more than 3,500 treated water to the docking stations in each families and 15,000 individuals. l Entrepreneurship development activities population clusters based on the household to increase the income level of the villagers. Company Village DS Division No. of CKD No. of No. of Amount No. of Litres Affected Families People Invested Purified per People Benefited Benefited day 1 Haycarb PLC & Puritas (Private) D10, Maithreepura Padaviya 90 500 1,500 Rs. 3.5 mn 10,000 Limited 2 Hayleys Advantis Balayawewa Padaviya 64 350 1,500 Rs. 3.5 mn 10,000 3 Hayleys Plantations Sector Kiriketuwewa Kebithigollewa 68 600 2,400 Rs. 3.5 mn 10,000 & Sinhala Ataweerawewa 4 Hayleys Industrial Solutions Ltd Pihimbiyagollewa Rambewa 46 300 1,200 Rs. 3.5 mn 10,000 5 Hayleys Agriculture Holdings Ltd Nikawewa – Left Weli-Oya 62 320 1,600 Rs. 3.5 mn 10,000 6 Alumex PLC Billewa Mahawilachchiya 91 300 1,200 Rs. 3.5 mn 10,000 Total 421 2,370 9,400 Rs. 21 mn 60,000 57 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Community engagement Our initiatives have directly contributed Small suppliers tend to be highly sensitive to price. DPL uses a broader, two-pronged strategy towards developing livelihoods of our suppliers, to help them retain this supplier base. On one hand, the company helps empower small through skill development, technical guidance, rubber farmers at community level through the Firstlight programme. This initiative has yielded job creation and facilitating marketing and excellent results. On the other hand, DPL helps them manage their money through educational distribution linkages among others programmes on micro-financing and personal financial management and by working together with banks to make financial assistance available Health Camps and Awareness Campaigns l Firstlight by Dipped Products to small suppliers on concessionary terms. These The Hayleys Group is a member of the Lanka The purpose of the Firstlight methods are designed to be sustainable and to Business Coalition on HIV/AIDS (LBCH). programme is to produce gloves yield results over the long term. Numerous awareness programmes are based on Fair Trade principles of developed to create awareness for employees sourcing. The result, is a product Firstlight is a multifaceted programme, and vulnerable communities of the Groups that meets all relevant laws and implemented through specially established coBusiness Units. During the year Hayleys regulations as well as DPL’s quality standards, yet operatives of rubber smallholders. Group marked World AIDS day on the 1st of ensures that a fair price is paid to farmers who December 2014 by conducting several projects produce the latex raw material. Through this Benefits extended to farmers and their to raise awareness. For example, Rileys (Pvt.) programme, DPL has become the world’s first communities include the following: Ltd organized a Non Communicable Diseases ethical glove manufacturer. l Free tapping knives, rain guards and (NCD) Clinic and AIDS Awareness Programme in tappers’ flashlights October 2014 at its Katana factory premises. l Access to low-cost insurance The Divulapitiya Medical Health office members comprising of 4 Doctors, 5 Public Health officers and 6 nurses participated at this event in which more than 235 employees underwent screening. Also, a workshop promoting awareness was conducted by a Medical Officer at the Hayleys MGT Training auditorium in Kalutara. A large number of people including shop floor employees, executives together with the members of the Management Team participated in the programme. Developing Livelihoods All our industry sectors have placed emphasis on creating value throughout their respective supply chains, with the objective of building a pool of sustainable suppliers. Our initiatives have directly contributed towards developing livelihoods of these suppliers, through skill development, technical guidance, job creation and facilitating marketing and distribution linkages among others which have collectively led towards improving the quality of life of our suppliers. The key ongoing programmes carried Firstlight programme out by the sectors are as follows; 58 The Quality of Life Firstlight reflects DPL’s commitment towards l Haritha Angara by Haycarb Launched by Haycarb in 2014, the Haritha sustainability – commercial, social and Angara project aims to empower Sri Lankan charcoal makers through the provision of environmental. It is a multifaceted programme, technical support and guidance on ecologically friendly charcoaling processes and, buy back implemented through specially established coof charcoal agreement An island-wide initiative supporting nearly 500 suppliers and 3000 operatives of rubber smallholders families, the project has gained immense popularity in Polonnaruwa, Anuradhapura, Jaffna, Mullativu, Suyambalanduwa, Ampara, Balangoda etc. l Access to low-cost fertilizer, with 3. Provide inputs for crop protection and The project encourages the conversion distribution carried out through the increased yield of traditional open pit charcoaling sites to programme This includes material assistance to environmentally friendly manufacturing set up rubber plant nurseries, the and provides technical support and interest l Free community health camps distribution of collecting cups to free long term financing to build pits with l Funeral funds improve hygiene and quality, helping to combustion chambers. Haycarb has also minimise wastage through the reduction partnered with a similar programme conducted l Workshops on financial management of scrap latex and the distribution of by the Coconut Development Authority l Training and technical support high quality tapping knives, rain guards, which provides technical support for greener aprons, fertilizer and flashlights. charcoaling in all districts. By attracting domestic Principles & Practices shells for charcoaling purposes, the initiative 4. Fund and support community capacity 1. A fair price for field latex also minimises waste at household level whilst building DPL makes transparent pricing offers, providing a regular market for production Assistance to farmer communities based on published Colombo RSS1 inclusive of premium pricing mechanisms. The includes health and eye clinics, where auction prices. No discounts are Company also opened two new procurement medicines and eyeglasses are prescribed deducted for middleman’s margin, sites to facilitate suppliers from the South, North and distributed, 5S programs for farmers brokerage, transport to the processing and North Central Provinces. Haritha Angara has and schoolchildren, insurance, safe centre or to the Colombo auctions or for been successful in generating new employment drinking water supplies for schools warehousing cost. opportunities and encouraging empowerment and the distribution of schoolbooks in rural Sri Lanka. 2. Educate and empower smallholders to and bags, the additional development help them optimize their income of schools and pre-schools, HIV/AIDS l Seaweed Project by Hayleys This is mainly accomplished through awareness programmes and sponsored Agriculture field training in a wide range of areas: recreational activities of various kinds. Initiated in collaboration with NARA, NAQDA, tapping techniques, bark conservation, Coast Conservation Authority, Sri Lanka Navy field hygiene, nursery maintenance, Firstlight reflects DPL’s commitment towards and the Ministry of Fisheries, the project aims planting techniques, application of sustainability – commercial, social and to improve the livelihoods of impoverished the 5S principle on rubber plantations, environmental. The programme was first families in the Northern Province, by providing quality control to enhance productivity conducted in Moneragala, the least-developed them with a source of supplementary income and improve quality, etc. A quarterly district in Sri Lanka, where rubber cultivation through aqua-agriculture. The Project also newsletter is also circulated among is relatively new. This programme has now contributes towards marine conservation as participating farmers. extended to other areas. seaweeds have water purifying properties and 59 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Community engagement enhances polyculture production. Red seaweed Sri Lanka to develop skills and knowledge to l Fabricator Training Programmes by has multiple applications as an input material supply coconut husk fibre, manufacture twisted Alumex in food processing and extracting enzymes and fibre brushes and rods with their own fibre. As an ongoing programme since 1998, Alumex has seen growing demand from countries such Initially introduced in the Kurunegala district, conducts island-wide training programmes as Philippines, China, Australia and USA. the project reach has now been expanded to completely free of charge for fabricators/ other areas. technocrats, providing practical insights into the The Project’s unique business model provides application and usage benefits of aluminium farmers with the infrastructure, education and Rileys engages twisted fibre brush profiles, component usage, new products and training on the basis of a buy back agreement. production know-how from Japan to provide technologies. In addition to training at the This has facilitated the connection of these exclusive training to families, facilitating skill Company’s own fully equipped training centre fishing communities with the international development, greener practices and high at its factory premises, outstation training is market, providing them a sustainable livelihood quality production. In addition the company has carried out by three training teams at training and supplementary source of income. As invested and developed an extensive training centres in collaboration with the Vocational families which have borne the brunt of the and QC scheme to facilitate such projects. Training Authority. The training is targeted country’s 3-decade ethnic conflict, this project towards a wide range of fabricators and has contributed directly towards improving Transparent buy back agreements are in place to technocrats including students of VTA affiliated their quality of life. The project is targeted ensure a source of income to these families. The Technical Colleges, CECB, Buildings Department, primarily towards empowering women and project currently benefits more than 150 out Provincial Councils, ICTAD, Contractors, Sri women headed households. Regular training sourced units/sub-contractors, and fulfils around Lanka Army, Navy, Air Force and other Technical sessions and workshops are conducted by 60% of the Company’s fibre requirements Colleges (Government/ Non-Government) experts to improve technical knowledge and & 80 % of brushmat assembly process .The island wide. promote sustainable agricultural practices. project has also enabled the emergence of Furthermore, infrastructure and services needed small scale entrepreneurs, who have expanded The different types of programmes carried out for the production process are designed capacity utilising the training and technical at the training centre are as follows; and constructed locally further providing support provided, thereby creating more job work for local labour. Given the relatively low opportunities and livelihood for rural folk in the risk exposure of the project, several coastal island. communities have shown interest in engaging in this project to generate an alternative source of income. The seaweed project has created many job opportunities in the rural areas of the previous conflict areas. Currently the Hayleys Seaweed project provides additional incomes to over 5,000 farmers with a target of reaching 20,000 in the neighbouring villages in Mannar and Jaffna while 1,000 families benefited indirectly from this in the first year of its inception. l Athwela by Rileys Foundation Athwela, launched by Rileys, one of the Group’s value added fibre product manufacturers strives to develop a sustainable supplier base through the provision of necessary training and assistance to rural families in Seaweed farming 60 The Quality of Life l BPO Service Centre in Uduvil Hayleys Business Solutions International, together with the Foundation for Advancing Rural Opportunity Sri Lanka (FARO), Information Communication Technology Agency of Sri Lanka and Uduvil Girls College established the first BPO facility in the country’s Northern Province. The first of its kind in the Northern Province, ‘Home for every plantation worker’ aims to uplift the living standards of our estate communities the project provides the opportunity for fifteen youth from Uduvil to work as Trainee Associates and provide accounting and related services to a. Skill Development Programmes for d. National Vocational Qualification (NVQ HBSI. These services are provided from Uduvil FabricatorsThese programmes cover Level 3 & Level4) using advanced information communication estimation, fabrication, identification of Alumex Training Centre facilitates technology solutions. The project also feature an profiles, and correct usage of profiles etc. students at Aluminium Fabricator own and operate business model with the BPO Training Centre’s under NGO’s Island fully owned by the selected youth, under the b. Government, Non-Governmental, Private wide to obtain National Vocational guidance of the project partners. In additional Sector Institutional training for industry Qualification Certification (NVQ). to empowering rural youth, the project provides stakeholders the opportunity for these individuals to pursue Since inception the Company has trained a sustainable career in the expanding BPO These programmes are held in over 10,000 fabricators/ technocrats and has industry. accordance with the requests received exclusively signed up with VTA (Vocational by Alumex and are customised based on Training Authority) to conduct the NVQ Level 3 Improving living conditions the requirements of the participants. Fabricator Training Programme at five centres in The Group Sustainability and Corporate Northern Province (Jaffna, Vauniya, Killinochchi, Responsibility policy highlights the importance c. Technical Training Institutes Mannar, Mullativu), Galle, Rathnapura, of contributing towards improving the living Alumex Training Centre operates Kurunegala & Rathmalana. Alumex is actively conditions of the communities we operate closely with the Vocational Training engaged in developing NVQ Level 4 Advanced in. This includes investments in enhancing Authority (VTA) in order to upgrade Fabricator Training Programme with VTA at housing conditions, sanitary and hygiene, and the knowledge and skills of Aluminium present. electrification among others. Fabrication Training Instructors, affiliated to VTA, NAITA and Government Technical Colleges. 61 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Community engagement l Home For Every Plantation WorkerKVPL and TTE Work environment improvement activity No of units Since coming under New Housing Units 26 the Group’s purview Sanitation-Toilets 142 both plantation sector companies, KVPL and TTE Number of new electricity connections 200 have invested substantial Number of new water schemes 16 financial and human capital Upgraded houses 42 in uplifting the living standards of its employees and estate community of nearly 150,000 individuals. In 2006, the sector launched a Health and Nutrition No of participants unique, multi-dimensional initiative ‘A Home for No of dental clinics 1,286 Every Plantation Worker’ .The widely successful Eye care operations 809 initiative has brought about significant improvements in the quality of life of our estate Postnatal clinics 754 community families and was featured in “Global Medical Camps 4,715 Positioning Sri Lanka’s best” a booklet published by the Global Compact Sri Lanka Network, at Community Capacity Building Number of beneficiaries the UNGC International Network Conference in Mexico. The Project consists of four key pillars Awareness on micro financing 1,154 designed to enhance the social and cultural lives Household cash management 1,786 of our communities and develop them to be empowered stakeholders of the estates. Safe working methods 1,627 Happy family concept 7,254 Living Environment: Our initiatives include the improvement of housing, water, Youth Empowerment Number of beneficiaries sanitation, recreation and learning facilities and are implemented in collaboration with Awareness on health and safety 2,193 the Plantation Development Project (PDP), Youth empowerment programmes 926 Plantation Human Development Trust (PHDT), Awareness on first aid 2,005 National Housing Development Authority (NHDA), Ministry of Livestock and Rural Community Development, MJF Foundation and Health and Nutrition: Our initiatives include reputed nongovernment organisations. preventive healthcare through immunisations, Community Capacity Building: These antenatal and postnatal care, and guidance on initiatives are done in collaboration with the nutrition, early childhood development support Estate Worker Housing Co-operative Society, and auxiliary medical services. In addition to and include disbursement of micro financing providing financial support for health and loans, dental clinics, Scholarships, Eye clinics and nutritional aspects, we conduct structured other donations. In addition we also conduct Community awareness programmes and training sessions awareness training programmes on an array of Living Capacity throughout the year. subjects including dengue prevention, waste Environment Building management, and prevention of drugs/alcohol Youth Empowerment: Working in among others. collaboration with government institutes and reputed NGO’s we provide vocational training Other Projects on a range of subjects for estate community In addition to the specific programmes detailed youth. These training initiatives are also inclusive above, sector companies continue to engage Health of scholarships for tertiary education, based on in numerous CSR activities during the year. Empowerment and merit and talent. These included health camps, blood donation of Youth Nutrition programmes, contributions for religious and cultural initiatives and other donations among others. 62 The Quality of Life Sector Reviews Fibre SECTOR CONTRIBUTION TO GROUP (%) Revenue PBIT PBT Capital Carbon employed footprint 5 5 5 5 5 4 4 4 4 4 3 3 3 3 3 2 2 2 2 2 1 1 1 1 1 0 0 0 0 0 13/14 14/15 13/14 14/15 13/14 14/15 13/14 14/15 13/14 14/15 63 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Sector Reviews Fibre Hayleys Fibre sector is Sri Lanka’s leading manufacturer and exporter of value added Hayleys Fibre sector is Sri Lanka’s leading coconut fibre products such as Brushware, Floor Coverings, Erosion Control, Bio Engineering manufacturer and exporter of value added Products, Rubberised Coir and Mattresses. Reputed globally for its innovative and tailorcoconut fibre products such as Brushware, made solutions, the sector manufactures and distributes more than 105 products in over Floor Coverings, Erosion Control, 1200 variations locally and internationally. It is the country’s largest exporter of brushware, Bio Engineering Products, Rubberised commanding an estimated market share of 23%. We serve more than 200 customers distributed Coir, Mattresses. among 40 countries representing all the continents of the globe. Sector Operations Cluster Business Lines Notes Brushware We manufacture a range of brushware for industrial and household use Contributes 22.4% and 18.3% to sector revenue and pre-tax profit respectively. Floor We produce a range of coir and rubber based mats including scraper mats, woven Contributes 19.7% and 9.1% to sector revenue Coverings coir and, flocked mats textile based looped pile mats, bathroom mats and other and pre-tax profit respectively. specialty mats. Industrial Products include bristle fibre, twisted fibre, coir fibre pith, pith briquettes for Contributes 60.7% and (31%) to sector revenue Fibre horticulture, twine, woven geotextiles, erosion control blankets, vegetation and pre-tax profit respectively. fascines and coir beds for ornamental and decorative use. Industry Overview Sri Lanka is the world’s 4th largest coconut producer and largest supplier of Golden Brown fibre to the world market (Source: Asia and Pacific Coconut Community). The country produces four main categories of fibre-bristle, omat, mixed mattress which are exported after processing further into value added production such as Floor Coverings, Brushware, Erosion Control, Bio Engineering Products, Rubberised Coir and Mattresses among others. In recent years, global fibre demand of approximately 700,000 tonnes per annum has outstripped global supply, which is estimated at around 500,000 tonnes per annum. China is the world’s leading consumer of raw fibre produce, absorbing nearly 75% of total production (Source: Asian and Pacific Coconut Community). Increased demand for primary fibre (mattress, bristle and twisted fibre) to China has caused 64 The Quality of Life a global scarcity of raw materials, resulting in Movements in fibre prices escalating prices and higher cost of production for value added producers. 180.00 160.00 During the first seven months of 2014, raw fibre exports from Sri Lanka increased 55% to Rs. 4.66 140.00 billion whilst finished fibre products (including Average Price (Rs.) brushes, coir mats and rugs, coir fibre pith) grew 120.00 33% to Rs. 12.85 billion. Meanwhile, the local 100.00 purchase price of raw fibre increased to record highs during the year, in line with increasing 80.00 demand for direct exports. It is imperative that concerted efforts are made to introduce 60.00 productivity enhancing technology to suppliers 40.00 and millers in order to ensure the sustainability of value added fibre based production in the 20.00 country. 31.03.13 30.06.13 30.09.13 31.12.13 31.03.14 30.06.14 30.09.14 31.12.14 31.03.15 111.82 109.51 109.35 137.96 158.44 158.59 169.13 159.62 149.72 Average Price (Rs.) Strategy and Performance finance costs in line with the decline in interest 2014/15 2013/14 % rates enabled us to achieve a PBT of Rs. 9 mn Revenue (Rs.mn) 4,419 3,693 20% compared to a loss of Rs. 114 mn the previous year. Losses arising from re-structuring of the PBIT (Rs.mn) 66 18 273% sector to focus on higher value adding products PBT (Rs.mn) 9 (114) 92% impacted profitability negatively during this PAT (Rs.mn) (20) (144) 114% year as we recognised all identifiable losses over this period. We look forward to a year of strong Total Assets (Rs.mn) 6,669 5,772 16% growth following the restructuring carried out Total Debt (Rs.mn) 1,684 1,285 31% during the reporting period. Capital Employed (Rs.mn) 4,004 3,637 10% Environmental Performance Head Count 1,340 1,297 3% The sector’s Environmental policy is centred on Profit (Loss) per employee (Rs.mn) (0.02) (0.11) 86% minimising the adverse environmental impacts Carbon Footprint (tCO2e) 2,808 1,684 67% of its manufacturing process and developing ROCE 1.64% 0.80% 106% solutions which support environmental conservation, including erosion control products and horticultural solutions. Several The Fibre sector’s revenue growth was 20% as Spain and France slowing down followed companies within the sector have obtained during the review period. The European region by the depreciation of the Euro by a large ISO-14000 Environment Management Systems is our largest market, accounting for around 30% extent. In addition, the steep depreciation of certification and Ravi Industries Ltd, the sector’s of our total sales; during the year, we pursued the Rouble caused a downturn in the Russian premium brush manufacturer has obtained growth in the Scandinavian, Western European Market which further impacted profitability. Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) certification. and Asian markets. During the year, EU countries We also continued to focus on widening our The sector is also fully compliant with all continued to struggle with difficult economic offerings of value added products adding over Environmental regulations and licenses have conditions. This affected our performance with 100 new variations to our product range during been duly obtained where necessary. growth in Southern European markets such the year. This, together with a reduction in 65 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Sector Reviews Fibre Sustainability Review Stakeholder Role in Value Creation Results in 2014/15 Investors Providers of financial capital Earnings growth 92% Return on Equity 4% Employees Facilitate value creation through their efforts Total Payments to Employees Rs. 224.29 million Suppliers Provide high quality coconut husk fibre Total Payments to Suppliers Rs. 2.64 billion Customers Being the leading value added fibre product manufacturer in Sri Lanka, Total SalesRs. 4,419 million the integration of sustainability principles and our uncompromising product quality serve us in enhancing our value proposition to the customers. Regulators Regulators ensure compliance with environmental, labour and other Total taxes paid Rs. 20 million laws of the country. The Coconut Development Authority facilitates the development of the country’s coconut industry and supports exports to establish relationships with overseas buyers. Communities Farming communities which provide our raw materials for production. Investments in community engagement projects: Rs. 2.6 million The European region is our largest market, Materials: The key raw material consumed by the sector is coconut husk fibre, which is accounting for around 30% of our total sales; obtained through an extensive network of suppliers. Other materials utilised include during the year, we pursued growth in the timber, Polyproplene, Palmyrah, Recycled Rubber, PVC solutions. In the Industrial fibre Scandinavian, Western European and segment, up to 15% waste is recycled and used as input materials. Total raw material Asian markets. consumption during the year was 29,317 MT and 1 million sq. meters of timber, reflecting a 26.57% % y-o-y increase in Metric tons and a The material issues for the Fibre sector are; 13.95% y-o-y increase in timber consumption compared to the previous year. Environment Social Emissions: Measures in place to reduce the sector’s carbon footprint include the installation l Materials l Training and Development of the Bio Energy plant in our Industrial fibre l Products and Services l Diversity and Equal Opportunity facility. On average the sector’s CO2 emissions l Emissions l Health and Safety of 5500 MT per annum is approximately 25% l Energy l Products and Services lower than industry standard. During the year l Effluents and Waste l Local Communities under review, the sector’s total GHG emissions increased by 66.8% to 2,808 tCO2e primarily due to increased capacity in several product lines. 66 The Quality of Life Social Performance In ensuring that our products persistently meet the quality requirements of our global clientele and are in line with industry best practice, we have obtained and continue to comply with several local and international quality certifications. Several companies in the sector have obtained ISO 9001 Quality Management, Business Social Compliance Initiative (BSCI), Supplier Ethical Data Exchange (SEDEX) SEDEX Members Ethical Trade Audit (SMETA) certifications; During the year, the floor Coconut based exports 0% 27% 49% Effluents and Waste: Solid waste generated Products and Services: The sector is a leading in the manufacture of brushware and floor producer of erosion control products including 14% coverings are incinerated in its entirety. During geo blankets, geo textiles and geo logs. We the year a total of 76.8 MT of solid waste was manufacture a range of products that are 10% Kernel products Shell products recycled by the sector. intended for applications on moderate to severe Fibre products Finished products slopes. The applications of the products are as Other products follows; Geo Blankets Geo Textiles Geo Logs l Supports plant growth and root l Drainage systems l Riverbank Stabilisation with development l Filtration Applications Riverbank greening l Steeper slopes,riverbanks and l Sediment Controlling l Sediment Controlling highway constructions l Erosion Controlling l Silt Checks l Gardening Applications l Moisture Barriers l Shore line Protection l Roof Greening l Wind Barriers and Reinforcements l Estuaries Protection l Wave attenuator 67 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Sector Reviews Fibre Supplier and Community Development 2014/15 2013/14 Our suppliers consist of corporates and small Raw Fibre 9,691 Mt 12,054 Mt holders with whom we have developed longstanding, mutually beneficial relationships. Processed Fibre 7,020 Mt 10,244 Mt In order to ensure the sustainability of our Yarn 786 Mt 810 Mt suppliers and generate value along our Rods 481 Mt 528 Mt supply, several companies within the sector have implemented supplier development Tawashi 2,937 Mt 3,060 Mt initiatives. The Ravi Foundation for Community Timber 903,654 Sq. M 1,029,510 Sq. M Development was initiated by the Group’s brush Cut Fibre 695 Mt 840 Mt manufacturing arm and focuses on developing capacity, productivity and quality of suppliers Palmyrah 248 Mt 284.2 Mt and improving education levels among supplier GI Wire 1209 Mt 1,341 Mt communities. The Foundation engages with the Flock Powder 2.5 Mt 2.7 Mt supplier communities through; DOP 76.0 Mt 78.4 Mt l Formulating and implementing PVC 72 Mt 75 Mt Community Development Projects l Facilitating micro finance and developing access to donor financing We constantly engage with our customers l Facilitating integrating marketing communications for the projections to identify their requirements and delivery During the year, 3 such development projects value through our range of product offerings. were carried out at an investment of Rs. 2.6 million and is estimated to have benefited 700 750 individuals residing in Ekala, Kurunegala , Galgamuwa , Mawathagama , Keppitigala , coverings segment successfully obtained the Our Customers Kubugete , Kegalle. Rajangana. SA8000 certification, and is currently working We constantly engage with our customers towards obtaining the BRC (British Retail to identify their requirements and delivery The Rileys Foundation for Community Consortium) certification, which will allow our value through our range of product offerings. Development, initiated by the sector floor floor covering sector to be the only organization The strength of our customer relationships covering manufacturing segment introduced to be BRC certified in Sri Lanka. have allowed us to withstand adverse macroproject ‘Athwela’ with the objective of economic conditions and demonstrate developing skills, knowledge and creating resilience over the years. During the year, the livelihoods through generating an alternative sector was successfully in securing 84 new income source for rural Sri Lankan families. accounts, contributing Rs. 322.6 mn. Introduced in Ridiyagama, Rileys provided an exclusive training programme on the supply of twisted fibre, facilitating increased production The length of relationship with our customers through the introduction of better technology and skills. In addition to generating employment 5 – 10 years 11 – 20 years 21 years & above to over 200 individuals, the project has also enabled the emergence of several small scale Industrial Fibre 65 60 25 entrepreneurs engaging in twisted fibre rod Floor Coverings 18 31 10 production. Brushware 15 20 TOTAL 98 111 35 68 The Quality of Life Length of Relationships with Suppliers Below 5 years 5 – 10 years 11 – 20 years 21 years & above Industrial Fibre 25 13 9 Floor Covering 76 25 22 8 Brushes 115 110 125 100 TOTAL 216 148 156 108 of discerning customers. Increase in production capacity in Erosion Control and Brushware range will allow us to add more impetus to our marketing efforts to capitalize on the increasing global demand for these products. From a sustainability perspective, we will strive to add value to our supplier base in order to encourage greener practices, and manufacture products of world class quality. Our Team Way Forward The Fibre sector generates employment to 1,340 The company will continue to focus on its individuals. We are committed to ensuring that value added core products, whilst driving lean all our employees operate in decent and healthy management processes, together with energy working conditions and are entitled to human saving initiatives in order to attain sustainable and labour rights and regulations. Continuous best practices. We remain optimistic regarding focus is placed on up skilling our people and the growth prospects of the sector, with the providing opportunities for development; in key focus on New Product Development and 2014/15 we provided a total of 3,014 training will continue to invest in new technology hours. harnessing growth potential serving the needs 69 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Sector Reviews Hand Protection SECTOR CONTRIBUTION TO GROUP (%) Revenue PBIT PBT Capital Carbon employed footprint 18 18 20 12 25 16 9 20 12 12 12 15 6 6 6 8 10 4 3 5 0 0 0 0 0 13/14 14/15 13/14 14/15 13/14 14/15 13/14 14/15 13/14 14/15 70 The Quality of Life A key contributor to the group’s top line, the Hand Protection sector comprises companies Dipped Products PLC serves approximately 5% engaged in the manufacturing, marketing and distribution of latex gloves to over 70 of the demand for household and industrial countries through their manufacturing facilities located in Sri Lanka & Thailand. Dipped gloves worldwide. Products PLC serves approximately 5% of the demand for household and industrial gloves worldwide. Ranked amongst the world’s top 5 Sector Composition manufacturers in the hand protection industry, our focus on product innovation coupled with Company Key Business Lines our understanding of client requirements Dipped Products PLC sharpened over four decades provides us a competitive edge in an industry with a large Grossart (Pvt) Ltd. number of players. Neoprex (Pvt) Ltd. ICOGUANTI SpA. Industry Overview Manufacture of industrial, household and medical gloves The outlook for the hand protection industry D P L Premier Gloves (Pvt) Ltd. is positive with growth forecasts around 4.5% D P L Universal Gloves (Pvt) Ltd. according to industry observers in terms of Hanwella Rubber Products Ltd quantity. Growth of the industry is supported by increasing focus on health and safety aspects Dipped Products (Thailand) Ltd and in the workplace, more stringent regulation of standards for healthcare driven by healthcare sector reforms and an ageing population. Improvement in global economic growth Performance and demand from emerging markets have also served to sustain growth of this industry. 2014/15 2013/14 % Demand for nitrile gloves and other synthetic rubber products show higher growth over Revenue (Rs.mn) 14,970 13,377 12% natural rubber products in chemical, oil and PBIT (Rs.mn) 1,554 906 72% gas industries. The US remains the single largest PBT (Rs.mn) 1,503 907 66% importer of gloves whereas Malaysia commands the top position in medical glove exports. PAT (Rs.mn) 1,204 665 81% Total Assets (Rs.mn) 10,737 9,703 11% Sri Lanka is an established player in the market Total Debt (Rs.mn) 2,506 2,426 3% and has contributed to the growth of this sector. With the Government policies to support the Capital Employed (Rs.mn) 6,756 6,468 4% rubber industry as one of the key contributors Head Count 2,209 1,809 22% to the National Economy, one could expect Profit (Loss) per employee (Rs.mn) 0.54 0.37 48% the favourable conditions in Sri Lanka for glove manufacturing to exploit the greater potential Carbon Footprint (tCO2e) 16,132 11,716 38% for manufacturing gloves. ROCE 23% 14% 64% 71 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Sector Reviews Hand Protection Strategy and Performance DPL’s new manufacturing facility, DPL Premier strategic initiatives that were implemented. Hayleys Hand Protection sector produces both Gloves was incorporated in the previous DPL’s marketing subsidiary ICOGUANTI natural gloves and synthetic gloves and is the financial year. In addition, DPL Universal Gloves SpA based in Italy continued to deliver largest manufacturer of gloves in the country. was incorporated in 2014/15 which will entirely commendable performance despite numerous The main focus of the sector is in industrial and focus on value added industrial glove products challenging conditions in Europe. household gloves produced in Sri Lanka whilst and is expected to commence operations in the the facility, Dipped Products Thailand Ltd (DPTL) coming financial year. Both these new entities This year’s main focus was to consolidate its produces disposable medical gloves. DPTL have been established in the Biyagama Free manufacturing base whilst adding new capacity. is a fully owned manufacturing subsidiary in Trade Zone. In addition, improving customer service, Thailand. shortening order delivery lead times and further DPTL delivered a positive contribution to improvements to our product offer enabled the sector performance demonstrating a gaining customer confidence which has been turnaround in its performance arising from the the underlying drivers of the current year’s performance. Sustainability Review Stakeholder Role in value creation Results in 2014/15 Investors Providers of financial capital Earnings growth 81% Return on Equity 13.83% Employees Facilitate value creation through their efforts Total Payments to Employees Rs. 7,557 million Customers Distributing and Marketing gloves to industrial customers Export sales Rs. 14,924 million and retail chains worldwide Suppliers Supply of quality chemicals and materials Total payments to suppliers Rs. 4,744 million Farmers Provide the major raw material, fresh natural latex to DPL Purchases from farmers Rs. 347 million factories Significant investments in training and other related services Regulators Ensure compliance with environmental, labour and other Income Tax Rs.300 Million laws of the country whilst Department of Inland Revenue monitors payment of taxes. Community l The farming communities in our cultivation areas Community engagement projects including continued strengthening of DPL’s flagship Firstlight smallholder rubber l Communities around our processing and farmers initiative manufacturing facilities As the first ethical glove manufacturer in the the company remains sensitive to concerns of standards. The company also has a strategic world, DPL is firmly committed to sustainability communities. community project with the smallholder rubber principles with regards to environment and farmers named Firstlight which is a unique social performance, reaching beyond legal DPL operates an environmental management supply chain integration programme. (Refer requirements and industry norms to ensure that system (EMS) complying with ISO 14000:1 section under Social Performance). 72 The Quality of Life Environmental Performance An environmental policy is in place and implementation of the same is the responsibility of the DPL team and involves creating awareness on environmental regulations, adopting best practices and monitoring performance against appropriate KPI’s. The impact on the environment from all aspects of processes is strictly monitored to minimise environmental impact. All factories in Sri Lanka have environmental management systems in accordance with the ISO 14001/2004 standard whilst the Thailand factory is in the process of obtaining certification. Water is a key resource associated with glove manufacturing. During this financial year, DPL invested in a Reverse Osmosis plant to enhance water recycling at one of our factories. Similar systems are planned to be implemented in the upcoming year to further reduce water. Natural field latex is supplied by over 8000 Our products are designed for hand protection Social Performance suppliers who vary from large multinationals to in a variety of domestic, industrial and medical DPL’s Firstlight Community and Integrated rubber smallholders. It is noteworthy that over applications. Globally renowned certifications Supply Chain Management Programme 35% of our primary raw material, is supplied by provide assurance to our customers that our launched in 2006 takes a holistic approach to over 3000 rubber smallholders. The Firstlight products conform to the required standards. meaningful engagement contributing to the programme has enabled us to broad base our All our production facilities are ISO 90091:2008 socio economic progress of the communities supply whilst improving the quality of raw certified confirming consistency in meeting which impact their operations. The project materials and also developing livelihoods in customer requirements. Our Thailand facility targets farming communities that supply latex rural villages. and is based on the following principles: Principle Activity Fair price for field latex Smallholders who supply latex to DPL are assured of a fair price and precise measurements of quality and quantity supporting livelihoods in villages. Over 800 smallholders have been enrolled in the Firstlight programme to date. Educate and empower to maximise income DPL trains and nurtures smallholders providing technical knowledge to facilitate sustainable growth in yields. Implements and input material to protect and Smallholders are provided implements and other input material to maximise productivity in a augment crop sustainable manner. Sustaining of Rubber properties and preserving Sustaining smallholder interest in maintaining their rubber properties facilitates provision of forest forest cover cover reducing the impact of increasing urbanisation. Community capacity building DPL has undertaken school development projects, pre-school development projects, development of plant nurseries, support of cultural events, health and eye camps and other projects under this. 73 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Sector Reviews Hand Protection We rely on a team of over 2,000 employees for Way Forward The forthcoming financial year will see DPL delivering our corporate goals. Empowerment strengthening its marketing efforts, increasing production capacity and focusing on adding of this team has been the key to unleashing value to its existing portfolio of products and processes. In expanding the range and capacity their potential enabling a continuous of our products, we hope to commission three new production facilities during the improvement in our performance. year including a plant for unlined natural and nitrile industrial gloves and supported gloves. Ensuring the sustainability of our raw material supply through relocating the latex centrifuging operation to rubber growing areas will also be given priority during the year. Our marketing efforts will focus on customer acquisition through increasing awareness in new market segments and retaining existing customers. Overall, we remain optimistic regarding the growth opportunities of the sector and are confident that our long-standing industry expertise, deep insights into customer needs and the inherent soundness of our strategies will enable us to successfully withstand competition and generate significant value to all our stakeholder groups. is certified as ISO 13485 compliant relevant their potential enabling a continuous to the Healthcare industry. The British Retail improvement in our performance. The team Consortium Global Standard for Consumer includes 44 staff who are engaged in innovation Products, Article 11B of the Personal Protective and product development which has enabled Equipment (PPE) Directive 89/686/EEC, FSC CoC us to expand our portfolio of products. and ISO 17025:2005 laboratory accreditation Employees have received a total of over 8,000 provides further assurance to customers on the hours of training for the period. Employees quality of our products. enjoy the benefits offered across the group and our low attrition rate of is testimony to our We rely on a team of over 2,000 employees for commitment to the well-being of our employee. delivering our corporate goals. Empowerment of this team has been the key to unleashing 74 The Quality of Life Sector Reviews Purification SECTOR CONTRIBUTION TO GROUP (%) Revenue PBIT PBT Capital Carbon employed footprint 18 18 20 12 25 16 9 20 12 12 12 15 6 6 6 8 10 4 3 5 0 0 0 0 0 13/14 14/15 13/14 14/15 13/14 14/15 13/14 14/15 13/14 14/15 75 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Sector Reviews Purification We are the world’s leading manufacturer of coconut-shell based activated carbon with The sector has continued to expand its a global reputation for quality combined with innovative and sustainable methods of production capacity and now operates six production. Drawing from over 42 years of experience, we produce high quality activated manufacturing facilities in Sri Lanka, Thailand carbon for a full spectrum of applications including water treatment, gold extraction, and Indonesia with an annual production air purification and energy storage. capacity of 40,000 tonnes. Industry Overview Unique properties of Activated Carbon enable Sector Operations it to be an effective agent for purification and recovery of trace impurities. It is used in a variety Key Business Lines Highlights of applications including water purification, Manufacture and marketing of coconut shell The sector’s key earnings generator, contributing gold extraction, air purification, energy storage based activated carbon 96% and 92% to the group revenue and pre-tax and food and beverage processing among profit respectively during the year. others. Global demand has generally been Environmental engineering systems solutionsAccounted for approximately 4% and 8% of the on the rise over the past decade or so, driven operated under Puritas (Pvt) Ltd, a subsidiary of sector’s revenue and pre-tax profit respectively. by more stringent pollution regulations Haycarb PLC and rising manufacturing activity. However, the drop in gold prices and the resultant slowdown in the gold mining industry during Indonesia created a situation of over-supply, pressure on profitability margins. Against this the last two years have exerted pressure on leading to severe price competition. Sourcing backdrop, Haycarb has focused on developing the price for activated carbon in the gold raw materials for production also continues to sustainable supply chain relationships to ensure mining segment. Furthermore, the lower than be a challenge, particularly for coconut-shell the security of raw materials. anticipated recovery of Europe, Australia and based activated carbon producers. In Sri Lanka Japan together with the influx of supplies from and in India, the price of coconut shell charcoal The sector’s revenue grew by 15% during the new manufacturers in India, Philippines and increased significantly during the year, exerting year, driven by volume increases and aggressive Strategy and Performance Rs. Million 2014/15 2013/14 % Coconut prices Revenue (Rs.mn) 11,934 10,339 15% 16 3000 PBIT (Rs.mn) 1,304 1,293 1% 14 2900 Production (nuts mn) PBT (Rs.mn) 1,070 1,044 3% (Average price (Rs/nut 12 2800 10 2700 PAT (Rs.mn) 874 892 (2%) 8 2600 Total Assets (Rs.mn) 10,040 8,801 14% 6 2500 4 2400 Total Debt (Rs.mn) 2,516 2,462.6 2% 2 2300 Capital Employed (Rs.mn) 8,793 7,262 21% 0 2200 Head Count 1,150 1,118 3% 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Profit (Loss) per employee (Rs.mn) 0.8 0.8 -5% Cost of Production (Rs/nut) Production (nuts mn) Carbon Footprint (tCO2e) 12,785 18,705 (32%) ROCE 15% 18% (17%) 76 The Quality of Life expansion in new market segments and new applications. Capacity expansion during the year was supported by the first full year of operations of Haycarb’s latest production facility in the Palu Province in Indonesia and productivity improvements. Focus was placed on strengthening our presence in emerging markets and consolidating the market positions in our traditional markets. Resultantly, sales to the Asian region now account for close to 32% of our total sales, followed by USA (28%) and Europe (16%). We also focused on harnessing our research and development, technical and engineering skills to innovate and differentiate our product range to manufacture the entire spectrum of coconutshell based activated carbon. We continued to make inroads in the manufacture of specialised high-value carbons, enabling us to increase our market share in USA, Asia, Europe and Africa. Activated carbon products The Company enhanced its value added carbon range and customer base through its product the significant exchange losses on US Dollar Our subsidiary, Puritas (Pvt) Ltd is engaged in development and marketing initiatives as a part denominated borrowings. Over the last few the provision of environmental engineering of its long term strategic direction. years, Haycarb has strived to develop supply systems and solutions. Revenue from this division chain partnerships to ensure the security of raw increased by 25% during the year, whereas PBT On the other hand, persistent increases in raw materials and pursued geographical expansion grew by 26% to reach Rs. 81 million. Growth material prices that could not be passed to of its manufacturing facilities to mitigate supplier was driven primarily by the expansion in small customers negatively impacted profitability related risks. We strengthened our relationships to medium-scale turnkey projects for water margins. The margins were also challenged by with charcoal suppliers in all manufacturing purification in the region. Looking ahead, we also the exchange rate depreciation of Euro, Australian locations. During the year, we also focused on intend to diversify our earnings profile through Dollar and Japanese Yen. In our Indonesian driving operational efficiencies through lean further expansion of this segment, by venturing operations, the positive impact on the top initiatives and enhancing staff productivity. into large scale projects and expanding into line that accrued as a result of depreciation captive regional markets. of the Indonesian currency was negated by Sustainability Review Stakeholder Role in Value Creation Results in 2014/15 Investors Providers of financial capital Earnings growth (2)% Return on Equity 12% Employees Facilitate value creation through their contributions Total Payments to Employees Rs. 940 million Customers Global distributors that supply activated carbon products to end customers Total Revenue Rs. 11.9 Billion Suppliers Supply of coconut shell charcoal, the key raw material for production Payments to suppliers Rs. 5,098 million Regulators Regulators ensure compliance with environmental, labour and other laws of Income Tax paid Rs. 183 Million the country. The Department of Inland Revenue monitors payment of taxes. Communities Supplier and local communities based around our procurement networks, Investments in Community EngagementRs. 5.5 million manufacturing locations and general public 77 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Sector Reviews Purification The material issues of the Purification sector are; projects undertaken by Puritas (Pvt) Ltd in Sri Lanka and Maldives is estimated to purify a total of 20.5 million litres of water daily. Environment Social l Products and Services l Occupational Health and Safety l Materials l Diversity l Emissions l Training and Development l Waste and Effluents l Local Communities Global market l Water l Supplier Assessment 120 l Energy l Customer Health and Safety 100 80 Million MT Environmental performance 60 Haycarb’s environmental policy emphasises Raw Material 2014/15 2013/14 40 the importance of nurturing and sustaining a Coconut 20 healthier environment by minimising pollution 105,012 82,346 Charcoal (MT) in the production process and all areas of 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 application. All manufacturing facilities are Emissions: Haycarb has patented the first of its certified with NSF Certifications for water kind, premium green carbonizing process which Supply of AC Demand for AC grade productions. Additionally Sri Lanka features the lowest carbon footprint. Pollutant manufacturing facilities are also certified with gases and heat discharged from the production ISO-14000:2004 Environmental Management process are used to generate electricity, which Systems. All manufacturing facilities are is supplied to the national grid. Approved and compliant with the environmental regulations registered with the United Nations Framework and best practices Convention on Climate Change (UNFCC), Effluents and WasteSpent carbons this process allowed Haycarb to trade carbon undergo a unique regeneration process in our MaterialsThe primary raw material in Haycarb’s credits under the Kyoto Protocol. Energy Regeneration plant in Thailand. This allows production process is coconut shell charcoal. saving initiatives successfully launched and customers to reuse spent carbon at a lower During the year, total raw material usage implemented in the last two years has further cost eliminating the need for unnecessary increased 28% in line with capacity increases significantly reduced consumption of fossil fuel incineration or landfill disposal The regeneration and the first full year of operation of the second in all manufacturing locations. Haycarb has also process releases no hazardous chemicals or manufacturing plant in Indonesia. Haycarb has pioneered the use of post-production process gasses to the environment, minimising our pioneered pollution-free charcoaling through waste heat for steam generation facilitating environmental footprint. Water waste arising its a patented centralized charcoaling process lower carbon footprint. During the year under from our production facilities are treated where the gases released during the process are review, the sector’s carbon footprint declined at effluent treatment plants prior to being combusted in a boiler to run a steam turbine. sharply by 46.0% to 12,785 tCO2e whereas discharged. The ‘Haritha Angara’ initiative provides raw emission intensity also fell to 1.07 from 1.80 the material suppliers with technical assistance previous year. Social Performance and financial support to convert traditional Our People open pit charcoaling sites to environmentally Products and Services: We continue to focus The sector’s workforce consists of 1,150 friendly manufacturing. This greener method on developing specialised activated carbon employees, located in the manufacturing of charcoaling prevents the release of noxious products which can be utilised to recycle waste facilities as well as global distribution centres. gasses such as Carbon Monoxide into the water. Our product range directly contributes During the year, we added 32 employees to environment. Introduced in Sri Lanka, the towards reusing waste water thereby reducing our team. We have focused on enhancing initiative was rolled out to our Thailand suppliers the dependence on fresh water and the staff productivity through training and work during the year quantum of waste water entering sewers and improvement team concepts. We respect septic systems. Furthermore, water purification the right for freedom of association, and our Sri Lankan and Indonesian employees are 78 The Quality of Life With consistent capacity increases in recent Kidney Disease (CKD). CKD is estimated to have affected around 400,000 people in the years, along with augmented marketing North Central Province, and research has indicated that access to purified water is the resources in key target markets, we are well primary solution for mitigating and reversing the impact of the disease. Under this project, positioned to exploit the growth in the global Puritas commissioned its first Reverse Osmosis Plant in Maithreepura, Padaviya, fully funded by activated carbon market. the Haycarb Group as its key CSR initiative of the year, providing access to purified water for nearly 1500 people. The program also includes livelihood development activities, health camps, unionised. We maintain an open dialogue with our suppliers, providing technical guidance awareness building programmes and health and union representatives and industrial relations and financial support to ensure the continuity hygiene camps targeted towards combatting are harmonious. Remuneration and other and quality of raw material supplies. Haycarb’s the ill effects of CKD. working conditions are governed by collective innovative Haritha Angara project has enabled agreements and reflect our commitment to suppliers to minimise environmental pollution. Following the success of this project, Hayleys providing a conducive and satisfactory work We are also committed to paying a fair price Group pledged to complete a total of 10 environment. Health and safety considerations for the raw materials, thereby supporting Purification Plants during the current and next are of paramount importance, and we strive to livelihoods and increasing employment fiscal year to provide clean drinking water to create an illness-free, injury-free environment opportunities in the respective areas. approximately 15,000 individuals. Design input within our facilities. and construction will be carried out by Puritas Community Engagement on behalf of the sponsoring sectors of the Suppliers The sector’s key community engagement Hayleys Group. The total cost for each village is Our raw materials are supplied by around 1,200 project during the year, Puritas Sath Diyawara, projected at around Rs. 3.5 million which will be coconut small holders, of which over 80% is involves the provision of purified water to totally funded by each sector that sponsored sourced locally. We continuously engage with families in the North Central Province with the the project. objective of mitigating the spread of Chronic Way Forward The global activated carbon market is estimated to grow at around 8% over the next few years, as increasing pollution driven by industrialisation will result in higher demand for water and air purification systems. With consistent capacity increases in recent years, along with augmented marketing resources in key target markets, we are well positioned to exploit this growth and increase our market share, particularly in emerging markets. We will also focus on developing innovative product applications to broaden the scope of our product range. The environmental engineering solutions division is a key growth area for the sector and opportunities in the tourism sector together with renewed focus on environmental concerns is anticipated to propel demand for these services over the medium to long-term. Puritas Sath Diyawara Child enjoying purified water 79 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Sector Reviews Textiles SECTOR CONTRIBUTION TO GROUP (%) Revenue PBIT PBT Capital Carbon employed footprint 10 10 10 10 40 8 8 8 8 30 6 6 6 6 20 4 4 4 4 2 2 2 2 10 0 0 0 0 0 13/14 14/15 13/14 14/15 13/14 14/15 13/14 14/15 13/14 14/15 80 The Quality of Life practices along the value chain to manage risk arising from poor environmental and social practices leading to certifications by independent third parties and customers. The US is the largest player with a market size estimated at US$ 225 bn whilst China is the fastest growing and forecast to become the largest market by 2017. The Sri Lankan apparel manufacturing sector demonstrated a healthy growth of 9.8% as demand picked up in the US, UK and even the Euro area. The country markets itself as an ethical sourcing destination with a tag line “Garments without guilt” based on high standards for employment and environment regulation with key players going beyond legal requirements to manage risk arising from social and environmental factors. Total apparel exports for 2014 amounted to US$ 4.7 bn, with the Euro Area and the US accounting for 46% and 42% of the apparel exports of the country. Hayleys MGT Knitting Mills PLC is a leading Growth of the textile industry in Sri Lanka is textiles manufacturer in Sri Lanka supplying directly co-related to the demand for apparel exports in the country. A key import substitution fabric to leading global fashion brands with initiative for the country, the industry has been successful in capturing market share from the capability of catering to the customers’ other countries strengthening the country’s attractiveness as an ethical sourcing destination. entire portfolio of requirements. Proximity to apparel manufacturers and the high social and environmental standards maintained by both apparel manufacturers and fabric mills are key competitive advantages for Sri Lankan fabric mills. However, yields continue to be Hayleys MGT Knitting Mills PLC is a leading The global apparel industry is economically impacted by high energy costs whilst growth is textiles manufacturer in Sri Lanka supplying significant supporting trade, employment and hampered by complex border tariff arrangements fabric to leading global fashion brands with economic growth in a number of countries and is which reduces the competitiveness of the the capability of catering to the customers’ estimated at over US$1.1 trillion. A large number country’s products. Recently announced entire portfolio of requirements. Focussing on of players and supply chains that span continents discussions to review the country’s eligibility positioning itself in the high value fabrics range, have resulted in long production cycles making for GSP+ concessions by the EU are a positive the company has matured as an innovator in the this a critical factor for effective competition in development which will serve to increase the field with the launch of “Inno” in 2015 successfully the industry. It is a dynamic and vibrant industry competitiveness of the fabric mills. differentiating itself from competitors in the with rapid change in trends, seasonal variation country. Healthy global prospects for the global and a wide range of customer preference The textile sector growth outperformed the apparel industry coupled with strong growth in creating a high degree of product differentiation growth of the apparel sector during the period the local apparel manufacture industry augur with a wide range in value as well. However, 2010 to 2014 with the value add almost doubling well for the growth of this sector. price per unit has declined consistently over as fabric mills increased capacity as indicated by the years increasing pressure on margins and the graphs below. Encouragingly, the total value Industry Overview driving innovation to facilitate cost minimisation. of textiles imported as well as textiles imported Key players have also focussed on sustainability 81 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Sector Reviews Textiles as a percentage of total imports have declined Performance over the same period. Industry capacity utilization has increased over the years as evinced by the 2014/15 2013/14 % Factory Industry Capacity Utilisation Index which was 70% at the end of 2014. Consequently, it Revenue (Rs.mn) 8,543 7,995 7% is expected that leading players will enhance PBIT (Rs.mn) 222 4 >1,000% capacity which may change the dynamics of the PBT (Rs.mn) 86 (171) 150% Sri Lankan fabric market with a related change in market shares. PAT (Rs.mn) 89 (181) 150% Total Assets (Rs.mn) 4,661 3,481 34% Hayleys MGT operates a fully integrated fabric Total Debt (Rs.mn) 2,527 2,205 15% mill with the capability to complete the entire Capital Employed (Rs.mn) 4,642 3,571 30% product portfolio of the customer, offering end to end solutions from design, development, Head Count 1,394 1,253 11% printing, brushing and sueding of pure and Profit (Loss) per employee (Rs.mn) 0.06 (0.14) 144% blended polyester and cotton fabrics. Market Carbon Footprint (tCO2e) 26,604 18,088 47% share is evenly distributed amongst the key players in the country and innovation is key ROCE 4.8% 0.1% >1,000% to gaining competitive advantage. Launch of our own branded fabric “Inno” in February 2015 raw materials, yarn, dyes and chemicals, are Emissions are a material aspect due to the gives the company a unique positioning within sourced from suppliers with environment related significant consumption of fossil fuels in the the Sri Lankan textile manufacturing industry certifications. The increase in consumption is manufacturing process which in turn gives rise as an innovative manufacturer. The company attributable to increased production during the to emissions of CO2. Consequently, emissions has achieved a remarkable turnaround in reporting period. Other factors relating to raw are monitored on a regular basis and measures performance during the financial period under material have improved such as the percentage are implemented to reduce the same. We have review and is well positioned for growth in a of recycled yarn used as raw materials minimising improved efficiencies in boilers which has higher valued adding segment of the market. wastage. reduced the consumption of furnace oil by 11% and also introduced battery operated material Hayleys MGT has a proven track record of socially Energy is a material aspect for Hayleys MGT as handling equipment to reduce emissions. and environmentally responsible business it accounts for 10% of the cost of production. practices that is highly valued by its customers. Consequently, energy management is a key focus We have invested in effluent treatment plants These pillars of our performance are part of the area and a number of initiatives have been taken and all treated water is checked in house once in company’s risk management and compliance to reduce the energy intensity measures and also two hours to ensure compliance with regulatory processes and are subject to verification by third to shift to greener source of energy such as bio requirements. Regular checks are carried parties for certification purposes. mass. out by external agencies such as the Central Water is a material aspect as our dyeing process Environment Authority (CEA), the Water Board Environmental Performance requires significant quantities of water for the and the Board of Investment (BOI) in addition to The company’s environment policy is embedded dyeing process. Every effort is made to ensure the in-house checks and we have had no issues in to the related business processes with clearly that we minimize the usage of water and the of non-compliance during the reporting period. defined responsibilities and benchmarks for following initiatives have been implemented in Treated water is discharged to the river via large performance. The sector adopts a cycle of this regard: water fountain located by the main public road identifying the material environmental aspects, for the public to witness the clarity of water measuring and monitoring performance and l Introduction of new dye machines with discharged by the Company to the “Kalu Ganga” initiating action to minimise environmental low liquor ratios impacts and manage related risks. l Reduction in re dyeing due to dyeing Hayleys MGT ensures that we use high quality defects inputs to prevent allergies and skin irritations l Continuous process improvements and also enhance the feel of the fabrics that are worn by people. Therefore, 100% of our principal 82 The Quality of Life Water Quality parameters Regulatory Hayleys MGT Actuals Waste yarn and fabric are sold to villagers who Requirement use this for cottage industries such as making wicks for oil lamps, rugs and other products. pH at 25 0C 6.5 – 8.5 8.3 This has facilitated development of livelihoods Temperature 0C 40 30 for people in the village making articles for BoDs at 20 0C Mg O2 /L 30 15 household use. The sludge from effluent treatment plants is incinerated by a third party CoD Mg O2 /L 250 110 facility specializing in incineration of industrial Total suspended solids Mg/L 50 10 waste in an environmentally responsible manner. There is no waste that reaches landfills from the factory as all solid waste is sorted and disposed in Solid Waste-MT a responsible manner. Method Type 2013/14 2014/15 Social Performance Hayleys MGT has a team of 899 full time Incineration Sludge 538 1,070 employees and 113 trainees from the National Total hazardous waste 538 1,070 Apprentice & Industrial Training Authority. High Sale for reuse Fluff 96 103 levels of engagement and robust training and Fabrics strips, off cuts, etc. 429 670 development programme has led to a high staff retention rate of 96% for the period under Sale for Re-cycle Cardboards, yarn cones, etc 540 525 review. Female participation is limited to 43% Polythene 70 85 due to the manual nature of the work. It is a Total non-hazardous waste 1,135 1,383 fairly young workforce with 58% below the age of 38. A recruitment policy of giving preference to local residents has resulted in over 75% of the employees living within the neighbouring Employee Type Total Hours of Training villages of the factory. Cl., Sup. & Allied Grades 4,677 Hayleys MGT is an approved training provider for Manual Grade 566 the National Apprentice and Industrial Training Executive & above 3,580 Authority (NAITA) and the Apprentice Training Total 8,823 Institute (ATI). A total of 8823 training hours were dedicated for the employees, averaging 9.81 hours per employee for the year. We supported Average training hours relevant lifelong qualifications for 29 employees through Sri Lanka Institute of Textile and Apparel for which the company invested US$4,500 Average training hours per employee facilitating the promotion of 28 employees Grade Male Female Overall during the year. Executive & Above 16.46 3.10 19.56 Health and Safety of its employees is a key Supervisory 19.92 1.14 21.06 priority and measures implemented include Manual 1.14 0.01 1.15 enforcement of the use of safety gear, safety education and joint worker management Overall 9.34 0.475 9.81 committees on Health and Safety that represent an average of 15% of the workforce. A continuous commitment to upgrade safety at work place has rewarded the company with reduced number of 83 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Sector Reviews Textiles Coupled with positioning of the country as an related activities to foster fellowship amongst its employees and nurture company loyalty. ethical sourcing destination, recent initiatives to Hayleys MGT has a zero tolerance policy on bribery and corruption and awareness is review Sri Lanka’s eligibility for GSP+ concessions created in this regard at orientation programs and reinforced regularly. During the year, we are expected to enhance the growth prospects of terminated the services of an executive who had taken a bribe from the manpower supplier. There the textile and garment industry. are no pending legal cases on issues of bribery or corruption. Year Rate of Injury Occupational Lost Days Work Related The Company maintains harmonious relations Diseases Fatalities with its three trade unions through monthly meetings which provide an effective forum for 2012/13 2.94 0 229 0 constructive dialogue between the management 2013/14 2.15 0 124 0 and the unions. Salary increments and other 2014/15 2.00 0 120 0 worker conditions have been implemented after collective bargaining although there is no documented agreement. lost dates, injury rates, zero work related fatalities requirements are also assessed as part of the As the largest employer in the village, we are and occupational diseases over the past 3 years. appraisal process based on competency gaps. conscious of our role in the socio economic progress of the village. Our community All employees are evaluated twice a year against Remuneration is competitive and all employees engagement is summarised below: predetermined goals and assessment criteria are paid above the minimum wage requirements. which are communicated at the beginning All the employees are eligible for benevolent Way Forward of the year based on the company’s goals. benefits and gratuity payments with leave The future of the textile industry is positive both Competencies and personal development allocations and gratuity above the required locally and globally mainly due to the robust are discussed and feedback is encouraged legal norms. The company engages in non-work growth of the apparel sector supported by a to facilitate a fair appraisal process. Training positive economic outlook for USA, UK and the Euro Area. Coupled with positioning of the country as an ethical sourcing destination, recent initiatives to review Sri Lanka’s eligibility for GSP+ Supporting l 85% employees from village concessions are expected to enhance the growth Sale of scrap for use in cottage industries livelihoods l prospects of the textile and garment industry. Pressure on margins is likely to increase which is a feature across the entire value chain in the l Dry rations for flood victims in 15 villages apparel sector. Hayleys MGT’s proven innovation Humanitarian Aid l Purification of 100 drinking water wells capability and development of its branded fabric provides a competitive advantage for growth and improved returns. Economies of scale and innovation in both product development and Preserving the l Collaborating with Green Forest Association processes will be the key to competing effectively in this vibrant industry. Environment to plant rare varieties of indigenous plants l Sponsorship of New Year Festival Preserving local l Main Sponsor of Unduwap Perahera” at culture Gallena Raja Mahaviharaya, Warakagoda 84 The Quality of Life Sector Reviews Construction Materials SECTOR CONTRIBUTION TO GROUP (%) Revenue PBIT PBT Capital Carbon employed footprint 4 8 10 3 10 3 6 8 8 6 2 6 2 4 4 1 4 1 2 2 2 0 0 0 0 0 13/14 14/15 13/14 14/15 13/14 14/15 13/14 14/15 13/14 14/15 85 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Sector Reviews Construction Materials The Alumex Group is Sri Lanka’s premier manufacturer of aluminium extrusions, The Alumex Group is Sri Lanka’s premier commanding a dominant market share of 53%, a leadership position it has retained since 1998. manufacturer of aluminium extrusions, As a fully integrated manufacturer of Aluminium profiles, the Group offers a comprehensive commanding a dominant market share of 53%, range of architectural, residential and industrial products to the top and middle tier of the a leadership position it has retained since 1998. construction industry. The superior quality of our products and the adoption of global best practices have enabled the Group to also establish itself internationally, manufacturing aluminium profiles under license for several Global Aluminium Statistics Construction Sector leading global producers. 60 3000 10 25 Contribution to GDP (%) 50 2500 8 20 Industry Overview Tonnes Million (%) Sector Growth 40 2000 The versatile properties of Aluminium has USD/Tonne 6 15 rendered it one of the most widely use metals 30 1500 4 10 and global demand has continued to rise in 20 1000 line with rapid urbanisation and infrastructure 2 5 10 500 growth in developing economies. The relatively weak investment climate which prevailed in 0 0 0 0 the developed economies in 2014 resulted in 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015(F) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 global aluminium demand falling marginally Uplift Discharge Discharge Contribution to GDP(%) Growth (%) short of global production, leading to a near 4% drop in global prices. Looking ahead, however, Source: International Aluminium Institute Source: Central Bank of Sri Lanka the global aluminium market is anticipated to grow at a CAGR of 7.6% over the next four years, with the demand and supply gap expected to narrow over the short to medium term. In Sri Strategy and Performance Lanka, demand for aluminium extrusions has continued to surge in line with the expansion of 2014/15 2013/14 % the country’s construction sector, the key driver of economic growth over the last few years. Revenue (Rs.mn) 3,377 2,804 20% Construction sector growth was 20.2% in 2014, PBIT (Rs.mn) 625 474 32% accounting for 9.7% of the country’s GDP. Mega PBT (Rs.mn) 628 464 35% infrastructure development projects including high-rise buildings and apartment complexes PAT (Rs.mn) 498 379 31% have propelled demand for aluminium Total Assets (Rs.mn) 2,378 1,753 36% products, which is further expected to grow by Total Debt (Rs.mn) 27 53 (48%) approximately 45% by 2019. Capital Employed (Rs.mn) 1,707 1,499 14% Alumex Group’s revenue growth was 20% Head Count 545 481 13% during 14/15, reflecting the continued Profit (Loss) per employee (Rs.mn) 0.91 0.79 16% expansion in the country’s construction sector Carbon Footprint (tCO2e) 5,279 4,776 10% and the Group’s increased capacity levels. The reduction in global primary aluminium prices ROCE 36.6% 31.6% 16% during the year had a favourable impact on the Group’s profitability margins. Resultantly, the * Tonnes of CO2 Equivalent 86 The Quality of Life Sector pre-tax profit grew 32% during the year, reaching record profitability of Rs. 628 million during 14/15. The Sector also commissioned its new powder coating plant during the year, which is expected to increase powder coating Contractors capacity by 100% over the short to medium term. This, together with the acquisition of an land for further capacity expansions, resulted in Alumex PLC Architects the Sector’s total assets growing by 21%. The Sector adopts a strategic and targeted approach towards supporting the needs of its Dealers key customer segments consisting of architects/ consultants, dealers, fabricators and end-users. Alumex continues to maintain a high level of engagement with the country’s leading Fabricators architects, and was the primary sponsor for ‘Architects’ exhibition for the fifth year running. The Sector’s dealer network, consisting of around 60 island-wide dealers and over 10,000 End-Users fabricators undergo structured training on the uses and benefits of architectural profiles; these training programmes are conducted on a continuous basis at the Group’s state-of-the-art training centre. Sustainability Review Stakeholder Role Results in 2014/15 Investors Providers of financial capital Earnings growth 31% Return on Equity 30% Employees Facilitate value creation through their efforts Total Payments to EmployeesRs. 291 million Investments in Training and Development Rs. 1.3 million Customers Our customers are aluminium fabricators who Training programmes 26 manufacture customised products for end users according to their specifications Investments in training (customers and dealers) Rs. 7.8 million SalesRs. 3,377 million Architects Key influencers for design in the construction Sponsorship provided for ‘Architects’ exhibition industry where our materials are used Rs. 4 million Dealers Make our products available island-wide and Training programmes 24 provide us feedback on our products and regional requirements 87 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Sector Reviews Construction Materials Stakeholder Role Results in 2014/15 Suppliers Two key suppliers provide 70% of our primary Payments to SuppliersRs.2,704 million raw material with 17 other suppliers providing the remainder which comprises of chemicals for coating and finishing. Regulators The Central Environmental Authority monitors Expenditure on environmental protection compliance with environmental legislation. initiativesRs. 21 million Community l The community around our Investments in Community EngagementRs. 2.4 manufacturing facilities million l The end users of our products which are incorporated in to their homes and workplaces Environmental Performance Effluents and Waste: Waste water from the factory is treated at an effluent treatment plant located within the premises prior to being discharged. The quality of the discharged water has been certified by Lindal Industrial Laboratory Limited and graded as ISO/IEC 17025. During the year, total waste water treated was 60,571 cubic meters. Meanwhile, the solid waste consisting primarily of sludge is also treated and sent to Holcim Lanka (Geocycle) for incineration; total volume of solid waste during the year was 1233 MT. 14/15 13/14 Total water discharge (lts) 60,571 60,280 Solid Waste (MT) 1,233 1,114 Materials: The main raw materials for the Group’s production process are aluminium billets/logs which are imported in its entirety. The material issues for the Construction sector are; Aluminium scrap metal, which is a secondary input, is sourced locally. The Group purchases Environment Social scrap metal, which is subsequently recycled and used in its production process. Recycling l Environmental l Training and Development scrap metal generates a host of environmental l Emissions l Diversity and Equal Opportunity benefits, including reduced energy intensity, l Energy l Health and Safety freeing up landscape for non-recyclable waste, l Effluents and Waste l Products and Services and reduced energy intensity and emissions l Local Communities in comparison to the extraction of raw metals through traditional mining. During the year, 88 The Quality of Life Alumex purchased Rs. 106 Million worth of scrap metal which constituted approximately 9% of its The Alumex Group’s team comprises of over total raw material inputs. 500 employees of which 80% make up the Scrap Metal Purchases permanent cadre. In 2014, we added 50 1600 1400 employees to our pool of which 38 were 1200 1000 for new positions created during the year. KG '000 800 600 400 200 0 2012 2012 2014 2015 Purchased scrap (Kg' 000) Factory Recylced Scrap (Kg '000) Emissions: The emissions from the factory consist of flue gases arising from the oil fired burners. Flue gas from the melting furnace includes fumes and ash from the melting process. These are trapped using a scrubber and neutralized or settled prior to disposal. During the year, purchased electricity gave rise to the highest level of emissions followed by stationary combustion. We report Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions based on the WBCDS/WR1 Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Standard. During the year under review, the sector’s total emissions (calculated under Scope 1, 2 and 3) increased 10.5% to 5278.60 Tonnes of CO2 equivalent in line with increased operational activity. However, the emission intensity factor Social Performance The Alumex Group’s team comprises of over (defined as tonnes of CO2 equivalent to each Our People 500 employees of which 80% make up the rupee of revenue) declined to 1.59 from 1.70 a permanent cadre. In 2014, we added 50 year earlier. employees to our pool of which 38 were Training Hours for new positions created during the year. Male Female Total Attracting and developing a qualified talent Executive 2,805 190 2,995 pool is of paramount importance to the Group Clerical 710 112 822 and multiple initiatives are in place to upskill employees and create a conducive work Manual 978 0 978 environment. The total investment in training and development was Rs. 2.3 million with 89 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Sector Reviews Construction Materials employees undergoing 4,795 hours of training Way Forward during the year. Alumex is also an approved Number of The launch of the Group’s newest product range training partner for the National Apprentice participants trained targeting the domestic market is anticipated to and Industrial Training Association, Vocational in 2014/15 present a multitude of exciting opportunities Training Institute as well as military forces. Factory premises 542 over the medium term. The product range, Productivity indicators have continued to trend LUMIN, consists of high-end aluminium Central Province 154 upwards, with profit per employee widening extrusions for modern homes and the Group 22% during 2014. The Group’s occupational Eastern Province 67 intends to establish three concept/design health and safety policy framework details Northern Province 61 centres to promote this range. Strengthening the standards, procedures and guidelines for Sabaragamuwa 95 warehouse capacity in outstations is also a maintaining a work environment which is free of strategic priority for the ensuing year and hazards and work-related risks. Southern Province 146 will enable the dealer network to access our North Central 102 products more conveniently. We will also seek Customers Uva 40 increased penetration in regional markets, Alumex has a high level of engagement with including India, Bangladesh and Burma with the Western Province 685 its dealer network and fabricators and is the introduction of our proprietary windows and industry pioneer in providing training to TOTAL 1,892 door profiles. these parties on a continuous basis. Training is conducted by three teams at the Companies In addition, Alumex conducted further state of the art fabricator training school training of Professional and Private institutions located in factory premises as well as in where 6 programs were conducted with 118 outstation locations. The training programmes participating. The summary by type of institute/ which are completely free of charge to the organization is given below. fabricators, provides practical insights into the application and usage benefits of aluminium profiles, component usage, new products and technologies. During the year, the Group conducted 44 such training programmes in total supporting nearly 1,892 fabricators and other participants. Training program No. of Training Programs No. of Participants Amount (Rs) VTA training 8 203 1,253,742 Government Institutions 12 367 1,880,613 Dealers & Fabricators 24 1,322 3,794,050 Professional and Private Institutions 6 118 940,306 Total 50 1,921 7,868,711 90 The Quality of Life Sector Reviews Plantations SECTOR CONTRIBUTION TO GROUP (%) Revenue PBIT PBT Capital Carbon employed footprint 15 12 10 10 20 9 8 8 16 10 6 6 12 6 5 4 4 8 3 2 2 4 0 0 0 0 0 13/14 14/15 13/14 14/15 13/14 14/15 13/14 14/15 13/14 14/15 91 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Sector Reviews Plantations Plantations The Group is amongst the country’s largest The Group is amongst the country’s largest plantation sector operators, with its subsidiaries Kelani Valley Plantations PLC (KVPL) and plantation sector operators, with its subsidiaries Talawakelle Tea Estates PLC (TTE) collectively accounting for 3.9% and 3.4% of Sri Lanka’s tea Kelani Valley Plantations PLC (KVPL) and and rubber production. Cultivating 44 tea and rubber estates covering 25000 hectares, KVPL Talawakelle Tea Estates PLC (TTE) collectively and TTE provide employment to over 20,000 workers and make substantial investments in accounting for 3.9% and 3.4% of Sri Lanka’s tea uplifting the living standards of nearly 150,000 individuals residing in the estates. Hayleys is and rubber production. also involved in the blending and export of value added tea, exporting its Mabroc range of branded tea to over 50 destinations. Sector Operations Cluster Operations Highlights Production and processing of low-grown and highContributed 37% and 27% to sector revenue and PBT Kelani Valley Plantations grown varieties of black tea, green tea and rubber respectively. Production and processing of low-grown and highAccounted for 34% and 66% of plantation sector revenue Talawakelle Tea Estates grown black and green tea and PBT respectively in 2014/15. A key growth area for the Group, the subsidiary Export of value added tea through blending, packaging Mabroc Tea (Pvt) Ltd contributed 28%. It recorded a financial loss during the and branding bulk tea. year. The Group’s latest venture and currently in the Hayleys Global Beverages Ltd The processing of instant tea implementation phase. Industry Overview attractiveness, the sustainability of the country’s total cost of production in Sri Lanka, compared The plantation sector is a vital component tea sector is threatened by multiple internal and to approximately half that in other major tea of Sri Lanka’s economy, with tea and rubber external challenges. On the one hand, political producing nations such as Kenya and India, generating 15% of total export earnings and and economic instability in key buying markets whilst labour productivity in Sri Lanka is also accounting for more than 30% of the country’s have thwarted demand and increased price significantly lower. For instance, a Kenyan worker total agricultural workforce. The 3rd largest competition, whereas Sri Lanka’s low labour who plucks an average of 48kg receives roughly global tea producer, Sri Lankan tea has ranked productivity and persistent increases in labour US$ 2 per day, a counterpart in Sri Lanka who among the world’s finest due to its strong costs have inserted severe pressure on the plucks 18kg receives approximately US$ 4.6 per flavour and aroma. Notwithstanding its global profit margins of regional plantation companies day, more than double the amount received by (RPCs). Labour costs account for close to 70% of a Kenyan worker. 92 The Quality of Life Despite these challenges, the RPCs have Sri Lanka’s Tea and Rubber Production Sri Lanka Tea Industry Labour Productivity continued to make substantial investments 400 600 in uplifting the living standards of estate 350 500 India Production (kg mn) communities. Since privatisation, investments 300 in improving fields, factories, living conditions 250 400 Price per kg Sri Lanka of estate families, health and education 200 300 infrastructure totalling around Rs. 55.0 billion 150 200 have resulted in significant reductions in infant 100 mortality rates, maternal deaths, increase in 50 100 Kenya water availability, improvement to housing 0 0 0 10 20 30 40 50 conditions and sanitation facilities. For 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 instance, according to the Plantation Human Tea-Production Rubber-Production Daily Wage (USD) Yield per worker (kg) Development Trust (PHDT) since privatisation Tea-Auction Price Rubber-F.O.B Price 60% of RPC employees have been provided with Source: Central Bank of Sri Lanka new or upgraded houses. Sri Lanka’s total tea production dipped marginally to 338 Mn kg in 2014, as adverse weather conditions affected cultivation and 2014/15 2013 Annualized labour productivity. Demand was significantly 15 Months* 12 Months % affected due to political instability and Revenue (Rs.mn) 12,679 9,597 32% economic woes in several of our prime buying PBIT (Rs.mn) 566 826 (45%) markets in Middle East and Eastern Europe. The drastic drop in rubber prices from the same key PBT (Rs.mn) 358 701 (46%) markets further compounded this situation. PAT (Rs.mn) 257 583 (51%) Rubber production was also negatively Total Assets (Rs.mn) 10,433 9,822 7% impacted by inclement weather and auction prices declined by around 20% as stockpiles Total Debt (Rs.mn) 1,894 1,355 23% in China and Japan resulted in a slowdown in Capital Employed (Rs.mn) 5,521 5,481 8% demand. Head Count 22,356 23,427 (6%) Profit (Loss) per employee (Rs.mn) 0.01 0.02 (42%) Strategy and Performance Plantation sector revenue growth was Carbon Footprint (tCO2e) 12,768 8,879 44% 32% during the period, upheld by stronger ROCE 10.3% 13.8% (35%) prices commanded by our superior quality tea, although production was affected by *KVPL and TTE changed the financial year ends to 31st March from 31st December resulting the unfavourable weather. Profitability however was consolidation of 15 months. substantially impacted as climatic misfortunes necessitated increased expenditure within the estates. Overall, the sector’s PBT declined 46% we maintained focus on the key strategic Talawakelle Tea Estates PLC (TTE) to Rs. 370 million during the period. Sector imperatives of improving productivity, TTE’s with revenue and pre-tax profit grew assets expanded by 7% in 2014, due to new replanting and maintaining our land assets, by 32% and 24% respectively during the construction and acquisition. portfolio diversification and expanding our year. TTE leads the industry in pricing due range of teas. As a result of these efforts KVPL to its unparalleled quality and strong brand Kelani Valley Plantations PLC commands the highest auction prices for rubber recognition and was ranked No.1 for low grown KVPL’s revenue growth was marginal at whilst yields are among the highest among elevation prices for the 10th consecutive year 27% during the year, although profitability RPCs. and No 1 in the high grown elevations for the declined in line with the sharp drop in rubber consecutive 10th year except year 2012. We prices. Resultantly, KVPL’s pre-tax profit fell deployed our resources effectively to strengthen by 78% to Rs. 102 million during the period. Despite a challenging external environment, 93 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Sector Reviews Plantations our productivity enhancing initiatives and achieve cost efficiencies, in order to counter the external adversities during the year. Mabroc Revenue from this cluster grew by 50% during the period, compared to the previous year. However, margins were pressured due to the currency crisis in the Eastern Europe and continued instability in the Middle Eastern region. Sustainability Review Stakeholders Role Key Results Investors Providers of Financial Capital Earnings declined (51%) Return on equity (6%) Employees/Trade Unions Facilitate value creation through their efforts Total payments to employees Rs. 5.86 billion Value of other benefits to employees Rs. 25 million Investments in training and development Rs. 2.4million Customers/Brokers Our customers are primarily broking companies Total Sales Rs. 12.68 billion which connect us to global consumers of our products. Suppliers Bought leaf and latex suppliers provide the primary Total purchases Rs. 1,503 million input for our cultivation Communities Communities residing within our estates, and Investments in uplifting living standards Rs. 1.7 million families of our employees Investments in health awareness and nutrition related programmes Rs. 119 million Government and Regulatory Bodies Compliance to regulatory frameworks applicable Taxes paid 152 million to RPCs ensure conformance to good business practices 94 The Quality of Life Energy Environment Social Our approach towards energy management is aimed at reducing the dependence on fossil l Materials l Employment fuels and improving the energy efficiency within l Emissions l Labour /Management Relations the factories. We engage in the production l Effluents & Waste l Occupational Health & Safety of renewable energy through the four hydro l Compliance l Training and Education power plants and fuel wood plantation. During l Bio diversity l Local Communities the year, we generated a hydro power capacity l Products and Services of 11,401,033KWh. The measures adopted to improve energy efficiency include the installation of energy efficient capacitor banks, machinery, equipment and lighting. Educational Environmental Performance Certification, Ethical Tea Partnership and UTZ and awareness programmes are conducted on Some of our estates are located in the crown Sustainable Tea certification for several of its a regular basis targeting employees, suppliers, of the hill capital and we are fully cognisant estates. resident communities and service providers. of our potential role in preserving the natural Energy intensity per kg of crop has declined by environment we operate in. Demonstrating Materials 5%. our commitment to preserving and enhancing Our material management policy is focused the quality of our natural environment, both towards optimising usage to facilitate Water plantation companies have obtained multiple reductions in consumption and value addition Cultivation of rubber requires significant local and international certifications on along the supply chain to obtain inputs of amounts of water and our water management environmental management. KVPL has obtained superior quality. All raw material consumption efforts strive to economise usage as well as the GLOBAL G.A.P (New Zealand) accreditation is tracked consistently in both RPCs. We also adopt measures for water conservation. The and Rainforest Alliance Certifications for 17 tea proactively engage with our bought leaf and measures implemented include monitoring estates, whereas its rubber plantations have latex suppliers by providing technical support water usage at all processing centres, awareness been certified by the Forest Stewardship Council and guidance in order to ensure the quality of programmes targeted towards resident TM. TTE has also obtained Rainforest Alliance the supplies and long-term sustainability of their communities, watershed protection and farms. enrichment among others. During the year, our total water consumption reduced by 1%. Emissions Units 2014/15 2013 The sector’s total GHG emissions increased 43% Input supplies to 12768 tonnes of CO2 equivalents during the year, due to the consolidation of an additional Bought Leaf Kilograms 13,671,176 9,780,229 quarter. The Emission intensity factor (defined as Bought Latex Kilograms 280,211 527,311 tonnes of CO2/ Revenue Rs. Million) increased Associated Process Materials marginally to 0.96 from 0.92 the year before. Stationary Combustion was the largest source of Fuel Litres 441,799 413,231 GHG emissions for the sector. Firewood Cubic Meters 59,311 88,347 Briquettes Kilograms 486,945 460,700 Fertilizers MT 6,573 6,566 Dolomite MT 3,109 2,883 Agrochemicals Litres 31,870 35,986 Packing Materials Number 323,793 306,804 95 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Sector Reviews Plantations Social Performance Community Engagement Way Forward Our People Through multiple community engagement The short to medium outlook for the sector The sector employs a total of 22,356 staff initiatives, the sector strives to uplift the overall remains challenging, given geopolitical tensions members, of which 94% consist of manual living standards of around 100,000 individuals in key buying markets and the anticipated fall grade category employees, spread across our residing in and around its estates. The sector’s in commodity prices. Meanwhile, a multitude estates and facilities. Given the economic and multi-dimensional ongoing community of internal factors including adverse weather social profiles of our estate employees, we engagement project ‘A house for every patterns, high cost of production and low strive to create an inclusive platform to develop plantation worker’ has resulted in substantial labour productivity will further constrain and uplift the living standards of our workers improvements in the standard of living and performance. In order to effectively address and their families. The workforce is covered quality of life of numerous estate families since these challenges, the Group intends to leverage by collective bargaining agreements with 2006. The project addresses four key areas of its geographical presence and improve its land trade unions, which regulate wages and other development; living environment, health and efficiency by diversifying its crop base to include employment conditions. Both our RPCs have in nutrition, community capacity building and non-traditional export crops such as spices and place comprehensive health and safety policies youth empowerment. During the year, total alternate beverage crops. We are also pursuing and guidelines to ensure that desired standards investment in community related initiatives growth in value added tea exports, particularly of occupational safety are met in all our estates. was around Rs. 120 million, of the sector’s total instant tea, for which the groundwork is Health and safety training programmes and revenue. Key programmes carried out by the currently being carried out. awareness campaigns are conducted regularly sector are as follows; on multiple areas including general hygiene, self-protection, safety and fire drills and first aid. During the period, 36 structured health and safety programmes were conducted with a total participant base of over 1782. Injury rate for 2014/15 is 6.23%. l New houses built 26 l Dental Clinics -1286 l Electricity connections -200 beneficiaries The benefits provided to our manual workforce l Upgraded houses 42 l Eye care operations 809 include among others, l Toilet construction -142 l Post natal clinics -754 l Construction of new housing units, upgrading existing houses Living HEALTH AND l Providing water schemes, sanitation Environment NUTRITION facilities, electrification for worker houses l Development of access roads and other infrastructure Community Youth Capacity Empowerment l Health and hygiene monitoring Building programmes, supplementary feeding programmes, immunization, maternity benefits, dental clinics etc. l Awareness on micro-1154 l Awareness on health and safety-2193 l Household cash management-1786 l Youth empowerment-926 l Providing micro financing facilities l Safe working methods-1627 l First Aid awareness-2005 through Estate Worker Housing Cooperative Societies. 96 The Quality of Life Sector Review Agriculture SECTOR CONTRIBUTION TO GROUP (%) Revenue PBIT PBT Capital Carbon employed footprint 12 12 12 12 12 9 9 9 9 9 6 6 6 6 6 3 3 3 3 3 0 0 0 0 0 13/14 14/15 13/14 14/15 13/14 14/15 13/14 14/15 13/14 14/15 97 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Sector Reviews Agriculture An industry pioneer in agricultural innovation, market share of around 22% in the Pet, Poultry 10% to the country’s GDP during the year. Hayleys Agriculture Holdings has consistently and Large Animal sectors with a portfolio of The overarching objective of the country’s demonstrated its commitment towards globally renowned brands. Agricultural policy is achieving food and transforming agriculture to be ecologically nutrition security together with improving the more sustainable whilst developing livelihoods Industry Overview living standards of the farming community and increasing access to nutritious food. The Sri Lanka’s Agriculture sector growth slowed to through sustainable agricultural production Group’s Agriculture Sector is the largest exporter 1.3% in 2014 (2013: 4.7%) as adverse weather technologies and marketing. of processed fruits and vegetable with a share conditions affected the production of several of over 45%, and is the market leader in the crops during the year. Droughts prevalent provision of stainless steel agricultural sprayer during both paddy cultivating seasons, Yala Agriculture Sector Growth equipment, combine harvesters and seed and Maha resulted in annual production 14 8 paddy. It also commands a respective 16% declining by 23% to 3.5 million metric tonnes. 12 7 Contribution to GDP (%) and 18% of the country’s fertilizer and crop Meanwhile, other field crops consisting of 6 10 protection industries. A formidable player in maize, onions, chillies etc. recorded growth, with 5 (%) Growth 8 the Animal Health Industry, the sector enjoys a total production increasing 7.2% during the 4 6 year. Overall, the agriculture sector contributed 3 4 2 2 1 0 0 Sector Operations 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Contribution to GDP Agriculture-growth Cluster Key Business Lines Source: Central Bank of Sri Lanka Crop Protection Crop management solutions for weed, pests and fungi Crop Production Supplier of potato seed, producer of seed paddy and other field crop seed such as Maize, B Onion, Chillies etc. Fertilizer Supplier of vegetable seed and speciality fertilizers Distribution of direct and blended fertilizers for a range of crops Agricultural Equipment Supplier of tractors, sprayers, combined harvesters, transplanters, milking machines etc. Animal Health Representing world renowned brands for the distribution of products and services which improve the quality of life and efficiency of livestock and companion animals. Exports Producer of horticultural plants, tissue cultured plantlets and flower seeds. Exporter of processed vegetable and fruit 98 The Quality of Life The Agriculture sector’s revenue growth was relationships with these organisations. The strategic thrust during the year was to harness 14% during the period, upheld by the relatively research capabilities to develop greener products and expand training and extension strong performance of the fertilizer, crop services provided to farmers. production and food exports clusters Crop Production business performance was encouraging with revenue growth of 18% during the year, led by increased volumes of seed potatoes and planting materials. During the year, we combined strengths with several government agencies to research more productive seed varieties and high quality Strategy and Performance profitability. We are engaged in research for planting materials. We also conducted several The Agriculture sector’s revenue growth was the development of ecologically sustainable technical and educational programmes targeted 14% during the period, upheld by the relatively fertilizers in partnership with the Sri Lanka towards encouraging ecological farming strong performance of the fertilizer, crop Institute of Nano Technology and have methods (discussed further in the Sustainability production and food exports clusters whilst obtained a patent for a slow release fertiliser Review) performance of the crop protection cluster was which will be commercially available in 2015. below expectations. Sector operating profit During the year we continued to provide As a pioneer in mechanising agriculture, we increased 10% to Rs. 1.04 billion during the year, agricultural advisory services to farmers to have introduced several innovative equipment supported by top line expansion. prevent abuse of fertilizer whilst enhancing enhancing the labour productivity including land productivity. mechanised transplanters, combined harvesters Revenue growth from Fertilizers was 11% during and milking machines. During 2014/15, revenue 2014/15, helped by the increased demand Revenue and PBT from crop protection growth maintained its momentum as labour from the tea small holder sector. Despite the business line declined by 3% and 18% shortages continued to drive mechanisation restricted import quota for direct fertilizers we respectively during the year, reflecting the in agricultural production. The Group also successfully pursued a strategy of providing disappointing performance of the drought extended its services to the dairy industry, specific blended fertilizer to improve crop affected paddy sector. The Group represents introducing technologies and equipment to productivity thereby optimising capacity leading international brands in this business enhance the productivity of small holders. We utilisations to generate cost efficiencies and line and have maintained long-standing continue to promote increased mechanisation of agriculture to facilitate increased productivity and also to attract more youth in to pursuing careers in agriculture to facilitate growth of this 2015 2014 % vital industry. Revenue (Rs.mn) 8,424 7,395 14% The Animal Health business is engaged in the PBIT (Rs.mn) 1,039 943 10% provision of medicaments nutritional products PBT (Rs.mn) 817 638 28% feed additives and services for poultry, pets PAT (Rs.mn) 632 474 33% and large animals. Revenue growth from this business line was 12% during the year and Total Assets (Rs.mn) 6,559 7,220 (9%) the Group continued to maintain its position Total Debt (Rs.mn) 2,510 2,758 (9%) as market leader in the pet and large animal Capital Employed (Rs.mn) 5,058 4,350 16% categories. In 2014/15, the Group established a specialised laboratory in the NWP for Head Count 1,189 1,143 4% the provision of feed analyses and disease Profit (Loss) per employee (Rs.mn) 0.53 0.41 28% diagnostic services. Carbon Footprint (tCO2e) 2,432 2,495 (3%) ROCE 20.5% 21.7% (5%) 99 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Sector Reviews Agriculture Revenue from food exports grew by 30% The material issues of the Agriculture sector are; during the year, as the Group expanded its product range and pursued new markets. As the country’s largest exporter of processed fruits Environment Social and vegetables, the Group is a key supplier to international brands such as McDonalds and l Materials l Employment Subway and has strong market positions in l Emissions l Labour /Management Relations several countries including Japan, Spain and the l Effluents & Waste l Occupational Health & Safety USA. Meanwhile, the Group plays a vital role in l Compliance l Training and Education supporting smallholder farmers and inculcating l Bio diversity l Local Communities sustainable agricultural practices across its l Products and Services island-wide out-grower network through agricultural advisory, training and mutually beneficial purchasing agreements. Sustainability Review Stakeholder Role in value creation Results in 2014/15 Investors Providers of financial capital Earnings growth 33% Return on Equity 84% Employees Facilitate value creation through their efforts Total Payments to Employees Rs. 538 million Investments in Training and Development Rs. 2.8 million Customers Our customers are farmers who use our products as Domestic Sales Rs. 6.46 billion inputs for cultivation and end-users of our export products Export sales Rs. 2.24 billion Investments in agriculture extension services for farmers Rs. 51 million Out-growers Cultivate a range of crops for the export market adopting Purchases from out-growers Rs. 176 million innovative production technologies and sustainable agricultural practices. Investments in training and other related services Rs. 5.1 million Suppliers We represent global leaders in several of our business Total payments to suppliers Rs. 5373 million lines, including crop protection and agri equipment. Research We have partnered with the Sri Lanka Institute of Nano Total investment in R&D Rs. 4 million Institutes Technology, Universities and the Dept. of Agriculture to develop high yielding inputs and environmentally sustainable production technologies Regulators Regulators ensure compliance with environmental, Value Added Taxes Rs. 82 million labour and other laws of the country. The Department of Inland Revenue monitors payment of taxes. Income Tax Rs. 136 million Community l The farming communities in our cultivation areas Investments in Community Engagement Rs. 1.1 million l Communities around our processing and manufacturing facilities 100 The Quality of Life Emissions: The Agriculture sector’s total GHG emissions declined 2.6% to 2432.3 tCO2e during the year whereas the emission intensity factor also reduced to 0.29, compared to 0.33 the previous year. Stationary combustion and purchased electricity were the largest sources of emission generation in the sector. Social Performance Building Value Chain Partnerships for Sustainable Sourcing: We strive to propagate sustainable agricultural practices and generate equitable value through collaboration and partnerships throughout our supply chain. In all our business lines, Hayleys Agriculture has pioneered inclusive relationships with farmers and out-growers across the island to provide extension services targeted towards promoting greener agricultural practices, increasing efficiency and improving income levels. Environmental performance Our People Technology and The Department of Agriculture Products and Services: The sector’s approach The Agriculture sector talent team consists of to develop agricultural inputs and production towards environmental sustainability centres 1,189 employees, who are dispersed throughout technologies that are technically feasible, on harnessing research capabilities to develop the island. During the year 36 employees were economically viable and environmentally a product range that is ecologically sustainable. added to the team. Continuous efforts placed sustainable. We have collaborated with multiple parties on training and skill development have been including Universities, the Institute of Nano rewarded by persistent improvements in Slowrelease, low-volume fertilizers are being developed, which is expected to result in a reduction of Fertilizer fertilizer usage by around 50% thereby, preserving the quality of the soil. Focus towards developing bio-pesticides which have a relatively low environmental footprint. Seven Crop Protection such products are currently in the pipeline. On-going research is targeted towards developing high-yielding varieties and seeds which consume Crop Production relatively low water levels. Deploying research capabilities to develop high yielding planting materials, primarily through tissue Bio-Technology culture and bio technological processes. 101 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Sector Reviews Agriculture Business Line Beneficiaries Activities Our agricultural advisory force consists of 600 trained 5000 network of island-wide farmers cultivating technicians, who conduct awareness programmes Fertilizers tea, rubber, coconut, vegetable and other field throughout the island to providing guidance on the optimum crops use of fertilizers required to preserve the quality of the soil. 220,000 network of farmers engaged in the Training and awareness programmes conducted to farmers, Crop Protection cultivation of paddy vegetables and other field to encourage adequate harvesting intervals and the safe use crops of pesticides. The out-grower network is provided with seed paddy, materials and technical know-how on cultivation. Adherence Out-grower network of over 750, with a Crop Production to good agricultural practices is incentivised. The Group also geographical presence in six districts. buys back the produce at prevailing market prices, providing a supplementary source of income the out-grower network. Out-growers are provided with inputs, planting materials and equipment. Also given guidance on increasing yields Exports 12000-strong out-grower network and innovative agricultural practices. Conforming to the quality requirements of export markets enables the transfer of knowledge and global best practices. staff productivity; total investment in training Authority, Sri Lanka Navy and the Ministry of Way Forward and development during the year was Rs. 2.8 Fisheries was initiated in 2014/15, involves The Group will continue to pursue growth million whilst profit per employee improved the production of edible sea weed for export in new product segments and markets, with 19% during the same period. A conducive work purposes. The Project also contributes towards particular focus on expanding its range of environment, created through attractive reward marine conservation as seaweeds have water export products and destinations. Addressing systems, high staff engagement and work-life purifying properties and enhances polyculture issues concerning food security through balance initiatives has enabled us to achieve production. Seaweed cultivation is conducted development of livelihoods whilst nurturing the high talent retention levels of 92%. We are also through fishing communities in Mannar and environment is our key focus and our passion. an approved training partner for agriculture Jaffna, and has generated employment to Aqua-agriculture is a key growth area for the graduates and provide internship opportunities over 1000 individuals and supported 250 Group with cultivation of sea weed under the for university students on a consistent basis. families in its first year of operation. In addition Northern Province project expected to double to the equipment, individuals are supported over the medium term. Collaborations with Community Engagement with regular training sessions on cultivating farmers and out-growers is expected to be The Group’s latest venture seeks to improve methods and sustainable agricultural practices. further strengthened, as the Group’s efforts the livelihoods of impoverished families in the By the 4th year of operation, this project is towards introducing greener inputs and Northern Province, by providing them with expected to generate 4000 direct employment production technologies bear fruit. Overall, a source of supplementary income through opportunities. the Group will adopt a strategy of promoting aqua-agriculture. This project, conducted sustainable agricultural practices through in partnership with the Coast Conservation innovation, collaboration and value addition across its entire supply chain. 102 The Quality of Life Sector Reviews Consumer SECTOR CONTRIBUTION TO GROUP (%) Revenue PBIT PBT Capital Carbon employed footprint 8 4 2 4 2 6 3 3 4 2 1 2 1 2 1 1 0 0 0 0 0 13/14 14/15 13/14 14/15 13/14 14/15 13/14 14/15 13/14 14/15 103 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Sector Reviews Consumer The sector takes to the market a wide range of fast-moving consumer goods, lighting products, The sector takes to the market a wide range of imaging solutions and healthcare products representing globally renowned brands including fast-moving consumer goods, lighting products, Proctor & Gamble, Phillips Lighting and Fujifilm. Through an extensive distribution network our imaging solutions and healthcare products products are made available in more than 90,000 outlets across the island and are reputed for representing globally renowned brands superior quality and value for money. including Proctor & Gamble, Phillips Lighting and Fujifilm. Sector Operations Cluster Business Lines Notes Home Products As the sole distributor for Proctor & Gamble, we take to the market Contributes 50% to sector revenue and 51% to total sector GP. a wide array of wellknown home and personal care brands including Gillette, Olay, Pampers, Pantene and Head & Shoulders. Lighting Consumer lighting solutions for domestic use, Professional lighting Accounts for 28% of sector revenue 29% to total sector GP. for commercial, industrial, outdoor lighting, and other projects. Imaging Distributor for Fujifilm in Sri Lanka, we provide high quality photo Accounts for 10% of sector revenue 9% to total sector GP. film paper, chemicals, photo printing machinery and Fujifilm finepix cameras. Healthcare Sole distributor for Blue Cross Pharmaceuticals in Sri Lanka Accounts for 3% of sector revenue 4% to total sector GP. marketing a range of therapeutic drugs and vitamins. The cluster is also the distributor for 3M first aid dressings, Bayer Glucometers and a range of other reputed Brands in Sri Lanka. Industry Overview Sri Lanka’s FMCG sector, led by personal care Per capita income Consumer spending is dependent on a multitude products, is poised to record strong growth in the 4000 of factors including personal disposable incomes, short to medium term supported by relatively 3500 inflation, borrowing costs and consumer benign inflation and substantial increases in 3000 sentiments. Sri Lanka’s per capita GDP has salary and allowances for government workers. 2500 continued to rise in line with the country’s Furthermore, the millennials (Generation Y) offer USD 2000 strong economic growth over the past few a great opportunity for increasing penetration of 1500 years, increasing by 11% in 2014 to reach USD lifestyle products and services including personal 1000 3,625. As disposable incomes grow, expenditure and home care consumer goods. 500 patterns change and consumers are likely to shift 0 towards more lifestyle driven expenditure from During the first half of the year, the industry 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 basic expenditure such as food and transport. For experienced a cash crunch resulting in a instance, according to the Household Income lengthening of the receivables cycle. In order and Expenditure Survey 2013 conducted by the to mitigate liquidity risks arising from intensive Department of Census and Statistics of Sri Lanka, working capital requirements, we took steps to the average expenditure on Health and Personal restrain growth in the sector thereby impacting care has increased to 8.5% of total non-food top-line and earnings growth. Our distribution expenditure in 2013, compared to 7.9% in 2010. network consists of modern trade (supermarkets, 104 The Quality of Life Key commercial projects undertaken by the mini markets etc) and open trade (through distributors); changes in VAT regulations affecting Lighting sector include Street Lighting along supermarkets has resulted in a decline in the gross margins, thereby affecting the sector’s overall the Galle Road (Colpetty to Wellawatte), performance. Departure/Arrival terminal lighting at the In Lighting, the sector provides a range of domestic and commercial lighting solutions. Bandaranaike International. Key commercial projects undertaken by the sector include Street Lighting along the Galle Road (Colpetty to Wellawatte), Departure/Arrival % of average monthly household expenditure in major non-food categories terminal lighting at the Bandaranaike International. The imaging and healthcare sectors are still relatively small contributors to sector profits. 2013 2010 Housing 18.1 19.1 Environmental Performance The Environmental footprint of the Consumer Fuel and lighting 6.8 7.1 sector is relatively low, as its operations are Clothing, Textile & Foot wear 4.6 5.0 mainly of a trading nature. The only significant Health & Personal Care 8.5 7.9 environmental impact arises from the Transportation of consumer goods; however we Transport & Communication 16.7 17.0 do not currently track this indicator. Meanwhile, Education 5.6 5.6 Hayleys Lighting has pioneered and popularised Cultural & Entertainment 2.0 2.2 the use of energy efficient LED lighting in the country. The latest range of Phillips LED’s launched Non-durable household goods 1.2 1.5 is 50% efficient than the CFL’s and is an ecoDurable household goods 3.9 4.3 friendly product which does not contain any Other non-consumer costs 29.8 26.6 mercury. The longevity of the product coupled Liquor, Narcotics and Tobacco 2.7 3.7 with the efficiency is expected to transform the lighting industry in the near future. Given the Source: Department of Census and Statistics superiority of the Brand, Hayleys is expected to achieve market leadership position. Strategy and Performance Social Performance Our Team 2015 2014 % The Consumer sector’s team comprises Revenue (Rs.mn) 5,185 5,252 (1%) 286 employees, located across the country. Opportunities for career progression, skill PBIT (Rs.mn) 140 235 (40%) development and attractive financial and nonPBT (Rs.mn) 32 80 (60%) financial remuneration have facilitated a conducive PAT (Rs.mn) 10 60 (83%) work environment. Training and development programmes for staff are targeted towards Total Assets (Rs.mn) 2,508 2,457 2% driving performance, personal development and Total Debt (Rs.mn) 1,378 1,394 (1%) achieving work-life balance. The sector invested Capital Employed (Rs.mn) 1,689 1,760 (4%) Rs. 3.3 million in staff training during the year, with an average employee undergoing 14 hours of Head Count 286 294 (3%) training. Profit (Loss) per employee (Rs.mn) 0.04 0.21 (82%) Carbon Footprint (tCO2e) 269 336 (20%) ROCE 8.28% 13.33% (38%) 105 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Sector Reviews Consumer Sustainability Review Stakeholder Role in Value Creation Results in 2014/15 Investors Providers of financial capital Earnings growth (83%) Return on Equity (37.84%) Employees Facilitate value creation through their efforts Total Payments to Employees Rs. 313 million Investments in Training and Development Rs. 3.3 million Dealers/ Distribute our products to end-consumers located island-wide Total Sales Rs. 5,135 million Distributors Financial assistance to dealers/distributors Rs. 1,113 million Principals Manufacture and sell wide array of superior quality products under Payments to Principals Rs. 2,511 million globally renowned brands End-Customers Purchase and consume the array of products marketed Total Sales (MRP equivalent) Rs. 6,663 million Regulators Regulators ensure compliance with environmental, labour and other Total taxes paid Rs. 1,529 million laws of the country. The material issues for the Consumer sector are; Community Engagement The sector also proactively engages with corporates and communities to raise awareness Environment Social on the importance of energy conservation. During the year, Hayleys Lighting and Light Craft l Products and Services l Training and Development partnered with Unilever (Sri Lanka) to create l Transport l Local Communities awareness amongst employees on the importance l Energy of conserving energy and raising awareness on future trends in green energy. Furthermore, as part of its World Environment Day Celebrations, Hayleys Lighting distributed a booklet to leading corporates in Kandy featuring tips on how to conserve electricity and cut energy costs. Way Forward The outlook for the Consumer sector is encouraging, given the low inflationary environment and increasing trend in consumer spending on personal care and home products. Over the short-to medium term, focus will be placed on increasing product offerings and leveraging our existing distribution network to market a wider range of products. This is anticipated to allow more control over the value chain, thus enabling us to effectively manage working capital in line with our risk appetite. We hope to capitalise on the Group’s strengths in agriculture and Agri manufacturing to build our own portfolio of high quality consumer products. Concurrently, we will continue to focus on expanding the lighting and imaging business lines, through increased customer touch points and a superior product range. 106 The Quality of Life Sector Reviews Leisure and Aviation SECTOR CONTRIBUTION TO GROUP (%) Revenue PBIT PBT Capital Carbon employed footprint 8 10 10 15 2 6 8 8 6 6 10 4 1 4 4 5 2 2 2 0 0 0 0 0 13/14 14/15 13/14 14/15 13/14 14/15 13/14 14/15 13/14 14/15 107 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Sector Reviews Leisure and Aviation Hayleys PLC is a leading player in the country’s leisure sector, owning and operating 4 and 5-star hotel rooms. The Group owns 7 resort properties through the Amaya Resorts and Spas chain of hotels and 1 city hotel, The Kingsbury. In aviation, the Group act as General Sales Agent (GSA) for several of the world’s leading passenger and cargo airlines. . Hayleys Travels is a leading outbound travel operator offering ticketing, holidays and related services. It also has a strong presence in Destination Management and represents several global tour operators. Sector Operations Cluster Business Lines Hotels and Resorts The Amaya Resorts and Spas chain consists of, l Amaya Lake Dambulla l Amaya Hills Kandy l Hunas Falls by Amaya l Langdale by Amaya l Bungalow by Amaya l Signature by Amaya l Amaya Beach Pasikuddah The Kingsbury is a 229-room, five star hotel in the capital, Colombo Aviation l The Group acts as a GSA for several leading global passenger and cargo airlines. l Hayleys Airport Services offers flight handling supervision, terminal services and cargo handling for several international airlines. l Hayleys Aviation Supply Services engages in supplying aviation handling material for cargo and ground handling operations Travels and Tours Handles multiple aspects of travel and destination management for outbound travel and inbound tours including air and ground transport, accommodation and excursions. 108 The Quality of Life Hayleys PLC is a leading player in the country’s Source Markets-Sri Lanka tourist arrivals leisure sector, owning and operating close Region 2013 (% share) 2014 (% share) 4 and 5-star hotel rooms Europe 42.9 41.4 North America 5.2 4.8 East Asia 14.4 18.3 South Asia 25.6 24.3 Australasia 4.8 4.3 Others 7.2 6.9 Industry Overview Tourist Arrivals into the country The country’s Hotels and Restaurants sub-sector 1800 80 Source: Sri Lanka Tourism Development Authority has played an increasingly important role in 1600 75 economic growth over the past few years, 1400 Tourist Arrivals ('000) (%) Occupancy rate 70 contributing 1.2% to GDP growth in 2014. The 1200 The sector’s revenue growth was 13% during sub-sector maintained its growth momentum 1000 65 the year under review, driven by strong top during the year, expanding by 11.5% as tourist 800 60 line growth of Hotels & Resorts, Travels and 600 arrivals surged by 19.8% during the year to 55 Destination Management companies whereas 400 reach 1.53 million. Meanwhile, there has been 50 the Aviation cluster recorded mixed results. 200 a gradual shift in the source markets for the 0 45 Sector profitability growth was slower at 2%, country’s tourism sector, with arrivals from 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 affected by losses stemming from Amaya traditional markets of Western Europe declining Beach, Pasikudah, which was added to the Tourist Arrivals ('000) as a percentage of total arrivals whilst East Asia Occupancy-graded establishments Group’s chain of hotels during the year. Sector and East Europe have increased its market share, asset growth of 17% also primarily reflects the led by China. Supported by the surge in arrivals, acquisition of Amaya Beach during the year. occupancy rates at graded hotel establishments increased to 74.3% during the year (2013: 71.7%) with total tourist guest nights increasing by Strategy and Performance 37.9% in 2014. 2014/15 2013/14 % Although the country’s hotel sector is well poised to benefit from the country’s positioning Revenue (Rs.mn) 4,847 4,308 13% as a top tourist destination, the growth of the PBIT (Rs.mn) 806 817 -1% sector is likely to be challenged by several PBT (Rs.mn) 550 538 2% constraining factors over the short to medium PAT (Rs.mn) 472 472 0% term. With the entrance of several new domestic and international players to the sector together Total Assets (Rs.mn) 9,288 7,949 17% with existing players expanding capacity, total Total Debt (Rs.mn) 4,059 2,675 52% room capacity increased by 1855 to reach Capital Employed (Rs.mn) 9,854 7,475 32% 18,078 graded rooms in 2014. The increased supply of graded hotel rooms has led to Head Count 1,412 1,610 (12%) severe price competition and margin erosion, Profit (Loss) per employee (Rs.mn) 0.33 0.29 14% particularly given the prevalent shift in spending Carbon Footprint (tCO2e) 5,513 3,809 45% patterns of tourists. Furthermore, the dearth of trained industry personnel to support the ROCE 8.2% 10.9% (25%) anticipated boom in tourism, may impact the growth prospects of the country’s hotel sector. 109 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Sector Reviews Leisure and Aviation Aviation: Within Aviation, the Group acts as a GSA for several leading global passenger and cargo airlines. The cluster performance is directly linked to the performance of the Principal, which determines the number of flights/ schedules, type of aircraft and overall strategic direction. Given the inherent volatility from this business, the Group sought to diversify its risk exposure through expanding its presence in the Aviation Supplies business which involves providing services and materials to airlines and airports. This business line is a key growth area for the cluster, and prospects appear promising. Travels and Tours: The outbound travel business performed well during the year, with revenue growth of 27% outperforming the industry’s growth of 5%. In inbound tours, the Group focused on capturing market share through aggressive promotional activities resulting in strong top line growth. Environmental Performance Hotels and Resorts: The Group has focused The Kingsbury turned in a strong year of The sector’s Environmental Policy framework on a strategy of consistently expanding its performance, and was a significant contributor is implemented uniformly across all its resorts. room capacity and upgrading its properties to cluster profitability. Hotels and Resorts saw Material environmental aspects are measured to differentiate its offering. Over the years, all a Revenue growth was 12% during the year, and monitored on a consistent basis and action resorts within the cluster have been upgraded supported by good occupancy levels as tourist is taken to minimise the adverse impacts. from 3-star category to 4, 5-star and boutique traffic into the country increased. Several of the Group’s hotels have obtained hotel categories. Three Group hotels (Signature HACCP certifications and several properties by Amaya, Langdale by Amaya and Hunas by have been bestowed local and international Amaya) have been classified as Small Luxury recognition for eco-friendly operations. In 2014, Hotels by Small Luxury Hotels of the World. Hunas by Amaya emerged Best Sustainable Hotel in Asia Pacific under the EU Switch Asia Greening Awards. Sustainability Review Stakeholder Role in Value Creation Investors Providers of financial capital Employees Facilitate value creation through their efforts Customers We attract guests to our resorts through tour operators and online booking engines. In Aviation, value is generated through our B2B customers. Suppliers A range of local and international suppliers provide inputs for our hotel and resort operations Regulators Regulators ensure compliance with environmental, labour and other laws of the country. Sri Lanka Tourist Development Authority is responsible for promoting Sri Lanka as a tourist and travel destination. Community A range of ongoing livelihood development and community engagement projects are carried out 110 The Quality of Life of chemicals and artificial materials in the water purification process. Waste and Effluents: Solid waste discharged from the hotel operations are separated into plastics, paper and wet garbage. Plastic and paper wastage are sent to third party recyclers approved by the Central Environment Authority whereas the wet garbage is sent to poultry production and piggeries. Emissions: The sector’s carbon footprint increased by 44.7% to tCO2e to 5,513 during the year. Purchased electricity and stationary combustion are the leading sources of emissions in the sector. Social Performance We are committed to maintaining the highest standard of quality and care at our hotels and the multiple awards and certifications obtained by our portfolio is a testament to this The material issues for the Leisure and Aviation sector are; standard of care. All our hotels have obtained HACCP Food Safety Management certification and during the year, the Kingsbury hotel was Environment Social awarded the Best Hotel with an A+ grade at the City Food Safety High Achievers Awards l Energy l Training and Education Ceremony. l Water Management l Occupational Health and Safety l Waste and Effluents l Customer Health and Safety Our People l Bio-diversity l Local Communities The leisure and aviation sector employs a l Emissions total of 1,412 workers. Approximately 40% of the resort workforce is hired from the local communities and are trained in multiple aspects related to hotel management. During the year, Energy: Energy efficient lighting and cooling The hotel is also in the process of replacing its sector employees underwent 1,087 hours of systems have been implemented in all hotels, existing lighting systems with energy efficient training. We have focused on developing multiand awareness programmes on energy solutions, and currently close to 60% of its skilled employees through focused training. management are conducted for staff on a lighting requirements is fulfilled through LED Attractive remuneration, opportunities for continuous basis. Electricity usage is tracked lights. development, a conducive work environment and monitored on a consistent basis, in order and emphasis on health and wellness are to identify areas for potential savings through Water: Waste water management is an characteristic of the sector’s employee value proactive measures. Hunas by Amaya engages important element in the sector’s environmental proposition. Comprehensive health and safety in the generation of hydro power to fulfil its policy. In all our resorts waste water is recycled guidelines are in place in all resorts and the energy requirements, thereby reducing the and used for gardening and organic farming. sector has an impressive record with zero dependence on fossil fuels and electricity Amaya Lake has also deployed a fully ecoinjuries recorded during the year. generated thereof is used to power the garden. friendly water sewage plant, minimising the use 111 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Sector Reviews Leisure and Aviation Way Forward The short to medium term outlook for the country’s tourism sector is encouraging, and the Group’s focus on expanding capacity and upgrading its properties over the last few years has allowed it to position itself as one of the country’s leading leisure sector operators. The next financial year will see the addition of an eco-lodge to our portfolio and also capacity expansion in the city hotel through combining an apartment complex as an option for longstay guests. Sustainability considerations will continue to be of focal importance and we have already embarked on obtaining the Green Globe Certification for several of our resorts. Over the longer term, we are well positioned to further expand room capacity given our land bank of close to 30 acres in coastal areas of the country. The Aviation sector is expected to have much potential for growth grow with further deregulation of the country’s Aviation industry. This will encourage new airlines to enter the The Aviation cluster employs a total workforce road during the year. Hunas by Amaya has market and provide opportunities for current of 136. A high priority is being placed on gender implemented a Foundation for Children which online airlines to enhance frequency and equality in employment and a strong drive provides the annual requirement of stationary capacity. The travel business is also expected which took place during the year towards this for neighbouring children from low-income to grow taking into account the easing of visa objective has resulted in approximately 34% of families. The hotel is also used as a model for restrictions to western countries as well as visathe Executive cadre being female. operations and a familiarization facility for the on-arrival facility granted by India. Supply and Secretariat School of the Sri Lanka Community Engagement Naval and Maritime Academy of the Sri Lanka In addition to generating direct employment Navy. Each year two batches visit the hotel on opportunities in the local communities, we familiarization and education tours where they also support indirect employment through are educated on the hotel operations. purchasing local produce for consumption within the hotels, thereby stimulating economic During the year under review, Hunas also activity in the area. The resorts also engage launched a program to encourage guests in multiple community engagement projects and villagers to engage in environmental throughout the year; Amaya Lake provided conservation through a tree planting initiative in donations to construct a library at a historical bare land belonging to the hotel. temple and renovation of a neighbouring 112 The Quality of Life Power and Energy SECTOR CONTRIBUTION TO GROUP (%) Revenue PBIT PBT Capital Carbon employed footprint 4 10 12 8 1.0 3 8 9 6 6 2 6 4 0.5 4 1 2 3 2 0 0 0 0 0.0 13/14 14/15 13/14 14/15 13/14 14/15 13/14 14/15 13/14 14/15 113 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Sector Reviews Power and Energy The Group supplies close to 2% of the country’s total renewable energy supply, with an installed The Group supplies close to 2% of the capacity of 35MW generated through hydro and wind power plants. The sector also engages in country’s total renewable energy supply, with the supply of industrial raw materials, medical equipment, building management solutions an installed capacity of 35 MW generated and chemicals and dye for the textile industry among others. through various joint ventures in hydro and wind power plants. Sector Operations Cluster Business Lines Notes Renewable Power Provides 5 MW of hydro power and 30MW of wind power to the national Contributes approximately 30% and 82% Generation grid. to sector revenue and profit respectively. Industrial Raw materials The cluster caters to Food & Beverage, Plastic & Resins, Paint and rubber Accounts for 15% of sector revenue and chemicals, cosmetic and detergents, and construction chemicals 7% of sector profit. industries. Building Management Diesel power generating units, fire prevention and detection systems, Accounts for 29% of sector revenue and Solutions electronic telecommunication projects, air conditioning, industrial 8% of sector profit. pumps, energy solutions and material handling equipment. Colour Solutions Provision of colour solutions, primarily for the textile industry and also Accounts for 9% of sector revenue and 1% markets to no-textile colours & auxiliaries. of sector profit. Lifesciences Medical imaging and related products and services, scanning and Accounts for 15% of sector revenue and analytical equipment and consumables for analytical and scientific 4% of sector profit. testing. Industry Overview generation through fuel oil and coal (thermal windy land represents close to 6% of Sri Lanka’s Sri Lanka’s energy requirements are still fulfilled sources) increased by 32.1% and 118% total land area, providing good-to-excellent predominantly through hydro and thermal respectively wind resource potential. sources, supported by non-conventional renewable energy (NCRE) sources which The Sri Lanka Sustainable Energy Authority Power: The cluster recorded a significant tophave continued to account for an increased (SLSEA) continues to actively promote the line during the period upheld by contributions share of power generation in recent years. adoption and sustainable use of all forms of stemming from the renewable energy sources. The primary sources of NCRE are small hydro renewable energy in the country and envisages During the year, the Group invested power plants (capacity less than 10 MW), wind, that 20% of the country’s power requirements Rs. 525 mn in two new wind power projects solar and biomass plants. In 2014, the drought will be sourced by NCREs by 2016. Sri Lanka’s with a collective capacity of 20MW in Palai, conditions that prevailed in several catchment geo-climatic conditions are conducive for Elephant Pass. These plants will have a full year areas resulted in a contraction in hydro power increased power generation of renewable of operations in FY 2015-16. generation by 39.4% during the year whereas energy; for instance, the SLSEA estimates that 114 The Quality of Life NCRE 1400 1200 Power Generation (GWh) 1000 800 600 400 200 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 NCRE Power Generation by source 2014 10% 29% The Industrial Raw Materials division is the largest importer of gelatine in Sri Lanka Industrial Raw Materials: The cluster’s revenue Building Management Solutions: The cluster grew by 14% driven by increased sales to F&B recorded a top-line growth of around 10% 23% and Rubber chemicals industry. We focused on a during the year, as expansion in the branch 26% strategy of expanding market share by widening networks of corporates, particularly in the Hydro ThermalFuel our product offerings and strengthening North and Eastern provinces necessitated the Thermal-Coal NCRE existing partnerships with multinationals and installation of fire protectors, generators and air large local conglomerates. Profitability during conditioners. Furthermore, there was increased the year was also supported by converting small demand for security systems and entertainment indent businesses to ex-stock business which solutions in line with capacity expansions and commands wider profitability margins. upgrades in the hotel sector. During the year, we Strategy and Performance also launched the Grundfos industrial pumps and transport and material handling business 2014/15 2013/14 % lines. Revenue (Rs.mn) 3,246 3,002 8% Hayleys Lifesciences: Focused expansion PBIT (Rs.mn) 916 898 2% in the medical & analytics segment and the PBT (Rs.mn) 824 769 7% re-launch of ultra sound scanning resulted in a PAT (Rs.mn) 793 681 16% top line growth of 30% during the year. Profit growth was also supported by improved debt Total Assets (Rs.mn) 4,837 4,611 5% collection. We further expanded our product Total Debt (Rs.mn) 936 986 (5%) portfolio during the year with the introduction Capital Employed (Rs.mn) 3,464 3,361 3% of water chemicals for laboratories and scientific testing equipment for research institutes. Head Count 262 228 15% Profit (Loss) per employee (Rs.mn) 3.03 2.99 1% Carbon Footprint (tCO2e) 305 220 39% ROCE 26% 27% (4%) 115 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Sector Reviews Power and Energy Colour Solutions: Cluster revenue growth was all industry segments, venturing beyond the industries to search for non-conventional, 15% during the year, upheld mainly by growth traditional textile colour solutions. greener energy alternatives. Having recognised in the local printing operations together with the importance of renewable energy in bridging the revival of exports to Bangladesh, a market Environmental Performance this gap, Hayleys PLC has increased its focus which adversely impacted by political instability Continuous use of fossil fuels in generating on this sector over the last few years and has in 2013/14. We added an environmentally power result in the emission of greenhouse continued to increase generation capacity friendly eco-colour range to the portfolio and gases causing severe climatic changes and through investments in small hydro and wind also ventured into reactive dyes with an Indian affecting the planet’s ecological balance. power plants. The Group’s annual renewable partner. Over the longerterm the cluster Persistently increasing energy demands and power generation of 50GW is estimated to envisions providing total colour solutions across depleting natural resources have pushed result in reduction of carbon emissions, given the alternative equivalent generation of thermal power. Sustainability Review Stakeholder Role in Value Creation Results in 2014/15 Investors Providers of financial capital Earnings growth 16% Return on Equity 29% Employees Facilitate value creation through their efforts Total Payments to Employees Rs. 247 million Investments in Training and Development Rs. 8 million Customers The Ceylon Electricity Board makes payments based on existing tariff rates for Total payments from CEB Rs. 988 million the renewable energy generated. Industrial raw materials and other sector Total other salesRs. 2,257 million services are primarily targeted towards B2B customers. Business partners Renewable energy partners engage in the construction and operation of the Mawanana 4.3MW plant construction power plants. commenced Suppliers/ A range of local and international suppliers provide superior quality products Payments to Suppliers Rs. 1,258 million Principals for sale Regulators Regulators ensure compliance with environmental, labour and other laws of Total taxes paid Rs. 127 million the country. The material issues for the Power & Energy sector are; Emissions: The sector’s total GHG emissions Environment Social increased 38.6% to tCO2e 305.0 during the year, whereas emission intensity also increased l Energy l Training and Education to 0.09 from 0.03 the previous year. Purchased l Products and Services l Occupational Health and Safety Electricity and Other Sources (under Scope 3) l Water Management l Local Communities are the lead sources of emissions for the Power l Waste and Effluents and Energy sector. l Emissions 116 The Quality of Life Renewable energy will be a key growth area Way Forward Renewable energy will be a key growth area for the Group and we will continue to invest for the Group and we will continue to invest in increasing our generation capacity. A 4.3 in increasing our generation capacity. MW hydro power plant is under construction in Mawanana in Galle and is expected to be commissioned in 2016. In the other clusters, the Group will seek to broaden its product and service offerings and pursue growth in new markets to retain and increase its market share. Social Performance Community Engagement Our People As part of our commitment to support the The sector’s total workforce consists of 275 Hayleys Group initiative on improving the employees, with an average age of less than 34 lives of the Chronic Kidney Disease (CKD) years. We have emphasized the importance of affected communities in the North Central developing skills and providing opportunities Province of the country, the Power & Energy for career progression and during the year our sector sponsored a Reverse Osmosis plant for staff underwent 876 hours of local training, the people of the Phimbiyagollewa. The total translating to an average of 4.0 hours per investment for this was Rs. 3. 5 million. CKD employee. Staff turnover levels were at an is estimated to have affected around 400,000 average level of 6.9% during the year. We individuals so far. Through this RO plant, over continued to maintain a good health and safety 10,000 litres of purified water will be provided record during the year, with total injuries at the to the community and will benefit over 300 workplace being zero. families. 117 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Sector Reviews Transportation and Logistics SECTOR CONTRIBUTION TO GROUP (%) Revenue PBIT PBT Capital Carbon employed footprint 15 15 20 8 1.0 12 12 16 6 9 9 12 4 0.5 6 6 8 3 3 4 2 0 0 0 0 0.0 13/14 14/15 13/14 14/15 13/14 14/15 13/14 14/15 13/14 14/15 118 The Quality of Life The Hayleys Advantis Group of Companies (Advantis) is the largest player in Sri Lanka’s The Hayleys Advantis Group of Companies transportation and logistics industry, offering a vast gamut of services from packing personal (Advantis) is the largest player in Sri Lanka’s effects, providing logistics support services for national infrastructure projects and the transportation and logistics industry, offering a global movement of cargo. The Group currently handles approximately 14% of total annual vast gamut of services from packing personal container throughput of the Colombo Port. It is the country’s largest freight forwarding and effects, providing logistics support services shipping agency house and is also the market leader in providing third-party logistics solutions for national infrastructure projects and the in the country. Advantis offers the widest coverage of comprehensive and integrated endglobal movement of cargo. to-end logistics solutions. Sector Operations Cluster Key Business Lines Notes International Freight Shipping l The Transportation and Logistics sector’s largest business line. Management Represents some of the world’s leading shipping lines and freight Freight Forwarding forwarders and the world’s largest air express transportation company. Air Express Transportation Integrated Logistics Third Party logistics l Cluster companies offer integrated end-to-end logistics services Free Zone logistics l Market leaders in their respective competitive space. Energy logistics Marine Services Chartering l The fastest growing sector in the Group. Ship Owning and Operating l A regional leader in marine services, with strong linkages which facilitate marine operations, bunkering and offshore support. Marine Support Terminals and Engineering Inland Container Depot Operations l Offers a diverse array of innovative solutions ranging from inland container depot operations to conversion of containers for multiple Logistics Engineering purposes. Logistics Products l The project logistics division offers door-to-door project logistics solutions for heavy lifts, oversized and specialized cargo. Project Logistics International Operations Operations in India, Maldives and l The newest cluster within the Transportation and Logistics sector. Myanmar. An amalgamation of the vast service offering of Advantis at various international locations. 119 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Sector Reviews Transportation and Logistics Industry Overview efficiency and productivity enhancing initiatives. Transportation sector revenue growth was 19% Sri Lanka’s port activities strengthened in 2014, The recently commissioned deep water during the year, upheld by strong performance driven by the gradual recovery of foreign trade terminal, Colombo International Container in the Shipping Agency and Ship-owning and and continued improvement in infrastructure. Terminal (CICT), stimulated transhipment and operating businesses. Sector PBT expanded Growth of total container throughput at the relay volumes and is expected to be a catalyst by 19% during the same period to reach Rs. Colombo Port was up by 14% by the end of in positioning the Port of Colombo as a regional 1.33 billion. Overall, the performance of the December 2014, reaching 4.9 Million TEUs maritime hub. In line with the Master Plan of the sector was driven by increased activity in the whilst transhipment volumes also recorded Colombo Port Expansion project, construction country’s port sector, as well as the Group’s a strong growth of 15.5% during the same of the East Container Terminal is expected to be proactive approach towards seeking growth in period. Meanwhile, port sector development completed shortly, catering to a new generation new markets and customer acquisition. On the continued during the year, with the Sri Lanka of deep draft vessels and increased container other hand, competitive pressures continued to Ports Authority (SLPA) implementing several handling capacity. intensify in several of the Group’s key business lines leading to increased margin compression. Industry Performance Ports Air Freight International Freight Management Cluster growth during the year was led by the 6000 140000 Group’s shipping services which performed 5000 120000 well against a backdrop of increased domestic 100000 and transhipment volumes at the Colombo 4000 Metric Tonnes 80000 Port. The Freight forwarding business, however, TEUs '000 3000 60000 was affected by a decline in project cargo 2000 volumes and pressure on margins arising 40000 1000 20000 through increased competition, although the Group continued to maintain its dominant 0 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 market position. The Air Express Transportation arm achieved higher volumes, although Transhipments Total Uplift Discharge performance was relatively unchanged over the previous year, due to pressure on margins. Integrated Logistics The Integrated Logistics cluster recorded mixed Strategy and Performance results during the year. The Group continued to sustain its leadership position in Third Party 2014/15 2013/14 % Logistics (3PL) in a challenging environment Revenue (Rs.mn) 14,181 11,936 19% which saw margin compression. Focus was placed on streamlining and re-engineering PBIT (Rs.mn) 1,347 1,137 18% key processes to drive efficiencies and improve PBT (Rs.mn) 1,335 1,118 19% customer service. In free-zone logistics, the Group set up a specialised facility in the PAT (Rs.mn) 990 823 20% Katunayake Free Zone, enabling local and Total Assets (Rs.mn) 8,844 6,595 34% foreign companies to conduct international Total Debt (Rs.mn) 1,848 1,224 51% trade, without attracting local taxes, duties and other levies. Leveraging on its expertise Capital Employed (Rs.mn) 6,132 4,595 33% in 3PL, the new facility offers state-of-the-art Head Count 2,563 2,697 (5%) warehousing services and value addition Profit (Loss) per employee (Rs.mn) 0.39 0.31 27% capabilities. Meanwhile, performance of the Carbon Footprint (tCO2e) 8,106 8,332 (3%) energy logistics arm was below expectations as oil and gas exploration activities in the Mannar ROCE 22.0% 24.8% (11%) Basin slowed during the year. 120 The Quality of Life Marine Services Cluster growth was bolstered during the year by the satisfactory performance of the Ship Owning and Operating arm. On the other hand, the Marine Support arm performed below expectations as oil and gas exploration activities did not materialise as expected and steep decline in bunker oil prices impacted overall performance. Terminals and Engineering The Container Depot Operations recorded significant volume growth in line with capacity expansions and the overall expansion in shipping sector activities. The Project Logistics division benefited from its diverse portfolio, with increased infrastructure project contracts increasing revenue. Logistics Engineering, which consists of converting ocean-going containers to temporary accommodation units, recorded another exciting year, expanding its reach to new market segments and remains a key growth area for the Group. to replicate its domestic success overseas, the its regional presence through a joint-venture Group acquired a significant stake in Maldives’ operation in Myanmar. The unit which currently International Operations largest logistics provider and deepened offers 3PL solutions aims to expand further to Set up during the year under review, the existing agent relationships. The Group aims to capitalise on potential growth opportunities International Operations cluster comprises of strengthen capabilities in this operation further, in the country. The Group also has a strong the Group’s operations in regional markets, in order to provide integrated, end-to-end presence in 3PL in South India, and will seek to currently India, Maldives and Myanmar. Aiming logistics services. The Group further expanded further expand this operation. Sustainability Review Stakeholder Role Results in 2014/15 Investors Providers of financial capital Earnings growth 20% Return on Equity 23% Employees Facilitate value creation through their efforts Total training hours 4,900 Improvement in staff satisfaction 75% Employee Retention 84.57% Customers Our customers are primarily B2B and originate from multiple Total SalesRs. 14,135 million regions, giving the Group a truly global presence Average Customer Satisfaction Rate 87% Global partners/ principals We represent some of the world’s leading shipping lines, Average length of Relationships over 20 years freight forwarders and the world’s largest air express transportation company in Sri Lanka. 121 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Sector Reviews Transportation and Logistics Sustainability Review Stakeholder Role Results in 2014/15 Government and Industry We maintain a co-operative relationship with the government No. of Councils with company representation 52 Associations/Councils and industry bodies and have a strong voice in lobbying for positive change within the industry. No. of memberships 99 Suppliers Majority of our procurement is done locally, excluding the Growth in supplier base 57% industrial machinery and equipment which is imported. Community l The communities around our industrial facilities l The rural communities which indirectly benefit from our investments in national infrastructure projects The material issues for the Transportation and Logistics sector are; Environmental Performance Environment Social Emissions Concerted efforts have been implemented to l Environmental l Training and Development reduce the carbon footprint across the Advantis l Emissions l Diversity and Equal Opportunity Group of Companies. The Sector takes all l Energy l Health and Safety efforts to utilise battery operated machinery l Effluents and Waste l Products and Services in its warehouses and facilities, which leads to l Local Communities lower energy consumption and zero emissions. Within the Air Express Transportation business, we have emulated the practices of the Parent Company by implementing the carbon neutral envelope shipping program, which tracks the CO2 emitted through the shipment and also introduced the first ever electric delivery van as part of its green initiative to gradually convert to vehicles powered by renewable energy. These efforts, collectively led to a 2.8% reduction in the sector’s carbon footprint during the year under review. Mobile combustion is the leading source of emission generation in the sector. 122 The Quality of Life Energy Consumption The electricity consumption across the group The Advantis Group is aptly positioned to was 2,362,553.13 Kwh which is an increase of 12% from the previous year in line with the capitalise on the potential expansion in the increased operational activity. country’s port and shipping sector, resultant Fuel consumption across the group is as follows; from the government thrust towards Petrol Ltrs 95,402 stimulating exports and the port expansion Diesel Ltrs 472,857 IFO MT 680.18 plans which will attract increased traffic to the MGO MT 595.88 Colombo Port. Waste Management and other activities are organised throughout Way Forward The Group’s primary waste materials consist of the year, providing an opportunity for The Advantis Group is aptly positioned to metal, e-waste and paper. E-waste is collected employees to build relationships and encourage capitalise on the potential expansion in the and disposed through a third-party approved by interaction. country’s port and shipping sector, resultant the Central Environment Authority whilst waste from the government thrust towards stimulating metal is accumulated and disposed through Health and Safety exports and the port expansion plans which metal collectors. Furthermore, Group-wide The Group’s Health and Safety policy framework will attract increased traffic to the Colombo initiatives are in place to encourage the re-use sets out the guidelines and processes in place Port. The Group sees tremendous growth of paper to minimise wastage. to minimise potential health and safety risks potential in the free-zone logistics business and to its workforce and communities in which it construction of the 2nd phase of the specialised Social Performance operates. The EHS Committee is represented warehouse in Katunayake is already underway. Our Team by all SBUs/SSUs and plays a proactive role in Reinventing the Group’s success in regional The Advantis Team of 2,563 employees is the nurturing a health and safety awareness culture. markets will be a key priority over the medium driving force behind the Group’s success and The Committee convenes monthly to share term and the Group will continue to proactively has enabled us to differentiate ourselves in an knowledge and learning experiences, assess seek opportunities for growth outside Sri increasingly competitive landscape. The team health and safety training needs and review Lanka. Whilst increasing competitive pressures includes 230 employees who were added past programmes among others. Health and will continue to hamper profitability margins, during 2014/15, of which 108 were to fill Safety awareness is promoted using multiple the Group will focus on further enhancing new positions created during the year. Talent tools such as Injury Statistics Boards, Accident customer service and continuously innovating retention levels were healthy at approximately Reporting, Tool Box Talk and Safety Behavioural and refining its service offering to retain its 85%. The Advantis Spirit which was introduced Observation. competitive edge. in 2013/14 has inspired our team to inculcate the Group’s corporate values of Honour and Learning and Development Integrity, Openness and Trust, Humility, Socially Meanwhile, we have continued to invest in Responsible Behaviour and Going Beyond. equipping our people with the required training for both career and personal development. Engagement During the year under review, we focused on The Group has a high level of employee strengthening our Middle Management team, engagement, facilitated through multiple as we strive towards empowering leadership formal and informal mechanisms. The Employee teams. The first workshop of the series‘Giftwork’ Opinion Survey is conducted bi annually and was conducted by the Great Place to Work® provides an effective platform for all employees Institute, during the year in review. Total training to voice concerns and provide feedback. The last hours for the year was approximately 4900 survey revealed an improvement in employee hours. satisfaction rate by 7.5% compared to the previous survey. Meanwhile, sporting, cultural 123 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Sector Reviews Investment and Services SECTOR CONTRIBUTION TO GROUP (%) Revenue PBIT PBT Capital Carbon employed footprint 1.0 15 15 25 2 12 12 20 9 9 15 0.5 1 6 6 10 3 3 5 0.0 0 0 0 0 13/14 14/15 13/14 14/15 13/14 14/15 13/14 14/15 13/14 14/15 124 The Quality of Life The sector includes the Group investment and overseas corporates and Shared Services Software Engineering Services that has enabled companies and Hayleys Business Solutions Operations (SSO) catering to the Group’s diverse us to add substantial value to our clients International (Pvt) Ltd which specialises industry sectors. State-of-the-art technology through facilitating leaner and more efficient in providing a range of Business Process solutions and strong capabilities in Finance business models. Outsourcing (BPO) solutions to domestic and Accounting and BPO services as well as Sector Operations Cluster Business Lines Shared Services Operations (SSO) Finance and Accounting service and payroll processing for the Group’s business sectors. Business Process Outsourcing Provide Finance and Accounting services, Payroll Processing Services, Information Technology Operational Operations (BPO) services, and Consultancy Services to onshore and offshore clients. Global companies have increasingly pursued generate an export income topping USD 1.0 billion in 2015. Over the longer-term, the vision off-shoring of key business processes, driven is to generate USD 5 billion revenue, create 200,000 direct jobs and 1,000 start-ups by 2022. by estimated cost savings of up to 50%, flexible The sector’s revenue growth was 4% during the cost structures, increased efficiency and higher year, supported by the expansion in both the BPO and SSO clusters. Profitability remained service levels offered by BPO’s... relatively unchanged, with post tax profit of Rs. 5.03 million during the year. Our BPO sector caters primarily to the SME sector in the The sector acquired a controlling stake of Alufab country’s development agenda. The country’s Australian market and we operate this business PLC at an investment of LKR 174 million during high literacy rate, educated and English through HBSI (Hayleys Business Solutions the period under review. Alufab PLC is engaged speaking workforce, talent pool for specific International) a BOI Company. International in the fabrication and installation of aluminium skills such as finance and IT, investor friendly marketing is carried out through “Haydea” brand. framed glazed architectural systems. policies, conducive business environment and Revenue growth from this line of business was infrastructure renders it an attractive location 10% during the year. Enhancing productivity Industry Overview for offshore services. In 2014, Sri Lanka ranked was a strategic priority during the year, with Global companies have increasingly pursued 16th in the Global Services Location Index the objective of enhancing accuracy, timeliness off-shoring of key business processes, driven (GSLI) which assesses the best destinations in and overall customer experience of our internal by estimated cost savings of up to 50%, flexible providing off-shoring services. Sri Lanka has and external clientele. We also focused on cost structures, increased efficiency and higher also received the “Outsourcing Destination of further streamlining our business processes service levels offered by BPO’s together with the Year” award from the National Outsourcing through the use of technology and productivity increased ability to focus on core competencies. Association (NOA), UK for two consecutive years improvements, which resulted in improving Industry experts anticipate that the global (2013 and 2014). Sri Lanka’s revenue from ICT efficiency levels. BPO industry will grow at a compound annual exports grew by 4.3% to reach USD 748 million growth rate of around 5.7% over the short to in 2014 and sector growth has been over 100% The operational activity of SSO grew during medium term, with growth stemming primarily over the past five years. Sector employment has the year, with cluster revenue expanding by from the Asia Pacific region. increased from 33,700 in 2007 to an estimated 16%. Emphasis was placed on generating new For Sri Lanka, the BPO/KPO industry is 75,100 in 2013 and number of companies in business in the Consultancy arm, which offers anticipated to increasingly contribute towards the sector has increased from 170 in 2007 to a broad array of services ranging from Shared economic growth and is a key priority in the over 220 in 2013. The industry is expected to Service Creation to Business Transformation. 125 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Sector Reviews Investment and Services Strategy and Performance During the year, we successfully facilitated the implementation of a shared services operation 2014/15 2013/14 % for leading corporates. Revenue (Rs.mn) 758 781 (3%) Environmental Performance PBIT (Rs.mn) 1,394 1,078 29% The environmental footprint of the sector’s operations is relatively low, with materials, PBT (Rs.mn) 851 541 57% waste and energy intensity being the key PAT (Rs.mn) 838 499 68% environmental impacts. In aligning ourselves Total Assets (Rs.mn) 20,229 17,712 14% with the Group’s 3R approach towards materials, we strive to minimise the usage of paper which Total Debt (Rs.mn) 6,981 6,601 6% is our primary raw material. The BPO operation Capital Employed (Rs.mn) 20,687 16,774 23% is entirely paper-free and the limited amount of Head Count 257 236 9% paper utilised by the SSO operation is recycled Profit (Loss) per employee (Rs.mn) 3 2 54% by the Group. Suppliers who provide computer and printing hardware (toners, cartridges Carbon Footprint (tCO2e) 2,039 1,624 (26%) etc.) are screened to ensure compliance to ROCE 6.7% 6.4% (5%) environmental regulations and industry best practices. All e-waste is sent for recycling to a *Hayleys PLC centre revenue and dividend income is classified under this sector registered recycler. During the year, total paper Sustainability Review Stakeholder Role in Value Creation Investors Providers of financial capital Employees Facilitate value creation through their specialized knowledge and efforts Productivity through multi-skilling and learning enabling them to handle larger volumes of work Customers Hayleys Group internal customers and onshore and offshore BPO customers obtain our range of services Joint Venture Partner Facilitates the sourcing of BPO contracts from Australia and New Zealand Regulators and Regulators ensure compliance with environmental, labour and other laws of the country. The Sri Lanka Association of Software Industry Associations and Service Companies (SLASSCOM), strive to create a conducive environment for the expansion of the IT and BPM industry and facilitates the creation of a progressive national policy framework. 126 The Quality of Life The material issues for the Investment and Services sector are; Community Development: In collaboration with The Foundation for Advancing Rural Environment Social Opportunity in Sri Lanka (FARO), Information Communication Technology Agency of Sri Lanka (ICTA-SL), Uduville Girl’s College and the l Effluents and Waste l Occupational Health and Safety Hayleys’ Investment and Shared Services sector, l Energy l Training and Development we established the first BPO operation in the l Emissions l Local Communities Northern Province. Operated under an own l Supplier Assessment and manage model, fifteen youth from Uduville were given the opportunity to work as Trainee Associates in providing accounting and related Sri Lanka’s IT/BPO industry is poised to record services to our BPO segment. rapid expansion over the medium to long-term Way Forward Sri Lanka’s IT/BPO industry is poised to record and the Group’s capabilities, insights and rapid expansion over the medium to longterm and the Group’s capabilities, insights and expertise has allowed us to position ourselves expertise has allowed us to position ourselves to be a benefactor of this growth. Over the to be a benefactor of this growth. short to medium term, we will also focus on broadening the scope of our services, in both the BPO and SSO business segments and hope to introduce secretarial software as a service to usage increased by 8% in line with the increased and international professional accounting our domestic and international clients. We are operational activity. Total e-waste generated qualifications, including ACCA, CIMA, CMA and also pursuing innovation led growth through amounted to 10 MT, reflecting an increase of 3% CASL. All efforts are made to ensure healthy, safe SAS (Statistical Analysis Systems) particularly over the previous year. working environment; all teams are represented for legal, secretarial and leisure industries. in the sector’s Health and Safety Committees Operating in an industry which is challenged Energy: The sector’s total energy usage which convene monthly. In ensuring a by high employee turnover, we will proactively increased by 4% during the year. Several energy comfortable work environment we also stress seek to improve retention turnover through saving initiatives were launched during the the importance of ergonomics in work design, strategies aimed at motivating and developing year, including awareness campaigns for staff, work floor management and working patterns. our staff in a conducive work environment. Our learning forums on energy preservation. The facilities are equipped with break out Software Engineering business is expanding to areas, optimal lighting and safety equipment; cater to Sri Lankan and International corporate Social Performance employees are encouraged to adopt suitable clients through cloud based systems. Currently, Sector employee management is governed postures and seating positions and are provided they already have more than 10 proven by a comprehensive HR policy framework with opportunities to monitor their Body Mass products ready to be customized, configured and common code of ethics. Our HBSIL team Index. These efforts have enabled the sector and implemented for new corporate clients. comprises of 124 dynamic individuals with to maintain a strong health and safety record strong technical capabilities, who are at the with no loss of work times due to health and core of our drive for excellence. During the year, safety issues during the period. Opportunities we grew our team further by adding 19 new for career growth, a high level of employee employees to our team. Exposure to diverse engagement and attractive remuneration has industries and global best practices ensure allowed us to maintain relatively low employee that our trainees are equipped with the skills turnover rates for BPO industry of approximately and experience to progress along their chosen 22%. career paths. We are an accredited employer for providing professional training and continued professional development of several local 127 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014 2014/15 128 128 The Quality of Life Setting Quality standards At Hayleys we believe that good corporate governance is integral to the structures and processes that the Boards have put in place to inform, advise, manage and supervise the activities of the Group toward the achievement of its strategic objectives. 129 129 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 The board of directors Mohan Pandithage Chairman & Chief Executive Dhammika Perera Co-Chairman Rizvi Zaheed Nimal Perera Non-Executive Director Sarath Ganegoda Rajitha Kariyawasan 130 The Quality of Life Dr. Harsha Cabral PC Independent Non-Executive Director Dr. Mahesha Ranasoma Mangala Goonatilleke Independent Non-Executive Director Lalin Samarawickrama Ruwan Waidyaratne Hisham Jamaldeen Independent Non-Executive Director 131 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 The board of directors Mohan Pandithage Hayleys on the Board of Sri Lanka Institute PLC between 1987 and 2002, ultimately as an Chairman & Chief Executive of Nanotechnology (SLINTEC). Chairman of Executive Director of the latter. Subsequently, Joined Hayleys Group in 1969. Appointed to the the National Agribusiness Council. Serves held several senior management positions in Board in 1998. Chairman and Chief Executive as Co-Chair of the National Biotechnology large private sector entities in Sri Lanka and of Hayleys PLC since July 2009. Fellow of the Council and is a Member of the University overseas. Has responsibility for the Strategic Chartered Institute of Logistics & Transport Grants Commission Standing Committee Business Development Unit and the Consumer (UK). Honorary Consul of United Mexican States on Agriculture and Livestock and a Member Sector. (Mexico) to Sri Lanka. Committee Member of of the Floriculture and Food & Beverage the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce. Council Advisory Committees of the Sri Lanka Export Rajitha Kariyawasan Member of the Employers’ Federation of Ceylon. Development Board. Council Member of the Sri Joined Hayleys Group in January 2010. Member of the Advisory Council of the Ceylon Lanka Council for Agricultural Policy Research Appointed to the Group Management Association of Ship’s Agents. Recipient of the (CARP). Member of the main committee of the Committee in February 2010. Appointed Best Shipping Personality award by the Institute Ceylon Chamber of Commerce and formerly to the Board in June 2010. Holds a B Sc of Chartered Shipbrokers, Excellence Leadership Chairman of the Agriculture & Livestock Steering Eng. (Electronics and Telecommunications) Recognition Institute of Chartered Accountants Committee and Vice-Chairman of the Imports from the University of Moratuwa, Sri Lanka. of Sri Lanka. Section, Ceylon Chamber of Commerce. Vice Fellow Member of the Chartered Institute of Chairman of CSR Sri Lanka. Has responsibility for Management Accountants, UK. Also a Six Sigma Dhammika Perera the Agriculture sector. (Continuous Improvement Methodology) Co Chairman Non Executive Black Belt, certified by the Motorola University, Appointed to the Board in 2008. CoChairman Nimal Perera Malaysia. Before joining Hayleys, held the of Hayleys PLC since September 2014 .He is Non-Executive Director position of Director/General Manager of Ansell quintessential business leader, with interests Appointed to the Board in July 2009. He is a Lanka (Pvt) Ltd. Served as the Chairman of the in a variety of key industries including renowned business magnate, stock trader and Manufacturing Association of Export Processing Hydropower generation, Manufacturing, shareholder of many companies in the country. Zone, Biyagama. Has responsibility for the Hospitality, Entertainment, Banking and Finance. He serves on Boards of Pan Asia Banking Purification Products sector. He enriches the Board with over 25 years of Corporation PLC, Lanka Tiles PLC, Lanka Walltiles experience in building formidable businesses PLC, Lanka Ceramics PLC, Horana Plantations Dr. Harsha Cabral, PC through unmatched strategic foresight. He PLC, Swisstek Ceylon PLC, N P Capital Limited Independent Non-Executive Director serves as the Chairman of Sampath Bank PLC, and N Capital (Pvt) Ltd as the Chairman, Royal Appointed to the Board in February 2011. Vallibel One PLC, Vallibel Finance PLC, Vallibel Ceramics Lanka PLC as the Managing Director, He is a President’s Counsel with twenty-seven Power Erathna PLC, Royal Ceramics Lanka PLC, Vallibel One PLC as the Deputy Chairman, LB years’ experience in the field of Company The Fortress Resorts PLC , Delmege Limited and Finance PLC as an Executive Director, Vallibel Law, Intellectual Property Law, International Sun Tan Beach Resorts Ltd. He also serves as the Power Erathna PLC and The Fortress Resorts Trade Law & Commercial Arbitration. Holds a Executive Deputy Chairman of LB Finance PLC PLC as an Alternate Director. He also holds Doctorate in Corporate Law from the University and Deputy Chairman of Horana Plantations directorships in Kingsbury PLC, Haycarb PLC , of Canberra, Australia. Member of the Law PLC, and Lanka Tiles PLC. He also serves on the Talawakelle Tea Estates PLC and Amaya Leisure Commission of Sri Lanka, Advisory Commission Boards of Amaya Leisure PLC, Lanka Ceramic PLC. on Company Law in Sri Lanka, Council of PLC, Haycarb PLC, Hayleys MGT Knitting Mills the University of Colombo, Council of Legal PLC, The Kingsbury PLC and Dipped Products Sarath Ganegoda Education and Academic Board of Studies PLC. Rejoined Hayleys in March 2007. Appointed of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of to the Group Management Committee in Sri Lanka. He is one of the architects of the Rizvi Zaheed 2007. Appointed to the Board in September new Companies Act of Sri Lanka. He serves Joined Hayleys in 1981. Appointed to the Group 2009. Fellow Member of Institute of Chartered as the Chairman of the Tokyo Cement Group Management Committee in 2001. Appointed Accountants of Sri Lanka and Member of Companies and serves as the Independent to the Board in August 2004. Holds a BA (Hons.) of Institute of Certified Management Non-Executive Director on the Boards of DIMO Degree from the University of Kelaniya and an Accountants of Australia. Holds an MBA from PLC, Alumex PLC, Union Bank PLC, Richard Pieris MBA Degree from the University of Colombo. the Postgraduate Institute of Management, Distributors Ltd., Lanka Orix Finance PLC, Tokyo Member of the Agri Cluster of the National University of Sri Jayewardenepura. Worked Super Cement Co. (Lanka) Ltd. & Fuji Cement Council for Economic Development. Represents for Hayleys and Diesel & Motor Engineering Co. Commercial Leasing & Finance Ltd. Tokyo 132 The Quality of Life Power (Lanka) Ltd. Hambana Petrochemicals Lalin Samarawickrama Hisham Jamaldeen Ltd, Browns Investments PLC, BRAC Finance Appointed to the Board and the Group Independent Non-Executive Director PLC, Tokyo Eastern Power (Lanka) Ltd, Serves Management Committee in June 2011. He is an Appointed to the Board in February 2014. on several Audit Committees, Nomination internationally qualified Hotelier having gained A Financial Professional with over 10 years Committees and Remuneration Committees, most of his Management experience in the UK, of experience. Fellow of the Association of chairing some of them. Dr. Cabral is the working for large international hotel chains over Certified Chartered Accountants, UK. Holds a author of several books on Corporate Law and a long period of time. First Sri Lankan Manager degree in Engineering and Business from the Intellectual Property Law. to be appointed by the Beaufort International University of Warwick, UK’. Currently serves as Chain of Hotels to run the first seaside boutique a Director of Steradian Capital Investments Dr. Mahesha Ranasoma resort. Member of the Institute of Hospitality, (Pvt) Ltd responsible for Financing, Corporate Joined Dipped Products Limited in August, UK (formerly HCIMA) and of the Royal Society of Structures, Acquisitions and Development. 2010 as an Executive Director and took over as Health, London. Has several years of experience Executive Director of the following Real Estate Managing Director from April 2011. Appointed in the trade. He is the Managing Director of the Development Companies focusing on the to Hayleys Group Management Committee Amaya Hotels Group, The Kingsbury PLC and housing sector, Alexandra Holdings (Pvt) Ltd, in January 2011 and to the Board on 1st April, Hunas Falls PLC. Director of The Fortress Resorts Mulberry Holdings (Pvt) Ltd, Thudella Holdings 2011. Former Country Chairman/Managing PLC, Royal Ceramics Lanka PLC and Kelani Valley (Pvt) Ltd, and Baseline Holdings (Pvt) Ltd. Also a Director of Shell Gas Lanka Ltd. and Shell Plantations PLC. Is responsible for the Hotels & Director of Almond Trees (Pvt) Limited . Terminal Lanka Ltd. Holds First Class Honours Resorts in the Leisure & Aviation Sector. Degree in Engineering from the University of Peradeniya, a Doctorate from Cambridge Ruwan Waidyaratne University, UK and an MBA with Distinction Joined Hayleys Advantis Group in 1985. from Wales University, UK. Director of Kelani Appointed to the Hayleys Group Management Valley Plantations PLC, Talawakelle Tea Estates Committee in February 2011. Was appointed PLC, Mabroc Tea and Hayleys Global Beverages as the Managing Director of Hayleys Advantis (Pvt) Ltd. Has overall responsibility for the Hand Group in April 2011 and appointed as an protection sector. Executive Director of the Hayleys PLC Board in April 2013. He serves as the Vice Chairman Mangala Goonatilleke of Ceylon Association of Ships’ Agents. Former Independent Non-Executive Director Chairman of the Sri Lanka Freight Forwarders’ Appointed to the Board in June 2011. He is Association (SLFFA) and currently functions a Finance professional with over 25 years of as a Member of the Advisory Council of the post-qualification experience. He has held Association. Member of the Steering Committee senior managerial positions in leading Public, on Ports, Shipping, Aviation and Logistics Multinational and Private Companies during affiliated to the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce. his career. He is an Associate Member of the Holds an MBA from the Edith Cowan University Institute of Chartered Management Accountants of Western Australia and has undergone (U.K.), and a Chartered Global Management executive development programmes with Accountant, passed finalist of Institute of the National University of Singapore, Indian Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka and has School of Business and INSEAD. Has overall a Post Graduate Diploma in Management responsibility for the Transportation Sector. from PIM of University of Sri Jayawardenepura. Currently serves as a Group Executive Director of DSL Group of Companies, independent Director of Colombo Land Development Company PLC, Pan Asia Bank, Royal Ceramic PLC. 133 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Group management committee Mohan Pandithage Chrishan Mendis Colombo. Possesses over 5 years’ experience in the Please refer profile in Joined Hayleys in 1983. Appointed to the Group Hotel industry. He is responsible for the Aviation sector, Board of Directors Management Committee in 2001. Holds a B.Sc. hotel development, Aluminium fabrication and interior (Hons.) Degree from the University of Colombo. fit-out businesses of the Group. Rizvi Zaheed Fellow Member of Chartered Institute of Management Please refer profile in Accountants,(UK) and Chartered Institute of Dr. Arul Sivagananathan Board of Directors Marketing,(UK) and a Chartered Marketer. Was based Joined Hayleys in January 2011 as the Managing in the UK from 2010 to 2013 being responsible for the Director of Hayleys Business Solutions International Sarath Ganegoda marketing network of the Fibre Sector in the UK and Pvt Ltd. Appointed to Hayleys Group Management Please refer profile in Europe. Was appointed as Managing Director of all Committee in June 2011. Currently serves as the Board of Directors Fibre sector companies from January 2014 and has Managing Director of Hayleys Industrial Solutions overall responsibility for the sector. Group . Prior to joining Hayleys, held a senior Rajitha Kariyawasan management position in a BPO company listed in Please refer profile in Johann Wijesinghe the NYSE and overlooked operations across Chennai Board of Directors Joined the Group in 2008 and was appointed to the and Sri Lanka. Holds an Honours Degree in Civil Group Management Committee in 2011. Currently Engineering from the University of London, an MBA Dr. Mahesha Ranasoma serves as Managing Director of Hayleys Leisure from Cranfield University (UK), Doctorate from USA Please refer profile in Holdings and Alufab PLC and Executive Director of S&T and is a Fellow Member of the Chartered Institute Board of Directors Interiors (Pvt) Ltd. He holds an MBA from the University of Management Accountants (UK). Vice Chairman of Leicester (UK) and is a Member of the Chartered of CIMA Sri Lanka board and SLASSCOM and board Lalin Samarawickrama Institute of Marketing (UK). Holds over 20 years’ member of Board of Studies of Postgraduate Institute Please refer profile in experience in the Aviation industry. Prior to joining of Management (PIM). Has responsibility for the Power Board of Directors Hayleys, held several senior positions for the Sri Lankan & Energy, BPO & Shared Services Sectors. Airlines including management positions in Europe, Ruwan Waidyaratne Middle East and the Far East and the Head Office in Please refer profile in Board of Directors 134 The Quality of Life Dilhan De Silva and Director Tea Small Holdings Development Head Office in London as Senior HR Business Joined Hayleys in November 2011 as the Group Authority. Director of Mabroc Teas (Pvt) Ltd and Partner CORA and Legal, overlooking HR for Chief Financial Officer. Appointed to Group Hayleys Global Beverages (Pvt) Ltd. Has overall Corporate and Regulatory Affairs and Legal Management Committee in January 2012. Prior responsibility for the Plantations Sector and functions globally. Possess experience heading to joining Hayleys PLC, served Delmege Limited Mabroc Teas. Human Resources in numerous industries as Group Finance Director and progressed to and in different markets including Singapore, the position of Group Chief Executive Officer. Rohan Goonetilleke China, the United Kingdom and India. Is a Has over 20 years of experience in numerous Joined the Group as Managing Director /CEO of Hotelier by profession with a Diploma in industries. Member of the Chartered Institute Hayleys MGT Knitting Mills PLC in March 2013, Hotel Management from Hotel Consult Cesar of Management Accountants (UK), Institute of and was appointed to the Group Management Ritz in Switzerland and Masters in Business Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, Certified Committee in the same month. Prior to Joining administration from American City University. Management Accountants of Sri Lanka, Certified the Group, served as Director of Brandix Has responsibility for Group Human resource Management Accountants of Australia and X’pressions (Pvt) Ltd and CLT Apparel (India) Pvt. management, Corporate Communications/ Certified Practicing Accountants of Australia. Has Ltd, a fully owned subsidiary of Brandix Lanka Sustainability and Group Security. responsibility for Group Services. Ltd. Has held the posts of Managing Director/ CEO of Textured Jersey Lanka (Pvt) Ltd, Linea Roshan Rajadurai Clothing (Pvt) Ltd, a subsidiary of MAS Holdings Rejoined the Group in January 2013 as the (Pvt) Ltd and the CEO of Elpitiya Plantations PLC. Managing Director of Kelani Valley Plantations Holds a degree in Engineering (B.Sc. Eng.) from PLC and Talawakelle Plantations PLC and was the United Kingdom. Has responsibility for the appointed to Group Management Committee Textile Sector. in the same month. Prior to rejoining Hayleys, served as Director/CEO of Kahawatta Plantations Ms. Surani Amerasinghe PLC and held Senior Plantation Management Joined Hayleys in May 2014 as Head of Group positions in Kelani Valley Plantations PLC Human Resources and appointed to Group from 1993 to 2001. Holds a BSc, in Plantation Management Committee in the same month. Management and holds an MBA from Post Prior to joining Hayleys, served as Human Graduate Institute of Agriculture, Peradeniya. Resources Director, Ceylon Tobacco Company Fellow Member of National Institute of and transferred to British American Tobacco Plantation Management. Currently serves as the Chairman of the Planters’ Association of Ceylon. Member of the Sri Lanka Tea Board, Rubber Research Board, Tea Council of Sri Lanka 135 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Governance report Corporate Governance in pursuit of our corporate goals in line with our structures and policy frameworks to enable Hayleys is committed to doing what is right Values. Corporate governance is fundamentally value creation, compliance with external and in its business and places equal emphasis on about balancing stakeholder interests taking internal regulations and optimal resource the quality and the quantity of its profits. We in to account their roles in the value creation allocation. Achieving a balance between strive to uphold the trust our stakeholders; processes of the Group. Shareholders appoint accountability and assurance (conformance) on shareholders, customers, employees, the Board of Directors at the Annual General the one hand and value creation and resource communities and Government Authorities have Meeting and the Board is responsible for utilisation (performance) on the other is our placed in us, by being ethical and transparent putting in place sufficiently robust governance goal . The governance structure of the Group is diagrammatically depicted below: Internal Structure Assurance Nomination Committee Senior Independent Director Remuneration Internal Audit & Controls Audit Committee Committee External Audit Board Of “Hayleys Way” – Code of Directors Business Principles Employee Involvement RELATED PARTY FINANCE & INVESTMENT TRANSACTIONS COMMITTEE REVIEW COMMITTEE General Management Committee SECTOR COMMITTEES SUBSECTOR COMMITTEES 136 The Quality of Life Hayleys is committed to doing what is right Executive Directors of which, 3 are independent non-executive Directors. in its business and places equal emphasis on l Mr. A.M. Pandithage Chairman & Chief the quality and the quantity of its profits. l Executive Mr. K.D.D. Perera Co Chairman (Non Executive) l Mr. M.R. Zaheed Executive Director l Mr. W.D.N.H. Perera Non Executive Operations of the Hayleys Group is governed by This report follows the structure of the Code Director the Companies Act No.7 of 2007, the Continuing of Best Practice on Corporate Governance l Mr. S.C. Ganegoda Executive Director Listing Requirements of the Colombo Stock to facilitate comprehensive disclosure in a l Mr. H.S.R. Kariyawasan Executive Exchange and the voluntarily adopted Code of concise manner and is also referenced to the Director Best Practice on Corporate Governance jointly CSE Continued Listing Requirements where l Dr. H. Cabral PC Independent Non issued by the Securities Exchange Commission applicable. Executive Director and the Institute of Chartered Accountants of l Dr. K.I.M. Ranasoma Executive Director Sri Lanka. We are guided by the G4 Guidelines An Effective Board (Principle A.1) l Mr. L.T. Samarawickrama Executive published by the Global Reporting Initiative The highest decision making body of the Director for determining materials aspects of our Hayleys PLC is the Board of Directors which l Mr. M.D.S. Goonatilleke Independent environmental and social performance comprises of 7 executive Directors, 5 Non Non Executive Director which goes beyond regulatory requirements, l Mr. R. Waidyaratne Executive Director promoting transparency in reporting. l Mr. M.H. Jamaldeen Independent Non Executive Director Area of Governance # of Principles Hayleys Group Services (Pvt) Ltd., provide The Company The Board 11 Principles company secretarial services with competent legal professionals who are registered as Directors’ Remuneration 3 Principles company secretaries with the Registrar of Relations with Shareholders 3 Principles Companies. Profiles of the Directors are given on Accountability & Audit 5 Principles pages 132 to 133. Shareholders Institutional Investors 2 Principles The board has appointed 05 committees in Other Investors 2 Principles compliance with governance codes and best Sustainability Sustainability Reporting 1 Principle practice to ensure due attention is given to specific areas. Regular Meetings (Principle A 1.1) Board Committee Areas of Oversight Composition Audit Committee Report of the Audit Committee l Financial Reporting Comprises four non-executive directors of whom three are is given on pages 166 to 167 independent directors including the Chairman. l Internal Controls l Internal Audit l External Audit 137 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Governance report Board Committee Areas of Oversight Composition Nominations Committee Report of the Nominations l Appointment of Key Management Personnel Comprises three non-executive directors of whom one is Committee is given on page l Succession Planning an independent director and one executive Director who 163. l Effectiveness of the Board and its Committees is the Chairman. l Code of Ethics Remuneration Committee Report of the Human l Remuneration policy for Group with particular Comprises five non-executive directors of whom three are Resources & Remuneration reference to Key Management Personnel independent directors including the Chairman. Committee is given on page l Goals and targets for Key Management Personnel 164. l Performance evaluation l HR Policy l Organisation structure Related Party Transaction Review Committee l Related party transaction policy Comprises two non executive directors and one executive l Disclosure of related party transactions director. Related Party Transaction Review Committee l Finance and investment functions Comprises one non executive director, four executive l Integration Planning directors and the Group Chief Financial Officer. l Investor relations Board meetings are held monthly whilst scheduled meetings and 1 strategy meeting. Board functions are supported by robust special Board meetings are convened as the Additionally the following sub-committees also information technology enabling Board need arises. During 2014/15 the Board held 12 met regularly as summarised below. Directors Board Meetings Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Mr.A.M.Pandithage 13/13 Mr.K.D.D.Perera 11/13 02/02 Mr.M.R.Zaheed 12/13 Mr.W.D.N.H.Perera 7/13 0/09 02/02 Mr.S.C.Ganegoda 11/13 Mr.H.S.R.Kariyawasan 13/13 Dr.H.Cabral PC 10/13 06/09 02/02 Dr.K.I.M.Ranasoma 13/13 Mr.M.D.S Goonatilleke 10/13 09/09 02/02 Mr.L.T.Samarawickrama 11/13 Mr.R.Waidyaratne 12/13 Mr.M.H.Jamaldeen 13/13 08/09 02/02 Total No. of Meetings 13 09 02 138 The Quality of Life Board Highlights 2014/15 l Mr. K. D. D .Perera was appointed as the NonExecutive Co-Chairman with effect from September 2014. l Establishment of the Related Party Transaction Review Committee to review all related party transactions of the Group . l Establishment of the Finance & Investment Committee to provide oversight of the finance and investment functions of the Group. l Mr. M.H. Jamaldeen, appointed as a member after the 2012/13 Annual General Meeting was re-elected to the Board as a Director. l Dr. K I M Ransoma, Mr. K D D Perera, Mr L T Samarawickrama re-elected to the Board as Directors. members to access their Board papers via secure their teams. The Board is also updated on Committee meeting to provide further connections and participate in meetings even matters including progress in implementation information on issues discussed and views remotely. Board members spent a minimum of the strategic goals, financial, social and expressed at the same. of 52 hours on matters related to the Board environmental performance, changes and whilst members of the Audit Committee spent challenges presented by the operating Hayleys PLC has adopted an approach that a further 36 hours on matters delegated to the environment, recommend policy frameworks empowers sectors to manage their performance committees. and executive governance structures on a within a common policy framework and risk regular basis. Active participation of the Non appetite. Executive Committees have been Board members are provided opportunities to Executive Directors is facilitated by the Chairman established by the Board to support this gain an understanding or obtain clarifications to ensure that there is diverse perspective approach whilst facilitating collaboration, on matters set before the Board or its subare considered in the matters deliberated discussion and debate on matters considered committees through presentations made by the Board. All directors receive minutes critical for the Group’s operations as listed below. by the Group Management Committee and of the monthly Hayleys Group Management Management Committees Purpose and tasks Hayleys Group Management HGMC members are responsible for the strategic planning, development and implementation of policy frameworks, Committee (HGMC) risk management and the performance of the key business lines or support functions managed by them. The plans are approved by the Board as part of the annual strategic planning and budgeting process and they also monitor performance against agreed targets set out in the strategic plans on a monthly basis. The responsibilities of the HGMC are as follows: Recruitment, remuneration and discipline of all personnel Training and succession planning Negotiation with trade unions and manual and clerical personnel Financial Planning and performance reviewing Maintenance of safety and ethical standards Management of risk and following implicit and explicit guidelines set by the Group Safeguarding assets and avoiding deterioration of value through aging or obsolescence Providing support to the Board and the HGMC in pursuing Hayleys Group objectives and standards. 139 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Governance report Management Committees Purpose and tasks Chief Executives Forum (CEO The CEO’s Forum is chaired by the Executive Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and brings together the Forum) management staff of all the companies on a quarterly basis to facilitate communication. Matters discussed at the forum include common group matters including policy direction, performance, areas of concern and sharing of best practice within the group. Functional Clusters Finance, Corporate Communications, Information Technology & HR Clusters have been established previously and bring together representatives from the different parts of the Group. These Clusters serve as forum to communicate relevant matters, identify areas of special interest and concern and discuss these, and share and spread best practices. All Financial Controllers of sectors are required to report in writing to the Group Chief Financial Officer on a quarterly basis, bringing to his notice any significant aspect of risk or concern regarding the business activities of their sector and the financial statements submitted by them. This reporting may be more frequent if circumstances warrant it. These are subject to active discussion at the CFO Forum which takes place every 6 weeks so that matters are debated among the CFO’s of the Group. Board Responsibilities (Principle A 1.2.) The Board provides guidance for the formulation with the requirements of Sri Lanka Financial The Board responsibilities are set out in the of the Group’s short, medium and long term Reporting Standards as set out in page 199 of Board Charter which includes a schedule of strategic plans and approves the same at the Financial Statements. Powers Reserved For the Board. meetings convened specifically for this purpose. The Board monitors performance against The Related Party Transaction Review agreed Key Performance Indicators at monthly Committee assists the Board in reviewing all meetings of the Board whilst specialised areas related party transactions carried out by the Key Board Responsibilities identified for oversight by Board Committees Company and the listed companies in the are monitored by the Committees who have Group . l Setting strategic direction reported on progress and concerns to the Board. l Financial reporting The Finance and Investment Committee l Ensuring that Key Management The Nominations Committee assists the Board provides oversight of the finance and Personnel have the required skills, in succession planning at Board and Group investment functions of the Group, assist the experience and knowledge to Management Committee levels and reviews Board in evaluating investment, acquisition, implement strategy appointment of Key Management Personnel. enterprise services, joint venture and divestiture l Succession Planning transactions in which Hayleys PLC its subsidiaries l Ensuring effective systems to secure The Audit Committee is tasked with ensuring and associate companies engages as part of its integrity of information, internal effective systems to secure integrity of business strategy from time to time. controls, business continuity and risk information, internal controls and is supported management; by the Internal Audit function of the Group. The Act in Accordance with laws (Principle A.1.3) l Ensuring compliance with all laws, Directors’ statement on internal control over The Board has put in place a framework of regulations and ethical requirements financial reporting on page 162 provides further policies, procedures and a risk management l Ensuring that key stakeholder information in this regard. framework to ensure compliance with relevant interests are considered in corporate laws, and international best practice with decisions The Audit Committee and Board review regards to the operations of the Group. The l Ensuring that businesses are accounting policies annually to ensure that they Board obtains independent professional advice developed in a sustainable manner are in line with the business model of the Group as deemed necessary and these functions are l Ensuring adoption of appropriate and the Sri Lanka Financial Reporting Standards. co-ordinated by the Group Legal Department or accounting policies and fostering Clarification is sought from the relevant Chief Group Finance, as and when it is necessary. compliance with financial regulations Financial Officers and external auditors when l Ensuring optimal resource allocation significant changes in accounting policies are During the year professional advice was for sustainable value creation deemed necessary. During the year the Board obtained on various matters including has amended the accounting policies to comply following;, 140 The Quality of Life l Actuarial valuation of the retirement It is estimated that non-executive directors l Upholding high ethical standards of benefits. dedicate not less than 13 days per annum for integrity and probity. l Valuation of lands the affairs of the Group and those directors who l Supporting executives in their leadership are also on Audit Committee dedicate a further of the business, whilst monitoring their l Accounting, legal and tax aspects. 9 days for the affairs of the Group. conduct. l Promoting high standards of corporate The expenses in this regard were borne by Training for Directors (Principle A.1.7) governance and compliance with Hayleys Group. Every new Director and existing Directors the provisions of the Combined Code are provided training on general aspects of whenever possible. Access to advice and services of Company directorship and matters specific to the industry. l Be available to shareholders in case they Secretary (Principle A.1.4) Directors recognizes the need for continuous have concerns which cannot, or should All Directors have the opportunity to obtain the training and expansion of their knowledge and not, be addressed by the Chairman or advice and services of the Company Secretarial skills to effectively discharge their duties and Executive Directors. function provided by Hayleys Group Service are encouraged to attend sessions of the Sri l Act on the results of any performance (Pvt) Ltd. who are responsible for ensuring Lanka Institute of Directors and other corporate evaluation of the Chairman. follow up of Board procedures, compliance with forums on relevant matters. As independent l Maintain sufficient contact with major rules and regulations, directions and statutes, professionals, many of the directors also shareholders, when requested, to keeping and maintaining minutes and relevant conform to Continuing Professional understand their issues and concerns records of the Group. Development requirements. thereby assisting the Board to develop a balanced understanding. Independent judgement (Principle A.1.5) Division of Responsibilities between the All Directors bring independent judgment Chairman and CEO (Principle A.2) The Chairman’s role (Principle A.3) to the scrutiny of decisions taken by the The functions of Chairman and Chief Executive The Chairman is responsible for the efficient Board on issues of strategy, performance, are vested in one person as the Board is of conduct of Board meetings and ensures the resources and business conduct. Composition the opinion that it is the most appropriate effective participation of both Executive and of the Board ensures that there is a sufficient arrangement for Hayleys PLC which is one of Non Executive Directors. He encourages all balance of power and contribution by all the largest conglomerates in the country with Directors to make an effective contribution for directors minimising the tendency for one over twelve diverse business entities arranged the benefit of the Company and maintains a or few members of the Board to dominate in sectors. The management structure of the balance of power between Executive and Non Board processes or decision making. Many Group has a sector focus with separate Boards Executive Directors. It is also the responsibility of of the Board members are independent for holding companies of key sectors which the Chairman to ensure that views of Directors professionals who are required to conform to includes Independent Non Executive Directors on issues under consideration are ascertained; codes of conduct which require the exercise of which plays a key role in facilitating effective and that the board is in complete control of the independent judgement in discharge of their Corporate Governance within the Group. The Company’s affairs and alert to its obligations duties. Executive Directors and HGMC members are to all shareholders and other stakeholders. responsible for the businesses conducted by The Chairman maintains close contact with all Dedicate adequate time and effort to the Group and effectively function as CEOs of Directors and, where necessary, holds meetings matters of the Board and the Company these businesses. The Board has also appointed with Non-Executive Directors without Executive (Principle A.1.6) Mr.K.D.D.Perera as the Co-Chairman during Directors being present. Dates of regular Board meetings and Board the year and Dr H Cabral, PC , NonExecutive Sub-Committee meetings are scheduled well in Director functions as the Senior Independent advance and the relevant papers are circulated a week prior to the meeting giving sufficient time Director ensuring governance within the Board Role of Chairman is preserved and stakeholder concerns are for review. There is provision to circulate papers addressed. The Senior Independent Director is l Efficient conduct of the Board closer to the meeting on an exceptional basis. responsible for; Meetings. Directors are also encouraged to clarify matters with the Group Management Committee whose l Maintains a balance of power l Setting the Company’s values and l Ascertained the views of members are frequently required to make standards and ensuring that its Directors presentations to the Board as well. obligations to shareholders and others are understood and met. 141 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Governance report Financial Acumen (Principle A.4) Independent Non-executive Director functioned l Separate discussions at start of meeting The Board of Directors, collectively, have as the Senior Independent Director. He is regarding matters arising for the experience in all business sectors in which available for confidential discussions with other previous meeting. where Hayleys operates and are supported Directors who may have concerns which pertain l Archived minutes and board papers by relevant academic and professional to significant issues that are detrimental to the accessible electronically at the qualifications. There are four Chartered/ Group. The Chairman meets with NEDs only, convenience of the directors. Management Accountants on the Board as without the Executive Directors being present follows. as necessary. Directors also have an open invitation to attend the meetings of the Management Committees l Mr.S.C. Ganegoda Board minutes are prepared in order to record and have the opportunity to interact with senior l Mr.M.D.S. Goonatilleke any concerns of the Board as a whole or those management after Board Meetings. Directors are l Mr.H.S.R. Kariyawasan of individual Directors regarding matters placed provided with monthly reports on performance, l Mr.M.H. Jamaldeen for their approval/guidance/action. These minutes of review meetings and such other minutes are circulated and formally approved reports and documents as necessary. The Board Balance (Principle A.5) at the subsequent Board meeting, Additionally, Chairman ensures all Directors are adequately The board comprises 7 executive directors directors have access to the past Board papers briefed on issues arising at meetings. and 5 non executive directors of whom 3 are and minutes in case of need. independent directors. The non-executive Appointments to the Board (Principles A.7) directors are professionals/academics/business If a Director resigns over an unresolved issue, the Nomination Committee makes leaders, holding senior positions in their Chairman will bring the issue to the attention recommendations to the Board on all new respective fields. Three Non-Executive directors of the Board. The Director concerned is also Board appointments. Nomination Committee of are independent of management and free of required to provide a written statement to the Hayleys PLC consists of the following Directors. any business or other relationship that could Chairman for circulation to the Board. materially interfere with or could reasonably l Mr.A.M. Pandithage Chairman be perceived to materially interfere with the Supply of Relevant Information (Principle l Mr.K.D.D. Perera exercise of their unfettered and independent A.6) l Mr.W D N H Perera judgement. Each Non Executive Director The Chairman ensures that all directors are l Dr H Cabral, PC submits a declaration of independence/ non properly briefed on issues arising at Board independence in a prescribed format and the Meetings by requiring management to provide The Board believes it is appropriate for the Board has determined the independence of comprehensive information including both Chairman & Chief Executive to chair this Directors based on these declarations which quantitative and qualitative information for the committee and that the composition of the happens on an annual basis. The Board being monthly Board Meetings 7 days prior to the committee ensures its balance. The Nomination of opinion that Mr. M.H Jamaldeen has the Board/Sub-Committee meetings. The Directors Committee Report is given on page 163. capability to conduct himself in an independent have free and open access to Management at all and impartial manner on matters deliberated by levels to obtain further information or clarify any The Nomination committee annually assesses the Board. Therefore, the Board is of the opinion concerns they may have. As described above, board-composition to ascertain whether the that his independence will not be affected by they also have the right to seek independent combined knowledge and experience of his spouse, Mrs. I.Jamaldeen being an Alternate professional advice at the Company’s expense the board matches the strategic demands Director of the Kingsbury PLC. Accordingly and copies of advice obtained in this manner facing the company. The findings of such the following directors are deemed to be are circulated to other directors who request it. assessment are taken into account when new independent: Any Director who does not attend a meeting Board appointments are considered. Following is updated on proceedings prior to the next details of new Directors are disclosed on their l Dr.H.C.Cabral, PC meeting through: appointment to the Colombo Stock Exchange, l Mr.M.D.S.Goonatilleke selected newspapers and Annual Report, l Mr.M.H.Jamaldeen l Formally documented minutes of discussions. a. A brief resume of the Director; Since the Chairman and Chief Executive is l By clarifying matters from the Board b. The nature of his expertise in relevant the same person, Dr. H Cabral, PC who is an Secretary functional areas; 142 The Quality of Life c. The names of companies in which Disclosure of Information in respect of The Board as a whole determines the the Director holds directorships or directors (Principle A.10) remuneration of the NED’s. The NED’s receive memberships in Board Committees; and Information specified in the Code with regards a fee for being a Director of the Board d. Whether such Director can be to Directors are disclosed within this Annual and additional fee for being a member considered ‘independent’. Report as follows: of a Committee. They do not receive any performance related/ incentive payments. Re-Election (Principle A.8) l Name, qualifications, expertise, material The provisions of the Company’s Articles require business interests and brief profiles on Remuneration Committee consults the a Director appointed by the Board to hold office pages 132 to 133. Chairman about its proposal relating to the until the next Annual General Meeting and seek l Related party transactions on page 256. remuneration of other Executive Directors re-election by the shareholders at that meeting. l Membership of sub-committees and and have access to professional advice from The Articles call for one third of the Directors attendance at Board Meetings and Subwithin and outside Hayleys PLC, in discharging in office to retire at each Annual General Committee meetings on page 138. their responsibilities. No Director is involved in Meeting. The Directors who retire are those deciding his own remuneration. who have served for the longest period after Appraisal of Chief Executive Officer their appointment /re appointment. Retiring (Principle A.11) Level & Make Up of Remuneration (Principle Directors are generally eligible for re election. Prior to the commencement of each financial B.2) The names of Directors submitted for election year the Board in consultation with the CEO, set The Remuneration Committee determines or re-election are accompanied by a resume reasonable financial and non financial targets the combination of remuneration needed to to enable shareholders to make an informed which are in line with short, medium and long attract, retain and motivate Executive Directors decision on their election. The Provisions of term objectives of Hayleys, achievement of of the quality required to achieve corporate the Articles of the Company do not require the which should be ensured by the Chief Executive. goals. The Remuneration Committee ensures Director who is the Chief Executive to retire by A monthly performance evaluation is performed that the remuneration of executives of each rotation. at which actual performance is compared to level of management is competitive and in line the budget. The Chief Executive is responsible with their performance. Surveys are conducted Appraisal of Board Performance (Principle to provide the board with explanations for any as and when necessary to ensure that the A.9) adverse variances together with actions to be remuneration is competitive with those of The Chairman and Remuneration Committee taken. comparative companies. The Remuneration is responsible for evaluating the performance Committee reviews data concerning executive of the Executive Directors. The Board Directors’ Remuneration Procedure pay among the Group Companies. undertakes an annual self evaluation of its own (Principle B.1) performance and of it Committees and the The Remuneration Committee determines the A performance based incentive has been responses are collated by the Board Secretary remuneration of the Chairman/Chief Executive determined by the remuneration committee to who compiles a report which is submitted to and the Executive Directors and sets guidelines ensure that the total earnings of the executives the Chairman and discussed at a Board Meeting. for the remuneration of the management are aligned with the achievement of objectives staff within the Group. Please refer page 164 and budgets of the group companies. Presently Board evaluated its performance according to Remuneration Committee Report for the terms the Group does not have an executive Share following guidelines. of reference for Remuneration Committee. Option Schemes. The Remuneration Committee follows the provisions set out in Schedule l Strategies developed and implemented. The Remuneration Committee comprises the D of the Code as required. No special early l Board image. following NonExecutive Directors and the termination clauses are included in the contract l Compliance with laws and regulations. Chairman of this committee is appointed by the of employment contract of executive directors l Quality of participation in the meetings. Board. that would entitle them to extra compensation. l Effectiveness of systems and procedures. However any such compensation would be l Dr. H. Cabral, PC – Chairman determined by the Board of Directors. l K.D.D. Perera l W.D.N.H Perera Remuneration for NEDs reflect the time l M.D.S. Goonatilleke commitment and responsibilities of their role, l M.H. Jamaldeen taking into consideration market practices. NEDs 143 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Governance report are not included in share options as there is no l Hayleys PLC Annual Report to the G4 standard on Sustainability Reporting scheme in existence. l Stock information published by the Global Reporting Initiative and l Stock Exchange announcements the Integrated Reporting Framework published Disclosure of Remuneration (Principle B.3) by the International Integrated Reporting The Report of the Remuneration Committee is Comments and suggestions can be sent Council. set out on page 164 which includes a statement through info@cau.hayleys.com on Remuneration Policy. Please refer page 203 Hayleys PLC has complied with the reporting for the total Directors’ Remuneration. The Group has an open door policy, which requirements prescribed by the Colombo Stock enables shareholders to keep in constant touch, Exchange. Relations with Shareholders (Principle C.1) visit and obtain information from the Company The Annual General Meeting is used for Secretaries and engage in dialogue. Please refer “ The following specialised information constructive engagement with shareholders. Stakeholder Engagement” provided on pages 25 requirements are also included in this Annual Hayleys PLC has in place an effective mechanism to 27 for details of the policy and methodology Report: to count all proxies lodged on each resolution, for communication with shareholders. Details of and the balance for and against the resolution, contact person disclosed in the inner back cover l The Annual Report of the Board of after it has been dealt with on a show of hand, of the Annual Report. Directors on the Affairs of the Company except where a poll is called. Hayleys PLC given on pages 153 to 160 cover all areas proposes a separate resolution at the AGM on The Company Secretary maintains a record of of this section. each substantially separate issue. all correspondence received. All major issues l The “Statement of Directors’ and concerns of shareholders are referred to Responsibilities” is given on page 165 The adoption of the Annual Report of the the Board of Directors with the views of the l The Directors’ Statement on Internal Board of Directors and the Financial Statements management. Controls is given on page 162 is considered as a separate resolution. The l The “Independent Auditors’ Report “on Chairman of Hayleys PLC ensures the Chairmen For major issues after referring to the Hayleys page 171 For the Auditor’s responsibility. of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Board of Directors, the Company Secretary l The Financial Review, the Value Creation Committees to be available to answer questions sends the response to the relevant shareholder Report on pages 40 to 43. at the AGM if so requested by the Chairman. and for other issues the Company Secretary responds directly to shareholders. There has been no serious loss to convene and A copy of the Annual Report including financial an EGM but would be complied with if such statements, notice of the meeting and the Form Material Transactions (Principle C.3) situation arises. of Proxy are sent to shareholders 15 working Transactions, if any, which materially affect the days prior to the date of the AGM as required by net asset base of Hayleys PLC, will be disclosed Internal Control (Principles D.2.) the Statute in order to provide the opportunity in the Quarterly / Annual Financial Statements. The Board is responsible for the Group’s to all the shareholders to attend the AGM. During the year, there were no major internal control and its effectiveness. Internal transactions as defined by Section 185 of the control is established with emphasis placed on A summary of the procedures governing voting Companies Act no 07 of 2007 which materially safeguarding assets, making available accurate at General Meeting is circulated to shareholders affect the net asset base of Hayleys PLC or and timely information and imposing greater with every notice of the General Meeting. consolidated group net asset base. discipline on decision making. It covers all controls, including financial, operational and Disclosure of Major Transactions (Principle Accountability & Audit (Principle D.1.) compliance control and risk management. It C.2.) The Board recognises its responsibility to is important to state, however that any system The shareholder engagement mechanisms are present a balanced and understandable can ensure only reasonable, and not absolute, set out in the Stakeholder Engagement section assessment of the Group’s financial position, assurance that errors and irregularities are of the report on pages 25 to 27 which includes performance and prospects in accordance with prevented or detected within a reasonable time. the Annual General Meeting. Shareholders and the requirements of the Companies Act No 07 a dedicated page of the Hayleys website www. of 2007. The Financial Statements included in The Group’s Management Audit & System hayleys.com/investor-relations which provides this Annual Report are prepared and presented Review Department (MA & SRD) plays a the following information: in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting significant role in assessing the effectiveness Standards. The Annual Report also conforms and successful implementation of existing controls and strengthening these and 144 The Quality of Life establishing new controls where necessary. The as required. The input of the statutory auditors is Names of the members of the Audit Committee MA & SRD’s reports are made available to the obtained where necessary. disclosed on pages 166 to 167 under the Chairman & Chief Executive and the Chairman Section on the “ Audit Committee Report” and of the Audit Committee. Group’s Management The Audit Committee reviews the scope and the disclosure of the independence of the Audit & System Review Department (MA & SRD) results of the audit and its effectiveness, and the Auditors is disclosed in page 166 under the is responsible for internal audit function. independence and objectivity of the auditors. section on the “External Audits” in the “Audit They also review the nature and extent of Committee Report” on pages 166 to 167 of this The Group also obtains the services of non-audit services provided by the auditors Report. independent professional accounting firms to ensure that auditor’s are able maintain other than the statutory auditors to carry out objectivity and independence. Code of Business Conduct & Ethics internal audits and reviews to supplement the (Principles D.4.) work done by the MA & SRD. The Terms of Reference of the Audit Committee Hayleys has developed “ The Hayleys Way”have been approved by the Board. This The Ethical Road Map for Code of conduct The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of addresses the purpose of the Committee, its for its employees including key management the system of financial controls for the period duties and responsibilities including the scope personnel. It is based on the following up to the date of signing the accounts. There and functions of the Committee which are principles: is a direct channel between the Head of MA & summarised in the Audit Committee Report on SRD and the Chairman of the Audit Committee pages 166 to 167. 1. The Hayleys Group is committed to without the interference of any Directors or conducting its business operations Executives. with honesty, integrity and with respect to the rights and interests of all The Audit Committee reviews internal control stakeholders. issues and risk management measures identified by Group’s Management Audit & System Competition Review Department (MA & SRD) and evaluate the adequacy and effectiveness of the risk management and internal control systems Employees including financial reporting. Audit Committee (Principle D3) Business Integrity The Board has established an Audit Committee which has oversight responsibility for Environment considering how they should select and apply accounting policies, financial reporting and internal control principles and maintaining Hayleys Consumer an appropriate relationship with the external Way auditors. The composition of the Audit Committee is as follows: Corporate Responsibility l Mr.M.D.S Goonatilleke Chairman Public Activities l Mr.W.D.N.H Perera l Dr . H. Cabral. PC l Mr.M H Jamaldeen Shareholders Hayleys Group Services ( Pvt ) Ltd, serves as the its Secretary. The Chairman & Chief Executive Conflict of Interest and Group CFO are invited to attend Meetings, and other Executive Directors attend meetings Regulatory Compliance 145 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Governance report 2. All Hayleys companies and employees provided to the Colombo Stock Exchange. Any and procedures implemented to develop are required to comply with the laws and information that the board considered as price a sustainable business environment with regulations of the countries in which it sensitive is disseminated to the shareholders by disclosures on the following aspects: operates. way of announcements to the CSE and press 3. Every employee shall be responsible for releases. l Economic sustainability Refer pages 287 the implementation of and compliance to 290 with the Code in his/her environment. Shareholders may bring up concerns they l The environment Refer pages 287 to 290 have, either with the Chairman & Chief l Labour practice Refer pages 287 to 290 The Code of Conduct provides guidelines for Executive or the Group’s Secretarial Department l Society Refer pages 287 to 290 employees on the conduct of its businesses and as appropriate. Discussions are held with l Product responsibility Refer pages 287 to operations in all the countries we operate in. Institutional Investors, involving the Chairman, 290 and other Executive Directors where necessary. l Stakeholder identification, engagement Corporate Governance Disclosures (Principle This process is supported by the Strategic & effective communication Refer pages D.5) Business Development Unit and the Corporate 287 to 290 The Corporate Governance Report set out on Affairs Unit. During these meetings, the l Sustainable reporting and disclosure pages 136 to 147 (of which this paragraph is Directors ensure protection of share price Refer pages 287 to 290 part of ) describes the extent to which Hayleys sensitive information that has not been made PLCs’ adheres to established principles and available to the company’s shareholders. The practices of good Corporate Governance. Institutional Investors are encouraged to give due weight to all relevant matters relating to the Institutional Shareholders (Principles E 1 & 2) Board structure and composition. There are regular meetings with shareholders (based on their requests) on matters which Other Investors (Principles F1 & 2) are relevant and of concern to the general Individual investors are encouraged to carry out membership. Voting of the shareholders is adequate analysis or seek independent advice critical in carrying out a resolution at the in investing or divesting decisions. They are also AGM. The Chairman ensures the views of the encouraged to participate in General Meetings shareholders are communicated to the Board as of companies and exercise their voting rights. a whole. Information is disseminated to all shareholders as specified in the Stakeholder Engagement Shareholders are provided with Quarterly section on page 147. Financial Statements and the Annual Report, which the Group considers as its principal Sustainability Reporting (Principle G) communication with them and other Hayleys PLC has included Sustainability stakeholders. These reports are also made Reporting in this Integrated Annual Report available on the Group’s website and are which provides information on policies 146 The Quality of Life Compliance With CSE Continuing Listing Rules CSE Rule Reference Corporate Governance Compliance Status Hayleys’s Extent of Adoption Principles 7.10.1(a) Non-Executive Directors Compliant Five out of twelve Directors are NEDs 7.10.2(a) Independent Directors Compliant Three of Five Non-Executive Directors were Independent Independent Directors Compliant All NEDs have submitted their confirmations on Independence as 7.10.2(b) per the criteria set by Hayleys PLC, which is in with the regulatory requirements. 7.10.3(a) Disclosure relating to Directors Compliant The Board assessed the independence declared by the Directors and determined the Directors who are independent and disclosed same in item A.5 of SEC & CASL on page 142. 7.10.3(b) Disclosure relating to Directors Compliant The Board has determined that all Non-Executive Directors except for Mr. K.D.D Perera and Mr. W.D.N.H. Perera satisfy the criteria for “ independence” set out in the Listing Rules. Disclosure relating to Directors Compliant Please refer pages 132 to 133 for the brief resume of each Director. 7.10.3(c) 7.10.3(d) Disclosure relating to Directors Compliant Disclosed the appointments of new Directors to the Colombo Stock Exchange when it is disclosed to the public. Brief resumes of the Directors appointed during the year have been provided to the Colombo Stock Exchange. 7.10.5 (a) Composition of Remuneration Compliant Please refer the Remuneration Committee Report on page 164 and Committee Principles B1 to B3 on pages 143 to 144 of this Corporate Governance Functions of Remuneration Compliant Report. The remuneration paid to Directors is given in the note 10 to 7.10.5(b) Committee the financial statements on page 203. Disclosure in the Annual Report Compliant 7.10.5(c) relating to Remuneration Committee 7.10.6(a) Composition of Audit Committee Compliant Refer Audit Committee Report on pages 166 to 167 and disclosures 7.10.6(b) Audit Committee Functions Compliant under Principle D3 on page 145 of this report. 7.10.6 (c) Disclosure in the Annual Report Compliant relating to Audit Committee 147 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Risk Management The Group is exposed to a multitude of risks in Our Approach to Risk Management its external and internal environments, given The Group’s risk management framework the breadth of its operations and wide industry is based on the Three Lines of Defense presence. Risk management is therefore governance model which ensures the clear a vital element of the Group’s operations identification and segregation of duties and and risk considerations form a critical input enables the Group to effectively manage its in all business decisions. A structured and risks through a transparent and consistent transparent Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) framework. The model makes a clear distinction system, adopting guidelines presented by between three groups involved in effective risk the Committee of Sponsoring Organisations management, at multiple levels within the of the Treadway Commission (COSO) is in place to identify, manage and mitigate risks in a consistent and structured manner. A comprehensive policy framework, risk governance structures, defined responsibilities for risk identification, measurement, mitigation and reporting have nurtured the creation of an organisation-wide risk culture. Risk Governance The Board of Directors holds oversight responsibility of the Group’s risk strategy and ERM processes and is supported by Board level and Executive level committees. The Group Audit Committee is responsible for ensuring the reliability and accuracy of the financial Risk Appetite Independent statements and the effectiveness of the internal and Assurance Framework 3rd Line control systems. In addition, sector levels Audit Board of Committees are also in place to ensure effective Directors management of risk at sector levels. During the year, the Group further strengthened its 2nd Line sector level risk management and all sectors Sector Audit Risk Accepting are now inclusive of Audit Committees. At Group wide Committees Policies and (Group/Sector Risk) and executive level, risk management is facilitated Monitoring by the Hayleys Group Management Committee Standards (HGMC), Treasury Unit, Strategic Business Development Unit (SBDU), Group Legal & 1st Line Management Audit & System Review Unit. Business Units Risk SBU Risk Identification Appetite and (Originate within Group Management Audit and Systems Divisional Risk Appetite) Evaluation and Policies Management Review Unit (MA&SRD)-The unit plays a crucial role in centrally identifying the financial and operational risk originating in the sectors and relevant business units. Deviations from defined risk parameters are monitored by the unit on a consistent basis together with the effectiveness of the internal control systems in place. Findings are reported to the GMC and discussed at monthly cluster meetings. 148 The Quality of Life Organisation A structured and transparent Enterprise Functions that own risk Risk Management (ERM) system, adopting guidelines presented by the Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway Functions that oversee risk Commission (COSO) is in place to identify, manage and mitigate risks in a consistent and Functions that provide independent assurance structured manner Scope Responsibility Implementation 1st Line of Operational management is responsible for the identification, assessment, control Risk Identification, Risk Divisional business and mitigation of risks which in turn guide the development of internal policies and Management and SelfunitsRisk owners and Defense procedures. Risks are self-evaluated and managed within the approved risk appetite Assurance managers limits set by the Group’s Risk Management policy. Sector Audit Committees are responsible for the development of risk appetite 2nd Line of parameters, risk management frameworks, policies and risk concentration controls. Sector Audit Risk Management and Committees and Sector Defense Oversight Sector management develops division specific risk appetite statements, policies, Management controls, procedures and reporting which are aligned to the Board’s Statement of Risk Appetite and the risk management frameworks approved by the Board of Directors. 3rd Line of Group Assurance The Assurance function is responsible for the independent evaluation of the adequacy Independent Assurance and effectiveness of the Group’s overall risk management framework and controls. Board Defense Function of Directors is responsible for overall independent assurance. 149 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Risk Management Enterprise Risk Management Process The Risk Management process in place ensures the clear allocation and segregation of responsibilities relating to risk identification, assessment, mitigation, monitoring, control and communication. Objectives are set at business unit level annually, subsequent to a comprehensive evaluation of the risk universe. Objective Setting The objectives will be in line with the Group’s risk appetite and defined tolerant limits. Risks are identified by the Business Units with support from Group MA & SRD. Internal audit reports produced by Risk Identification leading audit firms relating to specific sectors are also reviewed to identify the risks. Findings are discussed and evaluated at monthly cluster meetings and GMC meetings. Risks are mapped and rated based on the likelihood and impact and risk responses are defined based on the Risk Assessment rating category. Risks are ranked as high, moderate and low. Risk Response and Depending on the risk rating, mitigating actions are taken to appropriately manage risk by accepting, sharing or Mitigation avoiding. Mitigatory action is initiated by the relevant Sector heads and management teams. The Risk reporting framework consists of reports circulated by the Group MA&SRD and the Internal Audit reports. Information and These are forwarded to the respective GMC member for appropriate action and direction. The reports are also Communication forwarded to the relevant Audit Committees in each sector. The sectors also table the risk reports at the relevant board meetings, inclusive of mitigating actions to over risk events. Ultimate risk monitoring responsibility and ensuring the effectiveness of the internal controls in place lies with Monitoring the Hayleys GMC and Group Audit Committee 150 The Quality of Life Risk Performance The Group’s key risk exposures are broadly classified as Strategic, Operational, Compliance and Financial Risks. Group-wide key risk exposures and the mitigating actions put in place to manage these risks effectively are discussed in the following section. 8 7 9 1 8 10 6 5 3 4 11 These risks have a relatively minor The risks in this area have a moderate These risks have a significant impact on impact and are not reported on. impact on our operations and are our operations and are discussed fully discussed partially in the report in this report. 1 Macro-economic Environment 2 Changes in commodity prices and other major inputs 3 Industry competition 4 Talent Attraction and Retention 5 Foreign Exchange Risk 6 Interest Rate Risk 7 Environmental sustainability 8 Impact on Communities 9 Supply chain related risks 10 IT related risks 11 Liquidity Risk 151 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Risk Management Risk/Risk Impact on our operations Our Response Exposure MacroChanges arising from monetary and fiscal l The Strategic Business Development Unit consistently monitors changes in Economic policy, macro-economic variables such as the macroeconomic front Environment interest rates and exchange rates can have a l Industry sectors presenting opportunities for growth and potential risks are direct impact on our profitability and cash flow identified and form an input into the Group’s strategic agenda position Changes in Our manufacturing sector companies are l We have formed strategic relationships with a diverse pool of suppliers, commodity particularly exposed to the risks of commodity enabling flexibility it pricing contracts prices and other price fluctuations, as it can potentially impact l Hedging mechanisms are used wherever possible to mitigate exposure to major inputs profitability margins. commodity price fluctuations. Competition Intense price competition in several of our key l Strong brand recognition in most of our key product lines businesses can affect our profitability margins l Reputation for high quality and innovative products, allowing us to and sales due to price undercutting by industry withstand price competition to a certain degree players. l Strategic and long-term relationships with a loyal customer base in several key business lines. Talent Attracting and retaining staff with the correct l Attractive financial and non-financial remuneration Attraction and skills, attitudes and values l Substantial investments in training and developing our people Retention l Robust recruitment procedures l Conducive work environment with high level of staff engagement, worklife balance and wellness initiatives. Foreign Fluctuations in exchange rates can have l Consistent monitoring of forex rates and outlook by the Treasury Unit Exchange Risk significant impacts on our cash flows and l Forward exchange contracts and other hedging mechanisms utilised profitability, as approximately 60% of our whenever possible revenue is generated through exports. Interest Rate Fluctuations in market interest rates have an l Interest rate trends and outlook are monitored on a consistent basis Risk impact on our profitability and capital position, l Interest rate sensitivity analysis is done regularly to measure the potential due to changes in asset values which are impacts of rate variations. linked to market rates as well as its impact on l Consistent negotiations with banks to obtain attractive interest rates. borrowing costs Environmental Financial and reputational losses may arise from l Comprehensive Environmental Management Policy Impacts non-compliance of environmental regulations l Measuring, monitoring and reviewing key environmental impacts against and industry best practices defined criteria l Environmental Certifications obtained by most industry sectors Local Risks arising from inadequate engagement l Substantial investments in community projects by all sectors Communities with local communities, which can lead to l Continuous and open dialogue maintained with local communities reputational damage and destruction of assets l Value addition to supplier and local communities through providing training, financial support and technical guidance. Supply Chain Operational disruption can occur due to l Consistent engagement with a diverse pool of suppliers to maintain strong Risks inadequate quantity or quality of raw material relationships supplies l Structured processes are in place to add value to our supplier base through livelihood development programmes, technical support and guidance on enhancing quality IT related risks Inability to obtain timely and accurate l Comprehensive IT policy is in place throughout the Group information due to failures in IT systems and l Contingency plan and business continuity plan are in place potential disruption to operations can lead to significant financial losses. Liquidity Risks Risks arising from shortfalls in liquidity, which l Strong relationships with banks and unutilised funding lines. would result in the Group’s inability to meet its l Consistent monitoring of asset and liability maturity mismatches. short-term financial obligations. 152 The Quality of Life Annual report of the board of directors 1. General The Company, in September 2014, acquired subsidiaries which have not dispensed with the The Board of Directors of Hayleys PLC has the majority stake in Alufab PLC, a company requirement to maintain interest registers as pleasure in presenting their Report on the affairs involved in the Aluminium fabrication industry. permitted under Section 30 of the Companies of the Company together with the Audited Subsequent to the resultant mandatory offer, Act are detailed below. Consolidated Financial Statements for the the Company holds 62.48% of Alufab PLC. The year ended 31st March 2015 . The details set relevant financials of this company has been 2.6.1 Directors’ interest in transactions out herein provide the pertinent information included in the Group Consolidated Financial The Directors of the Company and its required under Section 168 of the Companies Statements. Subsidiaries have made the general disclosures Act No. 07 of 2007, the Colombo Stock provided for in section 192(2) of the Companies Exchange Listing Rules and the recommended In June 2014, Hayleys PLC divested 20% of its Act No.7 of 2007. Note 39 to the Financial best practices on Corporate Governance. 79% holding in Hayleys MGT Knitting Mills Statements dealing with related party PLC to facilitate the restructuring process of disclosures includes details of their interests in 2. Review of the Business the Subsidiary. Subsequently, in August 2014, transactions. 2.1 Principle Business activities of the Hayleys MGT Knitting Mills PLC had a successful Company and the Group . rights issue of 4 new shares for every 11 shares 2.6.2 Directors’ interests in shares Hayleys PLC is a holding company that owns, held. Directors of the Company and its Subsidiaries directly or indirectly, investments in the who have relevant interests in the shares of numerous companies constituting the Hayleys Hayleys PLC, in order to restructure its debt the respective Companies have disclosed their Group and provides services to its Group portfolio, raised Rs. 2.0 bn from a successful issue shareholdings and any acquisitions/ disposals to companies. The Group consists of a portfolio of Debentures in March2015. their Boards, in compliance with section 200 of of diverse business operations. The main the Companies Act. subsidiaries and equity accounted investees of 2.3 Financial Statements of the Company Hayleys PLC are listed on pages 284 to 286. and the Group Hayleys PLC The Financial Statements of the Company and Details of Directors’ shareholdings in the The Principle activities of the Group are the Group are given on pages 171 to 271. Company are given later in this report. There categorized into different business groupings were no changes in holdings during the period i.e. Manufacturing, Agriculture & Plantations, 2.4 Auditors’ Report other than following. Transportation & Logistics, Consumer Products, The Auditor’s Report on the Financial l 1,000,000 shares were purchased by Power & Energy and Leisure & Aviation. A Statements of the Company and the Group is Mr.K.D.D. Perera. grouping may consist of a number of sectors. given on page 171. l 10,000 shares were purchased and The main activities of the sectors are described 2,500 shares were disposed by Mr.M.D.S. in the Management Discussion & Analysis 2.5 Accounting Policies and changes Goonatilleke. section (pages 31 to 35) of this Report. during the year The accounting policies adopted in the l 40,000 shares were disposed by 2.2 Review of operations of the Company preparation of the Financial Statements Mr.L.T.Samarawickrama . and the Group are given on pages 184 to 200 Changes The Group’s businesses and their performance in accounting policies made during the Subsidiaries during the year, with comments on financial accounting period are described under There were no share transactions by the results, are reviewed in the Chairman’s Review Note 4.7 of the Accounting Policies. Directors, in terms of Section 200 of the (pages 16 to 21), and Management Discussion Companies Act in respect of the subsidiaries & Analysis (pages 31 to 35) sections of this 2.6 Entries in the Interests Register other than the following. Annual Report. Those also provide an overall The Company, in compliance with the assessment of the state of affairs of the Group Companies Act No.7 of 2007, maintains an Hunas Falls Hotels PLC and the Company with details of important Interests Register. Particulars of entries in the l 6,373 shares were purchased by Mr. S C events that took place during the period . The interest registers of the Company and those Ganegoda. investment activities during the year include the following; 153 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Annual report of the board of directors The Kingsbury PLC l 4,036,465 shares were disposed by 2.6.3 Payment of remuneration to Directors l 1,562,147 shares were purchased by Ceylon Knit Trend Ltd Executive Directors’ remuneration is established Vallibel One PLC (Mr.R.P.Pathirana, a Non-Executive within an established framework by the (Mr.K.D.D.Perera has the controlling Director of Alumex PLC is also a Director Board’s Remuneration Committee, to whom interest in Vallibel One PLC). of Ceylon Knit Trend Limited) this task has been entrusted. The Directors 127,581 shares were purchased by l 1,413,500 shares were disposed by are of the opinion that the framework assures Mr.M.H.Jamaldeen Zenith Insurance Brokers (Pvt) Ltd appropriateness of remuneration and fairness l 100,000 shares were disposed by Mr W D (Mr.A.J.Hirdaramani an alternate Director for the Company. The total remuneration of N H Perera. of Alumex PLC is also a Director of Zenith Executive Directors for the year ended 31st Insurance Brokers (Pvt) March 2015, which is also given in note 2.7, Amaya Leisure PLC includes the value of perquisites granted to l 230,000 shares were disposed by Mr.S Alufab PLC them as part of their terms of service. The total Senaratne. l 5,825 shares were purchased by remuneration of Non Executive Directors for the Mr.S.C.Ganegoda year ended 31st March 2015, which is given in l 851,524 shares were disposed by note 2.7, is determined according to scales of Mr.W.A.D.C.J.Wickramasinghe. Hayleys M G T Knitting Mills PLC payment decided upon by the Board previously. l 100,000 shares were disposed by Elles The Board is satisfied that the payment of l 10,000 shares were purchased by (Pvt) Ltd. remuneration is fair to the Company. Mr.R.N.Somaratne (Mr.L.T.Samarawickrama has the controlling interest in Elles (Pvt) Ltd). l 1,090 shares were purchased by 2.6.4 Insurance & Indemnity Mr.K.D.D.Perera from the Rights Issue. The Company has obtained a Corporate Alumex PLC l 1,343,160 shares were purchased Guard insurance policy from AIG Insurance Ltd l 5000 shares were purchased and 5,000 by Hayleys Advantis Ltd from the providing worldwide cover to indemnify all past, shares were disposed by Star Packaging Rights Issue (Hayleys Advantis Ltd, is a present and future Directors and Officers (D & O) (Pvt) Ltd subsidiary of Hayleys PLC) of Hayleys PLC and its Subsidiaries at a premium (Mr.H.H.Abdulhusein, a Non-Executive l 925,935 shares were purchased by of Rs. 4.5mn. The limit on liability of the cover is Director of Alumex PLC is also the Hayleys Agriculture Holdings Ltd from US$5mn Managing Director of Star Packaging the Rights Issue(Hayleys Agriculture (Pvt) Ltd. Holdings Ltd ,is a subsidiary of Hayleys 2.7 Directors’ remuneration 501,300 shares were purchased by Star PLC) Directors’ remuneration, in respect of the Pack Investments (Pvt) Ltd (Mr. M.H. l Mr.R.P.Pathirana who held 3409 shares Company for the financial year 2014/15 is Abdulhusein a non executive Director of resigned during the year. Rs. 187.2 mn (Rs. 167.0 mn) consisting of Alumex PLC is a Director/shareholder of Rs. 179 mn for Executive Directors and Star Pack Investments (Pvt) Ltd. Dipped Products PLC Rs. 8.2 mn for Non Executive Directors. l 163,082 shares were purchased by Akbar l 4,800 shares were purchased by Brothers (Pvt) Ltd Mr.S.P.Peiris, a Director of Dipped Directors’ remuneration in respect of the (Mr.A.A. Akbarally, a Director and Products PLC Company’s Subsidiaries for the financial year Mr.T.Akbarally, an alternate Director of 2014/15 is Rs 489.3 mn (Rs. 446.8 mn) consisting l 300,000 shares were purchased by Alumex PLC are also Directors of Akbar of Rs. 459.2 mn for Executive Directors and Hayleys PLC Brother (Pvt) Ltd Rs. 30.1 mn for Non Exeuctive Directors (Hayleys PLC , is the Ultimate Parent l 25,000 shares were purchased by Company of Dipped Products PLC) 2.8 Corporate Donations Rosewood (Pvt) Ltd Donations by the Company amounted to (Mr.R.P.Pathirana, a Director and Kelani Valley Plantations PLC Rs. 310,090. (Rs. 498,002) which includes a sum Mr.A.J.Hirdaramani, an alternate Director l 426,900 shares were purchased by DPL of Rs.139,000 (Rs 127,000 made to Government of Alumex PLC are also Directors of Plantations (Pvt) Ltd approved charities). Rosewood (Pvt) Ltd (DPL Plantations (Pvt) Ltd, is the Parent l 233,949 shares were purchased by Company of Kelani Valley Plantations Donations by the Subsidiaries amounted to Mr.R.P.Pathirana. PLC) Rs. 16.1 mn (Rs. 14.1 mn). 154 The Quality of Life No donations were made for political purposes. issued ordinary shares of the Company as at 8. Issue of Shares and Debentures the close of business on 26th June 2015, the 8.1 Issue of Shares and Debentures by the 3. Future Developments dividend represents a redistribution of dividends Company Information on future developments are received by the Company and therefore will not The Company did not issue any shares during contained in the Chairman’s Review (page 21), be subject to the 10% tax deduction otherwise the year ended 31st March 2015. and sector reviews (page 63 to 127) sections of applicable. this Annual Report. Twenty million (20,000,000) Senior, Unsecured, 5.2 Reserves Listed, Redeemable, Rated four year (2015/2019) 4. Group Revenue and International Total Group Reserves at 31st March 2015 and Five year (2015/2020) debentures at a face trade amounts to Rs27.7bn ( Rs.22.6bn) comprising value of Rs.100/each were issued, during the The revenue of the Group was Rs 92.6 bn Capital Reserves of Rs 1.3 bn(Rs1.4 bn), Other accounting period, by the Company raising Rs (Rs 80.5bn.) in the year under review. A detailed components of equity of Rs. 11.5bn (Rs. 9.0bn ) 2bn The funds were utilized to restructure the analysis of the Group’s revenue, profit and asset and Revenue Reserves of Rs.14.8 bn (Rs 12.2.bn). debt portfolio as detailed in the offer document. allocation relating to different segments of the The composition of reserves is shown in the Group’s businesses is given in Note 6 to the Statement of Changes in Equity in the Financial 8.2 Issue of Shares and Debentures by Financial Statements. Statements. subsidiaries and equity accounted investees. The Group’s exports from Sri Lanka, amounted 6. Property, plant and equipment Hayleys M G T Knitting Mills PLC , a subsidiary to Rs. 41.9 bn (Rs.36.8 bn) at f.o.b. value in the Capital expenditure during the year, on Property, of Hayleys PLC , issued 55,397,570 new ordinary year under review. Plant & Equipment ( including capital work shares at Rs.9/50 per share through a rights –in-progress), Biological assets,Investment issue, in the ratio of 4:11, during the year to The Group’s revenue from International Trade, properties, Intangible assets by the Group and increase the Stated Capital of the Company which includes the revenue of overseas the Company amounted to Rs 5.7 bn (Rs 3.5bn) by Rs. 526,276,915, thereby strengthening its subsidiaries in addition to exports from and Rs64.3 mn.(Rs68.3mn) respectively. balance sheet and enabling repayment of short Sri Lanka, amounted to Rs. 53.1 bn (Rs. 45.6 bn) term debt. in the year under review. Information relating to capital expenditure on Property, Plant & Equipment ( including capital 8.3 Stated Capital and Debentures Trade between Group Companies is conducted work –in-progress), Biological assets, Investment The stated capital of the Company, consisting at fair market prices. properties, Intangible assets, are given in Notes of 75,000,000 Ordinary shares, amounts to 14 to 17 to the Financial Statements. Rs.1,575mn as at 31st March 2015. There was no 5. Dividends and Reserves change in stated capital during the year. 5.1 Dividends Extents, locations, number of buildings and The Group’s profit before taxation amounted valuations of the properties of the Group are The debentures of the Company, consist of the to Rs ,6.4bn( Rs.5.1 bn). After deducting Rs given in Statement of Value of Real Estate on following: 1.5bn (Rs 1.4bn) for taxation the profit was Rs. page 273. Two Million (2,000,000) Rated, 4.9 bn (Rs. 3.7bn). When an amount of Rs.2.3bn Unsecured, Listed, Redeemable, three (Rs1.9bn.) for minority interests was deducted , 7. Market value of Freehold land year (2013/16) debentures amounting to the Group profit attributable to equity holders The freehold land of the Group has in general Rs. 2,000 mn of the company for the year was Rs. 2.6bn been subjected to routine revaluation by Twenty Million (20,000,000) Senior, (Rs 1.8bn). A sum of Rs.450mn (Rs 375mn) has independent qualified valuers. The most Unsecured, Listed, Redeemable, Rated been set aside for proposed dividends. . recent revaluations in respect of the Group four year (2015/2019) and Five year were carried out as at 31st March 2015. Details (2015/2020) debentures amounting to The Directors have confirmed that the Company of revaluations, carrying values and market Rs.2,000 mn satisfies the solvency test requirement under values are provided in Note 14 to the Financial section 56 of the Companies Act No.7 of Statements. The Statement on Value of Real 9. Share Information 2007 for the first & final dividend proposed. A Estate on page 273 gives details of freehold land Information relating to earnings, dividend, net solvency certificate has been sought in respect held by the Group. assets, market value per share , share trading of the first & final dividend of Rs. 6.00 per share and distribution of shareholding is given on (Rs.5.00) proposed to be paid to the holders of pages 276 and 277. 155 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Annual report of the board of directors 10. Substantial Shareholdings SUBSIDIARIES 10.1 Major shareholdings The names of Directors holding office at the end of the financial year in respect of Subsidiaries, Details of the twenty largest shareholders of grouped under sectors, are given below. Names of Directors who ceased to hold office during the ordinary shares with the percentage of their year are given within brackets. respective holdings are given on page 276. 10.2 Public holding Fibre There were 3,102 (3,194) registered shareholders as A.M.Pandithage S. C. Ganegoda H.C.S Mendis at 31st March 2015, The percentage of shares held by the public, as per the Colombo Stock Exchange F.R. Alles J.A.W.M. Jayasekera Dr. S.A.B.Ekanayake rules, being 38.66 % (39.95%) representing 3,089 T. G.Thoradeniya Dr.P.C. Vermunt B. D. A. Perra shareholders. N. Udage Ms.M.Hirai Ms. M.C.A Holder Vermunt A. Venugopal A.R.K.Jayawardena Ms. I. Weiland 11. Directors C.D.Weiland G S De Silva Ms. M. Shiraishi HAYLEYS PLC The names of the Directors who held office during J. A. M. V. D. Hout T.Fukushima S.Fukushima the financial year are given below. The brief profiles (M. M. M. De Silva ) (B M A Senanayake) (D Molligoda) of the Board of Directors appear on pages 32 to 33 Hand Protection Executive Directors A.M.Pandithage K.D.D. Perera S.C.Ganegoda Mr. A.M. Pandithage (Chairman & Chief Executive) Dr.K.I.M. Ranasoma F. Mohideen N. A. R. R. S. Nanayakkara Mr. M.R. Zaheed R K Withanachchi M. Bottino B.A Mahipala Mr. S.C. Ganegoda K.A.L.S. Fernando S Rajapakse T.G.Thoradeniya Mr. H.S.R.Kariyawasan M. Orlando B D K Pathirage S.P.Peiris Dr. K.I.M. Ranasoma S.A.N.Pushpakumara A.Oralando (Ms D S N Weerasooriya Mr. L.T. Samarawickrama (Alternate) Mr. L V R Waidyaratne (V.Rocchetti) (V.R.Gunasekera) Non-Executive Directors Mr. K.D.D. Perera (Co-Chairman) Purification Products Mr. W.D.N.H. Perera A.M.Pandithage K.D.D. Perera H.S.R.Kariyawasan Ms. D.S.N. Weerasooriya (Alternate Director to Mr S.C.Ganegoda W D N H Perera Ms. M.J.A.S.Abeyratne K.D.D. Perera resigned w.e.f 31st May 2014 ) D.E.Ranarajah A. M. Senaratna Dr. S A K Abayawardana Non-Executive Independent Directors S. Rajapakse T. D. Naylor D.J.Perera Dr. H. Cabral, PC P.Karnchanabatr B.Karnchanabatr K.Karnchanabatr Mr. M.D.S. Goonatilleke B.Balartnarajah A.A.M.Caderbhoy M.S.P. Udaya Kumar Mr. M.H. Jamaldeen F Brocheet Ms.S.S.Ragunathan P Rousseau T. Karnchanabatr B Dasgupta Ms. C Karnchanabatr The basis on which Directors are classified as D.M.Thomas R.Bittel M.Marques Independent NonExecutive Directors is discussed S.H.C.Winston N.E.Megonnel E.Senduk in the Corporate Governance Report (R.Seevaratnam) J.Yaurai R.K.A.Karim (Ms D S N Weerasooriya (A.H.Djafar) (S.Sopian) Ms. D S N Weerasooriya who served as the (Alternate) ) alternate Director to Mr K D D Perera resigned with effect from 31st May 2014. (Y.P.A.S.Pathiratna) Messrs. M.D.S.Goonatilleke, W.D.N.H.Perera, S.C.Ganegoda and L.R.V.Waidyaratne retire by rotation and being eligible offer themselves for re-election. 156 The Quality of Life Agriculture A.M.Pandithage M.R.Zaheed S.C. Ganegoda L.K.B. Godamunne S.M.Gamage Ms. J. Dharmasena D.Nilaweera K R Rajapakse R Seevaratnam A.N.K. Perera M.Symons H.P.Lin G.Olbrechts A.C.Pathirage S.Yamada S.Kodama Ms. D.G.Talpahewa P.Patnaik A.Patnaik S.I.H.M.Musfigur L.N.Abesekara (M.M.M De Silva) Plantations A.M.Pandithage K.D.D.Perera W D N H Perera Dr K I M Ranasoma S.C.Ganegoda L.T.Samarawickrama W.G.R. Rajadurai G.K. Seneviratne L.N.De S Wijeyeratne N A R R S Nanayakkara S. Siriwardana Dr.S.S.S.B.D.G. Jayawardena Malik J Fernando N.R.Ranatunge C.V. Cabraal Prof.U Liyanage Ms M D A Perera D.S.Seneviratne M F M Ismail G.A.R.D.Prasanna N.Weeraratne R.M.Hanwella D S Wijesekera S.Rajapakse J.A.G. Anandarajah N T Bogahalanda R A B Ranatunga F. Mohideen Merrill J Fernando D.C.Fernando (Alternate) (M.M.M.De Silva) Industry Inputs A.M.Pandithage M.R.Zaheed S.C.Ganegoda M.D.S. Goonetilleke Dr A Sivagananathan L.J.C.De Silva D.D.W. Siriwardene D. Hewageegana C.Wijesundera (M.M.M De Silva) (P T S De Silva) Power & Energy A.M.Pandithage H.S.R. Kariyawasan Dr K I M Ranasoma A.R.De Zilva B.Balaratnarajah D.D.W. Siriwardene D.S.Arangala V.K.Hirdaramani Merill J Fernando Malik J Fernando M.Najmudeen R.P.Pathirana A.A.Akbarally Dr A Sivagananathan W.G.R.Rajadurai (Y.P.A.S.Pathiratna) (M.M.M De Silva) (R A A W Rajakaruna) Consumer Products A.M.Pandithage M.R.Zaheed S.C.Ganegoda M D S Goonetilleke G.A.B.I.Silva D.D.W.Siriwardena R Seevaratman A.R.Zubair H.D.M.P.S.Karunatilleka (M.M.M De Silva) Investments & Services A.M.Pandithage M.R.Zaheed S.C.Ganegoda D.D.W. Siriwardene Ms.L.Y.Pararasasegaram L D E A De Silva Dr.A. Sivagananathan Ms. M P Abeyesekera Ms.S. Abeytunge Ms. D.G. Talpahewa G A Dandeniya R.G.P.M.N.S. Piyaweera P B F Cooray D G Jayasinghe C Perera (M.M.M De Silva) (S.P.Dissanayake) (S Balasubramaniam) 157 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Annual report of the board of directors Transportation & Logistics A.M.Pandithage S.C. Ganegoda L.R.V. Waidyaratne S.R. Sadanandan T.U.K. Peiris A.B.Ratnayake (Ms) E.M.C.S. Gamage A.M.Senaratna R. Seevaratnam P.L Cumaratunga F.T. Salem C.D.La Ferriere L.B Culas M.G. Gomez I Saleem K.L.C.Fernando P.S Gunawardena K.Wai Chak R.W.P.Polonowita S.I. Ramakrishnan D.D.W. Siriwardene Ms.Y.N.Perera S. N Wickremesooriya C.I.J. Charles M I S Sabar A.H.Kulasinghe M.D.D.Pieris O Kubota N P Samarasinghe M. Masri F.S.Abeygoonnewardena P Jayanetti J.R.Hill M. Saitoh M.R.S.M.S.R.C. Samaratunge I A M Gahazali L.D.E.A.De Silva J C Anandappa H A H Rodrigo P.D. Good S Mahadeva A F K Kulasinghe (Alternate) V.V.P. Daluwatte K Wada P H Rohani T J G Decarpentrie L.L.Quan Ma Honghan M. Haijiao M.Nabeel I.I.Rushdhee A.Saaid R.Hassan R S Ramakrishnan (B.P.R.Liyanage) (C. Perera ) (S J Wijesinghe) (C H Pieris) (C N Allis) (T Kimura) Leisure & Aviation A.M.Pandithage K.D.D. Perera W.D.N.H.Perera S.C.Ganegoda L.T.Samarawickrama S.J.Wijesinghe N.J.De S. Deva-Aditya L.N.De.S.Wijeyeratne Ms.R.N.Ponnambalam J.G.Victoria K.A.Y.P.Sumanapala Ms.V.Jayasundera C J Wickramasingha D E Silva B C S A P Gooneratne S B Rangamuwa J P Van Twest E.J.Pietersz D.J.A.Wijesinghe S.D.D.K. Senaratne M D S Goonetilleke A K Dheerasinghe J A S S Adhihetti M H Jamaldeen P S Aritaratne (Ms) I. Jamaldeen (Alternate) K D H Perera H Somashantha (Alternate) S Senaratne S H Amarasekera J A S S Adihetti W.D. De Costa Capt. J.L.C.Fernando D.L.C.Fernando R.S.Tissanayagam P.N.R.Dias T.W.De Silva K.T.M. De Soysa (S.P.Dissanayake) (Ms. D S N Weerasooriya) Textiles A.M.Pandithage K.D.D Perera S.C. Ganegoda E.R.P.Goonetilleke H Somashantha R.N. Somaratne Dr.N.S.J.Nawaratne A.S. Jayatilleke (R.Seevaratnam) (R.P.Pathirana) (J.A.S. Piyawardena) (Ms. D.S.N. Weerasooriya (Alternate) ) Industrial Material A.M.Pandithage S.C. Ganegoda Dr H. Cabral R.P.Pathirana A.A.Akbarally D.W.P.N.Dediwela H.H.Abdulhusein R.P.Peris T.Akbarally(Alternate) S. Munaweera A.S.Jayatilleke A.J.Hirdaramani (Alternate) D.V.Press S.J.Wijesinghe P.J.Claesson 158 The Quality of Life 12. Disclosure of Directors’ dealing in 17. Events occurring after the (Rs. 35.9 mn) as audit fees by the Company Shares and Debentures reporting date and its Subsidiaries respectively. In addition, Directors’ dealings in shares are given under No event of material significance that requires they were paid Rs. 0.6 mn (Rs. 1.1 mn) and Rs note 2.6.2 of this report. adjustment to the Financial Statements, 17.4 mn (Rs 14.7mn.), by the Company and has occurred subsequent to the date of the its Subsidiaries respectively, for nonaudit Directors’ holdings, in ordinary shares of the reporting date , other than those disclosed in related work., which consisted mainly of tax Company are given on page 277. Note 35 to the Financial Statements on page consultancy services. 253. None of the Directors hold debentures in In addition to the above, Group companies, Hayleys PLC. 18. Going concern both local and overseas, engage other audit The Directors, after considering the financial firms. Audit fees and payments relating to 13. Employee share ownership plans position, operating conditions , regulatory and nonaudit work in respect of these firms The Group does not operate any share option other factors including matters addressed in the amount to Rs. 16.5 mn (Rs.16.3 mn) and schemes. Corporate Governance Code, have a reasonable Rs. 8.1 mn (Rs. 6.8 mn) respectively. expectation that the Company and the Group Details relating to Hayleys Employees Share have adequate resources to continue in The Auditors of the company and its Trust is given in Note 23 to the financial operational existence for the foreseeable future. Subsidiaries, have confirmed that they do statements. Therefore the going concern basis has been not have any relationships (other than that of adopted in the preparation of the Financial Auditor) with, or interests in, the Company or 14. Directors’ disclosure of interest Statements. any of its Subsidiaries other than those disclosed Disclosure of interest by the Directors of the above. Company and its subsidiaries are detailed in 19. Exposure to risk Note 2.6 above, The Group has a structured risk management 22. Ratios and Market price information process in place to support its operations. The ratios relating to equity and debt as 15. Environmental Protection The Hayleys Board Audit Committee and the required by the listing requirements of the The Group’s efforts to conserve scarce and sector audit committees play a major role in Colombo Stock Exchange are given in pages non-renewable resources, as well as its this process. The Risk Management section of 108 and 278 of this Report. environmental objectives and key initiatives, this report elaborates these practices and the are described in the Environment Performance Group’s risk factors. 23. Employees & Industrial Relations section of the Sustainability Review on page 45 The Group has a structure and a culture that to 47. 20. Appointment of Auditors recognizes the aspirations, competencies Messrs Ernst & Young, Chartered Accountants, and commitment of its employees. Career 16. Statutory payments are deemed re-appointed, in terms of section growth and advancement within the Group is The Directors, to the best of their knowledge 158 of the Companies Act No.7 of 2007, as promoted. and belief are satisfied that all statutory Auditors of the Company. payments due to the Government, other Details of Group’s human resource practices regulatory institutions and those related to 21. Auditors’ Remuneration and Interest and employee and industrial relationships are employees have been made on time. in contracts given in Social Performance section of the A resolution proposing the Directors be Sustainability Review. The declaration relating to statutory payments authorized to determine their remuneration will is made in the Statement of Directors’ be submitted at the Annual General Meeting. The number of persons employed by the Group Responsibilities on page 165. at year-end was 35,093 (36,224). The Auditors, Messrs Ernst & Young were paid Rs. 1.6 mn (Rs.1.5 mn) , and Rs. 39.6 mn 24. Shareholders It is the Group’s policy to endeavour to ensure equitable treatment to its shareholders. 159 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Annual report of the board of directors 25. Internal Controls For and on behalf of the Board The Directors acknowledge their responsibility for the Group’s system of internal control. The system is designed to give assurance, inter alia, regarding the safeguarding of assets, the maintenance of proper accounting records and the reliability of financial information A.M.Pandithage generated. However, any system can only Chairman & Chief Executive Director ensure reasonable and not absolute assurance that errors and irregularities are either prevented or detected within a reasonable time period. The Board, having reviewed the system of internal controls, is satisfied with the Group’s S.C.Ganegoda adherence to and effectiveness of these controls Director for the period up to the date of signing the Financial Statements. 26. Corporate Governance The Company has complied with the Corporate Governance rules laid down under the listing Hayleys Group Services (Pvt) Ltd rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange. The Secretaries Corporate Governance Report on pages 136 to 146 discusses this further. 20th May 2015 27. Annual General Meeting Comparative figures are shown in brackets. The Annual General Meeting will be held at Victorian Ballroom, The Kingsbury Hotel, No. 48, Janadhipathi Mawatha, Colombo 01, at 10.00 a.m. on Friday, 26 June 2015. The Notice of the Annual General Meeting appears on page 292. 160 The Quality of Life Chairman/chief Executive’s and group chief financial officer’s responsibility statement The Financial Statements of Hayleys PLC and auditing, internal control and financial reporting the Consolidated Financial Statements of the issues. The Independent Auditors and the Group as at 31st March 2015 are prepared and Internal Auditors have full and free access to presented in compliance with the requirements the Audit Committee to discuss any matter of of the following. substance. l Sri Lanka Accounting Standards The Financial Statements were audited by issued by The Institute of Chartered independent external auditors, Messers Accountants of Sri Lanka; Ernst & Young , Chartered Accountants, the l Companies Act No. 07 of 2007; independent external auditors. Their report is l Sri Lanka Accounting and Auditing given on page 171 of the Annual Report. Standards Act No. 15 of 1995. l Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock The Audit Committee approves the audit Exchange ; and and non audit services provided by the l Code of Best Practice on Corporate External Auditor, in order to ensure that the Governance issued jointly by the provision of such services does not impair their Institute of Chartered Accountants of independence. Sri Lanka and the Securities and Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka. We confirm that, l the Company and its subsidiaries have We confirm that the significant accounting complied with all applicable laws, policies used in the preparation of the Financial regulations and prudential requirements; Statements are appropriate and are consistently l there are no material non compliances; applied, as described in the Notes to the and Financial Statements. The significant accounting l there are no material litigations that are policies and estimates that involved a high pending against the Group other than degree of judgment and complexity were disclosed in the Note 35 to the Financial discussed with the Audit Committee and our Statements in this Annual Report. External Auditors. We have also taken proper and sufficient care in installing systems of internal control and accounting records, to safeguard assets, and to prevent and detect frauds as well as other A.M. Pandithage irregularities. These have been reviewed, Chairman & Chief Executive evaluated and updated on an ongoing basis. Reasonable assurances that the established policies and procedures of the Company have been consistently followed were provided by periodic audits conducted by Group’s internal auditors. However, there are inherent limitations L. D.E. A. De Silva that should be recognized in weighing the Group Chief Financial Officer assurances provided by any system of internal controls and accounting. 20th May 2015 The Audit Committee of the Company meets periodically with the Internal Auditors and the Independent Auditors to review the effectiveness of the audits, and to discuss 161 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Directors’ statement on internal controls The following statement fulfils the requirement l The Management Audit and System Conclusion to publish the Directors’ Statement on internal Review Division ( MA & SRD) to review The Board having implemented the above control as per the Code of best practice on and report on the internal control is aware that such systems are designed to Corporate Governance issued by the Institute environment in the Company and manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka and Group. Audits are carried out on all to achieve business objective and can only Securities and Exchange Commission of Sri subsidiaries in accordance with the provide reasonable and not absolute assurance Lanka. annual audit plan approved by the Audit against material misstatements of loss. Committee. Findings are submitted to The Board of Directors confirm that the financial The Board of Directors is responsible for the Audit Committee for review at their reporting system of Hayleys PLC has been maintaining a sound system of internal controls periodic meetings. designed to provide reasonable assurance to safeguard shareholder’s investments and the regarding the reliability of financial reporting Company’s assets. The Board has established l The Audit Committee reviews internal and the preparation of Financial Statements for an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating control issues identified by MA & SRD external purposes has been done in accordance and managing the significant risks faced by and management, and evaluates the with the Sri Lanka Accounting Standards, the Company and Group. This process includes adequacy and effectiveness of the requirements of the Company’s Act no 7 of 2007 enhancing the system of internal controls risk management and internal control and the Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock as and when there are changes to business systems. They also review the internal Exchange. environment or regulatory guidelines. The audit functions with particular emphasis process is regularly reviewed by the Board. on the scope of audits and quality of internal audits. The minutes of the Audit The Board is of the view that the system Committee meetings are tabled at the of internal controls in place is sound and Board meetings of Hayleys PLC. adequate to provide reasonable assurance Mohan Pandithage regarding the reliability of financial reporting, l The adoption of new Sri Lanka Chairman and Chief Executive and the preparation of Financial Statements for Accounting Standards comprising external purposes and is in accordance with LKAS and SLFRS in 2014, processes relevant accounting principles and regulatory that are required to comply with requirements. new requirements of recognition, measurement, presentation and The Board has implemented the following disclosures were introduced and Sarath Ganegoda to obtain reasonable assurance that proper implemented. Continuous monitoring Director systems of internal controls are in place: is in progress to ensure effective implementation of the required l Instituted various committees to assist processes. the Board in ensuring the effectiveness of Company’s operations and the l The comments made by External operations are in accordance with the Auditors in connection with the internal Mangala Goonatilake corporate strategies and annual budget. control system during the financial year Chairman, Audit Committee 2013/14 were taken into consideration and appropriate steps have been taken 20th May 2015 to incorporate them where appropriate. 162 The Quality of Life Nomination committee report Composition of the Committee l Recommend the requirements of new The Nomination Committee comprises three expertise and succession arrangements Non-Executive Directors and one Executive for retiring Directors. Director. The Nomination Committee comprised of the Following members; l Recommend on any matter referred by the Board of Directors. A. M. Pandithage (ED ) Chairman K.D.D.Perera (NED) Reelection of Directors at the Annual W.D.N.H.Perera (NED) General Meeting Dr. H. Cabral PC (IND/NED) Messrs M.D.S. Goonatilleke, W.D.N.H. Perera, S.C. Ganegoda and L.R.V. Waidyaratne were ( EDExecutive Director,INDIndependent Director, proposed for re-election to the Board at the NEDNon-Executive Director) Annual General Meeting to be held on 26th June 2015 and the Committee decided to The brief profiles of the Directors are given on recommend the said names to be approved by pages 132 to 133 of the Annual Report. the Board of Directors. The duties of the Committee l Consideration of making any appointment of new Directors or reelecting current Directors to the Board. Mohan Pandithage l Provide advice and recommendations to Chairman the Board on any such appointment. Nomination Committee l Review criteria such as qualifications, 20th May 2015 experience and key attributes required for eligibility to be considered for appointment to the Board and Key Management Personnel in the Company. l Consider if a Director is able to and has been adequately carrying out his or her duties as a Director, taking in to consideration the Director’s number of Listed Company Boards on which the Director is represented and other principal commitments. l Review the structure, size, composition and competencies of the Board and make recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes. 163 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Remuneration committee report Composition of the Committee l Evaluate the performance of the The Remuneration Committee appointed by Chairman & Chief Executive and Key and responsible for the Board of Directors Management Personnel against the comprises five Non-Executive Directors of whom predetermined targets and goals. three including the Chairman are independent l Assess and recommending to the Board Directors. The Remuneration Committee of Directors of the promotions of the comprised of the Following members; Key Management Personnel, address succession planning. Dr. H.Cabral, PC ( IND/NED)Chairman l Approving annual salary increments, K.D.D.Perera (NED) bonuses W.D.N.H.Perera (NED) M.D.S. Goonatilleke (IND/NED) Remuneration Policy M.H. Jamaldeen (IND/NED) The remuneration policy is to attract and ( INDIndependent Director, NEDNon-Executive retain a highly qualified and experienced work Director) force, and reward performance accordingly in the backdrop of industry norms. These The brief profiles of the Directors are given on compensation packages provide compensation pages 132 to 133 of the Annual Report. appropriate for each business within the Group and commensurate with each employee’s level The Chairman & Chief Executive assists of expertise and contribution, bearing in mind the Committee by providing relevant the business’ performance and shareholder information and participating in its analysis returns. and deliberations, except when his own compensation package is reviewed. Meetings The Committee held 2 times during the year The Scope of the Committee under review. The attendance at the meetings The Committee is vested with power to given in table on page 138 of the Annual Report. evaluate, assess, decide and recommend to the Board of Directors on any matter that may affect Human Resources Management of the Company and the Group and specifically include: l Determining the compensation of the Dr. Harsha Cabral, PC. Chairman & Chief Executive, Executive Chairman Directors and the Members of the Group Remuneration Committee Management Committee. l Lay down guidelines and parameters 20th May 2015 for the compensation structures of all management staff within the Group taking into consideration industry norms. l Formulate guidelines, policies and parameters for the compensation structures for all Executive staff of the Company . l Review information related to executive pay from time to time to ensure same is in par with the market/industry rates . 164 The Quality of Life Statement of directors’ responsibilities The Directors are responsible under sections internal control with a view to preventing and 150 (1), 151, 152 (1),) & 153 of the Companies detecting fraud and other irregularities. Act No. 7 of 2007, to ensure compliance with the requirements set out therein to prepare As required by section 56 (2) of the Companies financial statements for each financial year Act, the Board of Directors has authorized giving a true and fair view of the state of affairs distribution of the dividend now proposed, of the Company and the Group as at the end of being satisfied based on information available to the financial year and of the profit & loss of the it that the Company would satisfy the solvency Company and the Group for the financial year. test after such distribution in accordance with section 57 of the Companies Act, and The Directors are also responsible, under section have sought in respect of the dividend now 148, for ensuring that proper accounting proposed, a certificate of solvency from the records are kept to enable, determination of Auditors. financial position with reasonable accuracy, preparation of financial statements and audit of The external Auditors, Messrs Ernst & Young such statements to be carried out readily and who were deemed reappointed in terms of properly. Section 158 of the Companies Act No. 7 of 2007 were provided with every opportunity The Board accepts responsibility for the integrity to undertake the inspections they considered and objectivity of the financial statements appropriate to enable them to form their presented. The Directors confirm that in opinion on the Financial Statements. The report preparing the financial statements, appropriate of the Auditors, shown on page 171 sets out accounting policies have been selected and their responsibilities in relation to the Financial applied consistently while reasonable and Statements. prudent judgments have been made so that the form and substance of transactions are properly Compliance Report reflected. The Directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge, all statutory payments relating to They also confirm that the financial statements employees and the Government that were due have been prepared and presented in in respect of the Company and its Subsidiaries accordance with the Sri Lanka Accounting as at the Balance Sheet date have been paid or standards ( SLFRS/ LKAS), Companies Act where relevant, provided for. No 07 of 2007 and the listing rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange. Further, the financial By order of the Board statements provide the information required by the Companies Act and the listing rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange. The Directors are of the opinion, based on their knowledge of the company, key operations HAYLEYS GROUP SERVICES (PVT) LTD and specific inquiries, that adequate resources Secretaries exist to support the Company on a going concern basis over the next year. These financial 20th May, 2015 statements have been prepared on that basis. The Directors have taken reasonable measures to safeguard the assets of the Group and, in that context, have instituted appropriate systems of 165 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Audit committee report Composition Of The Audit Committee Lanka further regulate the composition, role and Group Management Audit & Systems Review The Audit Committee, appointed by and functions of the Board Audit Committee. Department reports on key control elements responsible to the Board of Directors, comprises and procedure in Group companies that are the following three Independent Non-Executive Meetings of the Audit Committee selected according to an annual plan were Directors and a Non-Executive Director. The Committee met 9 times during the year. The reviewed. attendance of the members at these meetings is M.D.S. Goonatilleke (IND/NED) (Chairman) stated in the table on page 138. Internal Audits are outsourced to leading W.D.N.H.Perera (NED) audit firms in line with an agreed annual Dr. H.Cabral, PC ( IND/NED) Other members of the Board and the Group audit plan. Follow up reviews are scheduled Mr. M H Jamaldeen ( IND/NED) Management Committee, as well as the External to ascertain that audit recommendations are Auditors were present at discussions where this being acted upon. The Committee appraised The Chairman of the committee, Mr. M D S was appropriate. The proceedings of the Audit the independence of the Group MA&SRD and Goonatilleke, an Independent Non-Executive Committee are regularly reported to the Board other internal auditors, in the conduct of their Director, is finance professional with over 25 of Directors. assignments. years of post qualification experience. He is a member of the Institute of Chartered The Objective and Role of the Audit The committee obtained and reviewed Management Accountants (U.K), passed finalist Committee statements from the heads of business sectors of the Institute of Chartered Accountants The role of the committee, which has specific identifying their Audit Committee Report 2015 (Sri Lanka) and has a Postgraduate Diploma in terms of reference, is described in the respective major Business Risks, mitigatory Management from PIM of University of Governance Report on page 136 to 146. action taken or contemplated for management Sri Jayawardenepura. of these risks. The COSO Enterprise Risk Tasks of the Audit Committee Reporting Process is presently being Brief profiles of each member are given on Financial Reporting System implementing within the group. pages 32 & 33 of this report. Their individual The Committee reviewed the financial reporting and collective financial knowledge and system adopted by the Group in the preparation The Committee obtained representations business acumen and the independence of of its quarterly and annual Financial Statements from Group Companies on the adequacy of the Committee, are brought to bear on their to ensure reliability of the processes and provisions Made for possible liabilities and deliberations and judgments on matters consistency of the accounting policies and reviewed reports tabled by Group Companies that come within the Committee’s purview. methods adopted and their compliance with certifying their compliance with relevant Company secretary act as the secretary to the Sri Lanka Financial Reporting Standards. The statutory requirements. the audit committee. The Chairman & Chief methodology included obtaining statements Executive, Group Chief Finance officer and Head of compliance from Heads of Finance and Subsidiary Company Audit Committees – Group Management Audit & System Review Directors-in-charge of operating units. The All listed subsidiaries and business sectors attend meetings of the Committee by invitation. Committee recommended the Financial have appointed their own Audit Committees Statements to the Board for its deliberations and comprising Independent Non Executive Charter of the Audit Committee issuance. The Committee, in its evaluation of the Directors. These Audit Committees function The audit committee Charter is periodically financial reporting system, also recognized the independently of the Audit Committee of reviewed and revised with the concurrence of adequacy of the content and quality of routine Hayleys PLC but have similar terms of reference. Board of Directors. The terms of reference of the management information reports forwarded to The minutes of their meeting are made available committee are clearly defined in the Charter of its members. to Hayleys Audit Committee. the Audit Committee. Internal Audits External Audits ‘Rules on Corporate Governance’ under listing The Committee reviewed the process to assess The Committee held meetings with the External rules of corporate governance under Colombo the effectiveness of the Internal Financial Auditors to review the nature, approach, scope Stock Exchange and ‘Code of Best Practice on Controls that have been designed to provide of the audit and the Audit Management Letters Corporate Governance’ issued jointly by Institute reasonable assurance to the Directors that assets of Group Companies. Actions taken by the of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka and the are safeguarded and that the financial reporting management in response to the issues raised, Securities and Exchange Commission of Sri system can be relied upon in preparation and as well as the effectiveness of the internal presentation of Financial Statements. The controls in place, were discussed with the 166 The Quality of Life heads of business units. Remedial action was and keep the Board of Directors informed at recommended wherever necessary. regular intervals. The Audit Committee has reviewed the other The committee has pursued the support of services provided by the External Auditors to Messers Ernst and Young to assess and review the group to ensure that their independence as the existing SLFRS policies and procedures Auditors has not been compromised. adopted by the Group. Appointment of External Auditors Evaluation of the Committee The Audit Committee has recommended to the An Independent evaluation of the effectiveness Board of Directors that Messrs Ernst & Young., of the committee was carried out by the other continued as Auditors for the financial year Members of Board during the year. Considering ending 31st March 2016. the overall conduct of the committee and its contribution to the overall performance of the Support to the Committee Group, the committee has been rated as highly The Committee received information and effective. support from management during the year to enable it to carry out its duties and responsibilities effectively. Ethics and Good Governance The committee continuously emphasized on M D S Goonatilleke upholding ethical values of the staff members. Chairman In this regard, Code of Ethics and WhistleAudit Committee. Blowers Policies were put in place and followed educating and encouraging all members of the 18th May 2015 staff. All appropriate procedures are in place to conduct independent investigations into incidents reported through Whistle-Blowing or identified through other means. The WhistleBlower Policy guarantees strict confidentiality of the identity of the WhistleBlowers. Sri Lanka Accounting Standards The Committee continued to monitor the progress of the mandatory implementation of Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (SLFRS/LKAS) which converged with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) effective from January 1, 2012. Committee reviewed the revised policy decisions relating to adoption of new and revised Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (SLFRS/ LKAS) applicable to the Group companies and made recommendation to the Board of Directors. The Committee would continue to monitor the compliance with relevant Accounting Standards 167 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 168 TheTheQuality Qualityofof Life Life Delivering results of Quality Our focus on bigger and better innovation, rolled out faster to more markets is a key driver behind our performance. The rollout of our brands to new markets also contributed strongly. 169 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 170 Financial Calendar 171 Independent Auditors’ Report 172 Income Statements 173 Statements of Comprehensive Income 174 Statements of Financial Position 176 Statements of Changes in Equity 181 Statements of Cash Flows 184 Notes to the Financial Statements 272 Ten Year Summary 273 Value of Real estate 274 Country Report 276 Share Information 279 History of Dividends and Scrip Issues 281 Quarterly Performance 284 Group Companies 287 GRI Content Index Tool 291 Group value addition and distribution 292 Glossary of Financial Terms 292 Notice of Meeting 293 Form of Proxy 295 Investor Feedback Form Financial Calendar 2014/15 1st Quarter Report 7th August, 2014 2nd Quarter Report 5th November, 2014 3rd Quarter Report 10th February, 2015 4th Quarter Report 20th May, 2015 Annual Report 2014/15 3rd June, 2015 64th Annual General Meeting 26th June, 2015 First and Final Dividend Proposed 26th June, 2015 First and Final Dividend Payable 8th July, 2015 170 The Quality of Life Independent auditors’ report Independent Auditors’ Report to obtain reasonable assurance about whether Report on Other Legal and Regulatory TO THE SHAREHOLDERS OF HAYLEYS PLC the financial statements are free from material Requirements misstatement. As required by Section 163 (2) of the Companies Report on the Financial Statements Act No. 07 of 2007, we state the following: We have audited the accompanying financial An audit involves performing procedures statements of Hayleys PLC, (“the Company”), to obtain evidence and disclosures in the a) The basis of opinion, scope and limitations and the consolidated financial statements of the financial statements. The procedures selected of the audit are as stated above. Company and its subsidiaries (“Group”), which depend on the auditor’s judgment, including comprise the statements of financial position as the assessment of the risks of material b) In our opinion : at 31 March 2015, and the income statements misstatement of the financial statements, we have obtained all the information and statements of comprehensive income, whether due to fraud or error. In making those and explanations that were required for statements of changes in equity and, cash risk assessments, the auditor considers internal the audit and, as far as appears from our flow statements for the year then ended, and a control relevant to the entity’s preparation of examination, proper accounting records summary of significant accounting policies and the financial statements that give a true and have been kept by the Company, other explanatory information. fair view in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but the financial statements of the Company Board’s Responsibility for the Financial not for the purpose of expressing an opinion give a true and fair view of its financial Statements on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal position as at 31 March 2015, and of its The Board of Directors (“Board”) is responsible control. An audit also includes evaluating the financial performance and cash flows for for the preparation of these financial statements appropriateness of accounting policies used the year then ended in accordance with that give a true and fair view in accordance and the reasonableness of accounting estimates Sri Lanka Accounting Standards, and with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards, and for made by Board, as well as evaluating the overall such internal controls as Board determines presentation of the financial statements. the financial statements of the Company is necessary to enable the preparation of and the Group comply with the financial statements that are free from material We believe that the audit evidence we have requirements of sections 151 and 153 of misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007. a basis for our audit opinion. Auditors’ Responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion Opinion on these financial statements based on our In our opinion, the consolidated financial audit. We conducted our audit in accordance statements give a true and fair view of the with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards. Those financial position of the Group as at 31 March 20 May 2015 standards require that we comply with ethical 2015, and of its financial performance and cash Colombo requirements and plan and perform the audit flows for the year then ended in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards. 171 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014 2014/15 Income statements Consolidated Company For the year ended 31st March 2015 2014 2015 2014 (Restated) Notes Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Revenue 6 92,561,865 80,478,609 284,949 228,494 Cost of sales (71,268,719) (61,713,381) (164,457) (168,537) Gross profit 21,293,146 18,765,228 120,492 59,957 Group dividend 1,316,149 1,048,265 Other income 7 537,750 426,709 24,448 105,236 Distribution expenses (2,589,099) (2,445,692) Administrative expenses (10,585,170) (9,389,015) (62,453) (90,831) Other expenses 8 (146,081) (161,574) (75,578) (81) Results from operating activities 8,510,546 7,195,656 1,323,058 1,122,546 Finance income 9 452,332 757,373 104,455 345,680 Finance cost 9 (2,587,346) (2,904,651) (664,543) (899,965) Net finance cost (2,135,014) (2,147,278) (560,088) (554,285) Share of profit of equity accounted investees (net of tax) 24,383 34,243 Profit before tax 10 6,399,915 5,082,621 762,970 568,261 Tax expense 11 (1,513,581) (1,373,628) (8,565) (30,782) Profit for the year 4,886,334 3,708,993 754,405 537,479 Profit for the year attributable to: Owners of the parent 2,581,298 1,808,523 Non-controlling interest 2,305,036 1,900,470 Profit for the year 4,886,334 3,708,993 Earnings per share Basic, profit for the year attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent ( Rs.) 12 34.42 24.11 Diluted, profit for the year attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent ( Rs.) 12 34.42 24.11 Notes from pages 184 to 271 form an integral part of these Financial Statements. Figures in brackets indicate deductions. 172 The Quality of Life Statements of comprehensive income Consolidated Company For the year ended 31st March 2015 2014 2015 2014 (Restated) Notes Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Profit for the year 4,886,334 3,708,993 754,405 537,479 Other comprehensive income Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to income statement Revaluation of land 3,108,054 1,453,000 Share of other comprehensive income of equity accounted investees 119,796 Actuarial (loss)/ gain on employee benefit obligations 28 (7,228) (81,953) 80,652 (79,571) Income tax on other comprehensive income 11 5,392 579 Items that may be reclassified subsequently to income statement Net exchange differences on translation of foreign operations (157,632) (76,699) Share of other comprehensive income of equity accounted investees 867 (485) Net change in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets 20,555 (6,680) Total other comprehensive income/ (loss) for the year, net of tax 3,089,804 (165,238) 1,533,652 (79,571) Total comprehensive income for the year, net of tax 7,976,138 3,543,755 2,288,057 457,908 Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to : Owners of the parent 5,319,922 1,682,328 Noncontrolling interest 2,656,216 1,861,427 7,976,138 3,543,755 173 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Statements of financial position Consolidated Company As at 31st March 2015 2014 2015 2014 (Restated) Notes Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Assets Non-current assets Property, plant & equipment 14 46,163,919 38,215,259 6,654,666 5,171,645 Investment properties 15 1,412,822 1,453,444 Biological assets 16 307,476 266,508 Intangible assets 17 5,715,803 5,541,287 Investments in subsidiaries 18 9,365,343 9,046,171 Investments in equity accounted investees 18 489,096 354,260 Other non-current financial assets 19 241,478 233,613 154,234 166,704 Other non-current assets 20 1,022,155 350,423 Deferred tax assets 27 386,698 381,567 Total non-current assets 55,739,447 46,796,361 16,174,243 14,384,520 Current assets Inventories 21 12,617,120 12,085,017 1,854 1,046 Amounts due from subsidiaries 39 1,400,260 1,092,669 Amounts due from equity accounted investees 39 49,854 11,582 Trade and other receivables 22 17,859,520 16,563,566 15,302 9,991 Other current assets 22 1,273,295 1,451,883 10,036 8,134 Income tax recoverable 30 219,469 170,754 1,752 Other current financial assets 19 39,562 53,388 11,170 21,906 Short-term deposits 2,413,781 1,536,101 546,292 Cash in hand and at bank 3,111,428 2,633,413 39,562 155,211 Assets classified as held for sale 40 3,021 3,021 Total current assets 37,587,050 34,508,725 2,026,228 1,288,957 Total assets 93,326,497 81,305,086 18,200,471 15,673,477 Equity and Liabilities Stated capital 23 1,575,000 1,575,000 1,575,000 1,575,000 Employee share trust loan 23 (148,558) (488,261) (148,558) (488,261) Capital reserves 1,303,980 1,429,680 13,226 13,226 Other components of equity 11,573,045 8,969,910 6,314,023 4,861,023 Revenue reserves 14,800,483 12,236,713 2,767,884 2,307,827 Total equity attributable to equity holders of the company 29,103,950 23,723,042 10,521,575 8,268,815 Non-controlling interest 15,105,525 12,614,224 Total equity 44,209,475 36,337,266 10,521,575 8,268,815 174 The Quality of Life Consolidated Company As at 31st March 2015 2014 2015 2014 (Restated) Notes Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Non-current liabilities Interest-bearing borrowings 25 12,069,274 9,163,624 5,667,819 3,873,705 Grants 26 713,495 742,077 Deferred tax liabilities 27 1,363,237 1,249,322 Employee benefit obligations 28 4,958,643 4,630,864 415,617 450,560 Total non-current liabilities 19,104,649 15,785,887 6,083,436 4,324,265 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 29 11,943,409 11,667,947 293,963 336,705 Provisions 29 25,479 28,792 Other current liabilities 29 497,790 365,073 11,650 10,011 Other current financial liabilities 19 15,942 58,653 15,942 58,653 Amounts due to subsidiaries 21,597 23,557 Amounts due to equity accounted investees 39 20,888 25,950 Income tax payable 30 515,624 373,343 1,688 Current portion of long term interest-bearing borrowings 25 3,686,844 2,653,381 1,214,729 1,096,096 Short-term interest-bearing borrowings 31 13,306,065 14,008,462 37,579 1,553,687 Liabilities directly associated with assets classified as held for sale 40 332 332 Total current liabilities 30,012,373 29,181,933 1,595,460 3,080,397 Total liabilities 49,117,022 44,967,820 7,678,896 7,404,662 Total equity and liabilities 93,326,497 81,305,086 18,200,471 15,673,477 It is certified that the Financial Statements have been prepared in compliance with the requirements of Companies Act No. 07 of 2007. Dilhan De Silva Group Chief Financial Officer The Directors are responsible for the preparation and presentation of these Financial Statements. Signed for and on behalf of the Board. Mohan Pandithage Sarath Ganegoda Chairman and Chief Executive Director 20th May, 2015 Notes from pages 184 to 271 form an integral part of these Financial Statements. Figures in brackets indicate deductions. 175 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Statements of changes in equity For the year ended 31st March 2015 Consolidated Capital Reserves Stated Employee Reserve Other capital share trust on scrip capital loan issue reserve Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Balance as at 1st April 2014 1,575,000 (488,261) 816,773 612,907 Profit for the year Other comprehensive income Net exchange differences on translation of foreign operations Share of other comprehensive income of equity accounted investees Net change in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets Revaluation of Land Actuarial (loss)/ gain on employee benefit obligations Income tax on other comprehensive income Total other comprehensive income Total comprehensive income for the year Transactions with owners, recorded directly in equity Dividends to equity holders Recovery for the year 339,703 Transfers (47,787) 3,484 Total contributions by and distributions to owners 339,703 (47,787) 3,484 Changes in ownership interests in subsidiaries Acquisition of non-controlling interest with a change in control Acquisition of non-controlling interest without a change in control 47,815 (129,212) Total changes in ownership interests in subsidiaries 47,815 (129,212) Total transactions with owners 339,703 28 (125,728) Balance as at 31st March 2015 1,575,000 (148,558) 816,801 487,179 Revaluation Reserve relates to the revaluation of land. Details of the Capital Reserves are given in Note 24 to the Financial Statements. Foreign Currency Translation Reserve comprises all foreign currency differences arising from the translation of the Financial Statements of foreign operations. 176 The Quality of Life Attributable to equity holders of the Company Other Components of Equity Revenue Reserves Revaluation AvailableForeign General Timber Retained Shareholders' NonTotal reserve for-sale currency reserve reserve earnings funds controlling Equity reserve translation interest reserve Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 8,082,601 (4,857) 892,166 2,229,519 50,854 9,956,340 23,723,042 12,614,224 36,337,266 11,914 2,569,384 2,581,298 2,305,036 4,886,334 (84,751) (84,751) (72,881) (157,632) 119,796 867 120,663 120,663 14,189 14,189 6,366 20,555 2,677,465 2,677,465 430,589 3,108,054 6,634 6,634 (13,862) (7,228) 4,424 4,424 968 5,392 2,797,261 15,056 (84,751) 11,058 2,738,624 351,180 3,089,804 2,797,261 15,056 (84,751) 11,914 2,580,442 5,319,922 2,656,216 7,976,138 (375,000) (375,000) (1,150,814) (1,525,814) 339,703 339,703 (28,023) 72,326 (28,023) (302,674) (35,297) (1,150,814) (1,186,111) 525,495 525,495 (22,835) (101,596) 14,592 619 286,900 96,283 460,404 556,687 (22,835) (101,596) 14,592 619 286,900 96,283 985,899 1,082,182 (22,835) (101,596) (13,431) 619 (15,774) 60,986 (164,915) (103,929) 10,857,027 10,199 705,819 2,216,088 63,387 12,521,008 29,103,950 15,105,525 44,209,475 Available-for-sale Reserve relates to change in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets. Timber Reserve relates to change in fair value of managed trees and includes commercial timber plantations cultivated on estates. Notes from pages 184 to 271 form an integral part of these Financial Statements. Figures in brackets indicate deductions. 177 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Statements of changes in equity For the year ended 31st March 2014 Consolidated Capital Reserves Stated Employee Reserve Other capital share trust on scrip capital loan issue reserve Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Balance as at 1st April, 2013 1,575,000 (489,887) 767,380 610,296 Profit for the year Other comprehensive income Net exchange differences on translation of foreign operations Share of other comprehensive income of equity accounted investees Net change in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets Actuarial (loss)/ gain on employee benefit obligations Income tax on other comprehensive income Total other comprehensive income Total comprehensive income for the year Transactions with owners, recorded directly in equity Dividends to equity holders Recovery for the year 1,626 Transfers 2,413 Total contributions by and distributions to owners 1,626 2,413 Changes in ownership interests in subsidiaries Acquisition of non-controlling interest with a change in control Acquisition of non-controlling interest without a change in control 49,393 198 Total changes in ownership interests in subsidiaries 49,393 198 Total transactions with owners 1,626 49,393 2,611 Balance as at 31st March 2014 1,575,000 (488,261) 816,773 612,907 178 The Quality of Life Attributable to equity holders of the Company Other Components of Equity Revenue Reserves Revaluation AvailableForeign General Timber Retained Shareholders' NonTotal reserve for-sale currency reserve reserve earnings funds controlling Equity reserve translation interest reserve Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 8,093,806 (1,402) 908,458 2,234,731 41,377 8,512,025 22,251,784 11,173,102 33,424,886 9,468 1,799,055 1,808,523 1,900,470 3,708,993 (16,686) (16,686) (60,013) (76,699) (446) (446) (39) (485) (3,113) (3,113) (3,567) (6,680) (111,391) (111,391) 29,438 (81,953) 5,441 5,441 (4,862) 579 (3,559) (16,686) (105,950) (126,195) (39,043) (165,238) (3,559) (16,686) 9,468 1,693,105 1,682,328 1,861,427 3,543,755 (337,500) (337,500) (797,014) (1,134,514) 1,626 1,626 15,190 (17,603) 15,190 (355,103) (335,874) (797,014) (1,132,888) 46,192 46,192 (11,205) 104 394 (20,402) 9 106,313 124,804 330,517 455,321 (11,205) 104 394 (20,402) 9 106,313 124,804 376,709 501,513 (11,205) 104 394 (5,212) 9 (248,790) (211,070) (420,305) (631,375) 8,082,601 (4,857) 892,166 2,229,519 50,854 9,956,340 23,723,042 12,614,224 36,337,266 179 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Statements of changes in equity For the year ended 31st March Capital Other Revenue Reserve Reserve Component of Equity Company Stated Employee Other Revaluation General Retained Total capital share trust capital reserve reserve earnings loan reserve Rs. '000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Balance as at 1st April, 2014 1,575,000 (488,261) 13,226 4,861,023 382,087 1,925,740 8,268,815 Profit for the year 754,405 754,405 Other Comprehensive income Actuarial loss on employee benefit obligations 80,652 80,652 Revaluation of land 1,453,000 1,453,000 Total other comprehensive income 1,453,000 80,652 1,533,652 Total Comprehensive income for the year 1,453,000 835,057 2,288,057 Transactions with owners, recorded directly in equity Repayment of employee share trust loan 339,703 339,703 Dividends to equity holders (375,000) (375,000) Total contributions by and distributions to owners 339,703 (375,000) (35,297) Total transactions with owners 339,703 (375,000) (35,297) Balance as at 31st March 2015 1,575,000 (148,558) 13,226 6,314,023 382,087 2,385,797 10,521,575 Balance as at 1st April, 2013 1,575,000 (489,887) 13,226 4,861,023 382,087 1,805,332 8,146,781 Profit for the year 537,479 537,479 Other Comprehensive income Actuarial loss on employee benefit obligations (79,571) (79,571) Total other comprehensive income (79,571) (79,571) Total Comprehensive income for the year 457,908 457,908 Transactions with owners, recorded directly in equity Dividends to equity holders (337,500) (337,500) Recovery for the year 1,626 1,626 Total contributions by and distributions to owners 1,626 (337,500) (335,874) Total transactions with owners 1,626 (337,500) (335,874) Balance as at 31st March 2014 1,575,000 (488,261) 13,226 4,861,023 382,087 1,925,740 8,268,815 180 The Quality of Life Statements of cash flows Consolidated Company For the year ended 31st March 2015 2014 2015 2014 (Restated) Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Cash flows from operating activities Cash generated from operations (Note A) 10,482,200 7,439,231 1,042,650 891,835 Employee benefit paid (509,685) (498,359) (25,804) (63,358) Income tax paid (1,341,151) (1,387,774) (12,005) (36,929) Net cash inflow / (outflow) from operating activities 8,631,364 5,553,098 1,004,841 791,548 Cash flows from investing activities Purchase and construction of property, plant & equipment (5,451,733) (3,453,473) (64,261) (68,310) Investments in other non current assets (714,713) (46,080) Development of biological assets (9,285) (3,423) Grants received capital 25,090 4,564 Improvements to investment property (2,331) (3,679) Proceeds from disposal of property, plant & equipment 344,469 120,723 1,100 24 Proceeds from disposal of intangible assets 12,109 2,106 Proceeds from disposal of current financial assets 18,426 261,628 Proceeds from disposal of group companies 371,041 On acquisition of right to generate hydro power/ ERP System (147,529) (78,154) Proceeds from sale of other current financial assets 23,741 12,923 2,615 Long term investments in group companies and others (345) (5,517) (664,277) (529,382) Investment in equity accounted investees (7,800) Acquisition through business combinations (669,058) (690,187) Interest received 155,689 181,929 22,051 88,014 Dividends received from equity accounted investees 18,088 12,033 Dividends received from non-group companies 83,613 257,736 73,876 253,221 Net cash used in investing activities (6,339,994) (3,688,499) (242,044) 7,810 Net cash inflow /(outflow) before financing 2,291,370 1,864,599 762,797 799,358 181 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Statements of cash flows Consolidated Company For the year ended 31st March 2015 2014 2015 2014 (Restated) Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Cash Flows from Financing Activities Capital receipt/ (payment) on finance lease (20,257) 21,321 Recovery of employee share trust loan 339,703 1,626 339,703 1,626 Interest paid (including interest capitalised) (2,129,399) (2,366,134) (597,995) (773,138) Dividend paid to non-controlling interest (1,150,814) (797,014) Proceeds from disposal of non-controlling interest 98,306 Proceeds from non controlling interest on issue of right in subsidiary 215,976 259,587 Proceeds from non controlling interest on initial public offer 107,613 Proceeds from interest-bearing borrowings 6,260,150 6,759,243 3,000,000 4,267,500 Repayment of interest-bearing borrowings (3,286,820) (2,226,204) (1,120,083) (698,183) Payment of long term loan facility fee (19,012) (19,012) Forward contract liability payment (42,711) (51,067) Debenture redemption (40,000) Debenture issue fee (4,106) (21,818) (11,604) (21,818) Dividends paid to equity holders of parent (375,000) (337,500) (375,000) (337,500) Net cash inflow / (outflow) from financing activities (233,279) 1,480,014 1,183,954 2,419,475 Net increase / (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 2,058,091 3,344,614 1,946,751 3,218,833 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year (9,837,833) (13,182,447) (1,398,476) (4,617,309) Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year (Note B) (7,779,742) (9,837,833) 548,275 (1,398,476) Notes from pages 184 to 271 form an integral part of these Financial Statements. Figures in brackets indicate deductions. 182 The Quality of Life Consolidated Company For the year ended 31st March 2015 2014 2015 2014 (Restated) Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 A. Cash generated from operations Profit before tax 6,399,915 5,082,621 762,970 568,261 Adjustments for: Net finance cost 2,135,014 2,147,278 560,088 554,285 Share of profits from equity accounted investees (24,383) (34,243) Depreciation on property, plant & equipment 2,433,786 2,003,414 32,624 29,802 Depreciation on investment properties 5,998 3,150 Impairment of property, plant & equipment 16,520 50,493 Change in fair value of biological assets (31,682) (28,065) (Gain)/loss on the disposal of property, plant & equipment (25,093) (31,260) (60) (24) (Gain)/loss on the disposal of long term investment (1,253) (23,471) (105,212) (Gain)/loss on the disposal of current financial assets 81 81 Scrip Dividend (77,465) Amortisation of intangible assets 120,802 101,136 Impairment of intangible assets 9,864 Net gains/(loss) on translation of foreign currency (110,231) (125,609) Impairment of trade & other receivables (40,814) 70,673 Provision for unrealised profit and write-down of inventories (2,873) 168,171 Impairment of other non current assets 42,981 17,323 Provision for post employee benefit obligations 813,861 748,835 71,513 61,633 Grants amortised (53,673) (45,709) Net change in fair value of financial assets at fair value through profit or loss (425) Impairment of investments in subsidiaries 75,000 11,678,875 10,137,728 1,401,199 1,108,827 (Increase)/decrease in trade and other receivables (159,468) (1,681,679) (314,511) 377,504 (Increase)/decrease in inventories (494,976) (1,987,660) (808) 236 Increase/(decrease) in trade and other payables (542,231) 970,842 (43,230) (594,732) 10,482,200 7,439,231 1,042,650 891,835 B. Analysis of cash and cash equivalents Cash in hand and at bank 3,112,543* 2,634,528* 39,562 155,211 Short term deposits 2,413,781 1,536,101 546,292 5,526,324 4,170,629 585,854 155,211 Short-term interest bearing borrowings (13,306,065) (14,008,462) (37,579) (1,553,687) Cash and cash equivalents (7,779,742) (9,837,833) 548,275 (1,398,476) C. During the year Group acquired property, plant & equipment with an aggregate cost of Rs. 5,451.7 mn of which Rs. 6.76 mn was acquired by means of finance leases * Includes discontinued operations. 183 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Notes to the financial statements 1. Corporate Information Lanka Accounting Standards promulgated by 3.1 Subsidiaries 1.1 Reporting entity the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Subsidiaries are those entities controlled by the Hayleys PLC is a Company incorporated and Lanka (CA Sri Lanka), and with the requirements Group. Control is achieved when the Group is domiciled in Sri Lanka. The ordinary shares of the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007. exposed, or rights to variable returns from its of the Company are listed on the Colombo involvement with the investee and when it has Stock Exchange of Sri Lanka. The address of the 2.2 Basis of measurement the ability to affect those returns through its Company’s registered office and the principal The Consolidated Financial Statements have power over the investee. Specifically, the Group place of business are given on the inner back been prepared on the historical cost basis, controls an investee if, and only if, the Group cover. except for the following material items in the has: Statement of Financial Position. 1.2 Consolidated Financial Statements  Power over the investee (i.e., existing rights The Consolidated Financial Statements of  Lands which are recognized as property that give it the current ability to direct the Hayleys PLC, as at and for the year ended 31st plant and equipment are measured at relevant activities of the investee) March 2015 encompass the Company, its cost at the time of the acquisition and  Exposure, or rights, to variable returns from Subsidiaries (together referred to as the “Group”) subsequently land is carried at fair value. its involvement with the investee and the Group’s interest in Equity Accounted  Financial instrumentsfair value through Investees (Associates and Joint Ventures).  The ability to use its power over the profit or loss are measured at fair value. investee to affect its returns 1.3 Nature of operations and principal  Financial instrumentsavailable-for-sale activities of the Company and the financial assets are measured at fair value. The Group re-assesses whether or not it controls Group an investee if facts and circumstances indicate  Consumable biological assets are Descriptions of the nature of operations that there are changes to one or more of the measured at fair value. and principal activities of the Company, its three elements of control. Consolidation of Subsidiaries and Equity Accounted Investees a subsidiary begins when the Group obtains Where appropriate, the specific policies are are given on pages 284 to 286 There were no control over the subsidiary and ceases when explained in the succeeding notes. significant changes in the nature of the principal the Group loses control of the subsidiary. activities of the Company and the Group during Assets, liabilities, income and expenses of a No adjustments have been made for inflationary the financial year under review. subsidiary acquired or disposed of during the factors in the Consolidated Financial Statements. year are included in the Consolidated Financial Hayleys PLC does not have an identifiable Statements from the date the Group gains 2.3. Functional and presentation currency parent of its own. control until the date the Group ceases to The Financial Statements are presented in control the subsidiary. Sri Lankan Rupees (Rs), which is the Group’s 1.4 Approval of Financial Statements functional and presentation currency, except The Consolidated Financial Statements of A change in the ownership interest of for certain subsidiaries whose functional Hayleys PLC and its subsidiaries (collectively, the a subsidiary, without a loss of control, is currencies are different as they operate in Group) for the year ended 31st March 2015 were accounted for as an equity transaction. If different economic environments (see note authorised for issue by the Directors on 20th the Group loses control over a subsidiary, it 34). All financial information presented in Sri May 2015. derecognises the related assets (including Lankan Rupees has been rounded to the nearest goodwill), liabilities, non-controlling interest thousand (Rs’000), except when otherwise 1.5 Responsibility for Financial Statements and other components of equity while any indicated. The responsibility of the Directors in relation resultant gain or loss is recognised in the to the Financial Statements is set out in the Income Statement. Any investment retained is 2.4 Materiality and Aggregation Statement of Directors’ Responsibility Report in recognised at fair value. Each material class of similar items is presented the Annual Report. separately in the Consolidated Financial 3.1.1 Business combination and goodwill. Statements. Items of a dissimilar nature or 2. Basis of preparation Business combinations are accounted for function are presented separately unless they using the acquisition method. The cost of an 2.1. Statement of compliance are immaterial. acquisition is measured as the aggregate of The Consolidated Financial Statements have the consideration transferred, measured at been prepared in accordance with the Sri Lanka 3 Basis of Consolidation acquisition date fair value and the amount of Accounting and Auditing Standards Act No. Subsidiaries and Equity Accounted Investees are any non-controlling interest in the acquiree. 15 of 1995, which requires compliance with Sri disclosed in Note 18 to the Financial Statements. For each business combination, the Group 184 The Quality of Life measures the non-controlling interest in acquired in a business combination is, from The Group’s investments in its associates and the acquire either at fair value or at the the acquisition date, allocated to each of the joint venture are accounted for using the equity proportionate share of the acquiree’s identifiable Group’s cash-generating units that are expected method. net assets. to benefit from the combination, irrespective of whether other assets or liabilities of the acquiree Under the equity method, the investment Transaction costs, other than those associated are assigned to those units. in an associate or a joint venture is initially with the issue of debt or equity securities that recognised at cost. The carrying amount of the the Group incurs in connection with a business Where goodwill forms part of a cash-generating investment is adjusted to recognise changes in combinations are expensed and included in unit and part of the operation within that unit the Group’s share of net assets of the associate administrative expenses. is disposed of, the goodwill associated with the or joint venture since the acquisition date. operation disposed of is included in the carrying Goodwill relating to the associate or joint When the Group acquires a business, it assesses amount of the operation when determining venture is included in the carrying amount of the financial assets and liabilities assumed the gain or loss on disposal of the operation. the investment and is not tested for impairment for appropriate classification and designation Goodwill disposed of in this circumstance is individually. in accordance with the contractual terms, measured based on the relative values of the economic circumstances and pertinent operation disposed of and the portion the cashThe Income Statement reflects the Group’s conditions as at the acquisition date. generating unit retained. share of the results of operations of the associate or joint venture. Any change in Other If the business combination is achieved in 3.1.2 Transactions with non controlling Comprehensive Income of those investees stages, any previously held equity interest is interests is presented as part of the Group’s Other remeasured at its acquisition date fair value and The profit or loss and net assets of a subsidiary Comprehensive Income. In addition, when any resulting gain or loss recognised in Income attributable to equity interests that are not there has been a change recognised directly Statement. owned by the parent, directly or indirectly in the equity of the associate or joint venture, through subsidiaries, is disclosed separately the Group recognises its share of any changes, Any contingent consideration to be transferred under “Noncontrolling Interest”. when applicable, in the Statement of Changes by the acquirer will be recognised at fair value in Equity. Unrealised gains and losses resulting at the acquisition date. Subsequent changes in Losses within a subsidiary are attributed to the from transactions between the Group and the the fair value of the contingent consideration non-controlling interest even if that results in a associate or joint venture are eliminated to the which is deemed to be an asset or liability, will deficit balance. extent of the interest in the associate or joint be recognised in accordance with LKAS 39 venture. either in Income Statement or as a change to 3.1.3 Equity accounted investees (Investment Other Comprehensive Income. If the contingent in associates and joint ventures) The aggregate of the Group’s share of profit or consideration is classified as equity, it will not An associate is an entity over which the Group loss of an associate and a joint venture is shown be remeasured. Subsequent settlement is has significant influence. Significant influence on the face of the Income Statement outside accounted for within equity. In instances where is the power to participate in the financial and operating profit and represents profit or loss the contingent consideration does not fall operating policy decisions of the investee, but is after tax and non-controlling interests in the within the scope of LKAS 39, it is measured in not control or joint control over those policies. subsidiaries of the associate or joint venture. accordance with the appropriate SLFRS/LKAS. A joint venture is a type of joint arrangement The Financial Statements of the associate Goodwill is initially measured at cost, being the whereby the parties that have joint control or joint venture are prepared for the same excess of the aggregate of the consideration of the arrangement have rights to the net reporting period as the Group. When necessary, transferred and the amount recognised for assets of the joint venture. Joint control is the adjustments are made to bring the accounting non-controlling interest over the net identifiable contractually agreed sharing of control of an policies in line with those of the Group. assets acquired and liabilities assumed. If this arrangement, which exists only when decisions consideration is lower than the fair value of about the relevant activities require unanimous After application of the equity method, the the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the consent of the parties sharing control. Group determines whether it is necessary to difference is recognised in Income Statement. recognise an impairment loss on its investment The considerations made in determining in its associate or joint venture. At each After initial recognition, goodwill is measured significant influence or joint control is similar reporting date, the Group determines whether at cost less any accumulated impairment to those necessary to determine control over there is objective evidence that the investment losses. Goodwill is tested for impairment. For subsidiaries. in the associate or joint venture is impaired. If the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill there is such evidence, the Group calculates 185 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Notes to the financial statements the amount of impairment as the difference translated using the exchange rates at the date The subsidiaries with 31st December financial between the recoverable amount of the when the fair value is determined. The gain or year ends prepare for Consolidation purpose, associate or joint venture and its carrying value, loss arising on retranslation of non-monetary additional financial information as of the same and then recognises the loss as ‘Share of profit/ items is treated in line with the recognition of date as the Financial Statements of the parent. (loss) of an associate and a joint venture’ in the gain or loss on change in fair value of the item Income Statement. (i.e., translation differences on items whose The subsidiaries which are unable to prepare fair value gain or loss is recognised in Other additional financial information then the parent Upon loss of significant influence over the Comprehensive Income or Income Statement uses the most recent Financial Statements of associate or joint control over the joint also recognised in Other Comprehensive the subsidiaries and it’s adjusted for the effects venture, the Group measures and recognises Income or Income Statement, respectively). of significant transactions or events that occur any retained investment at its fair value. Any between the date of those Financial Statements difference between the carrying amount of 3.1.5.2 Foreign operations and the date of the Consolidated Financial the associate or joint venture upon loss of The results and financial position of all Group Statements. The difference between the date of significant influence or joint control and the fair entities that have a functional currency other the subsidiary’s Financial Statements and that of value of the retained investment and proceeds than the Sri Lankan Rupee are translated into Sri the Consolidated Financial Statements will not from disposal is recognised in the Income Lankan Rupees as follows: be more than three months. Statement.  assets and liabilities of foreign operations, 3.1.7 Current versus non-current classification 3.1.4 Transactions eliminated on consolidation including goodwill and fair value The Group presents assets and liabilities in Intra-group balances and transactions, and adjustments arising on the acquisition the Statement of Financial Position based on any unrealised income and expenses arising are translated to Sri Lankan Rupees at the current/non-current classification. An asset is from intra-group transactions, are eliminated exchange rate prevailing at the reporting current when it is: in preparing the Consolidated Financial date;  Expected to be realised or intended to sold Statements. Unrealised gains arising from  income and expenses are translated at the or consumed in a normal operating cycle transactions with equity accounted investees average exchange rates for the period. are eliminated against the investment to the  Held primarily for the purpose of trading extent of the Group’s interest in the investee. The exchange differences arising on translation  Expected to be realised within twelve Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same for Consolidation are recognised in Other months after the reporting period way as unrealised gains, but only to the extent Comprehensive Income. When a foreign that there is no evidence of impairment. operation is disposed of, the relevant amount Or in the translation reserve is transferred to the  Cash or cash equivalent unless restricted 3.1.5 Foreign currency Income Statement as part of the profit or loss on from being exchanged or used to settle a 3.1.5.1 Foreign currency transactions disposal. On the partial disposal of a subsidiary liability for at least twelve months after the Transactions in foreign currencies are translated that includes a foreign operation, the relevant reporting period to the respective functional currencies of Group proportion of such cumulative amount is entities at exchange rates applicable on the reattributed to non-controlling interest. In any All other assets are classified as non-current. A dates of the transaction. other partial disposal of a foreign operation, the liability is current when: relevant proportion is reclassified to the Income Monetary assets and liabilities denominated Statement.  It is expected to be settled in a normal in foreign currencies at the reporting date operating cycle are retranslated at the functional currency Any goodwill arising on the acquisition of a  It is held primarily for the purpose of trading spot rate of exchange ruling at the reporting foreign operation and any fair value adjustments date. Foreign currency differences arising to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities  It is due to be settled within twelve months on retranslation are recognised in Income arising on the acquisition are treated as assets after the reporting period Statement. All differences arising on settlement and liabilities of the foreign operation. Or or translation of monetary items are taken to Income Statement. Non-monetary assets and 3.1.6 Consolidation of subsidiaries with  There is no unconditional right to defer the liabilities which are carried in terms of historical different accounting periods settlement of the liability for at least twelve cost in a foreign currency are translated at the The Financial Statements of all subsidiaries in the months after the reporting period exchange rate that prevailed at the date of Group other than those mentioned in Note 36 the initial transaction. Non-monetary items to the Financial Statements are prepared for a measured at fair value in a foreign currency are common financial year, which ends on 31st March. 186 The Quality of Life The Group classifies all other liabilities as nonparticipants would use when pricing the asset and the level of the fair value hierarchy as current. or liability, assuming that market participants act explained above. in their economic best interest. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are classified as 3.2 Assets and basis of their valuation non-current assets and liabilities. A fair value measurement of a non-financial 3.2.1 Property, plant & equipment asset takes into account a market participant’s The group applies the requirements of LKAS 16 3.1.8 Fair value measurement ability to generate economic benefits by using on ‘Property Plant and Equipment’ in accounting The Group measures financial instruments the asset in its highest and best use or by selling for its owned assets which are held for and such as derivatives, and non-financial assets it to another market participant that would use use in the provision of the services, for rental such as land, at fair value at each balance sheet the asset in its highest and best use. to other or for administration purpose and are date. Fair value related disclosures for financial expected to be used for more than one year. instruments and non-financial assets that are The Group uses valuation techniques that measured at fair value or where fair values are are appropriate in the circumstances and for 3.2.1.1 Basis of recognition disclosed, are summarised in the following which sufficient data are available to measure Property Plant and Equipment is recognised notes: fair value, maximising the use of relevant if it is probable that future economic benefit observable inputs and minimising the use of associated with the assets will flow to the Group  Disclosures for valuation methods, unobservable inputs. and cost of the asset can be reliably measured. significant estimates and assumptions Note 19 All assets and liabilities for which fair value 3.2.1.2 Basis of measurement is measured or disclosed in the financial Items of property, plant & equipment are  Quantitative disclosures of fair value statements are categorised within the fair value measured at cost less accumulated depreciation measurement hierarchy Note 19 hierarchy, described as follows, based on the and accumulated impairment losses, if any, lowest level input that is significant to the fair whilst land is measured at fair value.  Property (land) under value measurement as a whole: revaluation model Note 14 3.2.1.3 Owned assets  Level 1 — Quoted (unadjusted) market The cost of property, plant & equipment  Financial instruments (including prices in active markets for identical assets includes expenditure that is directly attributable those carried at amortised cost) Note 19 or liabilities to the acquisition of the asset. The cost of selfconstructed assets includes the cost of materials 8 Level 2 — Valuation techniques for which Fair value is the price that would be received to and direct labour, any other costs directly the lowest level input that is significant to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an attributable to bringing the asset to a working the fair value measurement is directly or orderly transaction between market participants condition for its intended use, and the costs indirectly observable at the measurement date. The fair value of dismantling and removing the items and measurement is based on the presumption that 8 Level 3 — Valuation techniques for which restoring the site on which they are located, and the transaction to sell the asset or transfer the the lowest level input that is significant to borrowing costs on qualifying assets. Purchased liability takes place either: the fair value measurement is unobservable software that is integral to the functionality of the related equipment is capitalised as a part of  In the principal market for the asset or For assets and liabilities that are recognised in that equipment. liability the Financial Statements on a recurring basis, the Group determines whether transfers have When significant parts of plant and equipment Or are required to be replaced at intervals, the occurred between levels in the hierarchy by  In the absence of a principal market, in the re-assessing categorisation (based on the lowest Group depreciates them separately based on most advantageous market for the asset or level input that is significant to the fair value their specific useful lives. liability measurement as a whole) at the end of each reporting period. Revaluation of land is done with sufficient The principal or the most advantageous market frequency to ensure that the fair value of the must be accessible by the Group. For the purpose of fair value disclosures, land dose not differ materially from its carrying the Group has determined classes of assets amount, and is undertaken by professionally The fair value of an asset or a liability is and liabilities on the basis of the nature, qualified valuers. measured using the assumptions that market characteristics and risks of the asset or liability 187 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Notes to the financial statements Any revaluation surplus is recorded in Other Leasehold right to landOver the lease period Operating lease payments are recognised as an Comprehensive Income and credited to the operating expense in the Income Statement on Buildings20 – 50 years asset revaluation reserve in equity, except to the a straight-line basis over the lease term. extent that it reverses a revaluation decrease Software03 – 05 years of the same asset previously recognised in the 3.2.1.9 Group as a lessor for operating leases. Plant & machinery05 – 20 years Income Statement, in which case, the increase Leases in which the Group does not transfer is recognised in the Income Statement. A Stores equipment05 – 10 years substantially all the risks and benefits of revaluation deficit is recognised in the Income ownership of an asset are classified as operating Motor vehicles04 – 05 years Statement, except to the extent that it offsets an leases. Initial direct costs incurred in negotiating existing surplus on the same asset recognised Furniture, fittings & office an operating lease are added to the carrying in the asset revaluation reserve. Upon disposal, equipment02 – 13 years amount of the leased asset and recognised any revaluation reserve relating to the particular over the lease term on the same basis as rental asset being sold is transferred to retained Depreciation of an asset begins when it is income. earnings. available for use and ceases at the earlier of the dates on which the asset is classified as held for Contingent rents are recognised as revenue in 3.2.1.4 Subsequent costs sale or is derecognised. the period in which they are earned. The cost of replacing a component of an item of property, plant & equipment is recognised in the The asset’s residual values, useful lives are 3.2.2 Investment property carrying amount of the item if it is probable that reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each Investment property is property held either to the future economic benefits embodied within financial year end and adjusted prospectively, if earn rental income or for capital appreciation the part will flow to the Group and its cost can appropriate. or both, but not for sale in the ordinary course be measured reliably. The carrying amount of of business, use in the production or supply of the replaced part is derecognised in accordance 3.2.1.7 Leased assets goods or services or for administrative purposes. with the derecognition policy given below. The determination of whether an arrangement Investment property is measured at its cost less is, or contains, a lease is based on the substance accumulated depreciation and accumulated The costs of the repair and maintenance of of the arrangement at inception date, whether impairment losses, if any. Cost includes property, plant & equipment are recognised in fulfilment of the arrangement is dependent expenditure that is directly attributable to the Income Statement as incurred. on the use of a specific asset or assets or the acquisition of the investment property. The arrangement conveys a right to use the asset, cost of selfconstructed investment property 3.2.1.5 Derecognition even if that right is not explicitly specified in an includes the cost of materials and direct labour, The carrying amount of an item of property, arrangement. any other costs directly attributable to bringing plant & equipment is derecognised on disposal; the investment property to a working condition or when no future economic benefits are 3.2.1.8 Group as a lessee for their intended use and capitalised borrowing expected from its use. Any gains and losses Finance leases that transfer to the Group costs. on derecognition are recognised in Income substantially all the risks and benefits incidental Statement and gains are not classified as to ownership of the leased item, are capitalised Investment properties are derecognised when revenue. When revalued assets are sold, any at the commencement of the lease at the fair either they have been disposed of or when the amount related to the particular asset included value of the leased property or, if lower, at the investment property is permanently withdrawn in the revaluation reserve is transferred to present value of the minimum lease payments. from use and no future economic benefit is retained earnings. Lease payments are apportioned between expected from its disposal. finance charges and reduction of the lease 3.2.1.6 Depreciation liability so as to achieve a constant rate of The difference between the net disposal Depreciation is recognised in Income Statement interest on the remaining balance of the liability. proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful Finance charges are recognised in finance costs is recognised in the Income Statement in the lives of each part of an item of property, plant & in the Income Statement. period of derecognition. equipment, since this most closely reflects the expected pattern of consumption of the future A leased asset is depreciated over the useful life Transfers are made to or from investment economic benefits embodied in the asset. of the asset. However, if there is no reasonable property only when there is a change in use. certainty that the Group will obtain ownership Transfers between investment property, ownerThe estimated useful lives for the current and by the end of the lease term, the asset is occupied property do not change the carrying comparative periods are as follows: depreciated over the shorter of the estimated amount of the property transferred and they useful life of the asset and the lease term. do not change the cost of that property for measurement or disclosure purposes. 188 The Quality of Life 3.2.3 Intangible assets 3.2.3.4 De-recognition of intangible assets During the period of development, the asset 3.2.3.1 Basis of recognition Intangible assets are de-recognised on disposal is tested for impairment annually if there are An Intangible asset is recognised if it is probable or when no future economic benefits are indicators of impairment. that future economic benefit associated with expected from its use. Gains or losses arising the assets will flow to the Group and cost of the from de-recognition of an intangible asset are 3.2.3.7 Brand name asset can be reliably measured. measured as the difference between the net Brands acquired as part of a business disposal proceeds and the carrying amount combination, are capitalized as part of a Brand 3.2.3.2 Basis of measurement of the asset and are recognised in the Income Names if the Brand meets the definition of an Intangible assets acquired separately are Statement when the asset is derecognised. intangible asset and the recognition criteria measured on initial recognition at cost. The are satisfied. Brand Names are reviewed for costs of intangible assets acquired in a business 3.2.3.5 Leasehold rights impairment, annually or more frequently if combination are their fair value as at the date of In respect of operating leases acquired under events or changes in circumstances indicate acquisition. a business combination where the Group is that the carrying value may be impaired. lessee, Group determines whether the terms Following initial recognition, intangible assets of each operating lease are favourable or 3.2.3.8 Customer list are carried at cost less any accumulated unfavourable relative to market terms. The The present value of the income anticipated amortisation and accumulated impairment Group recognises an intangible asset if the deriving from repeat customer list to of the losses. terms of an operating lease are favourable travel agents as at the acquisition date is relative to market terms and a liability if the recognised as an intangible asset based on a Internally generated intangible assets, terms are unfavourable relative to market terms. valuation carried out by an independent valuer. excluding capitalised development costs, are Leasehold rights represent value of favourable Subsequent to initial recognition, the intangible not capitalised and expenditure is reflected in lease terms. asset is carried at cost less accumulated the Income Statement in the year in which the amortisation and accumulated impairment expenditure is incurred. 3.2.3.6 Research and development losses. Research costs are expensed as incurred. 3.2.3.3 Useful economic lives and amortisation Development expenditures on an individual Customer list recognised at the acquisition The useful lives of intangible assets are assessed project are recognised as an intangible asset date will be amortised over the period over as either finite or indefinite. Useful economic when the Group can demonstrate: which income is anticipated to derive from lives, amortisation and impairment of finite and repeat customers and reviewed annually for any indefinite intangible assets are described below;  The technical feasibility of completing the impairment in value if there are indicators of intangible asset so that it will be available impairment. Intangible assets with finite lives are amortised for use or sale over the useful economic life and assessed for 3.2.3.9 Other intangible assets  Its intention to complete and its ability to impairment whenever there is an indication Other intangible assets that are acquired by use or sell the asset that the intangible asset may be impaired. the Group, which have finite useful lives, are The amortisation period and the amortisation  How the asset will generate future measured at cost less accumulated amortisation method for an intangible asset with a finite economic benefits and accumulated impairment losses. useful life is reviewed at least at the end  The availability of resources to complete the of each reporting period. Changes in the 3.2.3.10 Subsequent expenditure asset expected useful life or the expected pattern Subsequent expenditure is capitalised only of consumption of future economic benefits  The ability to measure reliably the when it increases the future economic benefits embodied in the asset is accounted for by expenditure during development embodied in the specific asset to which changing the amortisation period or method, it relates. All other expenditure, including as appropriate, and are treated as changes Following initial recognition of the development expenditure on internally generated goodwill in accounting estimates. The amortisation expenditure as an asset, the asset is carried at and brands, is recognised in profit and loss as expense on intangible assets with finite lives cost less any accumulated amortisation and incurred. is recognised in the Income Statement in the accumulated impairment losses. Amortisation expense category consistent with the function of the asset begins when development is 3.2.3.11 Amortisation of the intangible assets. complete and the asset is available for use. It is Amortisation is recognised in profit and loss on amortised over the period of expected future a straight-line basis over the estimated useful benefit. Amortisation is recorded in cost of sales. lives of intangible assets, other than goodwill and brand name, from the date on which they 189 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Notes to the financial statements are available for use. The estimated useful lives 3.3.1.2 Subsequent measurement Derivatives embedded in host contracts for the current and comparative periods are as The subsequent measurement of financial are accounted for as separate derivatives follows: assets depends on their classification as and recorded at fair value if their economic described below: characteristics and risks are not closely related  Right to generate hydro power – 1520 years to those of the host contracts and the host Financial assets at fair value through contracts are not held for trading or designated  Customer List – 5 years profit or loss at fair value though profit or loss. These  ERP Systems – 5-10 years Financial assets at fair value through profit or embedded derivatives are measured at fair value loss include financial assets held for trading with changes in fair value recognised in the  Operating Lease – The Kingsbury PLC – 55 and financial assets designated upon initial Income Statement. Reassessment only occurs years recognition at fair value through profit or loss. if there is a change in the terms of the contract  Amaya Leisure PLC – 21 years Financial assets are classified as held for trading that significantly modifies the cash flows that if they are acquired for the purpose of selling would otherwise be required. 3.3 Financial instruments or repurchasing in the near term. Derivatives, A financial instrument is any contract that including separated embedded derivatives are Loans and receivables gives rise to a financial asset of one entity and also classified as held for trading unless they are Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial liability or equity instrument of another designated as effective hedging instruments as financial assets with fixed or determinable entity. defined by LKAS 39. payments that are not quoted in an active market. After initial measurement, such 3.3.1 Financial assets Financial assets at fair value through profit and financial assets are subsequently measured 3.3.1.1 Initial recognition and measurement loss are carried in the statement of financial at amortised cost using the effective interest Financial assets within the scope of LKAS 39 position at fair value with net changes in fair rate method (EIR) , less impairment. Amortised are classified as financial assets at fair value value recognised in finance income or finance cost is calculated by taking into account any through profit or loss, loans and receivables, costs in the Income Statement. discount or premium on acquisition and fees held-to-maturity investments, available-for-sale or costs that are an integral part of the EIR. The financial assets, or as derivatives designated Financial assets designated upon initial EIR amortisation is included in finance income as hedging instruments in an effective hedge, recognition at fair value through profit and in the Income Statement. The losses arising as appropriate. The Group determines the loss are designated at their initial recognition from impairment are recognised in the income classification of its financial assets at initial date and only if the criteria under LKAS 39 are statement in finance costs for loans and in other recognition. satisfied. operating expenses for receivables. All financial assets are recognised initially at fair The Group evaluates its financial assets held for Held-to-maturity investments value plus transaction costs, except in the case trading, other than derivatives, to determine Non-derivative financial assets with fixed or of financial assets recorded at fair value through whether the intention to sell them in the determinable payments and fixed maturities are profit or loss. near term is still appropriate. When in rare classified as held-to maturity when the Group circumstances the Group is unable to trade has the positive intention and ability to hold Purchases or sales of financial assets that these financial assets due to inactive markets them to maturity. After initial measurement, require delivery of assets within a time frame and management’s intention to sell them in held-to-maturity investments are measured at established by regulation or convention in the the foreseeable future significantly changes, amortised cost using the effective interest rate, market place (regular way trades) are recognised the Group may elect to reclassify these less impairment. on the trade date, i.e., the date that the Group financial assets. The reclassification to loans commits to purchase or sell the asset. and receivables, available-for-sale or held to Amortised cost is calculated by taking maturity depends on the nature of the asset. into account any discount or premium on The Group’s financial assets include cash and This evaluation does not affect any financial acquisition and fees or costs that are an integral short-term deposits, trade and other receivables, assets designated at fair value through profit or part of the EIR. The EIR amortisation is included loans and other receivables, amounts due loss using the fair value option at designation, in finance income in the income statement. The from subsidiaries, amounts due from equity these instruments cannot be reclassified after losses arising from impairment are recognised in accounted investees, quoted and unquoted initial recognition. the income statement in finance costs. financial instruments and derivative financial instruments. 190 The Quality of Life Available-for-sale financial investments remaining life of the investment using the EIR. 3.3.1.4 Impairment of financial assets Available-for-sale financial investments include Any difference between the new amortised cost The Group assesses, at each reporting date, equity investments and debt securities. Equity and the maturity amount is also amortised over whether there is any objective evidence that investments classified as available-for-sale are the remaining life of the asset using the effective a financial asset or a group of financial assets those that are neither classified as held for interest rate. If the asset is subsequently is impaired. A financial asset or a group of trading nor designated at fair value through determined to be impaired, then the amount financial assets is deemed to be impaired profit or loss. Debt securities in this category recorded in equity is reclassified to the Income if, and only if, there is objective evidence of are those that are intended to be held for an Statement. impairment as a result of one or more events indefinite period of time and that may be sold in that has occurred after the initial recognition of response to needs for liquidity or in response to 3.3.1.3 Derecognition the asset (an incurred ‘loss event’) and that loss changes in the market conditions. A financial asset (or, where applicable, a part event has an impact on the estimated future of a financial asset or part of a group of similar cash flows of the financial asset or the group of After initial measurement, available-forfinancial assets) is derecognised when: financial assets that can be reliably estimated. sale financial investments are subsequently Evidence of impairment may include indications measured at fair value with unrealised gains  The rights to receive cash flows from the that the debtors or a group of debtors is or losses recognised as other comprehensive asset have expired experiencing significant financial difficulty, income in the available-for-sale reserve until default or delinquency in interest or principal Or the investment is derecognised, at which time payments, the probability that they will enter the cumulative gain or loss is recognised in  The Group has transferred its rights to bankruptcy or other financial reorganisation other operating income, or the investment receive cash flows from the asset or has and when observable data indicate that there is determined to be impaired, when the assumed an obligation to pay the received is a measurable decrease in the estimated cumulative loss is reclassified from the availablecash flows in full without material delay future cash flows, such as changes in arrears for sale reserve to the income statement in to a third party under a ‘pass-through’ or economic conditions that correlate with finance costs. Interest earned whilst holding arrangement; and either (a) the Group has defaults. available-for-sale financial investments is transferred substantially all the risks and reported as interest income using the effective rewards of the asset, or (b) the Group has 3.3.1.4.1 Financial assets carried at amortised cost interest rate method. neither transferred nor retained substantially For financial assets carried at amortised cost, all the risks and rewards of the asset, but has the Group first assesses whether objective The Group evaluates whether the ability and transferred control of the asset. evidence of impairment exists individually for intention to sell its available-for-sale financial financial assets that are individually significant, assets in the near term is still appropriate. When, When the Group has transferred its rights to or collectively for financial assets that are not in rare circumstances, the Group is unable to receive cash flows from an asset or has entered individually significant. If the Group determines trade these financial assets due to inactive into a pass-through arrangement, it evaluates that no objective evidence of impairment markets and management’s intention to do so if and to what extent it has retained the risks exists for an individually assessed financial significantly changes in the foreseeable future, and rewards of ownership. When it has neither asset, whether significant or not, it includes the Group may elect to reclassify these financial transferred nor retained substantially all of the the asset in a group of financial assets with assets. Reclassification to loans and receivables risks and rewards of the asset, nor transferred similar credit risk characteristics and collectively is permitted when the financial assets meet control of the asset, the asset is recognised assesses them for impairment. Assets that are the definition of loans and receivables and to the extent of the Group’s continuing individually assessed for impairment and for the Group has the intent and ability to hold involvement in the asset. In that case, the Group which an impairment loss is, or continues to these assets for the foreseeable future or until also recognises an associated liability. The be, recognised are not included in a collective maturity. Reclassification to the held-to-maturity transferred asset and the associated liability are assessment of impairment. category is permitted only when the entity has measured on a basis that reflects the rights and the ability and intention to hold the financial obligations that the Group has retained. If there is objective evidence that an impairment asset accordingly. loss has been incurred, the amount of the loss Continuing involvement that takes the form of a is measured as the difference between the For a financial asset reclassified from the guarantee over the transferred asset is measured asset’s carrying amount and the present value available-for-sale category, the fair value at at the lower of the original carrying amount of estimated future cash flows (excluding future the date of reclassification becomes its new of the asset and the maximum amount of expected credit losses that have not yet been amortised cost and any previous gain or loss consideration that the Group could be required incurred). The present value of the estimated on the asset that has been recognised in equity to repay. future cash flows is discounted at the financial is amortised to Income Statement over the asset’s original effective interest rate. If a loan 191 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Notes to the financial statements has a variable interest rate, the discount rate for value after impairment are recognised directly in Gains or losses on liabilities held for trading are measuring any impairment loss is the current Other Comprehensive Income. recognised in the income statement. EIR. The determination of what is ‘significant’ or Financial liabilities designated upon initial The carrying amount of the asset is reduced ‘prolonged’ requires judgment. In making this recognition at fair value through profit and loss through the use of an allowance account and judgment, the Group evaluates among other so designated at the initial date of recognition, the amount of the loss is recognised in the factors, the duration or extent to which the fair and only if criteria of LKAS 39 are satisfied. Income Statement. Interest income continues value of the investment is less than its cost. to be accrued on the reduced carrying amount Loans and borrowings and is accrued using the rate of interest used to 3.3.2 Financial liabilities After initial recognition, interest bearing loans discount the future cash flows for the purpose 3.3.2.1 Initial recognition and measurement and borrowings are subsequently measured at of measuring the impairment loss. The interest Financial liabilities within the scope of LKAS amortised cost using the EIR method. Gains and income is recorded as part of finance income 39 are classified as financial liabilities at losses are recognised in the income statement in the income statement. Loans together with fair value through profit or loss, loans and when the liabilities are derecognised as well as the associated allowance are written off when borrowings, or as derivatives designated as through the EIR amortisation process. there is no realistic prospect of future recovery hedging instruments in an effective hedge, and all collateral has been realised or has been as appropriate. The Group determines the Amortised cost is calculated by taking transferred to the Group. If, in a subsequent classification of its financial liabilities at initial into account any discount or premium on year, the amount of the estimated impairment recognition. acquisition and fees or costs that are an integral loss increases or decreases because of an event part of the EIR. The EIR amortisation is included occurring after the impairment was recognised, All financial liabilities are recognised initially in finance costs in the Income Statement. the previously recognised impairment loss is at fair value plus, in the case of loans and increased or reduced by adjusting the allowance borrowings, directly attributable transaction Financial guarantee contracts account. If a future write-off is later recovered, costs. Financial guarantee contracts issued by the the recovery is credited to finance costs in the Group are those contracts that require a Income Statement. The Group’s financial liabilities include trade payment to be made to reimburse the holder and other payables, bank overdrafts, loans and for a loss it incurs because the specified 3.3.1.4.2 Available-for-sale financial investments borrowings, financial guarantee contracts, debtor fails to make a payment when due in The Group assesses at each reporting date amounts due to equity accounted investees and accordance with the terms of a debt instrument. whether there is objective evidence that derivative financial instruments. Fair values of corporate guarantees to Banks are an investment or a group of investments is measured on a periodic basis and the same is impaired. 3.3.2.2 Subsequent measurement recognized as finance income through interThe measurement of financial liabilities depends company current account balances. Financial In the case of equity investments classified as on their classification as described below: guarantee contracts are recognized initially as available-for-sale, objective evidence would a liability at fair value, adjusted for transaction include a significant or prolonged decline in Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or costs that are directly attributable to the the fair value of the investment below its cost. loss include financial liabilities held for trading issuance of the guarantee. ‘Significant’ is evaluated against the original and financial liabilities designated upon initial cost of the investment and ‘prolonged’ against recognition as at fair value through profit or Subsequently, the liability is measured at the the period in which the fair value has been loss. Financial liabilities are classified as held for higher of the best estimate of the expenditure below its original cost. When there is evidence trading if they are acquired for the purpose of required to settle the present obligation at the of impairment, the cumulative loss – measured selling in the near term. This category includes reporting date and the amount recognised less as the difference between the acquisition cost derivative financial instruments entered into by cumulative amortisation. and the current fair value, less any impairment the Group that are not designated as hedging loss on that investment previously recognised instruments in hedge relationships as defined 3.3.2.3 Derecognition in the income statement – is removed from by LKAS 39. Separated embedded derivatives A financial liability is derecognised when the Other Comprehensive Income and recognised are also classified as held for trading unless they obligation under the liability is discharged or in the Income Statement. Impairment losses on are designated as effective hedging instruments. cancelled or expires. equity investments are not reversed through the income statement; increases in their fair 192 The Quality of Life When an existing financial liability is replaced by 3.3.5 Derivative financial instruments exceeds its recoverable amount. Impairment another from the same lender on substantially 3.3.5.1 Initial recognition and subsequent losses are recognised in Income Statement. different terms, or the terms of an existing measurement Impairment losses recognised in respect of liability are substantially modified, such an The Group uses derivative financial instruments, cash-generating units are allocated first to exchange or modification is treated as the such as forward currency contracts, to hedge reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill derecognition of the original liability and the its foreign currency risks,.Such derivative allocated to the units and then to reduce the recognition of a new liability. The difference in financial instruments are initially recognised carrying amount of the other assets in the unit the respective carrying amounts is recognised in at fair value on the date on which a derivative on a pro rata basis. the Income Statement. contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at fair value. Derivatives are carried An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not 3.3.3 Offsetting of financial instruments as financial assets when the fair value is positive reversed. In respect of other assets, impairment Financial assets and financial liabilities are and as financial liabilities when the fair value is losses recognised in prior periods are assessed offset and the net amount reported in the negative. at each reporting date for any indications that Consolidated Statement of Financial Position if, the loss has decreased or no longer exists. An and only if: Any gains or losses arising from changes in the impairment loss is reversed if there has been fair value of derivatives are taken directly to the a change in the estimates used to determine  There is a currently enforceable legal right Income Statement. the recoverable amount. An impairment loss to offset the recognised amounts And is reversed only to the extent that the asset’s 3.3.6 Impairment of nonfinancial assets carrying amount does not exceed the carrying  There is an intention to settle on a net The carrying amounts of the Group’s nonamount that would have been determined, basis, or to realise the assets and settle the financial assets are reviewed at each reporting net of depreciation or amortisation, if no liabilities simultaneously date to determine whether there is any impairment loss had been recognised. indication of impairment. If any such indication 3.3.4 Fair value of financial instruments exists, then the asset’s recoverable amount is 3.3.7 Non-current assets held for sale The fair value of financial instruments that are estimated. For goodwill and intangible assets Non-current assets, or disposal groups traded in active markets at each reporting date that have indefinite lives or that are not yet comprising assets and liabilities, that are is determined by reference to quoted market available for use, the recoverable amount is expected to be recovered primarily through prices or dealer price quotations (bid price for estimated at each reporting date or more sale rather than through continuing use, long positions and ask price for short positions), frequently, if events or changes in circumstances are classified as held for sale. Immediately without any deduction for transaction costs. indicate that they might be impaired. before classification as held for sale, the assets, or components of a disposal group, are For financial instruments not traded in an Formers Provision for impairment remeasured in accordance with the Group’s active market, the fair value is determined In respect of formers, a 10% provision on the accounting policies. Thereafter generally the using appropriate valuation techniques. Such written down value is recognized as impairment assets, or disposal group, are measured at the techniques may include: in Income Statement. lower of their carrying amount and fair value less cost to sell. Any impairment loss on a  Using recent arm’s length market transactions disposal group first is allocated to goodwill, 3.3.6.1 Calculation of recoverable amount  Reference to the current fair value of The recoverable amount of an asset or cashand then to remaining assets and liabilities on another instrument that is substantially the generating unit is the greater of its value in use pro rata basis, except that no loss is allocated same and its fair value less costs to sell. In assessing to inventories, financial assets, deferred tax value in use, estimated future cash flows are assets, employee benefit assets, investment  A discounted cash flow analysis or other property and biological assets, which continue discounted to their present value using a prevaluation models. to be measured in accordance with the tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and Group’s accounting policies. Impairment losses An analysis of fair values of financial instruments on initial classification as held for sale and the risks specific to the asset. A cash-generating and further details as to how they are measured subsequent gains or losses on remeasurement unit is the smallest identifiable asset group are provided in Note 19 to the Financial are recognised in profit or loss. Gains are that generates cash flows that largely are Statements. not recognised in excess of any cumulative independent from other assets and groups. impairment loss. 3.3.6.2 Impairment/ Reversal of impairment An impairment loss is recognised if the carrying amount of an asset or its cash-generating unit 193 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Notes to the financial statements 3.3.8 Current assets periods during which services are rendered by 3.4.2 Recognition of actuarial gains or losses Assets classified as current assets on the employees. Actuarial gains or losses are recognised in full in Statement of Financial Position are cash and the Other Comprehensive Income. bank balances and those which are expected to The Group contributes 12% and 3% of gross be realised in cash during the normal operating emoluments to employees as Provident Fund 3.4.3 Short-term benefits cycle or within one year from the reporting date, and Trust Fund contribution respectively. Short-term employee benefit obligations are whichever is shorter. measured on an undiscounted basis and are 3.4.1.2 Defined benefit plans expensed as the related service is provided. 3.3.8.1 Inventories A defined benefit plan is a post-employment Inventories are measured at the lower of cost benefit plan other than a defined contribution 3.4.4 Provisions and net realisable value. Costs incurred in plan. The defined benefit is calculated by Provisions are recognised when the Group has bringing each product to its present location independent actuaries using Projected Unit a present obligation (legal or constructive) as and condition are accounted for as follows : Credit (PUC) method as recommended by LKAS a result of a past event, it is probable that an 19 – “Employee benefits”. The present value of outflow of resources embodying economic  All inventory items, except manufactured the defined benefit obligation is determined by benefits will be required to settle the obligation inventories and work-in-progress are discounting the estimated future cash outflows and a reliable estimate can be made of the measured at weighted average directly using interest rates that are denominated in the amount of the obligation. When the Group attributable cost. currency in which the benefits will be paid, and expects some or all of a provision to be that have terms to maturity approximating to reimbursed, the reimbursement is recognised  Manufactured inventories and workthe terms of the related liability. The present as a separate asset, but only when the in-progress are measured at weighted value of the defined benefit obligations reimbursement is virtually certain. The expense average factory cost which includes all depends on a number of factors that are relating to any provision is presented in the direct expenditure and appropriate share determined on an actuarial basis using a income statement net of any reimbursement. of production overhead based on normal number of assumptions. Key assumptions used operating capacity but excluding borrowing in determining the defined retirement benefit 3.4.5 Warranties costs. obligations are given in Note 28. Any changes A provision for warranties is recognised when in these assumptions will impact the carrying the underlying products or services are sold. The Net realisable value is the estimated selling amount of defined benefit obligations. provision is based on historical warranty data price in the ordinary course of business less, the and a weighing of possible outcomes against estimated cost of completion and the estimated Provision has been made for retirement their associated probabilities. costs necessary to make the sale. gratuities from the beginning of service for all employees, in conformity with LKAS 19 on 3.4.6 Capital commitments and contingencies 3.3.8.2 Cash and cash equivalents employee benefit. However, under the Payment Capital commitments and contingent liabilities Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash of Gratuity Act No. 12 of 1983, the liability to an of the Group are disclosed in the respective balances and call deposits. Bank overdrafts employee arises only on completion of 5 years Note 32 to the Financial Statements. that are repayable on demand and form an of continued service. integral part of the Group’s cash management 3.4.7 Ordinary shares are included as a component of cash and cash The liability is not externally funded. This liability Ordinary shares are classified as equity. equivalents for the purpose of the Statement of is computed on the following basis: Incremental costs directly attributable to the Cash Flows. issue of ordinary shares are recognised as a Length of No. of month’s salary for deduction from equity, net of any tax effects. 3.4 Liabilities and provisions each service (Years) completed year of service 3.4.1 Employee benefits 3.5 Income Statements 3.4.1.1 Defined contribution plans Up to 20 1/2 For the purpose of presentation of the Income A defined contribution plan is a postStatement, the function of expenses method is employment benefit plan under which an 20 up to 25 3/4 adopted. entity pays fixed contributions into a separate 25 up to 30 1 entity and will have no legal or constructive 3.5.1 Revenue obligation to pay further amounts. Obligations 30 up to 35 1 1/4 Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is for contributions to Provident and Trust Funds Over 35 1½ probable that the economic benefits will flow covering all employees are recognised as an to the Group and the revenue can be reliably employee benefit expense in profit or loss in the measured, regardless of when the payment is being made. 194 The Quality of Life The specific recognition criteria described below for expenses incurred are recognised in profit in Income Statement. Interest income is must also be met before revenue is recognized. and loss on a systematic basis in the periods in recognised as it accrues in Income Statement. which the expenses are recognised. Grants that Sale of goods compensate the Group for the cost of an asset Finance costs comprise interest expense on Revenue from the sale of goods is measured are recognised in profit and loss on a systematic borrowings, unwinding of the discount on at the fair value of the consideration received basis over the useful life of the asset. provisions, changes in the fair value of financial or receivable, net of returns and allowances, assets at fair value through profit or loss, trade discounts and volume rebates. Revenue Gains and losses and losses on hedging instruments that are is recognised when the significant risks and Gains and losses on disposal of an item of recognised in Income Statement. rewards of ownership have been transferred property, plant & equipment are determined to the buyer, recovery of the consideration is by comparing the net sales proceeds with The interest expense component of finance probable, the associated costs and possible the carrying amounts of property, plant & lease payments is allocated to each period return of goods can be estimated reliably, there equipment and are recognised net within “other during the lease term so as to produce a is no continuing management involvement operating income” in Income Statement. constant periodic rate of interest on the with the goods, and the amount of revenue can remaining balance of the liability. be measured reliably. Other income Other income is recognized on an accrual basis. Foreign currency gains and losses are reported Rendering of services on a net basis. Revenue from services rendered is recognised 3.5.2 Expenses in profit and loss in proportion to the stage of Expenses are recognized in the Income 3.5.3 Tax expense completion of the transaction at the reporting Statement on the basis of a direct association Tax expense comprises current and deferred date. between the cost incurred and the earnings tax. Current tax and deferred tax are recognised of specific items of income. All expenditure in Income Statement except to the extent Room revenue incurred in the running of the business has been that it relates to a business combination, or Room revenue is recognised on the rooms charged to income in arriving at the profit for items recognised directly in Equity or in Other occupied on daily basis. Food and beverage the year. Comprehensive Income. revenue is recognised at the time of sale. Repairs and renewals are charged to profit and 3.5.3.1 Current tax Rental income loss in the year in which the expenditure is Current tax is the expected tax payable on Rental income is recognised in profit and loss as incurred. the taxable income for the year, using tax it accrues. rates enacted at the reporting date and any 3.5.2.1 Operating leases adjustments to tax payable in respect of Dividend Payments made under operating leases are previous years. Dividend income is recognised in profit and loss recognised in profit and loss on a straight-line on the date the entity’s right to receive payment basis over the term of the lease. Current tax relating to items recognised directly is established, which in the case of quoted in Other Comprehensive Income is recognised securities is the ex-dividend date. 3.5.2.2 Borrowing costs in Other Comprehensive Income and not in the Borrowing costs are recognized as an expense Income Statement. Management periodically Commission in the period in which they are incurred, except evaluates positions taken in the tax returns with When the Group acts in the capacity of an agent to the extent that they are directly attributable respect to situations in which applicable tax rather than as the principal in a transaction, the to the acquisition, construction or production regulations are subject to interpretation and revenue recognised is the commission earned of a qualifying asset, in which case they are establishes provisions where appropriate. by the Group. capitalised as part of the cost of that asset. 3.5.3.2 Deferred tax Grants 3.5.2.3 Finance income and finance costs Deferred tax is provided using the liability Grants are recognised initially as deferred Finance income comprises interest income method on temporary differences between income when there is a reasonable assurance on funds invested (including available-for-sale the tax bases of assets and liabilities and that they will be received and that the Group financial assets), dividend income, gains on the their carrying amounts for financial reporting will comply with the conditions associated with disposal of available-for-sale financial assets, purposes at the reporting date. the grant. Grants that compensate the Group changes in the fair value of financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, and gains Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all on hedging instruments that are recognised taxable temporary differences, except: 195 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Notes to the financial statements  When the deferred tax liability arises from taxable profits will allow the deferred tax asset 4. General the initial recognition of goodwill or an to be recovered. 4.1 Events occurring after the reporting date asset or liability in a transaction that is All material post occurred after the reporting not a business combination and, at the Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured date events have been considered and where time of the transaction, affects neither the at the tax rates that are expected to apply appropriate adjustments or disclosures have accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss in the year when the asset is realised or the been made in the respective notes to the liability is settled, based on tax rates that have Financial Statements.  In respect of taxable temporary differences been enacted or substantively enacted at the associated with investments in subsidiaries, reporting date. 4.2 Earnings per share equity accounted investee and interests The Group presents basic and diluted earnings in joint ventures, when the timing of the Deferred tax relating to items recognised per share (EPS) for its ordinary shares. Basic reversal of the temporary differences can outside Income Statement is recognised EPS is calculated by dividing the profit or loss be controlled and it is probable that the outside Income Statement. Deferred tax items attributable to ordinary shareholders of the temporary differences will not reverse in the are recognised in correlation to the underlying Company by the weighted average number foreseeable future. transaction either in other comprehensive of ordinary shares outstanding during the income or directly in equity. period. Diluted EPS is determined by adjusting Deferred tax assets are recognised for all the profit or loss attributable to ordinary deductible temporary differences, the carry Tax benefits acquired as part of a business shareholders and the weighted average number forward of unused tax credits and any unused combination, but not satisfying the criteria for of ordinary shares outstanding for the effects of tax losses. Deferred tax assets are recognised to separate recognition at that date, would be all dilutive potential ordinary shares. the extent that it is probable that taxable profit recognised subsequently if new information will be available against which the deductible about facts and circumstances changed. 4.3 Standards issued but not yet effective temporary differences, and the carry forward of The adjustment would either be treated as a Standards issued but not yet effective up to unused tax credits and unused tax losses can be reduction to goodwill (as long as it does not the date of issuance of the Group’s Financial utilised, except: exceed goodwill) if it was incurred during the Statements are listed below. This listing of measurement period or in Income Statement. standards and interpretations issued are those  When the deferred tax asset relating to the that the Group reasonably expects to have deductible temporary difference arises from Tax withheld on dividend income from an impact on disclosures, financial position or the initial recognition of an asset or liability subsidiaries is recognised as an expense in the performance when applied at a future date. The in a transaction that is not a business Consolidated Income Statement at the same Group intends to adopt these standards when combination and, at the time of the time as the liability to pay the related dividend they become effective. transaction, affects neither the accounting is recognised. profit nor taxable profit or loss Pending the completion of detailed review, the 3.5.3.3 Sales tax financial impact is not reasonably estimatable  In respect of deductible temporary Revenues, expenses and assets are recognised at the date of the publication of these Financial differences associated with investments net of the amount of sales tax, except: Statements. in subsidiaries, equity accounted investee and interests in joint ventures, deferred tax  When the sales tax incurred on a purchase  SLFRS 9 -Financial instruments: classification assets are recognised only to the extent that of assets or services is not recoverable from and measurement it is probable that the temporary differences the taxation authority, in which case, the will reverse in the foreseeable future and sales tax is recognised as part of the cost SLFRS 9, as issued reflects the first phase taxable profit will be available against which of acquisition of the asset or as part of the of work on replacement of LKAS 39 and the temporary differences can be utilised expense item, as applicable applies to classification and measurement of financial assets and liabilities. The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is  Receivables and payables that are stated This standard was originally effective for reviewed at each reporting date and reduced with the amount of sales tax. The net annual periods commencing on or after to the extent that it is no longer probable that amount of sales tax recoverable from, 01 January 2015. However the effective sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow or payable to, the taxation authority is date has been deferred subsequently all or part of the deferred tax asset to be utilised. included as part of receivables or payables and the revised effective date is yet to be Unrecognised deferred tax assets are reassessed in the Statement of Financial Position. announced. at each reporting date and are recognised to the extent that it has become probable that future 196 The Quality of Life  SLFRS 14 Regulatory deferral accounts Permanent impairments to land development The entity recognize the biological assets when, costs are charged to the Income Statement and only when, the entity controls the assets as The scope of this standard is limited to in full or reduced to the net carrying amounts a result of past event, it is probable that future first-time adopters of SLFRS that already of such assets in the year of occurrence after economic benefits associated with the assets recognise regulatory deferral account ascertaining the loss. will flow to the entity and the fair value or cost balances in their financial statements. of the assets can be measured reliably. Consequently, the financial statements of 4.4.1.2 Biological asset rate regulated entities that already apply Biological assets are classified in to mature The bearer biological assets are measured SLFRS, or that do not otherwise recognise biological assets and immature biological at cost less accumulated depreciation and such balances, will not be affected by this assets. Mature biological assets are those that accumulated impairment losses, if any, in terms standard. have attained harvestable specifications or of LKAS 16 – Property Plant & Equipment as per SLFRS 14 is effective for annual periods are able to sustain regular harvests. Immature the ruling issued by CA Sri Lanka. beginning on or after 1 January 2016. Since biological assets are those that have not yet the Group is an existing SLFRS preparer, this attained harvestable specifications. Tea, rubber, The managed timber trees are measured standard would not apply. other plantations and nurseries are classified as on initial recognition and at the end of each biological assets. reporting period at its fair value less cost to  SLFRS 15 -Revenue from contracts with sell in terms of LKAS 41. The cost is treated as customers Biological assets are further classified as bearer approximation to fair value of young plants as biological assets and consumable biological the impact on biological transformation of such SLFRS 15 establishes a comprehensive assets. Bearer biological asset includes tea and plants to price during this period is immaterial. framework for determining whether, how rubber trees, those that are not intended to The fair value of timber trees are measured much and when revenue is recognised. be sold or harvested, however used to grow using DCF method taking in to consideration It replaces existing revenue recognition for harvesting agricultural produce from such the current market prices of timber, applied guidance, including LKAS 18 Revenue, biological assets. Consumable biological assets to expected timber content of a tree at the LKAS 11 Construction Contracts and IFRIC includes managed timber trees those that are to maturity by an independent professional valuer. 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes. This be harvested as agricultural produce or sold as All other assumptions and sensitivity analysis are standard is effective for the annual periods biological assets. given in Note 16 to the Financial Statements. beginning on or after 01 January 2017. 4.4 Plantations The main variables in DCF model concerns The plantation companies in the Group adopt Variable Comment certain accounting policies, which differ from that of the rest of the Group, since their nature Currency valuation Rs. of operations is significantly different from that of the rest of the rest of the Group. The Timber content Estimate based on physical verification of girth, height and accounting policies adopted are in accordance considering the growth of the each spice in different geographical with LKAS 41 Agriculture and CA Sri Lanka ruling regions. Factor all the prevailing statutory regulations enforced on bearer biological assets. against harvesting of timber coupled with forestry plan of the Group Economic useful life Estimated based on the normal life span of each species by factoring Those accounting policies that significantly vary the forestry plan of the Group from the rest of the Group are given below. Selling price Estimated based on prevailing Sri Lankan market price. Factor all the 4.4.1 Property, plant & equipment conditions to be fulfil in bringing the trees in to saleable condition 4.4.1.1 Permanent land development costs Planting cost Estimated costs for the further development of immature areas are Permanent land development costs are deducted. those costs incurred in major infrastructure development and building new access roads on Discount Rate Future cash flows are discounted at following discount rates: Timber leased lands. trees 17.5% The costs have been capitalised and amortised Nursery cost includes the cost of direct materials, direct labour and an appropriate proportion of over the shorter of useful lives or remaining directly attributable overheads, less provision for overgrown plants. lease periods. 197 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Notes to the financial statements The gain or loss arising on initial recognition Mature Plantations (Replanting and New course of business after allowing for cost of of biological assets at fair value less cost to sell Planting) realisation and/or cost of conversion from their and from a change in fair value less cost to existing state to saleable condition. sell of biological assets are included in Income Description Years Statement for the period in which it arises. 4.4.3.2 Input material, spares and consumables Mature plantations tea 33 At actual cost on weighted average basis. 4.4.1.3 Immature and mature plantations The cost of land preparation, rehabilitation, Rubber 20 4.4.3.3 Agricultural produce harvested from new planting, replanting, crop diversification, Sanitation, water & electricity supply 20 biological assets interplanting and fertilising, etc., incurred Agricultural produce harvested from its between the time of planting and harvesting Depreciation methods, useful lives and biological assets are measured at their fair (when the planted area attains maturity), residual values are reassessed at the reporting value less cost to sell at the point of harvest. are classified as immature plantations. These date. Mature plantations are reassessed at The finished and semi-finished inventories immature plantations are shown at direct the reporting date. Mature plantations are from agriculture produce are valued by adding costs plus attributable overheads, including depreciated over their useful lives or unexpired the cost of conversion to the fair value of the interest attributable to long-term loans used lease period, whichever is less. agricultural produce. for financing immature plantations. The expenditure incurred on bearer biological No depreciation is provided for immature 4.4.4 Grants and subsidies assets (Tea, Rubber, Timber fields) which comes plantations. Grants and subsidies are recognised at their fair into bearing during the year, is transferred to value where there is a reasonable assurance the mature plantations. Expenditure incurred on 4.4.1.6 Leased assets grant / subsidy will be received and all attaching consumable biological assets are recorded at The leasehold rights of assets taken over from conditions, if any, will be complied with. When cost at initial recognition and thereafter at fair JEDB/SLSPC are amortised in equal amounts the grant or subsidy relates to an income value at the end of each reporting period. over the shorter of the remaining lease periods item is recognised as income over the periods and the useful lives as follows: necessary to match them to the costs to which Permanent impairments to Biological Assets are it is intended to compensate on a systematic charged to the Income Statement in full and Description Year basis. reduced to the net carrying amounts of such asset in the year of occurrence after ascertaining Bare land 53 Grants and subsidies related to assets, including the loss. nonmonetary grants at fair value are deducted Improvements to land 30 at arriving at the carrying value of the asset (or 4.4.1.4 Infilling cost on consumable biological assets Mature plantations ( Tea & rubber) 30 are deferred in the Statement Financial Position The land development costs incurred in the Buildings 25 and credited to the Income Statement over the form of infilling have been capitalised to the useful life of the asset). relevant mature field, only where the number Machinery 20 of plants per hectare exceeded 3,000 plants 4.5 Statements of Cash Flows and, also if it increases the expected future 4.4.2 Borrowing costs The Statements of Cash Flows has been benefits from that field, beyond its pre-infilling Borrowing costs incurred in respect loans that prepared using the “indirect method”. performance assessment. Infilling costs so are utilised for field development activities have capitalised are depreciated over the newly been capitalised as a part of the cost of the Interest paid is classified as an financing cash assessed remaining useful economic life of the relevant immature plantation. The capitalisation flow. Grants received, which are related to relevant mature plantation, or the unexpired will cease when the crops are ready for purchase and construction of property, plant & lease period, whichever is lower. commercial harvest. equipment are classified as investing cash flows. Infilling costs that are not capitalised have been Dividend and interest income are classified as 4.4.3 Inventories charged to the Income Statement in the year in cash flows from investing activities. 4.4.3.1 Finish good manufactured from which they are incurred. agricultural produce of biological assets Dividends paid are classified as financing These are valued at the lower of cost and 4.4.1.5 Depreciation cash flows. Dividends received by Hayleys estimated net realisable value, after making due Depreciation is recognized in Income Statement PLC, which is an investment company, are allowance for obsolete and slow moving items. on a straight line basis over the estimated classified as operating cash flows and are not Net realisable value is the estimated selling useful lives of each item of Property Plant and disclosed separately in the Company Cash Flow price at which stocks can be sold in the ordinary Equipment as follows, Statement. 198 The Quality of Life 4.6 Segment reporting With the adoption of SLFRS 10, the Group material non-controlling interests, there are no An operating segment is a component of reassessed the control conclusion for its unconsolidated structured entities. SLFRS 12 the Group that engages in business activities investees and the application of this standard disclosures are provided in Notes 18 and 38 to from which it may earn revenues and incur did not result in significant changes to the the Financial Statements. expenses, including revenues and expenses that consolidation of the Group results relate to transactions with any of the Group’s 4.7.4 SLFRS 13 Fair value measurement other components. All operating segments’ 4.7.2 SLFRS 11 Joint arrangements SLFRS 13 establishes a single source of guidance operating results are reviewed regularly by the The application of SLFRS 11 impacted the under SLFRS for all fair value measurements. Chairman to make decisions about resources Group’s accounting of its interest in joint SLFRS 13 does not change when an entity is to be allocated to the segment and assess its ventures, Bonterra Lanka Ltd. and Lakdiyatha required to use fair value, but rather provides performance, and for which discrete financial ( Pvt) Ltd. The Group has a 50% interest in guidance on how to measure fair value under information is available. Bonterra Lanka Ltd, a manufacturer and SLFRS. exporter of stitched blankets for soil erosion Segment results that are reported to the purposes. Prior to the transition to SLFRS 11, SLFRS 13 defines fair value as an exit price. As a Chairman include items directly attributable to Bonterra Lanka Ltd was classified as a jointly result of the guidance in SLFRS 13, the Group a segment as well as those that can be allocated controlled entity and the Group’s share of the re-assessed its policies for measuring fair values. on a reasonable basis. assets, liabilities, revenue, income and expenses Application of SLFRS 13 has not materially was proportionately consolidated in the impacted the fair value measurements of the Segment capital expenditure is the total cost Consolidated Financial Statements. Group. Additional disclosures where required, incurred during the period to acquire property, are provided in the individual notes relating to plant and equipment, and intangible assets The Group has reassessed interest in Lakdiyatha the assets and liabilities whose fair values were other than goodwill. ( Pvt) Ltd, a water purification company, determined. services to hoteliers in Pasikuda. The Group has 4.7 Changes in accounting policies and determined that it should be consolidated as an 4.7.5 LKAS 1 Presentation of items of Other disclosures. Associate and accounted using equity method Comprehensive Income – Amendments 4.7.1 SLFRS 10 Consolidated financial ( Please refer Note 18). to LKAS 1 statements The amendments to LKAS 1 introduce New and amended standards and Upon adoption of SLFRS 11, the Group has a grouping of items presented in Other interpretations determined its interest in Bonterra Lanka Ltd to Comprehensive Income. Items that will be The Group applied, for the first time, certain be classified as a joint venture under SLFRS 11 reclassified (‘recycled’) to Income Statement at a standards and amendments that require and it is required to be accounted for using the future point in time (e.g., net loss or gain on AFS restatement of previous Financial Statements. equity method (refer Note 3.1.3 above). financial assets) have to be presented separately These include SLFRS 10 Consolidated Financial from items that will not be reclassified (e.g., Statements, SLFRS 11 Joint Arrangements, SLFRS The transition was applied retrospectively as revaluation of land). 13 Fair Value Measurement and amendments required by SLFRS 11 and the comparative to LKAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements. information for the immediately preceding The amendments affect presentation only and In addition, the application of SLFRS 12 period (2014) is restated. The effect of applying have no impact on the Group’s financial position Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities resulted SLFRS 11 on the Group’s Financial Statements is or performance. in additional disclosures in the Consolidated in Note 43. Financial Statements. 5 Critical accounting estimates 4.7.3 SLFRS 12 Disclosure of interests in and judgements With the adoption of SLFRS 10 in Sri Lanka other entities Use of estimates and judgements with effect from 1st January 2014, the Group SLFRS 12 sets out the requirements for The preparation of Financial Statements changed its accounting policy for determining disclosures relating to an entity’s interests in in conformity with SLFRS/LKAS’s requires whether an investee is a subsidiary based on subsidiaries, joint arrangements, associates management to make judgements, estimates the definition of control. The Group considers and structured entities. The requirements in and assumptions that affect the application that control exists when the Company has SLFRS 12 are more comprehensive than the of accounting policies and the reported power over an investee; has exposure or rights previously existing disclosure requirements for amounts of assets, liabilities, income and to variable returns from its involvement with the subsidiaries. For example, where a subsidiary is expenses. Judgements and estimates are based investee and when it has ability to use its power controlled with less than a majority of voting on historical experience and other factors, over the investee to affect the amount of the rights. While the Group has subsidiaries with Company’s returns. 199 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Notes to the financial statements including expectations that are believed to be between the actual results and the assumptions 5.6 Revaluation of land reasonable under the circumstances. Hence made, or future changes to such assumptions, The Group measures lands which are recognised actual experience and results may differ from could necessitate future adjustments to tax as property, plant & equipment at revalued these judgements and estimates. income and expense already recorded. The amount with change in value being recognised Group establish provisions, based on reasonable in the Statement of Other comprehensive Estimates and underlying assumptions are estimates, for possible consequences of audits income. The valuer has used valuation reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to by the tax authorities of the respective countries techniques such as open market value. Further accounting estimates are recognised in the in which it operates. The amount of such details on Revaluation of land are disclosed in period in which the estimates are revised if the provisions is based on various factors, such as Note 14 to the Financial Statements. revision affects only that period and any future experience of previous tax audits and differing periods. interpretations of tax regulations by the taxable 5.7 Fair Valuation of Biological Assets entity and the responsible tax authority. Such The group measures consumable Biological Information about significant areas of estimation differences of interpretation may arise on a wide Assets at fair value with changes in value being uncertainty and critical judgements in applying variety of issues depending on the conditions recognised in the statement of income. Fair accounting policies that have the most prevailing in the respective domicile of the valuation involves assumptions which are given significant effect on the amounts recognised Group companies. in page 216. Such estimations are subject to in the financial statements is included in the significant uncertainties. following notes. Deferred tax assets are recognized for unused tax losses to the extent that it is probable that 5.8 Consolidation of entities with the Group 5.1 Going Concern taxable profit will be available against which the holds 50% of the voting rights The Directors have made an assessment of the losses can be utilised. Significant management Group holds 50% of the issued share capital Group’s ability to continue as a going concern judgement is required to determine the amount of Carbokarn Co Ltd., Thailand which in turn and is satisfied that it has the resources to of deferred tax assets that can be recognised, is the Parent Company of two fully-owned continue in business for the foreseeable future. based on upon the likely timing and the level of subsidiaries; CK Regenco Systems Ltd. and Furthermore, management is not aware of any future taxable profits together as with future tax Shizuka Co. Ltd. Although Group PLC holds material uncertainties that may cast significant planning strategies. 50% of the issued capital of CK, it is considered doubt upon the Group’s ability to continue as a subsidiary for financial reporting after due as a going concern. Therefore, the Financial 5.4 Measurement of the defined benefit consideration of the agreements with partners Statements continue to be prepared on the obligations and the current operating method. going concern basis. The present value of the defined benefit obligations depends on a number of factors that 5.2 Measurement of the recoverable are determined on an actuarial basis using a amount of cash-generating units number of assumptions. Key assumptions used containing goodwill in determining the defined retirement benefit The Group tests annually whether goodwill has obligations are given in Note 28 to the Financial suffered any impairment, in accordance with Statements. Any changes in these assumptions the accounting policy stated in Note 3.3.6.1. The will impact the carrying amount of defined basis of determining the recoverable amounts benefit obligations. of cash generating units and key assumptions used are given in Note 17 to the Financial 5. 5 Impairment of property, plant and Statements. equipment and intangible assets other than goodwill 5.3 Taxation The impairment analysis is principally based Uncertainties exist with respect to the upon discounted estimated cash flows from the interpretation of complex tax regulation, use and eventual disposal of the assets. Factors changes in tax laws, and the amount and timing like lower than anticipated sales and resulting of future taxable income. Given the wide range decreases of net cash flows and changes in the of international business relationships and the discount rates could lead to impairment. Further long-term nature and the complexity of existing details are disclosed in Note 14 and 17 to the contractual agreements, differences arising Financial Statements. 200 The Quality of Life 6. Revenue 6.1 Industry Segment Revenue Consolidated Sale of goods Rendering of Total Revenue Sale of goods Rendering of Total Revenue For the year ended 31st March services 2015 services 2014 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Fibre 4,418,594 4,418,594 3,693,073 3,693,073 Hand protection 14,970,312 14,970,312 13,376,913 13,376,913 Purification products 11,933,849 11,933,849 10,338,685 10,338,685 Textiles 8,542,539 8,542,539 7,994,776 7,994,776 Construction materials 3,377,156 3,377,156 2,804,490 2,804,490 Agriculture 8,423,938 8,423,938 7,395,466 7,395,466 Plantations 12,678,649 12,678,649 9,596,803 9,596,803 Transportation & logistics 14,181,330 14,181,330 11,935,724 11,935,724 Leisure & aviation 4,846,799 4,846,799 4,308,197 4,308,197 Consumer products 5,184,704 5,184,704 5,252,132 5,252,132 Power & energy 988,034 988,034 1,012,829 1,012,829 Industry inputs 2,257,496 2,257,496 1,988,783 1,988,783 Investments & services 758,465 758,465 780,738 780,738 72,775,271 19,786,594 92,561,865 63,453,950 17,024,659 80,478,609 6.2 Geographical Segment Revenue Consolidated For the year ended 31st March 2015 2014 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Asia (excluding Sri Lanka) 11,990,424 9,735,023 Australia 1,902,381 1,625,990 Europe 13,557,112 12,385,499 Americas 8,270,397 6,906,583 Africa 1,386,209 1,168,922 Indirect Exports 16,083,665 13,797,731 Sri Lanka 39,371,677 34,858,861 92,561,865 80,478,609 6.3 Gross Revenue Company For the year ended 31st March 2015 2014 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rent and building related income 284,949 228,494 284,949 228,494 201 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Notes to the financial statements 7. OTHER INCOME Consolidated Company For the year ended 31st March 2015 2014 2015 2014 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Grants amortised* 53,673 45,709 Gain on disposal of property, plant & equipment 33,852 31,260 60 24 Change in fair value of biological assets 31,682 28,065 Gain on disposal of long-term investment 23,471 105,212 Gain on disposal of current financial assets 1,253 917 Sundry income/ scrap sales 306,707 213,960 Rent income 54,470 33,471 Indent commission 56,113 74,244 537,750 426,709 24,448 105,236 * Details of the grants are given in Note 26 to the Financial Statements. 8. OTHER EXPENSES Consolidated Company For the year ended 31st March 2015 2014 2015 2014 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Loss on disposal of property, plant & equipment 8,759 578 Impairment of property, plant & equipment 16,520 50,493 Impairment of investment in subsidiary 75,000 Loss on disposal of current financial assets 81 81 Amortisation of intangible assets 120,802 101,136 Impairment of goodwill 9,864 146,081 161,574 75,578 81 9. Net Finance Cost Consolidated Company For the year ended 31st March 2015 2014 2015 2014 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 9.1 Finance income Interest income on loans and receivables 32,662 27,033 20,759 88,014 Interest income on bank deposits 123,027 154,896 1,435 Guarantee income 495 1,602 Dividend income on available-for -sale investments 83,613 257,736 73,876 253,221 Net change in fair value of financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 10,608 425 7,890 2,843 Foreign exchange gain 202,422 317,283 Total Finance income 452,332 757,373 104,455 345,680 202 The Quality of Life Consolidated Company For the year ended 31st March 2015 2014 2015 2014 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 9.2 Finance costs Interest on long term loans (1,054,987) (953,488) (474,250) (431,651) Interest on short term loans (986,402) (1,344,902) (137,580) (352,701) Finance charges payable under finance leases (94,347) (87,552) Net change in fair value of financial assets at fair value through profit or loss (2,488) (905) (1,118) (1,020) Impairment of financial assets (12,470) (17,769) (12,470) (12,470) Foreign exchange loss (436,652) (500,035) (39,125) (102,123) Total Finance cost (2,587,346) (2,904,651) (664,543) (899,965) Net finance cost (2,135,014) (2,147,278) (560,088) (554,285) 10 Profit before tax Profit before tax is stated after charging all expenses including the following: Consolidated Company For the year ended 31st March 2015 2014 2015 2014 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Directors' emoluments 676,484 613,868 187,200 167,039 Auditors' fees (includes overseas subsidiaries) Audit services Ernst & Young 41,261 37,511 1,636 1,523 Other auditors 16,534 16,323 Non audit services Ernst & Young 18,020 15,848 578 1,080 Other auditors 8,135 6,773 Depreciation on property, plant & equipment 2,433,786 2,003,414 32,624 29,802 Donations 16,418 14,138 310 498 Impairment/ (reversal) for trade and other receivables (40,814) 70,673 Provision/ (reversal) for unrealised profit and write-down of inventories (2,873) 168,171 Staff cost Defined contribution plan cost 1,220,244 1,099,900 58,862 58,081 Defined benefit plan cost 813,859 748,835 71,513 61,632 Other Staff cost (excluding defined contributions & defined benefits) 11,983,991 9,449,582 566,404 494,338 Staff training and development cost 49,952 51,165 8,041 7,373 Legal fees 38,105 41,337 Operating leases 317,906 119,105 Research and development cost 45,143 55,150 203 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Notes to the financial statements 11 TAXATION 11.1 Tax Expense Consolidated For the year ended 31st March 2015 2014 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Consolidated Income Statement Current income tax Income tax on current year profits Parent 8,565 30,782 Subsidiaries 1,059,773 988,427 1,068,338 1,019,209 Under / (over) provision in respect of previous years 80,396 (2,700) Irrecoverable ESC 406 1,570 Deferred tax expense Origination of temporary differences Parent Subsidiaries 93,555 150,650 93,555 150,650 Tax on dividend income 270,885 204,899 Tax expense reported in the Income Statement 1,513,581 1,373,628 Consolidated Company For the year ended 31st March 2015 2014 2015 2014 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 11.2 Consolidated Statement of Other Comprehensive Income Deferred tax related to items charged or credited directly to other comprehensive income during the year : Actuarial losses on defined benefit obligations (5,392) (579) Income tax charged directly to other comprehensive income (5,392) (579) 204 The Quality of Life 11.3 Reconciliation of Accounting Profit to Income Tax Expense Consolidated Company For the period ended 31st March 2015 2014 2015 2014 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Profit before tax 6,399,915 5,082,621 762,970 568,261 Share of profit of equity accounted investees (24,383) (34,243) Intra-group adjustments 2,170,844 2,146,061 8,546,376 7,194,439 762,970 568,261 Disallowable expenses 3,991,676 3,149,313 259,396 306,624 Tax deductible expenses (3,958,325) (4,028,295) (81,607) (136,420) Tax exempt income (2,922,140) (2,956,628) (1,437,103) (1,406,610) Tax loss b/f (5,500,565) (6,397,716) (2,658,425) (2,427,504) Adjustment for tax loss b/f 214,163 729,485 364,648 495,347 Tax loss c/f 6,565,902 5,500,565 2,804,742 2,658,425 Taxable income 6,937,086 3,191,164 14,621 58,123 Income tax @ 28% 509,836 560,483 4,094 16,274 Income tax @ 15% 47,182 82,913 Income tax @ 12% 172,680 85,314 Income tax at other tax rates 338,640 290,499 Income tax on current year profit 1,068,338 1,019,209 4,094 16,274 (Over)/under provision in respect of previous years 80,396 (2,700) 4,471 14,508 Irrecoverable ESC 406 1,570 1,149,140 1,018,079 8,565 30,782 Origination of temporary differences 93,555 150,650 Tax on dividend income 270,885 204,899 Tax expense 1,513,581 1,373,628 8,565 30,782 Effective tax rate 24% 27% 1% 5% 11.4 Corporate incomes taxes of Companies resident in Sri Lanka have been computed in accordance with the Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 as amended, whilst Corporate Taxes of non-resident companies in the Group have been computed in keeping with the domestic statutes in their respective countries. Irrecoverable Economic Service Charge has been charged in the Income Statements. Resident companies in the Group, excluding those which enjoy a tax holiday or concessionary rate of taxation, were liable to income tax at 28% during year of assessment 2014/15 (Y/A 2013/14 28 %). 205 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Notes to the financial statements 11.5 Tax Exemptions 11.5.1 In terms of the Inland Revenue Act • Ultracarb (Pvt) Ltd is entitled for a 6 years income tax holiday. The tax holiday period has commenced during the Y/A 2013/14. • Haycarb Value Added Products (Pvt) Ltd is entitled for a 6 year income tax holiday. The tax holiday has commenced during the Y/A 2013/14. • Hayleys Aquagri (Pvt) Ltd is entitled for a 4 year income tax holiday. The tax holiday has commenced during Y/A 2014/15. • DPL Premier Gloves Ltd is entitled to a 9 year income tax holiday which is yet to commence. • Profits of Civaro International Ltd is exempted in terms of section 13(ddd) of the Inland Revenue Act No.10 of 2006. • Foreign dividends received are exempt from income tax in terms of the Inland Revenue Act. 11.5.2 In terms of BOI Agreements Companies enjoying Tax Holidays under BOI Law are as follows; Logiwiz NW (Pvt) Ltd 5 year tax holiday ended 31 March 2015 TTEL Somerset Hydro Power (Pvt) Ltd 5 year tax holiday ending 22nd Sept, 2015 TTEL Hydro Power Company (Pvt) Ltd 5 year tax holiday ending 16th Oct, 2015 Alco Industries (Pvt) Ltd 5 year tax holiday ending March 31, 2015 Hayleys Business Solutions International (Pvt) Ltd. 5 year tax holiday ending March 31, 2017 Hayleys Agro Biotech (Pvt) Ltd 8 year tax holiday ending March 31, 2018 Nirmalapura Wind Power (Pvt) Ltd 6 year tax holiday ending March 31, 2019 Sun Tan Beach Resorts Ltd. 15 year tax holiday ending March 31, 2027 11.5.3 Exemptions outside Sri Lanka Shizuka Co.Ltd. 8 year tax holiday commenced during Y/A 2011/12 11.6 Concessionary Tax Rates 11.6.1 In terms of the Inland Revenue Act In terms of Sections, 46, 48A, 51, 56, 56B, 59 and 59E of the Inland Revenue Act No 10 of 2006 as amended, the profits of companies listed below enjoy concessionary tax rates of income tax. Kelani Valley Plantations PLC Profits from agriculture Talawakelle Tea Estates PLC Profits from agriculture Sunfrost (Pvt) Ltd Profits from agriculture HJS Condiments Ltd Profits from agriculture Hayleys Agro Farms (Pvt) Ltd Profits from agriculture Haycarb PLC Profits from qualifying exports Haycolour (Pvt) Ltd Profits from qualifying exports Mabroc Teas (Pvt ) Ltd Profits from qualifying exports and agriculture Meridian Exports (Pvt) Ltd Profits from qualifying exports and agriculture Blue Mountain Tea Exports (Pvt) Ltd Profits from qualifying exports and agriculture Hayleys MGT Knitting Mills PLC Profits from qualifying exports & indirect exports Hayleys Fiber PLC Profits from qualifying exports & indirect exports Creative Polymats (Pvt) Ltd. Profits from qualifying exports & indirect exports Ravi Industries Ltd Profits from qualifying exports & indirect exports Rileys (Pvt) Ltd. Profits from qualifying exports & indirect exports Haymat ( Pvt) Ltd. Profits from qualifying exports & indirect exports Toyo Cushion Lanka (Pvt) Ltd. Profits from qualifying exports & indirect exports Chas. P. Hayley & Co (Pvt) Ltd. Profits from qualifying exports & indirect exports 206 The Quality of Life Logiventures (Pvt) Ltd Profits from qualifying exports Puritas (Pvt) Ltd. Profits from qualifying exports DPL Plantations (Pvt) Ltd Profits from agriculture Hayleys Plantation Services (Pvt) Ltd. Profits from agriculture Hayleys Travels and Tours (Pvt) Ltd Profits from promotion of tourism Lanka Orient Express Lines Ltd Profits from transshipment and services to foreign ships Cosco Lanka (Pvt) Ltd Profits from transshipment and services to foreign ships Clarion Shipping (Pvt) Ltd Profits from transshipment and services to foreign ships N. Y. K. Line Lanka (Pvt) Ltd. Profits from transshipment and services to foreign ships The Kingsbury PLC Profits from promotion of tourism Hunas Falls Hotels PLC Profits from promotion of tourism Culture Club Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. Profits from promotion of tourism Bhagya Hydro (Pvt) Ltd Profits from operating project for alternative energy 11.6.2 BOI Companies As per agreements signed with the Board of Investment, the business income of the Companies listed below would be subject to a concessionary tax rate for the periods indicated below: Kandyan Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. 02% on turnover for 15 years up to Y/A 2026/27 Texnil (Pvt) Ltd. 12% for 10 years up to Y/A 2022/23 Hanwella Rubber Products Ltd. 12% for 10 years up to Y/A 2020/2021 Grossart (Pvt) Ltd. 12% for 10 years up to Y/A2019/2020 Dipped Products PLC 12% for 10 years up to Y/A 2018/2019 Logiwiz Ltd. 20% indefinitely Neoprex (Pvt) Ltd. 12% for 10 years up to Y/A 2017/2018 Neluwa Cascade Hydro Power (Pvt) Ltd. 10% for 02 years up to Y/A 2016/2017 Logistics International Ltd. 15% for 20 years up to Y/A 2016/2017 Bonterra Lanka Ltd. 12% for 20 years up to Y/A 2015/2016 Moceti International (Pvt) Ltd. 10% for 02 years up to Y/A 2014/2015 Kalupahana Power Company (Pvt) Ltd. 10% for 02 years up to Y/A 2014/2015 11.6.3 Non Resident Companies Corporate Income Taxes of non-resident companies are: Company Income tax rate Haychem (Bangladesh) Ltd. 35% PT Mapalus Makawanua Charcoal Industry 23% Haycarb USA Inc. 34% Logiwiz Logistics India (Pvt) Ltd. 30% Eurocarb Products Ltd. 23% Haycarb Holdings Australia (Pty) Ltd. 30% Carbokarn Co. Ltd. 20% ICOGUANTI S.p.A. 27.5% CK Regen Systems Co.Ltd 20% Haylex Japan 38% Charles Fibre (Pvt) Ltd. 30% PT Haycarb Palu Mitra 23% Dipped Products (Thailand) Ltd. 20% Nautical Maldives ( Pvt) Ltd 15% One World Logistics Maldives (Pvt) Ltd 15% Super Logistics (Pvt) Ltd 15% Total Transport Solutions Maldives (Pvt) Ltd 15% 207 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Notes to the financial statements 12 Earnings Per Share Basic Earnings per Share The calculation of basic earnings per share is based on the profit attributable to owners of the parent and the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year. Diluted Earnings per Share The calculation of diluted earnings per share is based on the profit attributable to owners of the parent and the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding after adjustment for the effect of all potentially dilutive ordinary shares. There were no potentially dilutive ordinary shares outstanding at any time during the year /previous year. Basic/diluted earnings per share is calculated as follows: Consolidated 2015 2014 Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent (Rs.'000) 2,581,298 1,808,523 Weighted average number of ordinary shares of the parent(i) 75,000,000 75,000,000 Basic/ diluted earnings per share (Rs.) 34.42 24.11 (i) Qualifying ordinary shares at beginning of the year 75,000,000 75,000,000 Qualifying ordinary shares at the end of the year 75,000,000 75,000,000 13 Dividends Company 2015 2014 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 First and final proposed dividend, Rs. 6.00 per share (2014 Rs. 5 per share) 450,000 375,000 Dividend per ordinary share (Rs.) 6.00 5.00 (i) The dividends represent re-distribution of dividends received by the Company and are therefore not subject to 10% tax deduction. (ii) The directors have recommended a Rs 6 /per share first and final dividend for the year ended 31st March, 2015 to be approved at the Annual General Meeting on 26th June, 2015. 208 The Quality of Life 14 Property, Plant & equipment 14.1 Consolidated Land Mature/ Buildings Machinery Motor Furniture, Total Total As at 31st March immature & stores vehicles fittings & 2015 2014 plantations office equipment equipment Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Cost or valuation: Gross book value At the beginning of the year 11,068,837 5,494,574 11,714,048 18,601,634 1,016,636 2,694,133 50,589,862 48,436,883 Revaluation of land 3,108,054 3,108,054 Acquisition through business combinations 21,563 1,568,024 211,200 7,124 337,239 2,145,150 31,675 Additions 115,153 596,832 1,078,323 2,570,608 182,317 376,447 4,919,680 2,947,962 Transfer from biological assets 3,273 3,273 Transfer from/ ( to) investment property 31,100 7,764 38,864 (325,083) Disposals (36,370) (32,280) (663,618) (106,819) (88,702) (927,789) (379,787) Increase due to reassessment of liability 38,240 Effect of movements in exchange rates 73,319 (1,889) 349,503 2,306 (64,801) 358,438 (160,028) At the end of the year 14,381,656 6,094,679 14,333,990 21,069,327 1,101,564 3,254,316 60,235,532 50,589,862 Depreciation: At the beginning of the year 148,691 1,150,656 2,019,532 8,660,109 587,640 1,627,692 14,194,320 12,606,575 Acquisition through business combinations 31,038 55,674 1,937 39,866 128,515 22,954 Depreciation for the year 33,759 248,512 395,290 1,322,713 144,640 288,872 2,433,786 2,003,414 Transfer from/ ( to) investment property 2,018 2,018 (60,208) Disposals (13,267) (426,920) (92,949) (61,515) (594,651) (290,323) Effect of movements in exchange rates 1,960 7,349 238,667 1,415 11,097 260,488 (88,092) At the end of the year 184,410 1,399,168 2,441,960 9,850,243 642,683 1,906,012 16,424,476 14,194,320 Impairment At the beginning of the year 50,493 50,493 Effect of movements in exchange rates (252) (252) Disposals (13,872) (13,872) Impairment for the year 2,260 14,260 16,520 50,493 At the end of the year 2,260 50,629 52,889 50,493 Net book value as at 31st March 14,194,986 4,695,511 11,892,030 11,168,455 458,881 1,348,304 43,758,167 36,345,049 Capital work-in progress 2,405,752 1,870,210 Carrying amount as at 31st March 46,163,919 38,215,259 209 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Notes to the financial statements 14.2 Company Freehold Buildings Machinery Motor Furniture, Total Total As at 31st March Land & stores vehicles fittings & 2015 2014 equipment office equipment Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Cost or valuation: At the beginning of the year 4,868,000 229,103 42,327 26,055 278,760 5,444,245 5,375,173 Revaluation of land 1,453,000 1,453,000 Additions 47,062 3,403 20,160 9,768 80,393 69,679 Disposals (1,638) (1,638) (3,276) (607) At the end of the year 6,321,000 274,527 45,730 46,215 286,890 6,974,362 5,444,245 Depreciation At the beginning of the year 52,456 36,625 7,548 195,026 291,655 262,459 Depreciation for the year 3,362 1,320 3,990 23,952 32,624 29,802 Disposals (61) (1,598) (1,659) (606) At the end of the year 55,757 37,945 11,538 217,380 322,620 291,655 Net book value as at 31st March 6,321,000 218,770 7,785 34,677 69,510 6,651,742 5,152,590 Capital work in progress 2,924 19,055 Carrying amount as at 31st March 6,654,666 5,171,645 14.3 Carrying value Consolidated Company As at 31st March 2015 2014 2015 2014 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 At cost 30,960,718 26,547,532 333,666 303,645 At valuation 11,457,692 8,349,638 6,321,000 4,868,000 On finance leases 3,745,509 3,318,089 46,163,919 38,215,259 6,654,666 5,171,645 (I) No borrowing costs were capitalised in 2015 and 2014. 210 The Quality of Life (ii) Group property, plant & equipment includes capitalised finance leases and leasehold rights on land. The carrying amount of these assets are: Consolidated Cost Accumulated Carrying Carrying depreciation/ value value As at 31st March amortisation 2015 2014 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Land 666,385 88,888 577,497 472,151 Mature/immature plantation 3,966,534 963,801 3,002,733 2,709,462 Buildings 266,377 166,169 100,208 70,512 Machinery & store equipments 86,755 71,467 15,288 14,553 Motor vehicles 141,000 91,360 49,641 51,290 Furniture fittings and office equipments 3,118 2,976 142 121 Total 5,130,169 1,384,661 3,745,509 3,318,089 (iii) Unexpired lease periods of land: Kelani Valley Plantations PLC 32 Years Kalupahana Power Company ( Pvt) Ltd 32 Years HJS Condiments Ltd. 85 Years /78 Years / 20 Years Talawakelle Tea Estates PLC 30 Years The Kingsbury PLC 54 Years Culture Club Resorts ( Pvt) Ltd 29 Years Sun Tan Beach Resorts Ltd. 96 Years (iv) Amounts by which values have been increased to in respect of land revalued by independent qualified valuers are indicated below, together with the last date of revaluation: Revaluation surplus Company Location 2015 2014 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Hayleys PLC Colombo (31.03.2015) 6,314,023 4,861,023 Volanka (Pvt) Ltd. Kotugoda (31.03.2015) 677,100 551,400 Katana (31.03.2015) 179,519 155,831 Galle (31.03.2015) 128,827 70,577 Chas P. Hayley & Co. (Pvt) Ltd. Galle (31.03.2015) 463,225 420,037 Dipped Products PLC Kottawa (31.03.2015) 123,676 107,633 Weliweriya (31.03.2013) 70,973 70,973 Malabe (31.03.2015) 164,439 88,803 Venigros (Pvt) Ltd. Weliweriya (31.03.2013) 50,925 50,925 Alco Industries (Pvt) Ltd. Gonawala (31.03.2013) 35,224 35,224 211 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Notes to the financial statements Revaluation surplus Company Location 2015 2014 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Haycarb PLC Badalgama & Madampe (31.03.2015) 128,571 89,874 Wewalduwa (31.03.2015) 156,945 94,377 Recogen (Pvt) Ltd. Badalgama (31.03.2015) 35,606 26,931 Carbokarn Co. Ltd. Bangkok (31.03.2015) 55,461 25,000 Shizuka Co. Ltd. Ratchaburi (31.03.2015) 22,828 PT Mapalus Makawanua charcoal Industry Bitung (31.03.2015) 60,367 Lignocell (Pvt) Ltd. Kuliyapitiya (31.03.2015) 32,918 26,956 Hayleys Agriculture Holdings Ltd. Dambulla (31.03.2015) 2,404 1,324 Kottawa (31.03.2015) 79,414 67,414 Haychem Bangladesh Ltd. Mymensingh (31.03.2015) 34,395 17,598 Haycolour (Pvt) Ltd. Kalutara (31.03.2015) 32,292 28,706 Hayleys Fibre PLC. Ekala (31.03.2015) 189,000 185,843 Hayleys Advantis Ltd. Welisara (31.03.2015) 1,128,688 689,832 Ravi Industries (Pvt) Ltd. Ekala (31.03.2015) 243,375 194,700 Volanka Exports Ltd. Nattandiya (31.03.2015) 20,887 18,006 Rileys (Pvt) Ltd. Ekala (31.03.2015) 287,491 211,555 Toyo Cushion Lanka (Pvt) Ltd. Katana (31.03.2013) 48,174 48,174 Sunfrost (Pvt) Ltd. Allawwa (31.03.2015) 29,890 24,126 Hayleys MGT Knitting Mills PLC Neboda (31.03.2015) 52,267 18,149 Hayleys Electronics Lightning (Pvt) Ltd. Hokandara (31.03.2013) 4,047 4,047 Hunas Falls Hotels PLC Elkaduwa (31.03.2015) 8,000 1,353 Kandyan Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. Kandy (31.03.2015) 254,042 55,556 The Beach Resorts Ltd. Wadduwa (31.03.2015) 184,836 11,553 Cultural Club Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. Dambulla (31.03.2015) 480 Alumex PLC Makola (31.03.2015) 157,383 96,138 11,457,692 8,349,638 Revaluation reserve attributable to Non-controling interest (799,459) (392,397) Share of revaluation reserve of equity accounted investees 221,629 101,833 10,879,862 8,059,074 Adjustment due to change in holding (22,835) 23,526 10,857,027 8,082,600 212 The Quality of Life (v) Land owned by the Group was revalued as at 31st March 2015 by an Independent Chartered Valuation Surveyor. The valuation had been carried out based on transaction observed in the market. (vi) Land owned by the Group other than that mentioned above has been stated at cost as the appreciation in value is insignificant. Further information is provided on page 273. There are no tax implications or tax liabilities pertaining to revaluation of land. (vii) There has been an impairment of property, plant & equipment amounting to Rs.16.5 mn which is disclosed in Note 8 to the Financial Statements. (viii) Property, plant & equipment with a carrying value of Rs. 12,133 mn ( 2014Rs.12,996 mn) and Rs. Nil ( 2014Nil) for the Group and Company respectively have been pledged as security for term loans obtained. The details are shown in Note 25 to the Financial Statements. (ix) The carrying value of revalued land given above, had the said land been included at cost, would amount to Rs.2,737mn (2014-Rs. 2,571 mn) for the Group and Rs 7 mn (2014 Rs 7 mn) to the Company (x) The cost of fully depreciated Property plant and equipment which are still in use at the reporting date is as follows: Consolidated Company 2015 2014 2015 2014 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Buildings 80,995 67,866 Machinery and equipment 2,581,027 2,494,433 38,702 38,237 Furniture, fittings and office equipment 1,307,736 822,974 159,065 153,088 Motor vehicles 205,590 171,501 12,277 5,603 4,175,348 3,556,774 210,044 196,928 14.4 Capital Expenditure Commitments The approximate amounts of capital expenditure approved by the Directors as at 31st March, 2015 were: Capital expenditure contracted for which no provision is made in the Financial Statements for the Group Rs. 605 mn (2014 Rs.698 mn) and for the Company Rs. Nil mn( 2014Nil) . Capital expenditure approved by the Directors but not contracted for the Group Rs.1,570 mn (2014 Rs.1,521 mn) and for the Company Rs. 147 mn ( 2014Rs. 86 mn). 14.5 Unobservable inputs used in measuring Fair Value The table below sets out information about significant unobservable inputs used in measuring non-financial instruments categorized as Level 3 in the Fair value hierarchy as at 31st March 2015. 213 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Notes to the financial statements Type of Instrument District Valuation Significant Range of Estimate for Fair Value Technique Unobservable Unobservable Measurement Input Input Rs'000 Sensitivity to Unobservable Input Freehold land Colombo 85 to 8000 Gampaha Open Land 25 to 475 Significant increases Kurunegala Market Rate per perch 20 to 25 /(decreases) in basis estimated price per Galle 400 to 1000 perch in isolation Puttalam 19 to 40 would result in a Matale 13 to 600 significantly higher / (lower) fair value. Kalutara 30 to 475 Kurunagala 65 Ampara 2 to 7 Trincomalee 125 15 Investment Properties Consolidated Total Total As at 31st March Land Buildings 2015 2014 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Cost At the beginning of the year 1,081,836 466,526 1,548,362 694,082 Additions 2,331 2,331 3,679 Disposals (126) (126) Acquisitions through business combinations 525,518 Transfer from/ (to) property, plant & equipment (31,100) (7,764) (38,864) 325,083 At the end of the year 1,050,736 460,967 1,511,703 1,548,362 Depreciation At the beginning of the year 94,918 94,918 6,041 Charge for the year 5,998 5,998 3,150 Disposals (17) (17) Acquisitions through business combinations 25,518 Transfer from/ (to) investment property, plant & equipment (2,018) (2,018) 60,209 At the end of the year 98,881 98,881 94,918 Net book value 1,050,736 362,086 1,412,822 1,453,444 214 The Quality of Life 15.1 Rental income For the year ended 31st March 2015 2014 Rs'000 Rs'000 Rental income derived from investment properties 79,671 28,180 Direct operating expenses generating rental income (8,960) (4,581) Direct operating expenses that did not generate rental income Net profit arising from investment properties 70,711 23,599 15.2 Investment property is stated at cost. The fair value of Investment property based on a valuation performed as at 31st March, 2015 by Mr. P.B. Kalugalgedara ( Chartered Valuation Surveyor), an accredited independent, industry specialist is given below. The valuations had been carried out based on transactions observed in the market. The details of fair value of investment property of the Group. Company Location Building Land in Value of Value of Total area (Sq Ft) acres building land Rs '000 Rs '000 Rs'000 Hayleys Fibre PLC Ekala Estate , Minuwangoda Road, Ekala. 53,880 6.30 7,382 328,000 335,382 Carbotels ( Pvt) Ltd. Weyagala Estate, Elkaduwa, Matale. 65.06 34,600 34,600 Eastern Hotels ( Pvt) Ltd. Nilakarai Estate, Nilaweli, Trincomalee. 23.47 469,500 469,500 Hayleys Advantis Group 49/4 -18A, Galle Road, Kollupitiya. 2,450 80,000 80,000 46/12, Sayuru Sevana, Nawam Mawatha, 45,980 0.24 90,000 226,900 316,900 Colombo 2. Dipped Products PLC Nadungamuwa ,Weliweriya. 5,029 7.85 9,050 81,588 90,638 Venigros (Pvt) Ltd. Nadungamuwa, Weliweriya. 55,581 7.09 87,800 68,106 155,906 Toyo Cushion Lanka (Pvt) Ltd. 105, Thimbirigaskatuwa Road, Katana. 27,945 3.40 23,658 80,872 104,530 Type of Instrument District Valuation Technique Range of Estimate for Unobservable Input Rs'000 Freehold land Colombo Open market Basis 10,050 Gampaha 50 350 Matale 3 Trincomalee 115 15.3 The Group has no restriction on the realisability of its investment property and no contractual obligations to either purchase, construct or develop invetment property or for maintenance and enhancement. 215 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Notes to the financial statements 16 BIOLOGICAL ASSETS Consolidated As at 31st March 2015 2014 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 At the beginning of the year 266,508 235,020 Increase due to development 12,559 4,572 Change in fair value of biological assets 31,682 28,065 Decrease due to harvest (1,149) Transfer to immature plantation (3,273) As at 31 March / December 307,476 266,508 Managed trees include commercial timber plantations cultivated on estates. The cost of immature trees is treated as approximate fair value particularly on the grounds that little biological transformation has taken place and impact of the biological transformation on price is not material. When such Plantations become mature, the additional investments since taken over to bring them to maturity are transferred from Immature to Mature. The fair value of managed trees was ascertained since LKAS 41 is only applicable for managed agricultural activity in terms of the ruling issued by The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka. The valuation was carried by Messers Sunil Fernando Associates, accredited chartered valuers, using Discounted Cash Flow (DCF) methods. In ascertaining the fair value of timber a physical verification was carried out covering all the estates. 16.1 Other key assumptions used in valuation 1 . The harvesting is approved by the PMMD and the Forest Department based on the Forestry Development Plan. 2 . The prices adopted are net of expenditure 3 Discount Rate is 17.5% 4. Compounding rate is 14% 5. Though the replanting is a condition precedent for harvesting, yet the costs are not taken in to consideration. The valuations, as presented in the external valuation models based on net present values, take into account the long term exploitation of the timber plantations. Because of the inherent uncertainty associated with the valuation of the biological assets due to the volatility of the variables, their carrying value may differ from their realisable value. The Board of Directors retains their view that commodity markets are inherently volatile and that long term price projections are highly unpredictable. Hence, the sensitivity analysis regarding selling price and discount rate variations as included in this note allows every investor to reasonably challenge the financial impact of the assumptions used in the LKAS 41 against his/her own assumptions. The carrying amount of biological assets pledged as securities for liabilities as at the date of the statement of financial position is nil. (2014 nil). 16.2 Sensitivity analysis Sensitivity variation sales price Values as appearing in the Statement of Financial Position are very sensitive to price changes with regard to the average sales prices applied. Simulations made for timber show that a rise or decrease by 10% of the estimated future selling price has the following effect on the net present value of biological assets: 216 The Quality of Life Sales price fluctuation +10% 0 -10% Managed Timber Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 As at 31 March 2015 322,606 300,807 274,872 As at 31 March 2014 263,599 256,568 252,954 Sensitivity variation discount rate Values as appearing in the Statement of Financial Position are very sensitive to changes of the discount rate applied. Simulations made for timber show that an increase or decrease by 1.5% of the discount rate has the following effect on the net present value of biological assets: Discounting rate fluctuation +1.5% 0 -1.5% Managed Timber Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 As at 31 March 2015 297,450 300,807 307,562 As at 31 March 2014 254,276 256,568 258,631 17 INTANGIBLE ASSETS Consolidated Right to Goodwill ERP Brand Customer Operating Total Total As at 31st March generate system name list lease 2015 2014 hydro power/ development cost Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Cost At the beginning of the year 97,790 4,035,277 351,266 148,183 152,420 1,177,111 5,962,047 5,661,810 Acquisitions through business combinations 157,666 647 158,313 215,857 Additions 179,903 179,903 86,201 Disposals (15,360) (15,360) (5,016) Effect of movements in exchange rates 2,998 2,998 3,195 At the end of the year 97,790 4,192,943 519,454 148,183 152,420 1,177,111 6,287,901 5,962,047 Amortisation At the beginning of the year 24,303 145,959 143,841 61,984 79,236 455,323 345,872 Amortisation for the year 5,577 64,171 31,500 19,555 120,803 101,136 Impairment for the year 9,864 Disposals (3,251) (3,251) (2,910) Acquisition through business combinations 106 106 Effect of movements in exchange rates 1,306 1,306 1,361 At the end of the year 29,880 145,959 206,173 93,484 98,791 574,287 455,323 Net book value 67,910 4,046,984 313,281 148,183 58,936 1,078,320 5,713,614 5,506,724 Capital work in progress 2,189 2,189 34,563 Carrying amount 5,715,803 5,541,287 217 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Notes to the financial statements (i) The aggregate carrying amount of goodwill allocated to each unit is as follows: Rs. mn Dipped Products PLC 97 Dipped Products' Group Companies 33 Advantis Group Companies 314 Haycarb Group Companies 202 Hunas Falls Hotels PLC 8 The Kingsbury PLC 633 Hayleys Plantation Services ( Pvt) Ltd 134 Alumex PLC 1,052 Amaya Leisure PLC 1,553 Alufab PLC 20 4,047 (ii) There has been no impairment of intangible assets. Methods used in estimating recoverable amounts are given below: The recoverable value of Dipped Products PLC, Hunas Falls Hotels PLC , Alumex PLC, Haycarb group were based on fair value less cost to sell and the others were based on value in use. Value in use was determined by discounting the future cash flows generated from the the continuing use of the unit and key assumptions used are given below: Business growth Based on historical growth rate and business plan Inflation Based on the current inflation rate and the percentage of the total cost subjected to inflation Discount rate Average market borrowing rate adjusted for risk premium Margin Based on current margin and business plan 218 The Quality of Life (iii) Remaining amortisation period of rights to generate hydro power excluding development cost amounting to Rs. 35,772 mn. Remaining amortisation period Carrying Amount (Rs.'000) 83 months 2,512 104 months 1,718 143 months 27,908 Total 32,138 (iv) The Group has recognised an intangible asset in respect of operating leases acquired from the acquisition of The Kingsbury PLC and Amaya Leisure PLC since terms of operating lease are favourable in relative to market terms. Intangible asset from the Leasehold right is the revalued value of the land over the present value of future lease rentals to be paid. The Kingsbury PLC54 years Amaya Leisure PLC20 years (v) The Group has recognised an intangible asset for the Amaya chain of hotels from the acquisition of Amaya Leisure PLC. Amaya brand name is a well established name in the leisure sector. Management is of the opinion that the brand name will be a key attraction in the future booming leisure sector. (Vi) The Group has recognised an intangible asset in respect of customer relationship through the acquisition of Amaya Leisure PLC. The established customer lists of Amaya Hotels is acknowledged as a key component in generation of revenue through travel agents and tour operators. The management is of the opinion that the company is capable of retaining the travel agents through business relationship strategies and this would ensure retention and lead to repeat business over the future years and inflow of future economic benefits from them. 219 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Notes to the financial statements 18 Investments 18.1 Company Investment in Subsidiaries % Holding No. of Shares Value Rs.'000 As at 31st March 2015 2014 2015 Movement 2014 2015 Movement 2014 Investee Quoted investments* Haycarb PLC ( Rs. 3,683mn ) 68 68 20,125,103 20,125,103 47,204 47,204 Hayleys Fibre PLC ( Rs.206 mn ) 65 65 5,200,000 5,200,000 3,575 3,575 Dipped Products PLC ( Rs. 3,479 mn ) 42 42 25,210,938 300,000 24,910,938 408,490 29,729 378,761 Hayleys MGT Knitting Mills PLC ( Rs. 2,168 mn ) 59 79 122,487,023 2,803,206 119,683,817 1,355,791 (37,270) 1,393,061 Amaya Leisure PLC ( Rs. 1,454 mn ) 40 40 20,334,545 968,311 19,366,234 2,161,551 77,465 2,084,086 Alumex PLC (Rs.2,412 Mn) 51 51 152,644,500 152,644,500 1,277,353 1,277,353 Alufab PLC (Rs. 190 Mn) 63 7,538,454 7,538,454 174,292 174,292 The Kingsbury PLC( Rs. 1,797 mn ) 46 46 112,307,057 112,307,057 1,864,073 1,864,073 465,847,620 11,609,971 454,237,649 7,292,329 244,216 7,048,113 Unquoted Investments Hayleys Photoprint (Pvt) Ltd. 100 100 6 6 Haylex BV 100 100 1,000 1,000 25,733 25,733 Chas P Hayley & Co. Ltd. 100 100 999,920 999,920 698 698 Ravi Industries (Pvt) Ltd. 86 86 10,790,194 6,936 10,783,258 15,889 258 15,631 Hayleys Group Services Ltd. 100 100 10,000 10,000 100 100 Hayleys Electronics Ltd. 98 98 951,855 951,855 95,687 95,687 Dean Foster (Pvt) Ltd. 49 49 5,882,351 -5,882,351 9,904 9,904 Hayleys Advantis Ltd. 94 94 33,947,558 17,799 33,929,759 348,855 1,330 347,525 Volanka Exports (Pvt) Ltd. 4 4 123,103 4,848 118,255 1,999 10 1,989 Sunfrost (Pvt) Ltd. 5 5 423,300 423,300 4,233 4,233 Rileys (Pvt) Ltd. 6 6 2,500,000 2,500,000 10,333 10,333 Volanka (Pvt) Ltd. 62 62 6,440 6,440 23,107 23,107 Toyo Cushion Lanka (Pvt) Ltd. 19 19 1,222,708 5,627 1,217,081 13,339 204 13,135 Hayleys Produce Marketing Ltd. 100 100 250,000 250,000 2,532 2,532 Carbotels (Pvt) Ltd. 75 75 27,578,769 27,578,769 308,004 308,004 HJS Condiments Ltd. 9 9 1,218,277 80,713 1,137,564 16,532 2,547 13,985 Hayleys Agriculture Holdings Ltd. 97 97 18,967,287 21,115 18,946,136 253,946 1,465 252,481 Hayleys Consumer Products Ltd. 99 99 19,391,129 1,250 19,389,879 250,797 23 250,773 Hayleys Industrial Solutions (Pvt) Ltd. 100 100 38,748,400 38,748,400 387,484 387,484 Hayleys Business Solutions International 100 100 15,000,000 15,000,000 150,000 150,000 (Pvt) Ltd. 220 The Quality of Life % Holding No. of Shares Value Rs.'000 As at 31st March 2015 2014 2015 Movement 2014 2015 Movement 2014 Haydea Business Solutions (Pvt) Ltd. 100 100 249,999 249,999 2,500 2,500 Hayleys Leisure Holdings (Pvt) Ltd. 100 100 2,000,000 2,000,000 20,000 20,000 Nirmalapura Wind Power (Pvt) Ltd. 30 30 29,900,000 29,900,000 154,204 154,204 Hayleys Global Beverages (Pvt) Ltd. 49 0 14,411,765 14,411,765 144,118 144,118 Quality Seed Company (Pvt) Ltd. 74 74 1,878,000 1,878,000 3,707 3,707 226,452,061 14,550,089 211,901,972 2,243,701 149,955 2,093,745 Company investment in subsidiaries (at cost) 692,299,681 26,160,060 666,139,621 9,536,030 394,171 9,141,858 Provision for fall in value of investment made by the company Hayleys Electronics (Pvt) Ltd. (95,687) (95,687) Hayleys Business Solutions International (Pvt) Ltd. (75,000) (75,000) Company investment in subsidiaries 9,365,343 319,171 9,046,171 * Figures in brackets indicate market value of Quoted investments. (i) Countries of incorporation of overseas subsidiaries are give in Note 18.3 to the Financial Statements. 18.2 Company/Group Investment in Equity Accounted Investees Investor Investee % Holding No. of Shares Value Rs.'000 As at 31st March 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 Unquoted Investments Carbotels (Pvt) Ltd Negombo Hotels Ltd. ** 30 30 60,000 60,000 127,794 127,794 Hayleys Advantis Group Yusen Logistics & Kusuhara ( Pvt) Ltd** 30 30 195,000 195,000 1,950 1,950 Hayleys Fibre PLC Bonterra Lanka Ltd * 50 50 803,394 803,394 8,034 8,034 Puritas ( Pvt) Ltd. Lakdiyatha ( Pvt) Ltd ** 49 49 2,450,000 2,450,000 24,500 24,500 Hayleys Leisure Holdings ( Pvt) Ltd. S & T Interiors ( Pvt ) Ltd** 30 780,000 7,800 170,078 162,278 Group investments in Equity accounted investees (at cost) 170,078 162,278 * Joint venture ** Associates 221 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Notes to the financial statements Consolidated Investment at Cost Share of post acquisition Net assets profit/ (loss) & MI Adj. As at 31st March 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Negombo Hotels Ltd. 127,794 127,794 119,183 (18,829) 348,227 229,044 Yusen Logistics & Kusuhara ( Pvt) Ltd. 1,950 1,950 (1,534) (2,638) 16,758 18,292 Bonterra Lanka Ltd. 8,034 8,034 (1,680) 3,337 39,947 41,627 S & T Interiors ( Pvt ) Ltd. 7,800 3 7,803 Lakdiyatha ( Pvt) Ltd. 24,500 24,500 11,064 23,982 76,361 65,297 170,078 162,278 127,036 5,852 489,096 354,260 (i) Summarised Financial information of total equity accounted investees has not been adjusted for group share and this includes summarised Financial Information of Bonterra Lanka Ltd which is a joint venture. As at 31st March 2015 2014 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Assets and liabilities Current assets 582,180 540,944 Non-current assets 2,562,903 2,158,663 Current liabilities 984,222 780,708 Non-current liabilities 657,210 861,815 For the year ended 31st March 2015 2014 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Revenue and profit Revenue 1,696,623 1,729,227 Profit after tax 60,375 75,408 Total comprehensive income 459,951 72,225 Cash flows Cash flows from operating activities 84,330 137,291 Cash flows from Investing activities (20,198) (46,867) Cash flows from financing activities (235,770) (136,080) (ii) Company has neither contingent liabilities nor capital commitments in respect of it’s equity accounted investees. 222 The Quality of Life 18.3 Countries of Incorporation of Overseas Subsidiaries and Equity Accounted Investees Countries of incorporation of companies incorporated outside Sri Lanka are stated in brackets against the Company names. Haychem (Bangladesh) Ltd. (Bangladesh), PT Mapalus Makawanua Charcoal Industry (Indonesia), Haycarb Holdings Bitung Ltd. (British Virgin Island), Eurocarb Products Ltd. (UK), Haycarb Holdings Australia (Pty) Ltd. , (Australia), Haycarb USA Inc (USA), Carbokarn Ltd. (Thailand), Shizuka Co. Ltd ( Thailand), Haylex BV Group (Netherlands, Japan & UK),Dipped Products (Thailand) Ltd (Thailand), CK Regen Systems Co.Ltd (Thailand), ICOGuanti S.p.A (Italy), PT Tulus Lanka Coir Industries (Indonesia), Logiwiz Logistics India (Pvt) Ltd. (India), Civaro Freight India (Pvt) Ltd. (India), Charles Fibre ( Pvt) Ltd.( India). Haylex USA (USA), PT Haycarb Palu Mitra (Indonesia), Puricarb Pte Ltd (Singapore), Nautical Maldives ( Pvt) Ltd (Maldives), One World Logistics Maldives (Pvt) Ltd (Maldives), Super Logistics (Pvt) Ltd (Maldives), Total Transport Solutions Maldives (Pvt) Ltd (Maldives). 18.4 Inter-Company Shareholdings Investor Investee % Holding No. of Shares 2015 2014 2015 2014 Agro Technica Ltd. Sunfrost (Pvt) Ltd. 1 1 75,000 75,000 Chas P. Hayley & Co. (Pvt) Ltd. Toyo Cushion Lanka (Pvt.) Ltd 3 3 169,267 169,267 Hayleys Electronics (Pvt) Ltd. 2 2 14,975 14,975 Lignocell (Pvt) Ltd. 100 100 12,000,000 12,000,000 Dean Foster (Pvt.) Ltd. Volanka (Pvt) Ltd 38 38 3,920 3,920 Hayleys Advantis Ltd. 1 1 488,369 488,369 Chas P Hayley & Co. (Pvt) Ltd. 80 80 Alumex PLC 5 5 14,213,900 14,213,900 Amaya Leisure PLC 21 21 10,252,300 10,252,300 Dipped Products PLC. Palma Ltd. 100 100 4,000,000 4,000,000 Grossart (Pvt) Ltd. 100 100 4,200,000 4,200,000 Venigros (Pvt) Ltd. 100 100 8,000,000 8,000,000 Feltex (Pvt) Ltd. 100 100 1,500,000 1,500,000 DPL Plantations (Pvt) Ltd. 100 100 55,000,000 55,000,000 Neoprex (Pvt) Ltd. 100 100 4,000,000 4,000,000 Dipped Products (Thailand) Ltd.(100 Bhat) 99 99 4,516,248 4,516,248 Texnil (Pvt) Ltd. 100 100 7,500,000 7,500,000 ICOGuanti SpA ( Italy) (€1 each) 61 61 2,016,667 2,016,667 Hanwella Rubber Products Ltd. 73 73 18,152,000 18,152,000 D P L Premier Gloves Ltd. 100 100 45,000,000 30,000,001 D P L Universal Glows (Pvt) Ltd. 100 35,000,000 DPL Plantations Ltd. Kelani Valley Plantations PLC 71 71 24,200,000 24,200,000 Hayleys Plantation Services (Pvt) Ltd. 67 67 13,400,000 13,400,000 Haycarb PLC Dipped Products PLC 7 7 4,068,746 4,068,746 223 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Notes to the financial statements Investor Investee % Holding No. of Shares 2015 2014 2015 2014 Eurocarb Products Ltd.(UK) ( £1 each) 100 100 100,000 100,000 Haycarb Value Added Products (Pvt) Ltd 100 100 40,000,000 40,000,000 Haycarb Holdings Australia (Pty) Ltd (Aus $1 each) 100 100 150,000 150,000 Carbotels (Pvt) Ltd. 25 25 9,290,341 9,290,341 Carbocarn Co. Ltd.(100 Bhat, 72% paid-up) 50 50 250,000 250,000 Puritas (Pvt) Ltd. 100 100 700,000 700,000 Recogen (Pvt) Ltd. 100 100 37,000,000 37,000,000 Heycarb USA Inc. 100 100 3,600,000 3,600,000 Haycarb Holdings Bitung Ltd. ($1 each) 100 100 1,400,000 1,400,000 PT Mapalus Makawanua Charcoal Industry (IDR 2 2 707 707 1,000,000) Ultracarb (Pvt) Ltd. 100 100 25,000,000 25,000,000 Quality Seeds Company (Pvt) Ltd. 6 6 147,000 147,000 PT.Haycarb Palu Mitra 60 60 1,290,000 1,290,000 Carbocarn Co. Ltd. CK Regen Systems Co.Ltd. 100 100 150,000 150,000 Shizuka Co.Ltd. 100 100 200,000 200,000 Puritas (Pvt) Ltd. Lakdiyatha (Pvt) Ltd. 49 49 2,450,000 2,450,000 Puricarb (Pte) Ltd. 100 50,000 1 Haycarb Holdings Bitung Ltd. PT Mapalus Makawana Charcoal Industry (IDR 98 98 36,935 36,935 1,000,000) Hayleys Agriculture Holdings Ltd. Agro Technica Ltd. 93 93 2,329,894 2,329,894 Hayleys Agro Fertilizers (Pvt.) Ltd. 100 100 4,999,999 4,999,999 Hayleys Agro Farms (Pvt.) Ltd. 100 100 1,500,000 1,500,000 Hayleys Agro Bio-Tech (Pvt.) Ltd. 100 100 7,499,999 7,499,999 HJS Condiments Ltd. 59 59 7,399,343 7,399,343 Sunfrost (Pvt) Ltd. 93 93 7,445,000 7,445,000 Haychem Bangladesh Ltd. 100 100 90,702 90,702 Hayleys MGT Knitting Mills PLC 2 2 3,472,257 2,546,322 Aquagri (Pvt) Ltd. 51 1,275,000 Quality Seeds Company (Pvt) Ltd. 20 20 500,000 500,000 Hayleys Fibre PLC Toyo Cushion Lanka (Pvt.) Ltd. 16 16 1,015,602 1,015,602 224 The Quality of Life Investor Investee % Holding No. of Shares 2015 2014 2015 2014 Bonterra Lanka Ltd. 50 50 803,394 803,394 Rileys (Pvt) Ltd. 19 19 7,750,000 7,750,000 Hayleys Industrial Solutions Haycolour (Pvt) Ltd. 100 100 60,000 60,000 (Pvt) Ltd. Hayleys Lifesciences (Pvt) Ltd. 100 100 3,000,001 3,000,001 Power Engineering Solutions (Pvt.) Ltd. 100 100 320,001 320,001 Nirmalapura Wind Power (Pvt) Ltd. 21 21 21,100,000 21,100,000 Hayleys Power Ltd. 100 100 38,067,241 25,067,241 Neluwa Upper Hydro Power (Pvt) Ltd. 50 1 1 Hayleys Hydro Energy (Pvt) Ltd. Neluwa Casacade Hydro (Pvt.) Ltd. 100 100 11,910,001 11,910,001 Neluwa Upper Hydro Power (Pvt) Ltd. 50 1 1 Hayleys Plantation Services (Pvt) Talawakelle Tea Estates PLC 75 75 17,750,000 17,750,000 Ltd. Talawakelle Tea Estates PLC TTEL Hydro Power (Pvt) Ltd. 51 51 3,519,000 3,519,000 TTEL Summerset Hydro Power (Pvt) Ltd. 51 51 3,060,000 3,060,000 Hayleys Advantis Group Sunfrost (Pvt) Ltd. 1 1 50,000 50,000 International Consumer Brand Ltd. 100 2,999,995 Hayleys MGT Knitting Mills PLC 2 2 5,036,850 3,693,690 Ravi Industries Ltd. Rileys (Pvt) Ltd. 31 31 12,250,000 12,250,000 Dipped Products PLC. 1 1 567,000 567,000 Ravi Marketing Services (Pvt) Ltd. 100 100 9,994 9,994 Rileys (Pvt) Ltd. Haymat (Pvt) Ltd. 54 54 215,998 215,998 Creative Polymats (Pvt) Ltd. 100 100 4,999,994 4,999,994 Toyo Cushion Lanka (Pvt) Ltd Dean Foster (Pvt) Ltd. 2 2 235,294 235,294 Amaya Leisure PLC 2 2 857,220 816,400 Volanka (Pvt) Ltd Dipped Products PLC 8 8 4,873,640 4,873,640 Toyo Cushion Lanka (Pvt.) Ltd. 21 21 1,455,832 1,455,832 Dean Foster (Pvt) Ltd. 49 49 5,882,353 5,882,353 Volanka Exports Ltd. 95 95 2,899,994 2,899,994 Volanka Insurance Brokers (Pvt) Ltd. 100 100 58,994 58,994 Rileys (Pvt) Ltd. 44 44 17,500,000 17,500,000 Carbotels (Pvt) Ltd. Hunas Falls Hotels PLC 50 50 2,824,820 2,824,820 Eastern Hotel (Pvt) Ltd. 96 96 894,304 894,304 225 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Notes to the financial statements Investor Investee % Holding No. of Shares 2015 2014 2015 2014 The Kingsbury PLC 13 13 31,625,000 31,625,000 Volanka Exports Ltd. O E Techniques Ltd. 100 100 9,993 9,993 Amaya Leisure PLC 1 1 675,045 642,900 Kelani Valley Plantations PLC Kalupahana Power Project co. (Pvt) Ltd. 60 60 1,800,000 1,800,000 Kelani Valley Instant Tea (Pvt.) Ltd. 100 100 3,000,000 3,000,000 Mabroc Teas (Pvt) Ltd. 100 100 9,000,000 9,000,000 Hayleys Global Beverage (Pvt) Ltd. 51 100 15,000,000 1 Hayleys Group Services (Pvt) Ltd. Hayleys MGT Knitting Mills PLC 0 1 508,933 508,933 Hayleys Leisure Holdings (Pvt) Ltd. Air Global (Pvt) Ltd. 100 100 999,995 999,995 Millennium Transportation (Pvt) Ltd. 100 100 99,999 99,999 North South Lines (Pvt) Ltd. 100 100 134,999 134,999 Hayleys Travels and Tours (Pvt) Ltd. 100 100 1,779,999 1,779,999 Alumex PLC Avro Enterprises (Pvt) Ltd. 100 100 25,002 25,002 Alco Industries (Pvt) Ltd. 100 100 3,000,002 3,000,002 Hayleys Consumer Product (Pvt) Global Consumer Brands (Pvt) Ltd. 100 100 17,599,999 17,599,999 Ltd. International Consumer Brand (Pvt) Ltd. 100 2,999,995 Hayleys Electronics Lighting (Pvt) Ltd. 100 100 599,999 599,999 Amaya Leisure PLC Kandyan Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. 100 100 29,784,365 29,784,365 Culture Club Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. 100 100 27,779,002 27,779,002 Connaissance Air Travels Ltd . 100 100 100,003 100,003 The Beach Resorts Ltd. 84 84 6,176,790 6,176,790 Sun Tan Beach Resorts Ltd. 51 82,718,215 Hunas Falls Hotels PLC 16 16 899,000 899,000 C D C Convensions (Pvt) Ltd. 100 100 1,000,002 1,000,002 Hayleys Power Ltd Bhagya Hydro (Pvt.) Ltd. 100 100 3,499,999 3,499,999 Hayleys Hydro Energy (Pvt.) Ltd. 51 51 6,120,001 6,120,001 TTEL Hydro Power (pvt) Ltd. 49 49 3,366,300 3,366,300 Kiridiweldola Hydro Power (Pvt) Ltd. 100 100 321,860 321,860 TTEL Summerset Hydro Power (Pvt) Ltd. 49 49 2,940,000 2,940,000 Anningkanda Hydro Power (Pvt) Ltd . 100 100 319,080 319,080 Hayleys Neluwa Hydro Power (Pvt) Ltd. 100 100 21,000,000 8,000,000 Neluwa Upper Hydro Power (Pvt) Ltd. 100 100,000 Lindula Hydro Power(Pvt) Ltd. 100 100 250,000 250,000 226 The Quality of Life 19 Other Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities 19.1 Other Non-Current Financial Assets Consolidated Company As at 31st March Available-for-sale Total Total AvailableTotal Total investments 2015 2014 for-sale 2015 2014 investments Unquoted Quoted Unquoted equity equity equity shares shares shares Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 At the beginning of the year 177,180 56,433 233,613 276,426 166,704 166,704 179,174 Additions 345 345 Transfer to other non-current assets (24,000) Impairment for the year (12,470) (12,470) (12,470) (12,470) (12,470) (12,470) Repayment (10,090) Effect of movement in exchange rate 64 64 11,577 Change in fair value 1,559 18,367 19,926 (7,830) At the end of the year 166,678 74,800 241,478 233,613 154,234 154,234 166,704 19.1.1 Investment Details Number of shares Value Investor Investee 2015 2014 2015 2014 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Unquoted equity shares Available-for-sale investments Hayleys PLC AES Kelanitissa (Pvt) Ltd. 24,940,613 24,940,613 112,233 124,704 Sri Lanka Institute of Nanotechnology (Pvt) Ltd. 3,810,182 3,810,182 42,000 42,000 Hayleys Industrial Solutions Hydro Trust lanka (Pvt) Ltd. 350,000 350,000 3,500 3,500 (Pvt) Ltd. Dipped Product PLC Wellassa Rubber Company Ltd 255,000 255,000 2,550 2,550 Impairment in Wellassa Rubber Company Ltd. (2,550) (2,550) Haycarb Group Barrik Gold Corporation Aus 27.20 each 3,456 3,456 158 94 Hayleys Advantis Group SLAFFA Cargo Services Ltd. 38,571 38,571 8,787 6,882 Amaya Leisure PLC Lake Lodge Resort (Pvt) Ltd 24,000 Transfers to other non-current assets (24,000) Total 166,678 177,180 Unquated equity shares that do not have a quoted market price in and active market and whose fair value cannot be reliabily measured are carried at cost. 227 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Notes to the financial statements Quoted equity shares Available-for-sale investments Dipped Product PLC Royal Ceramic Lanka PLC 220 220 24 22 Hayleys Advantis Group Ceybank Unit Trust 200,000 200,000 5,754 5,442 Pyramid Unit Trust 200,000 200,000 6,912 6,218 Comtrust Equity Fund 200,000 200,000 4,212 3,388 Amaya Leisure PLC Royal Ceramic Lanka PLC 521,600 521,600 57,898 41,363 Total 74,800 56,433 19.2 Other Current Financial Assets Consolidated As at 31st March Available-for-sale Financial instruments at fair Total Total investments value through profit or loss 2015 2014 Quoted Foreign Quoted equity exchange equity shares forward shares contract Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 At the beginning of the year 4,397 58 48,933 53,388 49,738 Additions 5,517 Acquisition through business combinations 15,761 Impairment for the year (5,299) Disposals (2,527) (58) (19,903) (22,488) (13,004) Change in fair value 540 407 7,715 8,662 675 At the end of the year 2,410 407 36,745 39,562 53,388 Company Financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss Quoted equity shares As at 31st March 2015 2014 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 At the beginning of the year 21,906 22,778 Disposals (17,508) (2,696) Change in fair value 6,772 1,824 At the end of the year 11,170 21,906 228 The Quality of Life 19.2.1 Investment Details Investor Investee Number of shares Value 2015 2014 2015 2014 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Quated equity shares -Available-for-sale investments Advantis Group Textured Jursey Lanka PLC 160,000 2,527 Union Bank PLC 100,000 100,000 2,410 1,870 Total 2,410 4,397 Foreign exchange forward contract Fair value through profit or loss Ravi Industries Ltd. 407 58 Total 407 58 Quoted equity shares Fair value through profit or loss Hayleys PLC. Aitken Spence Hotel Holdings PLC 112 112 8 8 ACL Cables PLC 260 260 20 16 Central Industries PLC 7,957 7,957 676 454 Ceylon Cold Stores PLC 252 252 75 35 DFCC Bank PLC 338 338 69 49 Kelani Tyres PLC 17,200 17,200 1,342 898 Lanka Orix Leasing Company PLC 1,520 1,520 116 114 National Development Bank PLC 20,681 20,681 5,129 3,694 Three Acre Farms PLC 1,840 1,840 84 73 Overseas Reality (Ceylon) PLC 70,000 1,435 Pan Asia Power PLC 1,600,000 3,520 Access Engineering PLC 400,000 9,000 Hatton National Bank PLC Non Voting 15,000 15,000 2,475 1,800 Hatton National Bank PLC 5,000 5,000 1,110 750 Environmental Resources Investment PLC 5,000 5,000 68 62 229 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Notes to the financial statements Investor Investee Number of shares Value 2015 2014 2015 2014 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Dean Foster (Pvt) Ltd. ACL Cables PLC 4,120 4,120 313 263 Asiri Hospital Holdings PLC 270 270 5 6 Bairaha Farms PLC 900 900 98 132 Blue Diamonds Jewellery Worldwide PLC 13 13 0 0 Central Industries PLC 900 900 76 51 Nation Lanka Finance PLC 1,300 1,300 6 10 Lanka Orix Leasing Company PLC 3,280 3,280 251 246 Three Acre Farms PLC 2,000 2,000 92 79 Kelani Tyres PLC 2,000 2,000 156 104 Vanik Incorporation PLC Voting 7,500 7,500 6 6 Vanik Incorporation PLC -NonVoting 5,000 5,000 4 4 Seylan Bank PLC 43 43 4 3 Browns Investments PLC 186,200 186,200 298 428 Textured Jersey Lanka PLC 136,100 2,150 Advantis Group Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC-Voting 20,000 20,000 3,360 2,460 John Keells Holdings PLC 5,195 5,195 1,036 1,179 DFCC Bank PLC 10,000 14,500 2,028 1,439 Hatton National Bank PLCNon Voting 10,000 15,429 1,650 1,200 Hatton National Bank PLCVoting 10,000 10,000 2,220 1,500 NDB Bank PLC 10,000 10,000 2,480 1,786 Beruwala Resort PLC 1,000,000 1,000,000 1,600 1,600 Union Bank PLC 400 6,800 7 7 Amaya Leisure PLC The Fortress Resorts PLC 90,075 90,075 1,369 1,198 LB Finance PLC 20 20 3 2 Free Lanka Capital Holdings PLC 5,320,000 5,320,000 8,512 11,172 Total 36,745 48,933 19.3 Other Current financial liabilities Consolidated Company As at 31st March 2015 2014 2015 2014 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss Foreign exchange forward contracts 15,942 58,653 15,942 58,653 Total Other current financial liabilities 15,942 58,653 15,942 58,653 230 The Quality of Life 19.4 Fair Value Hierarchy The Group uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial instruments by valuation technique: Level 1: Quoted (unadjusted) prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities Level 2: Other techniques for which all inputs that have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, either directly or indirectly Level 3: Techniques that use inputs that have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable market data As at 31 March 2015, the Group held the following financial instruments carried at fair value in the Statement of Financial position: 2015 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Assets measured at fair value Available-for-sale financial investments: Quoted equity shares (19.1 and 19.2) 77,210 77,210 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss: Foreign exchange forward contract 407 407 Quoted equity shares (Note 19.2) 36,745 36,745 2015 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Liabilities measured at fair value Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Foreign exchange forward contracts 15,942 15,942 During the reporting period ended 31 March 2015, there were no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 fair value measurements. 231 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Notes to the financial statements Fair Values Set out below is a comparison by class of the carrying amounts and fair values of the Group's financial instruments that are carried in the Financial Statements. Consolidated Company Carrying Value Fair Value Carrying Value Fair Value As at 31st March 2015 2015 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Financial Assets Other noncurrent financial assets Available for sale investments 241,478 241,478 154,234 154,234 Other current financial assets Available for sale investments 2,410 2,410 Financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss 37,152 37,152 11,170 11,170 Trade and other receivables 17,859,520 17,859,520 15,302 15,302 Amounts due from subsidiaries 1,400,260 1,400,260 Amounts due from equity accounted investees 49,854 49,854 Short term deposits 2,413,781 2,413,781 546,292 546,292 Cash in hand and at bank 3,111,428 3,111,428 39,562 39,562 23,715,623 23,715,623 2,166,820 2,166,820 Financial Liabilities Interest-bearing borrowings* 15,756,118 15,808,098 6,882,548 6,904,086 Trade and other payables 11,943,409 11,943,409 293,963 293,963 Other current financial liabilities Financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss 15,942 15,942 15,942 15,942 Amount due to Subsidiaries 21,597 21,597 Amount due to equity accounted investees 20,888 20,888 Short-term interest-bearing borrowings 13,306,065 13,306,065 37,579 37,579 41,042,422 41,094,402 7,251,629 7,273,167 * Include fixed interest loans carried at amortized cost. The fair value of the financial assets and liabilities is included at the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in a current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale. The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair values: Cash and short term deposits, trade receivables, trade payables approximate their carrying amounts largely due to the short term maturities of these instruments. Fair value of quoted equity shares is based on price quotations at the reporting date. 232 The Quality of Life 20 Other Non-Current Assets. Consolidated As at 31st March 2015 2014 Formers Others Total Total Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Cost 449,259 814,160 1,263,419 548,706 Provision for impairment (235,145) (6,119) (241,264) (198,283) 214,114 808,041 1,022,155 350,423 21 Inventories Consolidated Company As at 31st March 2015 2014 2015 2014 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Raw materials & consumables 4,617,873 4,442,172 1,854 1,046 Produce stocks 1,228,711 1,368,393 Nurseries 22,316 24,401 Work-in-progress 958,621 724,217 Finished goods 6,206,217 5,879,696 Goods-in-transit 118,056 183,685 13,151,794 12,622,564 1,854 1,046 Provision for write-down of inventories (470,525) (464,441) Provision for unrealised profit and write-down of inventories (64,149) (73,106) 12,617,120 12,085,017 1,854 1,046 (i) Carrying amount of inventories pledged as security for bank facilities obtained amounted to Rs.1,396 mn (2014 Rs. 1,686 mn). (ii) Inventory carried at net realisable value as at 31st March, 2015 Rs.206 mn (2014 Rs.164 mn). 233 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Notes to the financial statements 22 Trade and Other Receivables/Other Current Assets 22.1 Trade and Other Receivables Consolidated Company As at 31st March 2015 2014 2015 2014 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Trade receivables 13,115,684 12,264,863 Bills receivable 2,486,025 2,159,230 15,601,709 14,424,093 Payments in advance, deposits 2,834,308 2,799,095 46,390 41,702 Duty rebate receivable 13,739 23,044 Employee loans 94,625 43,009 1,094 471 Provision for impairment (684,861) (725,675) (32,182) (32,182) 17,859,520 16,563,566 15,302 9,991 22.1.1 Movement in the Provision for Impairment Consolidated Company As at 31st March 2015 2014 2015 2014 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 At the beginning of the year (725,675) (655,002) (32,182) (32,182) Reversal/ (Charge) for the year 40,814 (70,673) At the end of the year (684,861) (725,675) (32,182) (32,182) 22.1.2 The Aging Analysis of Trade and Bills Receivable is as follows, Passed due but not impaired Total Neither past 0-60 61-120 121-180 181-365 >365 due nor days days days days days impaired Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Balance as at 31st March 2015 15,601,709 8,478,769 4,940,529 1,042,739 374,516 230,650 534,506 Balance as at 31st March 2014 14,424,093 7,924,368 4,722,606 760,725 243,908 160,371 612,115 234 The Quality of Life 22.1.3 Currency-wise Analysis of Trade and Other Receivables Consolidated Company As at 31st March 2015 2014 2015 2014 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Sri Lankan Rupees 9,658,701 9,158,458 15,302 9,991 Australian Dollars 179,269 80,751 Sterling Pounds 342,938 944,596 United States Dollars 4,718,199 4,055,512 Euro 1,918,021 1,947,400 Thai Baht 155,216 158,564 Indian Rupees 285,568 20,527 Maldive Rufiya 324,115 Other 277,493 197,758 17,859,520 16,563,566 15,302 9,991 22.2 Other Current Assets Consolidated Company As at 31st March 2015 2014 2015 2014 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Prepayments 1,002,956 1,166,369 10,036 8,134 Pre paid staff benefit 21,288 41,236 VAT receivables 249,051 244,278 1,273,295 1,451,883 10,036 8,134 23 Stated Capital Company As at 31st March 2015 2014 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Issued & fully paid ordinary shares At beginning of the year -75,000,000 ( 1st April 2014 75,000,000) 1,575,000 1,575,000 At end of the year -75,000,000 (31st March 2015 75,000,000) 1,575,000 1,575,000 The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per share at meetings of the Company. 235 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Notes to the financial statements 23.1 Employee Share Trust The Hayleys PLC Employees' Share Trust was set up by a special resolution adopted by the shareholders at an Extraordinary General Meeting of the Company. The Trust was allotted 2,400,000 ordinary shares of Rs. 10/each on 9th February ,1998 at the market price of Rs. 210 per share, payment for the shares being made by the Trustees from the proceeds of an interest-free loan of Rs. 504mn, granted by the Company. In accordance with the Circular ‘CSE 02/2012 of 24th February 2012’ issued by the Colombo Stock Exchange, the Company is in the process of dissolving the Hayleys PLC Employees Share Trust. The outstanding balance of the above mentioned loan as at 31st March 2015 amounting to Rs. 148.5 mn will be settled in full in the first quarter of 2015/16. A part of the shares held in the share Trust was sold during the year and the sales proceeds were utilized to settle a part of the loan. The remaining shares in the Share Trust will be distributed among the eligible beneficiaries prior to the dissolution of the Trust. The Market Value of the shares held by the Trust as at 31st March 2015 was Rs.1,757 mn (2014Rs.1,954 mn.) 24 Other Capital Reserves & Retained Earnings 24.1 Other Capital Reserves Capital Fixed asset Capital reserve Capital Debenture Reserve on Total profit on replacement on sale of redemption redemption amalgamation As at 31st March redemption reserve property,plant reserve reserve of debentures & equipment fund fund Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Consolidated Balance as at 1st April 2013 109 11,750 89,404 59,703 1,047 448,283 610,296 Changes in ownership interests 198 198 in subsidiaries Transfers 2,413 2,413 Balance as at 31st March 2014 109 11,750 89,404 62,116 1,047 448,481 612,907 Changes in ownership interests 3 157 (129,372) (129,212) in subsidiaries Transfers 3,484 3,484 Balance as at 31st March 2015 109 11,750 89,407 65,757 1,047 319,109 487,179 Capital Fixed asset Capital reserve Debenture Total profit on replacement on sale of redemption As at 31st March redemption reserve property,plant reserve of debentures & equipment fund Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Company Balance as at 31st March 2014 109 11,750 320 1,047 13,226 Balance as at 31st March 2015 109 11,750 320 1,047 13,226 24.2 Retained Earnings Consolidated Company As at 31st March 2015 2014 2015 2014 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Holding Company 2,385,797 1,925,740 2,385,797 1,925,740 Subsidiaries 9,999,376 7,904,346 Equity Accounted Investees 135,835 126,254 12,521,008 9,956,340 2,385,797 1,925,740 236 The Quality of Life 25 Interest Bearing Borrowings Consolidated Company As at 31st March 2015 2014 2015 2014 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 25.1 Total Non-Current Interest Bearing Borrowings Finance lease obligations 598,736 652,743 Debentures 3,979,481 2,023,587 3,979,481 1,983,587 Long-term loans 7,491,057 6,487,294 1,688,338 1,890,118 Total non-current interest-bearing borrowings 12,069,274 9,163,624 5,667,819 3,873,705 Consolidated Company As at 31st March 2015 2014 2015 2014 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 25.2 Current portion of interest bearing borrowings Finance lease obligations 70,705 25,916 Long-term loans 3,616,139 2,627,465 1,214,729 1,096,096 Total current interest-bearing borrowings 3,686,844 2,653,381 1,214,729 1,096,096 25.3 Finance Lease Obligations Consolidated 2015 2014 As at 31st March Rs.'000 Rs.'000 At the beginning of the year 2,753,853 2,655,290 New leases obtained 9,456 1,757 Re-assessment of lease liability 205,679 2,763,309 2,862,726 On acquisition of subsidiary 5,507 Effect of movements in exchange rates 30 Repayments (114,604) (108,873) A the end of the year 2,654,242 2,753,853 Finance charge unamortised (1,984,801) (2,075,194) Net lease obligation 669,441 678,659 237 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Notes to the financial statements 25.4 Currency wise analysis of finance lease obligations Consolidated As at 31st March 2015 2014 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Sri Lankan Rupees 657,247 668,791 Bangladesh Taka 12,194 9,868 669,441 678,659 25.5 Analysis of Finance Lease obligations by year of repayment Consolidated As at 31st March 2015 2014 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Finance lease obligations repayable within 1 year from year-end Gross liability 106,238 107,533 Finance charges unamortised (35,533) (81,617) Net lease obligations repayable within 1 year from year-end 70,705 25,916 Finance lease obligations repayable between 1 and 5 years from year-end Gross liability 356,019 363,986 Finance charges unamortised (180,984) (257,158) Net lease obligations 175,035 106,828 Finance lease obligations repayable after 5 years from year-end Gross liability 2,191,532 2,282,349 Finance charges unamortised (1,767,831) (1,736,434) Net lease obligations 423,701 545,915 Net lease liability repayable later than 1 year from year-end 598,736 652,743 Talawakelle Tea Estates PLC Liability to make Lease Payment as above was previously titled as “Net Liability to lessor”. The Change was in terms of the Statement of Alternative Treatment (SoAT) issued by The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka on 21 August 2013. The liability to make lease payments was reassessed and the corresponding Right to Use of Land in terms of the above SoAT and elect to reassess the liability at each reporting period based on the changes in GDP deflator. According to the reassessment, the base rental payable per year has increased from Rs. 7.23 mn to Rs. 25.2 mn. Kelani Valley Plantations PLC Liability to make Lease Payment as above was previously titled as “Net Liability to lessor”. The Change was in terms of the Statement of Alternative Treatment (SoAT) issued by The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka on 21st August 2013. According to the re-assessment, the base rental payable per year has increased from Rs.19.6 mn to Rs.59.4 mn . 238 The Quality of Life 25.6 Debentures Consolidated Company As at 31st March 2015 2014 2015 2014 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 At the beginning of the year 2,040,000 40,000 2,000,000 Issued during year 2,000,000 2,000,000 2,000,000 2,000,000 Repayments during the year (40,000) At the end of the year 4,000,000 2,040,000 4,000,000 2,000,000 Amortization of debenture issue expense (20,519) (16,413) (20,519) (16,413) Debenture Repayable after one year 3,979,481 2,023,587 3,979,481 1,983,587 25.6.1 Listed Debentures Details regarding the listed debentures are as follows; Debenture 1 Listed, rated, senior, unsecured, redeemable Debentures at 14.25% p.a. payable quarterly and redeemable on 9th July, 2016 Interest rate of comparable Government Securities as at 31st March, 2015, 6.94% (Net of tax) Debenture 2 Listed, rated, senior, unsecured, redeemable Debentures at 7.60% p.a. payable semi annually and redeemable on 6th March, 2019 Interest rate of comparable Government Securities as at 31st March, 2015, 8.29% (Net of tax) Debenture 3 Listed ,rated, senior, unsecured, redeemable Debentures at 7.85% p.a. payable semi annually and redeemable on 6th March, 2020 Interest rate of comparable Government Securities as at 31st March, 2015, 9.04% (Net of tax) 25.7 Currency wise Analysis of Debentures Consolidated Company As at 31st March 2015 2014 2015 2014 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rupees 3,979,481 2,023,587 3,979,481 1,983,587 3,979,481 2,023,587 3,979,481 1,983,587 239 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Notes to the financial statements 25.8 Analysis of Debentures by Year of Repayment Consolidated Company As at 31st March 2015 2014 2015 2014 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Long term loans repayable between 1 and 2 years from year-end 1,983,484 1,983,484 Long term loans repayable between 2 and 5 years from year-end 1,995,997 2,023,587 1,995,997 1,983,587 3,979,481 2,023,587 3,979,481 1,983,587 25.9 Long term Borrowings Consolidated Company As at 31st March 2015 2014 2015 2014 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 At the beginning of the year 9,114,759 6,501,032 2,986,214 1,386,667 Acquisitions through business combinations 968,729 Effect of movements in exchange rates 44,041 93,891 30,599 43,433 Adjustment for USD loan facility fee 6,337 (13,203) 6,337 (13,203) New loans obtained 4,260,150 4,759,243 1,000,000 2,267,500 14,394,016 11,340,963 4,023,150 3,684,397 Repayments (3,286,820) (2,226,204) (1,120,083) (698,183) At the end of the year 11,107,196 9,114,759 2,903,067 2,986,214 Transfer to current liabilities ( repayable within one year) (3,616,139) (2,627,465) (1,214,729) (1,096,096) Repayable after one year 7,491,057 6,487,294 1,688,338 1,890,118 (i) Hayleys MGT Knitting Mills PLC, Hayleys PLC, Amaya Leisure PLC, Hayleys Advantis Ltd and Hayleys Global Beverages (Pvt) Ltd have obtained loans during the year amounting to Rs. 1,200 mn, Rs. 1000 mn, Rs. 675 mn, Rs. 472 mn, Rs. 243 mn respectively. 25.10 Currency wise Analysis of Long Term Borrowings Consolidated Company As at 31st March 2015 2014 2015 2014 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Sri Lankan Rupees 6,193,069 7,180,538 2,243,333 1,896,797 Australian Dollars Sterling Pounds United States Dollars 4,742,962 1,600,439 659,734 1,089,417 Euro 121,227 194,587 Bangladesh Taka 36,732 7,599 Thai Baht 13,206 131,596 11,107,196 9,114,759 2,903,067 2,986,214 240 The Quality of Life 25.11 Analysis of Long Term Borrowings by year of repayment Consolidated Company As at 31st March 2015 2014 2015 2014 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Long term loans repayable between 1 and 2 years from year-end 3,205,067 1,233,956 1,088,338 1,890,118 Long term loans repayable between 2 and 5 years from year-end 3,883,633 4,693,269 600,000 Long term loans repayable later than 5 years from year-end 402,357 560,069 7,491,057 6,487,294 1,688,338 1,890,118 25.12 Long Term Borrowings repayable after one year Company Lender/rate 31.03.2015 31.03.2014 Repayment Security of interest (p.a.) Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Hayleys PLC. Hatton National Bank PLC (AWPLR 1%) 310,000 To be paid bi annually. None Hatton National Bank PLC (AWPLR) 600,000 800,000 To be paid bi annually. None Standard Chartered Bank PLC 221,672 646,784 To be paid bi annually. None USD ( LIBOR+4.25%) DFCC Bank PLC (AWPLR +0.5%) 133,333 To be paid semi annually. None Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC (7.85%) 800,000 To be paid bi annually None in equal installments of Rs.100Mn DFCC Bank PLC (AWPLR-1%) 66,667 To be paid annually in None equal installments of Rs.33.334Mn ICO Guanti SpA Alessandria Financing 1.95% (Euro 1,000,000) 106,892 131,596 Repayment over 2 years as None per agreed schedule. Dipped Products HSBC Thailand Minimum of 4.25% 1 month 152,375 Monthly installments Mortgage over land, building (Thailand) Ltd. (LIBOR + 2%) (USD 4 mn) ending September, 2014. & machinery and corporate guarantee by parent company. Mabroc Teas (Pvt) Ltd. Pan Asia Banking Corporation PLC (LIBOR 7,755 Monthly installments Primary floating mortgage + 4 %) ending May 2017. bond over imported machine. Union Bank of Colombo PLC (LIBOR + 3.5%) with afloor rate of ( 4.5%) 25,081 42,212 installment Primary mortage over ending December, 2017. imported machine 241 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Notes to the financial statements Company Lender/rate 31.03.2015 31.03.2014 Repayment Security of interest (p.a.) Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Kelani Valley DFCC Bank PLC ( 9.42%) 9,333 23,334 Monthly installments Primary mortgage over Plantations PLC ending March, 2017. the leasehold rights of four DFCC Bank PLC (11.64%) 28,572 Monthly installments estates. ending July, 2017. DFCC Bank PLC (6.5%) 2,543 Monthly installments ending June, 2015. DFCC Bank PLC (6.5%) 1,667 Monthly installments ending December, 2015. Amana Bank PLC (SLIBOR with a cap of 14% 47,230 Monthly installments None and floor of 7.25%) ending 2021. Amana Bank PLC (SLIBOR with a cap of 14% 100,000 Monthly installments None and floor of 7.25%) ending 2022. Haycarb PLC Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC 27,691 50,775 Monthly installments over 5 None (LIBOR + 3.75%) years commencing June, 2011. HSBC (LIBOR + 3.5%) 29,997 52,946 Monthly installments over 5 None years commencing July, 2012 HSBC (LIBOR + 4.5%) 36,396 52,161 60 equal monthly None installments commencing June, 2013. HSBC (LIBOR + 4.5%) 38,707 55,474 60 equal monthly None installments commencing July, 2013. Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC 22,670 31,585 47 equal monthly None (LIBOR + 4.75%) installments commencing November, 2013. Standard Chartered Bank PLC (LIBOR + 4%) 79,853 119,156 60 equal monthly Mortgage over the share installments commencing certificate of Haycarb September, 2012. Value Added Products (Pvt) Ltd,amounting to Rs. 400 mn. Standard Chartered Bank PLC (LIBOR + 4%) 49,198 73,821 12 grace period plus 60 None Monthly installments commencing July 2014. Standard Chartered Bank PLC (LIBOR + 4%) 81,625 123,410 12 grace period plus 60 None Monthly installments commencing July 2015. Shizuka Co. Ltd. Bangkok Bank MLR 21,988 Payable in 60 monthly Mortgage over company land installments commencing and guaranteed by related October 2010. party. PT Haycarb Palu Mitra HSBC (5.25%) 82,311 Payable in 16 quarterly Mortgage over Company installments commencing land and buildings from September 2014 PT Mapalus Bank Panin Manado -(8%) 9,861 39,851 Monthly installments over Mortgage over land & Makawanua Charcoal five years commencing building. Industry. September,2011. Haycarb Holding Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC 42,821 68,154 Payable in 59 monthly Corporate guarantee for US $ Bitung Ltd. (LIBOR + 4%) installments. 80,000 from Haycarb PLC. 242 The Quality of Life Company Lender/rate 31.03.2015 31.03.2014 Repayment Security of interest (p.a.) Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Logiventures (Pvt) Ltd. Hatton National Bank PLC (LIBOR + 4.25%) 139,448 169,884 Payable in 56 monthly Land installments of Rs 3Mn and Ist installment of Rs 1 mn. Hayleys FreeZone Seylan Bank PLC (LIBOR + 3.5% ) 186,930 Quarterly installments None Limited commencing from February 2016 Seylan Bank PLC (LIBOR + 3.5%) 279,972 Quarterly installments None commencing from December 2016 Hayleys Agriculture Hatton National Bank PLC ( AWPLR + 1%) 47,000 Monthly Intallment Rs. 8.1 None Holdings Ltd. mn. TTEL Hydro Power Sampath Bank PLC (3 months average 59,121 73,605 12 Monthly installments Primary mortgage bond over Company (Pvt) Ltd. (AWDR + 4%) commencing from lease hold rights for Rs. 132.3 January, 2010 repayable Mn project assets. within 8 years. Hayleys Industrial Sampath Bank PLC (AWPLR+0.5%) 137,491 187,495 59 Monthly installments Loan agreement 250 mn Solutions (Pvt) Ltd. commencing from 31 st Mortgage bond over 30 mn January, 2014. shares of Hayleys Power Ltd for 250 mn original share certificate of Hayleys Power Ltd, total in to 30 mn shares. Hatton National Bank PLC (AWPLR-1.08%) 18,750 48 Monthly installments None commencing from 31st October, 2011. Sampath Bank PLC (AWPLR) 100,000 48 Monthly installments None commencing from March 2017 Bhagya Hydro Power Sampath Bank PLC (AWDR+3%) 2,295 95 monthly installments Loan agreement for Rs.39.5 (Pvt) Ltd. commencing September mn. Primary concurrent 2007. mortgage for Rs.78mn over free hold properties of the project. Seylan Bank PLC (AWDR+5%) 2,142 95 installments From Rs.39.5mn to be secured by a September 2007. primary concurrent mortgage over free hold land & project assets. Hayleys MGT Knitting Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC (6.5%) 4,020 7,730 96 monthly installments of Mortgage over machinery Mills PLC. USD 2,733/(Rs.312,500)after grace period of 2 years. NDB Bank PLC (3 month LIBOR+4.25%) 63,027 98,080 36 monthly installments of None USD 222,223/ Seylan Bank PLC (3month LIBOR+5%) 7,406 50,839 36 monthly installments of None USD 27,778 Hatton National Bank PLC ( 5% ) 474,025 36 monthly installments None of USD 27,728 after grace period of 6 months 243 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Notes to the financial statements Company Lender/rate 31.03.2015 31.03.2014 Repayment Security of interest (p.a.) Rs. '000 Rs. '000 TTEL Sumerset Hatton National Bank PLC (AWDR+1.5%) 11,586 12 Monthly installments Registered primary mortgage Hydro Power commencing from bond for Rs 112 mn over Company (Pvt) Ltd. December, 2008 lease rights of the property. repayable within 7 Corporate Guarantee of TTEL years. and HISL for Rs 112 mn in the proportionate of 51% and 49% respectively. Talawakelle Tea NDB Bank PLC (9.42% 10 %) 32,160 46,792 96 Installment ending Primary Mortgage over Estates PLC. December, 2018. leasehold rights of Somerset, Great western, Holyrood, Logie and dessford estates. NDB Bank PLC (9.42% 10 %) 39,503 85,839 60 Installment ending November ,2017. NDB Bank PLC (9.42% 10 %) 36,115 82,863 60 Installment ending June,2018. Sampath Bank PLC (8%) 34,780 51,085 92 installment ending Primary mortgage bond for November, 2018. Rs: 100 mn over leasehold right of Mattakelle Estate Sampath Bank PLC (10.76%) 46,850 48 Installment ending Primary mortgage bond for September, 2018. Rs: 30 mn over leasehold rights of Clarendon Estate. Secondary mortgage over leasehold right to the value of Rs: 20 mn of Deniyaya estate. Central Finance Company PLC 28,456 60 monthly installments Mortgage over 03 nos of (5years TB+2%) commencing from January, colour sorters 2014. Talawakelle Tea DFCC Vardhana Bank PLC ( 8.5% ) 50,000 60 monthly installments None Estates PLC. commencing from March 2015 Ravi Industries (Pvt) Hatton National Bank PLC. (3 months 7,793 Installment ending Primary Mortgage over Ltd LIBOR+4.2 %) September, 2017. specific Machinery. Hatton National Bank PLCLKR (AWPLR+ 2,375 4,275 Quarterly installments Primary Mortgage over 0.5% ) from September 2012. specific Machinery. Hatton National Bank PLC-USD (3 months 88,877 12,354 Quarterly installments Primary Mortgage over LIBOR + 4 %) from September 2012. specific Machinery. Pan Asia Banking Corporation PLC EURO 1,682 4,410 Equal monthly installments Primary Mortgage over (3m Euro +3.75%) from October 2011. specific Machinery. Pan Asia Banking Corporation PLC-USD2,639 5,001 Equal monthly installments Primary Mortgage over (LIBOR +4.24 % ) from March 2011. specific Machinery. Volanka (Pvt) Ltd. DFCC Bank PLC ( AWPLR+ 4%) 35,714 49,999 One year grace period Mortgage on Land and loan repayment start Building at Katana. date from January 2012. 244 The Quality of Life Company Lender/rate 31.03.2015 31.03.2014 Repayment Security of interest (p.a.) Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Alumex PLC. Lanka Orix Leasing Company PLC (6.5%) 1,042 7,291 June 2010 to June 2016 Mortgage over Machinery Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC (AWPLR 2,042 10,208 36 monthly installments None +1.5%) ending May, 2016. The Kingsbury PLC Bank of Ceylon PLC (AWPLR) 605,050 811,111 6 year including 1& 1/2 year Mortgage on leasehold right grace period of the land. DEG Deutsche Investitions 1,111,000 1,307,300 Semi annual repayment Mortgage on the leasehold (6m LIBOR +4.25%) on each 15th of June and land, building , fixtures , December respectively furniture, equipment and commencing on 15th June technical equipment. 2015. Haychem Bangladesh CBCL (15%) 4,200 4,222 60 monthly equal Registered mortgage over Ltd installment. land and building CBCL (15% ) 22,438 60 monthly equal None installment. Kandyan Resort (Pvt) NDB Bank PLC ( AWPLR + 1%) 2,826 48 Monthly installments Amaya Hills Property Ltd commencing from March, 2011. Culture Club Resort NDB Bank PLC (AWPLR + 1%) 5,447 48 Monthly installments Amaya Hills Property (Pvt) Ltd commencing from January, 2011. Sun Tan Beach DFCC Bank PLC (3 M AWPLR+1.5%) 309,091 66 Monthly installments Leasehold Right of the land Resorts Ltd. commencing from and Hotel building belongs to December, 2014 Sun Tan Beach Resorts Ltd Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC (1 Month 150,000 60 Monthly installments AWPLR+2%) commencing from January, 2015 Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC USD (1 M 291,847 72 Monthly installments LIBOR +4.5 % ) commencing from January, 2015 Amaya Leisure PLC Seylan Bank PLC (3 M AWPLR) 307,950 Monthly installments None commencing from March, 2019 Nirmalapura Wind HSBC (LIBOR +3.9%) 118,223 289,816 48 Monthly installments. Mortgage over Land Power (Pvt) Ltd Hayleys Global Hatton National Bank PLC (AWPLR) 242,746 Payable in 20 quarterly None Beverages (Pvt) Ltd installments after initial grace period of 2 years Hayleys Neluwa Hatton National Bank PLC (AWPLR+0.5%) 56,586 To be repaid over a period Mortgage bond for Rs. 750 Hydro Power (Pvt) Ltd of 8years mn ordinary shares of Hayleys Neluwa Hydro (Pvt) Ltd valued at Rs.300 mn. 7,491,057 6,487,294 245 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Notes to the financial statements 26 Grants Consolidated As at 31st March 2015 2014 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 At the beginning of the year 742,077 783,222 Grants received during the year 25,091 4,564 Amortised during the year (53,673) (45,709) At end of the year 713,495 742,077 (i) Grants received by the Group are as follows: Kelani Valley Plantations PLCReceived from the Plantation Reform Project (PRP), Plantation Human Development Trust, Ministry of Community Development, Asian Development Bank, Social Welfare Project, Estate Infrastructures Development Project , Plantation Development Support Project Ceylon Electricity Board, Tea Board and Rubber Development Division Of the Ministry Of Plantations Industry. Talawakelle Tea Estates PLC Received from the Tea Board and Unilever Ceylon Limited for replanting. Hunas Falls Hotels PLC Received from the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce to finance the project for conversion of the diesel fired boiler to dendro thermal power. Agriculture Sector Received from the USAID for construction of Gherkin Storage Facilities(Vats) in Padiyathalawa Eastern Province. There is no unfulfilled conditions or contingencies attached to these grants. 27 Deferred Taxation Consolidated Company As at 31st March 2015 2014 2015 2014 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 27.1 Deferred Tax Asset Deferred Tax Asset 386,698 381,567 Deferred Tax Liability 1,363,237 1,249,322 Net Deferred Tax Liability 976,539 867,755 27.2 Net Deferred Tax liability At the beginning of the year 867,755 698,985 Amount originating during the yearincome statement 93,555 150,650 Amount reversed during the yearother comprehensive income (5,392) (579) Acquisition through business combinations 12,607 14,069 Effect of movements in exchange rates 8,014 4,630 At end of the year 976,539 867,755 246 The Quality of Life 27.3 Net deferred tax liabilities are attributable to the following as the year-end: Consolidated Company As at 31st March 2015 2014 2015 2014 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Deferred tax assets Tax effect of employee benefit obligations (672,226) (533,762) Tax effect of tax loss carried forward (453,402) (325,100) Tax effect of provisions (99,039) (88,685) (1,224,667) (947,547) Deferred tax liabilities Tax effect of property, plant & equipment 2,201,206 1,815,302 Net deferred tax liabilities 976,539 867,755 28 Employee Benefit Obligations Consolidated Company As at 31st March 2015 2014 2015 2014 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Present value of unfunded gratuity 4,958,643 4,630,864 415,617 450,560 Total present value of the obligation 4,958,643 4,630,864 415,617 450,560 At the beginning of the year 4,630,864 4,285,224 450,560 372,714 Acquisition through business combinations 5,728 5,748 Transfers from other current liabilities 22,564 Effect of movements in exchange rates (11,918) 7,463 Benefits paid by the plan (509,685) (498,359) (25,804) (63,358) Current service costs 338,773 302,355 22,309 20,098 Interest cost 475,089 446,480 49,204 41,535 Actuarial (gain)/ loss 7,228 81,953 (80,652) 79,571 At end of the year 4,958,643 4,630,864 415,617 450,560 247 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Notes to the financial statements Consolidated Company For the year ended 31st March 2015 2014 2015 2014 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 The expense is recognised in the following line items in the income statement Cost of sales 173,902 118,991 1,424 1,007 Administrative expenses 639,960 629,844 70,089 60,626 813,862 748,835 71,513 61,633 LKAS 19Employee Benefitsrequires the use of actuarial techniques to make a reliable estimate of the amount of employee benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods and discount that benefit using the Projected Unit Credit Method in order to determine the present value of the employee benefit obligation and the current service cost. This requires an entity to determine how much benefit is attributable to the current and prior periods and to make estimates about demographic variables and financial variables that will influence the cost of the benefit. The following key assumptions were made in arriving at the above figure. Rate of discount 10% Salary increase 9% Assumptions regarding future mortality are based on the A1967/70 for Staff/Executive and A1949/52 for Worker, issued by the Institute of Actuaries, London The demographic assumptions underlying the valuation are with respect to retirement age early withdrawals from service and retirement on medical grounds. The Group’s and Company employee benefit obligation would have been Rs.4,349 mn (2014Rs.4,029 mn) and Rs.434 mn (2014Rs.378 mn) respectively, as at the reporting date had the Group calculated its retirement benefit obligation as per the requirements of the Payments of Gratuity Act no 12 of 1983, applying the basis of computation given on page 194. 28.1 Sensitivity Analysis Salary Escalation Rate/Discount Rate Values appearing in the Financial Statements are very sensitive to the changes in financial and Non financial assumptions used. A Sensitivity analysis was carried out as follows, A one percentage point change in the salary escalation rate Consolidated Company +1% -1% +1% -1% The present value of defined benefit obligation 5,240,941 4,618,068 435,748 396,813 A one percentage point change in the discount rate Consolidated Company +1% -1% +1% -1% The present value of defined benefit obligation 4,538,671 5,348,552 396,958 435,949 248 The Quality of Life 28.2 Distribution of Defined Benefit Obligation Over Future Working Lifetime Consolidated Company As at 31st March 2015 2014 2015 2014 Rs.000 Rs.000 Rs.000 Rs.000 Less than or equal 1 year 727,903 247,264 121,132 60,825 Over 1 year and less than or equal 5 years 1,050,207 1,155,881 200,583 280,373 Over 5 year and less than or equal 10 years 1,902,433 2,196,121 93,902 109,362 Over 10 years 1,278,100 1,031,598 Total 4,958,643 4,630,864 415,617 450,560 29 Trade and Other Payables/Provisions 29.1 Trade and Other Payables Consolidated Company As at 31st March 2015 2014 2015 2014 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Trade payables 5,102,530 4,745,291 Bills payable 1,162,739 1,715,646 Other payables including accrued expenses 5,475,937 5,110,183 244,482 291,713 Unclaimed dividends 202,203 96,827 49,481 44,992 11,943,409 11,667,947 293,963 336,705 29.2 Currency wise analysis of Trade and Other Payables Consolidated Company As at 31st March 2015 2014 2015 2014 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Sri Lanka Rupees 6,061,535 5,673,205 293,963 336,705 Pounds Sterling 101,335 34,314 United States Dollars 3,186,229 3,872,274 Euro 1,104,993 935,426 Thai Baht 1,118,371 989,313 Indian Rupees 16,064 46,300 Other 354,882 117,115 11,943,409 11,667,947 293,963 336,705 249 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Notes to the financial statements 29.3 Provisions Consolidated As at 31st March Maintenance Other 2015 2014 warranties ** Total Total Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 At the beginning of the year 9,999 18,793 28,792 37,232 Arising during the year 4,810 14,648 19,458 9,850 Utilized (3,954) (18,817) (22,771) (18,290) At end of the year 10,855 14,624 25,479 28,792 ** Hayleys Agriculture Holdings Ltd which sells heavy machineries such as combine harvesters, combine threshers, four wheel tractors made a warranty provision in the Financial Statements for any warranty claim on machines sold. 29.4 Other Current Liabilities Consolidated Company As at 31st March 2015 2014 2015 2014 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Other tax payable 87,319 72,866 11,650 10,011 Payments received in advance 410,471 292,207 497,790 365,073 11,650 10,011 30 Income Tax Consolidated Company As at 31st March 2015 2014 2015 2014 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 30.1 Income tax recoverable At the end of the year (See Note 30.2) 219,469 170,754 1,752 30.2 Income Tax Payable At the beginning of the year 202,589 342,599 1,688 7,834 Subsidiaries'/ parents' taxation on current year's profit 1,068,338 1,019,209 4,094 16,274 Irrecoverable economic service charge 406 1,570 (Over)/under provision in respect of previous years 80,396 (2,700) 4,471 14,508 Tax on dividend 270,885 204,899 Acquisition of subsidiary 13,941 13,937 Effect of movements in exchange rates 752 10,850 Payments made during the year (1,341,151) (1,387,774) (12,005) (36,929) Net Income Tax payable/(recoverable) 296,155 202,589 (1,752) 1,688 Income tax recoverable 219,469 170,754 1,752 At the end of the year 515,624 373,343 1,688 250 The Quality of Life 31 Short-Term Interest Bearing Borrowings Consolidated Company As at 31st March 2015 2014 2015 2014 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Sri Lankan Rupees 6,882,112 8,060,007 37,579 1,553,687 Australian Dollars 11,725 12,756 Sterling Pounds 38,606 9,916 United States Dollars 4,843,571 4,658,439 Euro 661,613 569,183 Thai Baht 448,359 562,685 Indonesia Ruppiah 266,220 Bangladesh Taka 153,859 135,476 13,306,065 14,008,462 37,579 1,553,687 32 Contingent liabilities and commitments 32.1 Contingent Liabilities. Company The contingent liability as at 31st March, 2015 on guarantees given by Hayleys PLC., to third parties amounted to Rs. 180 mn. (2014Rs.183 mn) and of this sum Rs 180 Mn (2014Rs.180 mn) relates to facilities obtained by subsidiaries . Group The contingent liability as at 31st March 2015 on bills discounted amounted to USD 1,460,191 (2014USD 2,188,380) in respect of Hayleys MGT Knitting Mills PLC. The contingent liability as at 31st March 2015 on guarantees given by Haycarb PLC to third parties amounted to Rs. 2,251 mn (2014Rs.1,120 mn). of this sum, Rs 1,836 mn (2014Rs. 841 mn) relate to facilities obtained by its subsidiaries. The contingent liabilities as at 31 March, 2015 on guarantees given by Dipped Products PLC to third parties amounted to Rs. 70 mn (2014Rs. 390 mn). Total of this sum relates to facilities obtained by its subsidiaries. 32.2 Commitments Group (i) In terms of the operating lease agreements entered in to , minimum future lease payments payable by the Group is as follows. As at 31st March 2015 2014 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Repayable within one year 66,823 65,595 Repayable after one year less than 5 years 176,054 187,165 Repayable after 5 years 545,355 550,115 788,232 802,875 251 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Notes to the financial statements 33 Foreign currency translation The principal exchange rates used for translation purposes were: Average As at 31st March 2015 2014 2015 2014 United States Dollar 131.36 130.52 133.32 130.73 Australian Dollar 113.97 120.72 101.94 120.90 Pound Sterling 211.09 208.39 197.24 217.41 Thai Baht 4.04 4.13 4.08 4.03 Bangladesh Taka 1.69 1.68 1.71 1.68 Euro 165.02 175.41 144.29 179.67 Indian Rupee 2.14 2.15 2.12 2.18 Indonesian Rupiah 0.0108 0.0119 0.0102 0.0115 Maldivian Rufiyaa 8.61 8.39 34 Functional currency The Group's functional currency is the Sri Lankan Rupee. The following subsidiaries and equity accounted investees where the functional currency is different from the Group’s functional currency as they operate in different economic environments. Company Functional Currency Hayleys MGT Knitting Mills PLC USD Haychem (Bangladesh) Ltd. Bangladesh Taka PT Mapalus Makawanua Charcoal Industry Indonesian Rupiah Haycarb Holdings Bitung Ltd. USD Eurocarb Products Ltd. Pounds Sterling Haycarb Holdings Australia (Pty) Ltd. Australian Dollars Haycarb USA Inc. USD Carbokarn Company Ltd. Thai Baht Haylex BV Group Euro, Yen & USD Dipped Products (Thailand) Ltd Thai Baht CK Regen Systems Co. Ltd Thai Baht ICOGuanti SpA Euro PT Tulus Lanka Coir Industries Indonesian Rupiah Civaro Freight India (Pvt) Ltd Indian Rupees Hayleylines Limited USD Logiwiz Logistics India (Pvt) Ltd Indian Rupees Shizuka Co. Ltd Thai Baht Charles Fibre ( Pvt) Ltd Indian Rupees PT Haycarb Palu Mitra (Indonesia) Indonesian Rupiah Haylex USA USD Nautical Maldives ( Pvt) Ltd Maldivian Rufiyaa One World Logistics Maldives (Pvt) Ltd Maldivian Rufiyaa Super Logistics (Pvt) Ltd Maldivian Rufiyaa Total Transport Solutions Maldives (Pvt) Ltd Maldivian Rufiyaa 252 The Quality of Life 35 Events Occurring after the Balance Sheet Date Other than those mentioned below, no other circumstances have arisen since the reporting date, which would require adjustments to, or disclosure in the Financial Statements. (i) As per Finance Bill issued on March 30, 2015, where the aggregate profits (as per audited Financial Statement) of subsidiaries and the holding Company, within a Group of Companies, exceed Rs. 2 bn for the Year of assessment 2013/14, each Company of such Group is liable to pay a levy known as Super Gains Tax which is 25% of the taxable income of such company for the Year of assessment 2013/14. The Bill is yet to be enacted. The Company and its subsidiaries would become liable to the said levy once the proposed Bill is legislated and the method of computation is established upon which the quantum of the levy will be ascertained. (ii) Directors have proposed the payment of final dividend of Rs. 6.00 per share for the year ended 31st March 2015 which will be declared at the Annual General Meeting to be held on June 26th, 2015. In accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting Standard No. 10 on Events after reporting period , the proposed final dividend has not been recognised as a liability as at the Reporting date. (iii) There was a court case filed against Hanwella Rubber Products Ltd, a subsidiary of Dipped Products PLC, by the Padukka Police. In this regard, the Avissawella High Court stayed the Magistrates Order on Hanwella Rubber Products Ltd., based on the Appeal and Revision Application made by the company enabling its factory to continue operations. The Board of Directors is confident that there will not be an adverse outcome in this regard. 36 Companies with Different Accounting years The Financial Statements of, Haylex BV Group, Haychem Bangladesh Ltd., ICOGuanti SpA, Total Transport Solutions Maldives (Pvt) Ltd, Nautical Maldives ( Pvt) Ltd, One World Logistics Maldives (Pvt) Ltd, Super Logistics (Pvt) Ltd, have been prepared for the year ended 31st December. and these Companies have been consolidated based on the Financial Statements drawn up to 31st December since these subsidiaries are not material to the Group. 36.1 Effect on Consolidation of Companies with Different Accounting Years Financial year end of Kelani Valley Plantations PLC (KVPL) and Hayleys Plantation Services (Pvt) Ltd., (HPSL) changed to March 31, from December 31. Accordingly Financial Statements of KVPL and HPSL for the 15 months period from January 1, 2014 to March 31, 2015 have been consolidated with Group Financial Statements. The Financial Statements of Dipped Products (Thailand) Ltd. Carbokarn Co. Ltd., CK Regen Systems Co. Ltd., Shizuka Co. Ltd., Thailand, Haycarb Holdings Australia (Pty) Ltd., Australia, Haycarb USA, PT Mapalus Makawanua Charcoal Industry, PT Haycarb Palu Mitra, Indonesia and Haycarb Holdings Bitung Ltd., British Virgin Islands, which have been drawn up to 31st December was consolidated. in the Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March 2014. It is decided to bring these companies in to the same financial period which ends 31st March from the financial year 2014/15 in accordance with the SLFRS 10 which requires subsidiaries to prepare the Financial Statements as of Hayleys PLC reporting date for the consolidation purpose. Due to this change, consolidated Financial Statements for the period ended 31st March 2015 contained 15 months results of these companies. The effect to the consolidated revenue and profit after tax (before adjusting for inter-company eliminations) is shown below: 01.01.2014 01.04.2014 01.01.2014 31.03.2014 31.03.2015 31.03.2015 3 Months 12 Months 15 Months Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Revenue 5,313,158 17,630,290 22,943,448 Profit After Tax 202,963 781,729 984,692 253 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Notes to the financial statements 37 Acquisition of Subsidiaries 37.1 The acquisition had the following effect on the Groups’ assets and liabilities Acquisition of Total Total As at 31st March Sun Tan Beach Alufab PLC Total Transport 2015 2014 Resorts Ltd Solutions Maldives (Pvt) Ltd Rs '000 Rs '000 Rs '000 Rs '000 Rs '000 Property plant and equipment 1,890,403 120,104 6,127 2,016,634 8,721 Intangible assets 540 540 Investment property 500,000 Inventories 9,512 24,744 34,256 15,754 Trade and other receivables 548,517 34,799 372,043 955,359 56,804 Current financial assets 15,761 Long term loans (968,729) (968,729) Lease obligations (5,507) (5,507) Interest in suspense 1,205 1,205 Retirement benefit obligations (648) (5,080) (5,728) (5,748) Deferred tax liability (14,757) 2,150 (12,607) (14,070) Trade and other payables (503,970) (43,315) (417,311) (964,596) (42,763) Income tax recoverable (payable) 158 (14,099) (13,941) (13,937) Net Identifiable assets and liabilities 975,243 112,193 (50,550) 1,036,886 520,522 Share of net assets accounted under equity accounted investees Minority Shareholders' interests (413,567) (92,802) (19,126) (525,495) (46,192) Goodwill/(negative goodwill) acquired/ loss on disposal 137,864 19,754 49 157,666 215,857 699,540 39,145 (69,627) 669,058 690,187 37.2 Satisfied by Cash Consideration 699,540 39,145 (69,627) 669,058 690,187 Analysis of cash and cash equivalents on acquisition of subsidiary Cash consideration (568,311) (174,201) (18,438) (760,950) (785,000) Short term borrowings 7,658 136,483 88,065 232,206 (4,601) Cash at bank and in hand acquired (138,887) (1,427) (140,314) 99,414 (699,540) (39,145) 69,627 (669,058) (690,187) 37.3 The following acquisitions made during the year Amaya Leisure PLC, a subsidiary of Hayleys PLC acquired the controlling interest in San Tan Beach Resorts Ltd. Hayleys PLC acquired the controlling interest in Alufab PLC. Hayleys Advantis Ltd, a subsidiary of Hayleys PLC acquired the controlling interest in Total Transport Solutions Maldives ( Pvt) Ltd. 254 The Quality of Life 38 Principal subsidiaries with material non-controlling interests Summarised financial information in respect of Hayleys PLC’s subsidiaries that have material non-controlling interest, reflecting amounts before inter-company eliminations, is set out below. As at 31st March Dipped Haycarb Hayleys Products PLC PLC Advantis Ltd Rs. 000 Rs. 000 Rs. 000 Current assets 7,750,718 5,696,413 5,038,426 Non-current assets 10,073,260 5,320,357 4,239,424 Total assets 17,823,978 11,016,770 9,277,850 Current liabilities 5,598,106 3,923,488 3,643,778 Non-current liabilities 3,186,357 799,351 1,311,807 Total liabilities 8,784,463 4,722,839 4,955,585 Equity attributable to the owners of the company 4,300,012 3,862,781 3,323,141 Non-controlling interests 4,739,504 2,431,149 999,124 Non-controlling interest in % 44 32 5 Revenue 23,005,378 11,933,848 14,181,331 Profit after tax 1,201,788 873,932 987,874 Profit attributable to the owners of the company 583,838 470,713 598,967 Profit attributable to the non-controlling interests 617,950 403,219 388,906 Total comprehensive income 1,312,449 1,236,457 1,431,512 Dividend paid 359,169 148,561 308,253 Net cash inflow from operating activities 2,225,289 621,034 1,076,556 Net cash (outflow) from investing activities (2,607,106) (631,892) (583,585) Net cash (outflow)/inflow from financing activities (309,183) (421,683) 133,545 Total net cash (outflow) )/inflow (691,000) (432,541) 626,516 255 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Notes to the financial statements 39 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS 39.1 Parent and Ultimate Controlling Party Company does not have an identifiable parent of its own. 39.2 Transactions with Key Management Personnel 39.2.1 Loans to Directors No loans have been given to the Directors of the Company. 39.2.2 Key Management Personnel Compensation Key management personnel comprises the Directors of the company and details of compensation are given in Note 10 to the Financial Statements 39.2.3 Other Transactions With Key Management Personnel (i) The names of Directors of Hayleys PLC, who are also directors of subsidiaries joint ventures and equity accounted investees companies are stated on pages 156 to 158. (ii) Details of directors and their spouses' share holdings are given on page 277 There were no other transactions with key management personnel other than those disclosed in Note 39 to the Financial Statement. (iii) The undermentioned Directors of Hayleys PLC, have leased the following residential premises to the under noted Companies in the Group: Monthly Rental Lessor Premises Lessee Rs. A. M. Pandithage 119, Kynsey Road, Colombo 08. Hayleys PLC 5,000 S. C. Ganegoda No 28, Campbell Place, Dehiwala. Haylays PLC 2,500 (iv) K. D. D. Perera purchased 1,000,000 Hayleys PLC shares amounting to Rs. 340 mn in January 2015. 39.3 Transactions with Subsidiaries , Equity Accounted Investees & Other Related Companies Relationships with subsidiaries and equity accounted investees are explained in Note 18 and also under Group Companies on pages 284 to 286. Business segment classification is also given under Group Companies. (i) Companies within the Group engage in trading transactions under normal commercial terms and condition. (ii) Hayleys PLC, provides office space to its subsidiary and equity accounted investees and charges rent. In addition the Company incur common expenses such as on export shipping, secretarial, data processing, personnel and administration functions. Such costs are allocated to subsidiary and equity accounted investees. Details are given below: 256 The Quality of Life Company For the period ended 31st March 2015 2014 Subsidiaries Subsidiaries Business segment Rent Common Purchase of Rent Common Purchase of expenses goods and expenses goods and services services Rs’000 Fibre 5,327 113,985 1,486 3,578 90,220 1,859 Hand protection 15,255 117,558 12,130 105,024 Purification products 24,069 100,307 167 16,858 101,589 149 Textiles 76,986 69,190 231 Construction materials 942 28,795 177 33,308 696 Agriculture 15,216 86,020 118 10,221 84,577 132 Plantations 18,965 56,035 236 12,689 68,852 336 Industry inputs 11,477 59,972 1,968 7,144 45,807 7,429 Power & energy 13,812 473 5,592 Transportation & logistics 64,784 114,292 7,862 53,567 107,156 379 Consumer products 18,593 75,405 589 12,490 56,620 1,431 Leisure & aviation 21,377 165,293 21,793 11,671 142,308 19,587 Investments & services 12,471 38,830 8,606 8,601 41,202 10,149 208,476 1,047,290 43,002 149,422 951,445 42,379 Details of inter-company balances are given below Company As at 31st March 2015 2014 Rs’000 Rs'000 Rs’000 Rs'000 Subsidiaries Subsidiaries Business segment Receivable Payable Receivable Payable Fibre 236,294 (135) 112,092 Hand protection 87,413 8,969 (1,557) Purification products 81,415 11,960 Textiles 8,078 (844) 381,172 Construction materials 64,836 267 Agriculture 43,087 41,171 Plantations 8,897 12,385 Industry inputs 343,635 (5) 234,614 (5) Power & energy 2,856 3,158 Transportation 179,215 (38) 4,948 (31) Consumer products 51,257 (625) 32,680 (626) Leisure & aviation 178,086 136,492 (204) Investments & services 115,191 (19,950) 112,761 (21,134) Total 1,400,260 (21,597) 1,092,669 (23,557) 257 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Notes to the financial statements Consolidated As at 31st March 2015 2014 Rs'000 Rs'000 Equity accounted investees Equity accounted investees Business segment Receivable Payable Receivable Payable Transportation 21,450 (96) 9,040 (10,023) Fibre 11,493 (20,792) (15,927) Leisure & Aviation 19 Purification 16,892 2,542 Total 49,854 (20,888) 11,582 (25,950) Transactions with other related Companies Company Relationship Name of Director Nature of Transaction Amount Rs. 000 Sampath Bank PLC Key management personal/ K. D. D. Perera Bank facility 2,592,606 Significant shareholder Outstanding 873,134 Interest 73,205 LB Finance PLC Control/Significant shareholder K. D. D. Perera Lease rental paid 13,515 Pan Asia Bank PLC Significant shareholder K. D. D. Perera Bank facility 875,083 Outstanding 342,137 Interest 26,557 Royal Ceramics PLC Control/Significant shareholder K. D. D. Perera Purchase of goods & services 31,615 Outstanding 2,959 Vallibel Finance Ltd Control/Significant shareholder K. D. D. Perera Outstanding 1,799 Interest 26 Vallibel One PLC Control/Significant shareholder K. D. D. Perera Outstanding 6,694 Interest 761 Accommodation 101 Vallibel Power Erathna PLC Control/Significant shareholder K. D. D. Perera Outstanding 1,303 The Fortress Resorts PLC Control/Significant shareholder K. D. D. Perera Amounts paid 7,257 Outstanding 6,525 Delmege Limited Control/Significant shareholder K. D. D. Perera Amounts paid 11,860 Outstanding 839 Lanka Tiles PLC Control/Significant shareholder K. D. D. Perera Amounts paid 1,583 258 The Quality of Life 39.4 Details of guarantees given in respect of related parties are given in Note 32 to the Financial Statements. 39.5 No provision was made in respect of related party receivables. 39.6 No security has been obtained for related party receivables and all related party dues are payable on demand. 39.7 Interest on related party dues are decided based on the inter bank lending rates, associated risk and purpose for which funds are used. 39.8 There are no related parties or related party transactions other than those disclosed in Note 39 to the Financial Statements. 40 DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS/ ASSETS HELD FOR SALES Assets and Liabilities of Discontinued Operations Consolidated As at 31st March 2015 2014 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Assets classified as held for sale Trade and other receivables 1,906 1,906 Cash in hand and at bank 1,115 1,115 Total assets 3,021 3,021 Liabilities directly associated with assets classified as held for sale Trade and other payables 332 332 Total liabilities 332 332 Civaro India (Pvt) Ltd., which was set up in India, to develop an international freight management network, has now ceased operation due to negative effect of the global recession and will be wound up. 259 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Notes to the Financial Statements 41. Segment Analysis The segment information is based on two segmental formats. The business segment is considered as the primary format and based on the management structure of the Group. The management are of the view that the Chairman is considered the Chief Operating decision maker and resources are allocated and performance assessed based on the sectors, Therefore each sector which falls under the purview of a different GMC member is considered a separate segment. The geographical format is considered as a secondary format and is based on the location of office in which the business is recorded. Fibre Hand Protection Purification Textiles Construction Plantation Agriculture Materials For the year ended 31st March, 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 In Rs '000 (Restated) (Restated) Total Revenue 5,051,875 3,996,608 14,986,012 13,400,323 11,933,848 10,338,685 8,542,539 7,994,776 3,397,483 2,804,490 13,259,531 10,318,350 8,824,925 7,972,001 Intra Group Revenue (633,280) (303,535) (15,700) (23,410) (20,327) (580,882) (721,547) (400,987) (576,535) External Revenue 4,418,595 3,693,074 14,970,312 13,376,913 11,933,848 10,338,685 8,542,539 7,994,776 3,377,156 2,804,490 12,678,649 9,596,803 8,423,938 7,395,466 Segment results Results from operating activities 65,843 17,630 1,553,944 905,575 1,304,071 1,292,835 222,357 4,344 624,655 474,167 566,124 825,509 1,038,627 943,420 Net finance cost (62,296) (141,239) (50,457) 1,766 (245,008) (272,158) (135,957) (175,844) 3,641 (10,099) (208,148) (124,444) (221,938) (305,053) Share of profit of equity accounted 5,952 10,025 11,063 22,982 investees Profit before tax 9,499 (113,584) 1,503,487 907,341 1,070,126 1,043,659 86,400 (171,500) 628,296 464,068 357,976 701,065 816,689 638,367 Tax 29,754 30,611 299,979 242,380 196,404 152,106 (2,919) 9,717 130,707 85,114 101,282 117,744 185,015 164,761 Depreciation on property, plant & 75,679 88,000 577,650 461,913 310,063 226,897 235,814 237,884 87,296 78,840 331,255 205,182 110,964 111,120 equipment Impairment of property, plant & 36,912 2,260 13,514 13,581 4,851 equipment Impairment of intangible assets Depreciation on investment properties 700 627 2,445 155 Amortisation of intangible assets 373 646 15,226 7,956 28,874 20,556 Total assets (excl. equity accounted 6,629,365 5,730,487 10,736,977 9,702,557 9,963,299 8,735,184 4,661,082 3,481,242 2,377,682 1,752,743 10,432,619 9,821,726 6,558,825 7,220,499 investees) Investment in equity accounted investees 39,947 41,627 76,361 65,297 Additions to Property Plant & equipment 121,257 31,369 938,424 469,491 1,206,705 565,453 227,663 31,577 376,313 53,931 341,383 528,066 72,318 155,491 Improvements to Biological assets 12,558 4,572 Additions to Intangible assets 1,246 24,906 19,161 46,873 6,966 240 Additions to Investment Property Non Interest bearing liabilities Deferred tax Liability 17,991 18,256 431,410 53,092 40,582 21,219 195,115 206,075 106,748 78,939 63,129 399,677 25,518 21,432 Employee benefit obligations 289,614 327,479 463,606 442,027 257,636.00 187,013 220,911 178,681 66,042 60,367 2,047,901 1,962,141 325,966 288,355 Trade and other payables 309,832 294,538 2,001,006 1,978,053 1,485,060 1,264,696 976,990 1,140,589 660,042 466,953 776,633 902,883 1,375,441 1,867,597 Cash Flows Segment cash flows from Operating (271,108) 573,125 2,225,289 1,051,165 621,034 942,164 (182,912) (492,045) 507,020 307,750 393,877 715,905 705,425 (54,360) Activities Segment cash flows from Investment (69,740) 51,460 (2,607,106) 1,139,343 (631,892) (1,001,475) (225,009) (52,488) (340,997) (78,488) (656,138) (607,063) 179,916 174,558 Activities Segment cash flows from Financing 123,896 (105,278) (309,183) 224,578 (421,683) 42,768 1,337,999 168,849 (209,907) (26,717) 283,867 (374,813) (629,384) (561,235) Activities 260 The Quality of Life Consumer Leisure and Aviation Industry Inputs Power and Energy Transportation Investment and Non Segment Total Services Adjustments 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 (Restated) 5,184,704 5,252,132 4,846,799 4,308,198 2,257,496 1,988,783 988,034 1,012,829 14,181,331 11,935,724 1,172,997 1,147,199 94,627,574 82,470,094 (414,533) (366,460) (2,065,709) (1,991,485) 5,184,704 5,252,132 4,846,799 4,308,198 2,257,496 1,988,783 988,034 1,012,829 14,181,331 11,935,724 758,464 780,738 92,561,865 80,478,609 139,845 234,669 806,276 816,839 244,722 191,722 671,345 706,625 1,346,967 1,137,303 1,393,553 1,077,601 (1,467,783) (1,432,582) 8,510,546 7,195,656 (108,114) (154,346) (256,211) (278,977) (51,395) (39,299) (41,003) (90,178) (11,738) (20,659) (549,865) (536,748) (196,525) (2,135,014) (2,147,278) 3 97 1,424 7,268 (188) 24,383 34,243 31,731 80,323 550,068 537,862 193,327 152,423 630,342 616,447 1,335,326 1,118,068 850,956 540,665 (1,664,308) (1,432,582) 6,399,915 5,082,621 21,248 19,975 78,253 65,698 57,989 52,545 (27,548) 34,687 345,450 293,357 12,633 41,184 85,334 63,747 1,513,581 1,373,628 14,236 14,339 389,376 285,216 7,363 6,485 129,100 128,563 122,088 117,625 37,578 40,865 5,324 485 2,433,786 2,003,414 20,626 50,493 9,864 9,864 2,851 2,368 5,996 3,150 25,048 23,745 5,577 5,578 14,205 11,155 31,500 31,500 120,803 101,136 2,508,290 2,457,178 9,280,243 7,949,333 2,164,195 1,902,618 2,407,006 2,272,910 8,827,419 6,594,594 19,880,751 17,483,850 (3,590,353) (4,154,095) 92,837,400 80,950,826 7,803 16,758 18,292 348,227 229,044 489,096 354,260 18,818 13,818 731,269 772,214 7,260 6,391 1,587 2,301 227,429 246,239 85,807 71,619 (33,385) 4,322,848 2,947,962 12,559 4,572 5,404 5,527 102,480 53,301 179,903 86,201 313 2,331 3,366 2,331 3,679 361,099 341,675 30,643 41,955 91,002 67,002 1,363,237 1,249,322 59,135 48,516 93,688 78,764 77,204 78,137 5,718 3,518 614,456 491,056 436,766 484,810 4,958,643 4,630,864 629,966 555,910 994,133 976,703 273,577 179,013 33,251 26,644 2,046,038 1,638,156 381,388 376,211 50 11,943,409 11,667,947 225,155 (520,985) 996,605 738,616 375,238 (9,002) 834,195 484,710 1,076,556 943,613 389,117 329,319 735,873 543,123 8,631,364 5,553,098 (42,319) 2,057 (1,437,564) (502,595) (509,324) 52,235 (340,943) (114,816) (583,585) (1,137,095) 96,433 99,783 828,274 (1,713,915) (6,339,994) (3,688,499) (33,989) (60,050) 239,625 170,340 (58,840) 144,521 (470,541) (257,154) 135,545 (358,501) 1,454,929 3,188,912 (1,675,613) (716,206) (233,279) 1,480,014 261 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Notes to the financial statements 42 Financial Risk Management The Group has exposure to the following risk from financial instruments: 1 Credit risk 2 Liquidity risk 3 Market risk This note presents information about the Group’s exposure to each of the above risks, the Group’s objectives, policies and processes for measuring and managing risk, and the Group’s management of capital. Further quantitative disclosures are included throughout these consolidated financial statements. Financial Risk Management Framework The Board of Directors has the overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Group’s Financial risk management framework which includes developing and monitoring the Group’s Financial risk management policies. The Group’s Financial risk management policies are established to identify, quantify and analyse the Financial risks faced by the Group, to set appropriate risk limits and controls, and to monitor Financial risks and adherence to limits. Financial Risk management policies and systems are reviewed regularly to reflect changes in market conditions and the Group’s activities. All derivative activities for risk management purposes are carried out by Group Treasury that have the appropriate skills and experience. The Group Audit Committee oversees how management monitors compliance with the Group’s Financial risk management policies and procedures, and reviews the adequacy of the Financial risk management framework in relation to the risks faced by the Group. The Group Audit Committee is assisted in its oversight role by the Management Audit System Review Department (MASRD). MASRD undertakes both regular and ad hoc reviews of Financial risk management policies and procedures, the results of which are reported to the Group Audit Committee. Credit Risk Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty will not meet its obligations under a financial instrument or customer contract, leading to a financial loss. The Group is exposed to credit risk from its operating activities (primarily from trade receivables) and from its financing activities, including deposits with banks and financial institutions, foreign exchange transactions and other financial instruments. Trade and other receivables The Group’s exposure to credit risk is influenced mainly by the individual characteristics of each customer. The Group has established a credit policy under which each new customer is analysed individually for creditworthiness before the Group’s standard payment and delivery terms and conditions are offered. The Group’s review includes external ratings, when available, and in some cases bank references. Purchase limits are established for each customer, which represents the maximum open amount without requiring approval from the Management; these limits are reviewed quarterly. Customers that fail to meet the Group’s benchmark creditworthiness may transact with the Group only on a prepayment basis. Outstanding customer receivables are regularly monitored at the individual sector and Group Management Committee (GMC) level. Further SLECIC cover or other forms of credit insurance is obtained for most exports or in the instance this is not obtained, specific GMC approval is obtained prior to the export. In monitoring customer credit risk, customers are grouped according to their credit characteristics, including whether they are an individual or legal entity, whether they are a wholesale, retail or end-user customer, geographic location, industry, aging profile, maturity and existence of previous financial difficulties. Trade and other receivables relate mainly to the Group’s wholesale customers. Customers that are graded as “high risk” are placed on a restricted customer list and future sales are made on a prepayment basis. The Group establishes an allowance for impairment that represents its estimate of incurred losses in respect of trade and other receivables. The main components of this allowance are a specific loss component that relates to individually significant exposures, and a collective loss component established for groups of similar assets in respect of losses that have been incurred but not yet identified. The collective loss allowance is determined based on historical data of payment statistics for similar financial assets. The maximum exposure to credit risk for trade and other receivables at the reporting date is Rs. 17.9 bn ( 2014 Rs.16.6 bn) which is recorded at note 22. 262 The Quality of Life Investments Credit risk from invested balances with the financial institutions are managed by the Group’s treasury department in accordance with the Group’s policy. Investments of surplus funds are made only with approved counterparties and within credit limits assigned to each counterparty. The limits are set to minimise the concentration of risks and therefore mitigate financial loss through potential counterparty’s failure. Cash and cash equivalents The Group held cash and cash equivalents of Rs. 3.1 bn as at 31 March 2015 (2014 2.6 bn) which represents its maximum credit exposure on these assets. Respective credit ratings of banks which group cash balances held are as follows; • People’s Bank – AA+(lka) • Standard Chartered Bank – AAA (lka) • Hong Kong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Ltd., – AAA(lka) • Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC – AA(lka) • Sampath Bank PLC – AA(lka) • Nations Trust Bank PLC – A( lka) • Pan Asia Banking Corporation PLC – BBB ( lka) • Hatton National Bank PLC– AA-(lka) • Bank of Ceylon– AA+(lka) • DFCC Bank– AA-( lka) • Citi Bank -AAA( lka) • Seylan Bank PLC -A-( lka) • National Development Bank PLC AA(lka) • Union Bank of Colombo PLCBB+ (lka) Liquidity Risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will encounter difficulty in meeting the obligations associated with its financial liabilities that are settled by delivering cash or another financial asset. The Group’s approach to managing liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will always have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, under both normal and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the Group’s reputation. The Group’s objective is to maintain a balance between continuity of funding and flexibility through the use of bank overdrafts, bank loans, and finance leases. The Group assessed the concentration of risk with respect to refinancing its debt and concluded it to be low. Access to sources of funding is sufficiently available and debt maturing within 12 months can be rolled over with existing lenders. Group Treasury receives information from other business units regarding the liquidity profile of their financial assets and liabilities and details of other projected cash flows arising from projected future business. The liquidity requirements of business units and subsidiaries are met through central cash management by Group Treasury to cover any short-term fluctuations and long-term funding to address any structural liquidity requirements. The Group Treasury monitors the cash flows in subsidiary and Group level and obtains adequate bank facilities to meet the funding requirements. The Group does not concentrate on a single financial institution, thereby minimising the expose to liquidity risk through diversification of funding sources. The Group aims to fund investment activities of the individual and group level by funding the long term investment with long term financial sources in terms of equity, debentures or long term loans. Short term investments are funded using short term loans. Group has been successful in arranging long term funding from overseas as measure to diversify its funding sources which enabled reducing the sole dependency on domestic market for project financing. The Group also issued a debentures in domestic market as a measure to reduce its dependency on local banking system for all its financing requirement and thereby freeing available banking lines for future projects. The monthly liquidity position is monitored by the Treasury. All liquidity policies and procedures are subject to review and approval by Board of Directors. Daily reports cover the liquidity position of both the Group and operating subsidiaries . The table below summarizes the maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities based on contractual undiscounted payments. 263 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Notes to the financial statements Year ended 31 March 2015 On demand Less than 3 3 to 12 1 to 5 >5 years Total Months months years Consolidated Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 988,946 12,330,166 3,673,797 11,243,216 826,058 29,062,183 Trade and other payables 1,959,767 8,400,668 1,320,780 210,599 51,595 11,943,409 Other Current financial liabilities 15,942 15,942 2,948,713 20,746,776 4,994,577 11,453,815 877,653 41,021,534 Year ended 31 March 2015 On demand Less than 3 to 12 1 to 5 >5 years Total 3 Months months years Company Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 37,579 303,682 911,047 5,667,819 6,920,127 Trade and other payables 123,993 167,974 206 1,790 293,963 Other Current financial liabilities 15,942 15,942 161,572 487,598 911,253 5,667,819 1,790 7,230,032 Year ended 31 March 2014 On demand Less than 3 to 12 1 to 5 >5 years Total 3 Months months years Consolidated Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 1,586,147 12,540,168 2,535,528 8,057,639 1,105,985 25,825,467 Trade and other payables 2,380,697 8,327,079 723,119 233,216 3,836 11,667,947 Other Current financial liabilities 58,653 58,653 3,966,844 20,925,900 3,258,647 8,290,855 1,109,821 37,552,067 Year ended 31 March 2014 On demand Less than 3 to 12 1 to 5 >5 years Total 3 Months months years Company Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 9,387 1,818,324 822,072 3,873,705 6,523,488 Trade and other payables 174,875 90,041 69,756 2,033 336,705 Other Current financial liabilities 58,653 58,653 184,262 1,967,018 822,072 3,943,461 2,033 6,918,846 264 The Quality of Life Market Risk Market risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market prices. Market prices comprise four types of risk: interest rate risk, currency risk, commodity price risk and other price risk, such as equity price risk. Financial instruments affected by market risk include loans and borrowings, deposits, available-for-sale investments and derivative financial instruments. The objective of market risk management is to manage and control market risk exposures within acceptable parameters, while optimizing the return. The sensitivity analysis in the following sections relate to the position as at 31 March 2015 and 2014. Interest Rate Risk Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market interest rates. The Group mainly borrows in the short term to fund its working capital requirement which are linked to floating interest rates. For other funding needs the Group maintains a proper mix of interest rate based on the basis of the predictability of future cash flows. Group Treasury closely monitors the interest rate fluctuations in the market and advices the sectors of the Group on a regular basis. Interest Rate Sensitivity The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in interest rates on that portion of loans and borrowings affected. With all other variables held constant, the Group’s profit before tax is affected through the impact on floating rate borrowings as follows: Consolidated Increase/ Effect on decrease in profit base point before tax Rs.’000 Rs.’000 2015 + 150 92,931 150 (92,931) 2014 + 150 89,307 150 (89,307) Company Increase/ Effect on decrease in profit base point before tax Rs.’000 Rs.’000 2015 + 150 13,325 150 (13,325) 2014 + 150 28,352 150 (28,352) 265 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Notes to the financial statements Foreign Currency Risk Foreign currency risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in foreign exchange rates. The Group is exposed to currency risk on sales, purchases and borrowings and net investments in foreign subsidiaries that are denominated in a currency other than the respective functional currencies of the Group. These currencies primarily are the Euro, US Dollars (USD), Bangladesh Taka, Pound Sterling (GBP), Indonesia Rupiah and Thailand Baht. The Group hedges its exposure to fluctuations on the translation of its foreign operations by holding net borrowings in foreign currencies and by using foreign currency swaps and forwards contracts. Group Treasury closely monitors the exchange rate fluctuations and advices the sectors on a regular basis. Foreign Currency Sensitivity The following tables demonstrate the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in the US dollar and Euro exchange rate, with all other variables held constant. The impact on the Group’s profit before tax is due to changes in the fair value of monetary assets and liabilities. The Group’s exposure to foreign currency changes for all other currencies is not material. Group Increase/ Effect on decrease in profit exchange rate before tax Rs.’000 Rs.’000 2015 USD + 5% (402,728) Euro + 5% 1,509 USD 5% 402,728 Euro 5% (1,509) 2014 USD + 5% (303,782) Euro + 5% 12,410 USD 5% 303,782 Euro 5% (12,410) Increase/ Effect on decrease in profit exchange rate before tax Rs.’000 Rs.’000 2015 USD + 5% (32,987) USD 5% 32,987 2014 USD + 5% (54,471) USD 5% 54,471 Commodity Risk The Group is affected by the volatility of certain commodities. Its operating activities require the ongoing purchase and manufacturing process. Due to the significantly increased volatility of the price of the underlying, the management has developed and enacted a risk management strategy regarding commodity price risk and its mitigation. The sectors constantly monitor the Raw material price levels of Charcoal, Rubber, Aluminium and Yarn for downwards trends and invest in bulk purchase when low prices are prevalent. Management may revise the selling price based on the commodity prices whenever possible. 266 The Quality of Life Equity Price Risk The Group’s listed and unlisted equity securities are susceptible to market price risk arising from uncertainties about future values of the investment securities. The Group manages the equity price risk through diversification and by placing limits on individual and total equity instruments. Management of the Group monitors the mix of debt and equity securities in its investment portfolio based on market indices. Material investments within the portfolio are managed on an individual basis and all buy and sell decisions are approved by the GMC. Equity price risk is not material to the Financial Statements. Capital Management The Board’s policy is to maintain a strong capital base so as to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to sustain future development of the business. Capital consists of share capital, reserves, retained earnings and non-controlling interests of the Group. The Board of Directors monitors the return on capital as well as the level of dividends to ordinary shareholders. The gearing ratio at the reporting date was as follows 2015 2014 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Consolidated Interest bearing borrowings 12,069,274 9,163,624 Current portion of long-term interest bearing borrowings 3,686,844 2,653,381 Short-term interest bearing borrowings 13,306,065 14,008,462 29,062,183 25,825,467 Equity 44,209,475 36,337,266 Equity and debts 73,271,658 62,162,733 Gearing ratio 40% 42% 2015 2014 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Company Interest bearing borrowings 5,667,819 3,873,705 Current portion of long-term interest bearing borrowings 1,214,729 1,096,096 Short-term interest bearing borrowings 37,579 1,553,687 6,920,127 6,523,488 Equity 10,521,575 8,268,815 Equity and debts 17,441,702 14,792,303 Gearing ratio 40% 44% Collateral The Group has not pledged its debtors as collateral for long term borrowings at 31 March 2015 and 2014, other than those mentioned in Note 25.12 to the Financial Statements. 267 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Notes to the financial statements 43. The effect of the transition to SLFRS 11 on previously reported Financial Positions, Financial performances of the Group has been presented in the Reconciliation Statements 43.1 Reconciliation of Income Statement for the year ended 31st March 2014 Consolidated For the year ended 31st March 2014 Effect of 2014 Previously Transition Restated reported to SLFRS 11 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Revenue 80,554,110 (75,501) 80,478,609 Cost of sales (61,761,310) 47,929 (61,713,381) Gross profit 18,792,800 (27,572) 18,765,228 Group dividend Other income 424,174 2,535 426,709 Distribution expenses (2,446,506) 814 (2,445,692) Administrative expenses (9,396,030) 7,015 (9,389,015) Other expenses (161,574) (161,574) Results from operating activities 7,212,864 (17,208) 7,195,656 Finance income 770,267 (12,894) 757,373 Finance cost (2,910,364) 5,713 (2,904,651) Net finance cost (2,140,097) (7,181) (2,147,278) Share of profit of equity accounted investees (net of tax) 1,236 33,007 34,243 Profit before tax 5,074,003 8,618 5,082,621 Tax expense (1,365,010) (8,618) (1,373,628) Profit for the year 3,708,993 3,708,993 Profit for the period attributable to: Owners of the parent 1,808,523 1,808,523 Non-controlling interest 1,900,470 1,900,470 Profit for the year 3,708,993 3,708,993 Figures in brackets indicate deductions. 268 The Quality of Life 43.2 Reconciliation of Statements of Comprehensive Income for the year ended 31st March 2014 Consolidated For the year ended 31st March 2014 Effect of 2014 Previously Transition Restated reported to SLFRS 11 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Profit for the year 3,708,993 3,708,993 Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to income statement Actuarial (loss)/ gain on employee benefit obligations (81,953) (81,953) Income tax on other comprehensive income 579 579 Items that may be reclassified subsequently to income statement Net exchange differences on translation of foreign operations (76,699) (76,699) Share of other comprehensive income of equity accounted investees (485) (485) Net change in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets (6,680) (6,680) Total other comprehensive income/ (loss) for the year, net of tax (165,238) (165,238) Total comprehensive income for the year, net of tax 3,543,755 3,543,755 Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to : 1,682,328 1,682,328 Owners of the parent 1,861,427 1,861,427 Noncontrolling interest 3,543,755 3,543,755 269 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Notes to the financial statements 43.3 Reconciliation for the Statement of Financial Position as at 31st March 2014 Consolidated For the year ended 31st March 2014 Effect of 2014 Previously Transition Restated reported to SLFRS 11 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Assets Non-current assets Property, plant & equipment 38,217,400 (2,141) 38,215,259 Investment Properties 1,453,444 1,453,444 Biological assets 266,508 266,508 Intangible assets 5,541,287 5,541,287 Investments in subsidiaries Investments in equity accounted investees 247,336 106,924 354,260 Other noncurrent financial assets 324,157 (90,544) 233,613 Other non-current assets 350,423 350,423 Defered tax assets 397,596 (16,029) 381,567 Total non-current assets 46,798,151 (1,790) 46,796,361 Current assets Inventories 12,098,864 (13,847) 12,085,017 Amounts due from subsidiaries Amounts due from equity accounted investees 9,040 2,542 11,582 Trade and other receivables 16,589,706 (26,140) 16,563,566 Other current assets 1,457,925 (6,042) 1,451,883 Income tax recoverable 170,888 (134) 170,754 Other current financial assets 53,388 53,388 Short term deposits 1,536,101 1,536,101 Cash in hand and at bank 2,637,706 (4,293) 2,633,413 Assets classified as held for sale 3,021 3,021 Total current assets 34,556,639 (47,914) 34,508,725 Total assets 81,354,790 (49,704) 81,305,086 270 The Quality of Life 43.3 Reconciliation for the Statement of Financial Position as at 31st March 2014 Consolidated For the year ended 31st March 2014 Effect of 2014 Previously Transition Restated reported to SLFRS 11 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Equity and Liabilities Stated capital 1,575,000 1,575,000 Employee share trust (488,261) (488,261) Capital reserves 1,429,680 1,429,680 Other components of equity 8,969,910 8,969,910 Revenue reserves 12,236,713 12,236,713 Total equity attributable to equity holders of the company 23,723,042 23,723,042 Non-controlling interest 12,614,224 12,614,224 Total equity 36,337,266 36,337,266 Non-current liabilities Interest-bearing borrowings 9,207,019 (43,395) 9,163,624 Grants 742,077 742,077 Deferred tax liability 1,249,361 (39) 1,249,322 Employee benefit obligations 4,630,864 4,630,864 Total non-current liabilities 15,829,321 (43,434) 15,785,887 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 11,679,828 (11,881) 11,667,947 Provisions 28,792 28,792 Other current liabilities 366,037 (964) 365,073 Other current financial liabilities 58,653 58,653 Amounts due to subsidiaries Amounts due to equity accounted investees 10,023 15,927 25,950 Income tax payable 373,343 373,343 Current portion of long term interest-bearing borrowings 2,662,252 (8,871) 2,653,381 Short-term interest-bearing borrowings 14,008,943 (481) 14,008,462 Liabilities directly associated with assets classified as held for sale 332 332 Total current liabilities 29,188,203 (6,270) 29,181,933 Total liabilities 45,017,524 (49,704) 44,967,820 Total equity and liabilities 81,354,790 (49,704) 81,305,086 271 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Ten year summary Year ended 31st March 10-Year 2015 2014* 2013 *** 2012***/* 2011**/* 2010** 2009** 2008** 2007 2006 Compound Growth (%) Rs '000 Rs '000 Rs '000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Results Revenue 14% 92,561,865 80,478,609 74,301,852 65,806,714 54,370,207 38,169,336 32,442,999 31,326,583 27,584,626 24,011,798 Profit before taxation 16% 6,399,915 5,082,621 4,916,576 2,488,223 2,007,207 3,293,392 1,374,638 1,554,720 1,521,915 1,448,558 Taxation 12% (1,513,581) (1,373,628) (1,411,981) (914,724) (903,853) (684,197) (571,236) (464,946) (432,631) (468,127) Profit after tax 17% 4,886,334 3,708,993 3,504,595 1,573,499 1,103,354 2,609,195 803,402 1,089,774 1,089,284 980,431 Non-controlling Interest 19% (2,305,036) (1,900,470) (1,743,449) (594,330) (444,128) (849,893) (492,464) (637,151) (555,719) (394,170) Profit attributable to owners of the parent 16% 2,581,298 1,808,523 1,761,146 979,169 659,226 1,759,302 310,938 452,623 533,565 586,261 Funds Employed Stated capital*** 0% 1,575,000 1,575,000 1,575,000 1,575,000 1,575,000 1,575,000 1,575,000 1,575,000 1,575,000 1,575,000 Employee share trust (148,558) (488,261) (489,887) (491,439) (492,242) Treasury shares (398,902) Capital reserves -6% 1,303,980 1,429,680 1,377,676 1,222,076 1,404,887 7,047,507 5,697,166 5,954,623 5,457,476 2,466,637 Other component of equity 11,573,045 8,969,910 9,000,862 6,373,692 6,164,166 Revenue reserves 13% 14,800,483 12,236,713 10,788,133 9,633,788 6,978,079 6,592,052 5,083,473 4,692,428 4,667,992 4,215,591 Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 13% 29,103,950 23,723,042 22,251,784 18,313,117 15,230,988 15,214,559 12,355,639 12,222,051 11,700,468 8,257,228 Non-controlling Interest 18% 15,105,525 12,614,224 11,173,102 10,063,072 8,474,612 7,118,790 4,220,619 3,986,239 3,704,926 2,967,915 Borrowings ( shortand long-term) 12% 29,062,183 25,825,466 23,563,413 21,728,944 16,692,083 11,337,734 9,232,776 9,600,416 10,235,592 9,781,034 Assets Employed Non-current assets 16% 55,739,447 46,796,361 44,657,106 37,976,929 30,131,853 23,453,761 17,215,706 17,625,669 17,005,585 12,957,290 Current assets 10% 37,587,050 34,508,725 30,086,220 27,832,013 23,732,633 21,414,944 16,414,322 15,732,377 15,214,288 14,496,109 Current liabilities net of borrowings 10% (13,019,465) (12,520,090) (11,651,381) (10,151,511) (8,540,919) (7,922,413) (5,317,991) (5,391,701) (4,832,001) (4,895,234) Provisions 17% (6,321,880) (5,880,186) (5,320,425) (4,808,050) (4,133,016) (2,828,159) (2,153,244) (1,906,595) (1,541,717) (1,360,003) Grants 14% (713,495) (742,077) (783,222) (777,670) (792,868) (447,050) (349,759) (251,044) (205,169) (191,985) Capital Employed 13% 73,271,658 62,162,733 56,988,298 50,071,711 40,397,683 33,671,083 25,809,034 25,808,706 25,640,986 21,006,177 Cash Flows Net cash inflow/(outflow) from operating activities 8,631,364 5,553,098 7,296,563 2,359,004 1,169,899 2,589,712 1,082,097 1,841,624 408,821 216,967 Net cash inflow/(outflow) from investing activities (6,339,994) (3,688,499) (4,684,957) (5,112,863) (4,660,037) (3,574,446) 200,631 (751,827) (843,422) (1,650,184) Net cash inflow/(outflow) from financing activities (233,279) 1,480,014 (3,954,861) (1,621,918) 1,960,277 (1,012,142) (892,834) (687,588) (1,153,882) 768,153 Increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 2,058,091 3,344,614 (1,343,255) (4,303,096) (1,496,439) (1,996,876) 389,894 402,209 (1,588,483) (665,064) Key Indicators Earnings per share (basic) (Rs.) 34.42 24.11 23.48 13.06 8.79 23.08 4.15 6.03 7.11 7.82 Dividend per share (basic) (Rs.) 6.00 5.00 4.50 4.00 4.00 4.00 3.00 3.00 3.50 3.50 Net assets per share (Rs.) 388.05 316.31 296.69 244.17 203.08 202.86 164.74 162.96 156.01 110.10 Market price per share (Rs.) 300.00 285.00 298.70 360.00 382.10 225.00 90.00 97.75 142.00 98.50 % change in market price (after adjusting for scrip issues) 5.26 (4.59) (17.03) (5.78) 70.00 150.00 (7.90) (31.20) 44.2 (12.90) % change in All Share Price Index 14 4.06 6.00 (24.99) 94.00 127.00 (36.00) (9.00) 23 29 Return on average shareholders’ funds (%) 8.87 7.62 7.91 5.35 4.33 11.38 3.00 4 5 7 Return on average capital employed (%) 12.57% 12.08% 12.25% 8.94% 7.81 13.30 9.40 11.00 11 10 Price earnings ratio (times) 8.72 11.82 12.72 27.57 42.32 9.75 21.70 16.2 20.0 12.6 Interest cover (times covered) 3.98 3.01 2.45 2.74 3.41 5.60 2.10 2.5 3.4 2.5 Dividend payout Ratio (%) 17.43 20.74 19.16 30.64 45.51 17.33 72.29 49.75 49.23 44.76 * Restated in line with SLFRS/LKAS. ** Including results of discontinued operations *** Share capital and share premium previously reported have been reclassified to reflect stated capital as define in he Companies Act No. 07 of 2007. 272 The Quality of Life Value of real estate Year ended 31st March Ownership Location Address Extent Buildings No of buildings Market Value (Acres) Sq.ft in each location of Land Rs. Mn Hayleys PLC Colombo No 25, Foster Lane, Colombo 10 5.96 60,666 6 No 400, Deans Rd. Colombo 10 108,923 12 6,321 Carbotels (Pvt) Ltd. Elkaduwa Weyagala Estate, Elkaduwa, Matale. 65.06 Nil Nil 35 Volanka (Pvt) Ltd. Kotugoda No.193,Minuwangoda Road,Kotugoda 15.68 182,981 30 753 Galle No.153/1, Robosgewatta,Matara Road,Magalle, Galle 1.20 15,000 2 195 Katana No.B 28,Divulapitiya Road, Dissagewatte,Katana 14.50 205,000 4 186 Chas P. Hayley & Co. (Pvt) Ltd. Galle No.153,Robosgewatta,Matara Road,Magalle, Galle 0.55 8,030 2 88 Galle Thurburn Stores ,161,Matara Road, Magalle, Galle 0.78 9,901 1 125 Galle No.195,Bandaranayake Mawatha,Magalle, Galle 2.41 57,376 7 289 Galle No.193/2,193/2A, 193/4,Bandaranayke Mawatha,Magalle, Galle 1.10 13,632 4 70 Lignocell (Pvt) Ltd. Madampe Sellam Pathaha, Melawagara, Madampe. 7.03 104,846 10 22 Kuliyapitiya Biginhill Estate ,Karagahagedera,Kuliyapitiya 3.94 57,778 10 16 Hayleys Fibre PLC Ekala Ekala Estate ,Minuwangoda Road,Ekala 6.30 53,880 15 328 Kuliyapitiya Biginhill Estate , Karagahagedara, Kuliyapitiya 3.93 44,457 12 16 Ravi Industries (Pvt) Ltd. Ekala 252A,Kurunduwatte Road,Ekala,Ja-ela. 6.08 99,266 13 243 Volanka Exports (Pvt) Ltd. Nattandiya Wathugahamulla,Welipannagahamulla 7.20 67,151 9 23 Rileys (Pvt) Ltd Ekala 131,Minuwangoda Road, Ekala, Ja-ela 3.80 81,026 8 304 Toyo Cushion Lanka (Pvt) Ltd. Katana 105,Thimbirigaskatuwa,Katana 3.40 27,945 13 81 Dipped Products PLC Kottawa Brahmanagama , Kottawa 10.16 114,428 20 138 Weliweriya Nedungamuwa, Weliweriya 7.85 5,029 1 82 Malabe No: 59, Pothuarawa Road, Malabe 2.26 57,595 6 199 Venigros (Pvt) Ltd. Weliweriya Nedungamuwa, Weliweriya 7.09 55,581 7 68 Haycarb PLC Badalgama Katana Road, Beatrice Estate, Badalgama. 12.88 159,769 13 52 Madampe Kuliyapitiya road, New town, Pothuwila, Madampe 28.85 231,263 9 109 Wewalduwa 333/25, New road Hunuputiya Wattala. 2.45 59,202 3 165 Recogen (Pvt) Ltd. Badalgama Katana Road, Beatrice Estate, Badalgama. 10.84 22,604 3 43 Hayleys Agriculture Holdings Ltd. Dambulla Athabadiwewa, Pahalawewa, Dambulla. 4.35 2,500 2 9 Kottawa No. 168/D, Brahmanagama, Kottawa, Pannipitiya. 4.96 47,506 7 79 Sunfrost (Pvt) Ltd. Alawwa Nelumdeniya road, Alawwa Waththa Road, Alawwa 5.18 21,293 18 54 Padiyathalawa Bogaharawa Road, Kehelulla, Padiyathalawa 5.42 1,430 1 6 Hayleys Advantis Group Liyanagemulla No.710 Negombo Road, Liyanagemulla,Seeduwa 0.62 8,036 1 99 Kelaniya No 408 A, Nungamugoda, Kelaniya 7.72 175,000 6 587 Welisara No. 309/18 & No. 317, Negombo Road, Welisara 3.63 2,700 2 392 Welisara No. 309/15, Negombo Road, Welisara 3.00 17,644 7 223 Sedawatta No. 148B, Nawalokapura, Sedawatta, Wellampitiya 2.49 Nil Nil 319 Sedawatte No. 148/A1, Nawalokapura Sedawatte, Welampitiya 2.00 5,000 3 272 Colombo 2 No. 46/12, Sayuru Sevana, Nawam Mawatha, Colombo 2 0.24 45,980 1 227 Haycolour (Pvt) Ltd. Kalutara Haycolour Factory,Ethanmadala, Kalutara 4.43 5,700 5 33 Bhagya Hydro (Pvt) Ltd. Gomala oya Gomala Oya Mini Hydro Power Plant,Godagampola,Rathnapura 2.11 2,300 2 2 Nelwa Cascade Hydro Power (Pvt) Ltd. Neluwa Lower Neluwa Mini Hydro Power Plant, Godagampola,Rathnapura 2.45 1,894 1 6 Hayleys Electronics Lighting (Pvt) Ltd. Hokandara W.P.Colvin Perera Lane, Hokandara South 0.14 Nil Nil 11.50 Hayleys MGT Knitting Mills PLC Neboda Narthupana Estate, Neboda 34.42 380,776 22 330 Alumex PLC Makola Off Pitigala Road, Sapugaskanda, Makola 7.37 129,351 13 382 Alco Industries (Pvt) Ltd. Gonawala Maguruwila Road, Pattiwila 1.82 21,798 7 44 Alufab PLC Kotugoda 41B, Sasanathilaka Rd, Opatha, Kotugoda 2.70 34,550 4 22 Hunas Falls Hotels PLC Kandy Elkaduwa, Matale 19.88 54,765 11 48 Eastern Hotels (Pvt) Ltd. Trincomalee Nilakarai Estate, Nilaweli, Trincomalee 23.48 Nil Nil 470 Culture Club Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. Dambulla Kapela , Kandalama, Dambulla 1.00 70,000 72 2 Kandyan Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. Kandy Heerassagala, Kandy 14.22 126,684 10 578 The Beach Resorts Ltd. Wadduwa Mudillagahawatte, Wadduwa, Panadura 5.44 Nil Nil 362 The Queensbury (Pvt) Ltd. Bentota Kaluwamodara, Bentota 0.28 Nil Nil 59 273 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Country report Vital Statistics Population (2012): 20.3 mn Land Area: 65,610 Sq km Languages: Sinhalese, Tamil and English Per capita GDP (2014): USD 3,625 Maximum Corporate Tax Rate (2014): 28% Currency (2014): Sri Lankan Rupee (LKR 131: 1 USD) Background institutions and a strengthened parliament and North-West coast, and thus far 2 drill sites have Sri Lanka lies in a strategic position at the judiciary. This is expected to further strengthen indicated presence of hydrocarbons. Southern tip of the Indian sub-continent, at a the investment climate, building upon the In addition to investment in physical mid-point along key shipping routes between vibrant infrastructure development witnessed infrastructure, emphasis is being placed on east and west. After three decades of Civil War since the end of conflict. development of social infrastructure. Sri Lanka Sri Lanka achieved peace in May 2009. This has always attached great importance to social has paved the way for a paradigm shift in the Policy Directions development and had a policy of free health country’s development path characterized by During the Civil War investment in Sri Lanka’s and education up to tertiary level since the prefaster economic growth, higher investment, infrastructure was neglected. Since the end independence era. This has resulted in a literacy infrastructure development and political of conflict an aggressive investment drive rate of over 90%, life expectancy of 74 years and and economic policy stability. Sri Lanka has in the country’s infrastructure, focused on birth and death rates comparable to developed traditionally been a country which relied on national highways and railways, ports, airports nations (17.4 and 5.9 per 1000 persons). In order the plantation sector and in labour intensive and energy. Since 2011 Sri Lanka has built to further enhance the quality of education, industries such as apparel manufacture. In 2 expressways, connecting Colombo to the measures are being taken to enhance existing more recent years the services sector has taken Southern city of Matara and to the Airport education institutions at primary, secondary on greater importance with trade, finance, in Katunayaka. New expressways are being and tertiary levels. The government has transport, construction, telecommunication planned to connect the hill capital Kandy, pledged to increase expenditure on education and leisure dominating the economy. In 2014 along with the completion of the outer-circular to 6% of GDP in the medium term. In addition per capita income reached US$ 3,625 and is highway around the capital Colombo. The to public sector education, Sri Lanka has projected to reach US$ 4000 by 2015. national railway network is being modernized to developed substantial professional qualifications enable faster rail and new routes are also being institutions, resulting in the country now having Political Climate created. The Colombo Port was expanded as the world’s second highest pool of CIMA trained Sri Lanka is a multi-ethnic, multi-religious the new Colombo South Harbour, with depth students outside the UK, making Sri Lanka an democratic republic with an elected national of 18m, has the capacity to accommodate the attractive location for financial outsourcing. parliament and president along with provincial world’s largest vessels. The Commercial Hub Act and local governments which are responsible of 2013 will further enhance Sri Lanka’s position Along with investments in infrastructure, for certain subjects at sub-national levels. In as a regional maritime hub as 6 locations were successive governments continue to January 2015, a presidential election brought designated as free ports. The primary airport emphasise private sector led economic Maithripala Sirisena to power on a platform in Katunayake is also undergoing expansion. growth. Sri Lanka has a relatively low income of ensuring good governance. Subsequent Several new power projects are in progress tax regime with reduced taxes on corporate constitutional amendments have taken steps ranging from coal power to hydro and wind (maximum 35% reduced to 28%) and personal towards enhanced checks and balances in power. Sri Lanka also began oil exploration off its incomes (maximum 35% reduced to 24%), government through more independent 274 The Quality of Life international trade and a simplified tax structure. digit levels), and an improving fiscal position on Rationalisation of expenditure would also the back of structural reforms. lead to better fiscal management, eventually resulting in consolidation of fiscal deficits closer Sri Lanka’s economy has always been to 5% of GDP in the medium term, as envisaged characterized by resilience. Even during the war in the Fiscal Management Responsibility Act. economic growth was maintained at an average This would help entrench lower inflation of around 5%. With the recent policy reforms, and interest rates and lead to longer term developments in infrastructure and increased macroeconomic stability. The Central Bank has investment, the economy is well on target to also outlined a plan to gradually liberalise the securing a long term growth path well above capital account, making it easier for Sri Lankan past trends. corporates to access global capital markets and to develop the domestic corporate bond Sri Lanka is ideally located at a central point market. Accordingly the financial market has amongst the emerging global economic developed rapidly, with a number of banks powerhouses. India is immediately north of Sri following the sovereign in tapping the global Lanka and the two countries have a 14 year old bond market, and the domestic corporate debt Free Trade Agreement. Sri Lanka has developed and equity markets have grown significantly in close political and economic ties with China, recent years. with a Free Trade Agreement under negotiation Economic Climate and strong aviation and shipping links already As is the trend in emerging economies, Sri in place. In parallel, the new government has Lanka’s economy is dominated by the services strengthened diplomatic and economic ties sector (59% of GDP) with industry (30% of with key trading partners the US and the EU, GDP) and agriculture (11% of GDP) making up which creates a suitable balance for economic smaller shares. Recent economic growth has and geopolitical objectives of the country. been broad based with all three sectors growing Greater economic and political integration significantly since 2009. Whilst Sri Lanka has with key global players places Sri Lanka in an found itself in an uncertain global economic ideal position to play a pivotal role amongst environment, the domestic economy has the drivers of global economic growth in the enjoyed a peace dividend that has resulted in medium to long term. high growth averaging above 7% per annum, low unemployment (4.4% in 2014), historically benign inflation (now anchored at mid-single 275 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Share information ORDINARY SHAREHOLDERS AS AT 31ST MARCH 2015 No. of shares held Residents Non Residents Total No. of No. of % No. of No. of % No. of No. of % Shareholders Shares Shareholders Shares Shareholders Shares 1 _ 1,000 2,338 446,988 0.5960 58 16,570 0.0221 2,396 463,558 0.6181 1,001 _ 10,000 465 1,515,429 2.0206 40 152,285 0.2030 505 1,667,714 2.2236 10,001 _ 100,000 132 4,428,709 5.9049 32 775,480 1.0340 164 5,204,189 6.9389 100,001 _ 1,000,000 25 7,289,297 9.7191 5 1,791,871 2.3892 30 9,081,168 12.1083 Over 1,000,000 7 58,583,371 78.1111 7 58,583,371 78.1111 2,967 72,263,794 96.3517 135 2,736,206 3.6483 3,102 75,000,000 100.0000 Category Individuals 2,738 50,979,126 67.9721 125 2,590,576 3.4541 2,863 53,569,702 71.4263 Institutions 229 21,284,668 28.3796 10 145,630 0.1942 239 21,430,298 28.5737 2,967 72,263,794 96.3517 135 2,736,206 3.6483 3,102 75,000,000 100.0000 FIRST TWENTY SHAREHOLDERS AS AT 31.03.2015 Name of the Shareholder No. of Shares as % No. of Shares as % at 31.03.2015 at 31.03.2014 1 Mr.K.D.D.Perera 31,699,599 42.27 30,699,599 40.93 SBL/ Mr.K.D.D.Perera 3,400,000 4.53 3,400,000 4.53 2 Trustees of the D.S.Jayasundera Trust 8,698,017 11.60 8,698,017 11.60 3 Trustees of the Hayleys PLC Employees Share Trust 5,855,735 7.81 6,855,735 9.14 4 Employees Provident Fund 3,930,342 5.24 2,535,169 3.38 5 Vallibel One PLC 2,182,584 2.91 2,182,584 2.91 6 Lanka Orix Leasing Company PLC 1,700,004 2.27 1,700,004 2.27 7 Hayleys Group Services(Private) Ltd No.02 A/C 1,117,090 1.49 1,117,090 1.49 8 Mrs.A.M.L.Johnpulle & Mr.B.M.J.Johnpulle 907,165 1.21 907,165 1.21 9 Commercial Leasing & Finance PLC 734,144 0.98 734,144 0.98 10 Mrs.R.N.Ponnambalam 581,245 0.77 570,088 0.76 11 Mrs.R.M.Spittel 564,697 0.75 12 Mrs.F.C.Phillips & Mr.R.H.S.Phillips 493,142 0.66 482,304 0.64 13 Mrs.Y.M.Spittel 465,561 0.62 465,561 0.62 14 Mr.A.C Wikramanayake 444,723 0.59 444,713 0.59 15 Mrs.P.M Godamunne 443,447 0.59 443,447 0.59 16 Mrs.S.D. Wickramasinghe . 440,281 0.59 440,281 0.59 17 Mr.G.N. Wikramanayake 370,422 0.49 370,422 0.49 18 Miss.N.K.R.H.De Silva 286,850 0.38 286,850 0.38 19 Mr.N.K.A.D.De Silva 286,843 0.38 286,843 0.38 20 Mrs. L. Sivagurunathan 284,805 0.38 284,805 0.38 Total 64,886,696 86.51 62,904,821 83.86 276 The Quality of Life DIRECTORS’ SHAREHOLDING Name of Director No. of Shares as No. of Shares as at 31.03.2015 at 01.04.2014 Mr.A.M.Pandithage 2,338 2,338 Mr.K.D.D.Perera 31,699,599 (01.04.2014 30,699,599) 37,283,849 36,283,849 SBL/ Mr.K.D.D.Perera 3,400,000 LB Finance PLC 1,666 Vallibel One Plc 2,182,584 Mr.M.R.Zaheed 1,487 1,487 Mr.W.D.N.H.Perera 11 11 Mr.S.C Ganegoda 2,000 2,000 Mr.H.S.R.Kariyawasan Nil Nil Dr.H.Cabral Nil Nil Dr.K.I.M Ranasoma 751 751 People's Leasing & Finance PLC/Mr.L.T Samarawickrama (01/04/2014 Waldock Mackenzie Ltd/ 3,500 43,500 Mr.L.T.Samarawickrama) Mr.M.D.S.Goonatilleke 10,000 2,500 Mr.L.R.V.Waidyaratne 1,465 1,465 Mr.M.H. Jamaldeen Nil Nil SHARE TRADING INFORMATION -THREE MONTHS ENDED 31.03.2015 from 01/01/2015 to 31/03/2015 Highest Price Rs.364.00 Lowest Price Rs.290.00 Closing Price Rs.300.00 SHARE TRADING INFORMATION -TWELVE MONTHS ENDED 31.03.2015 from 01/04/2014 to 31/03/2015 Highest Price Rs.365.00 Lowest Price Rs.280.00 Closing Price Rs.300.00 No. of Transactions 1,623 No. of shares traded 4,021,136 Value of shares traded Rs.1,331,221,677.10 PERCENTAGE OF PUBLIC HOLDING AS AT 31.03.2015 38.66% Total number of shareholders representing the public holding 3,089 277 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Share information LISTED DEBENTURES Details regarding the listed debentures are as follows; Debenture 1 Listed, rated, senior, unsecured, redeemable Debentures at 14.25% p.a. payable quarterly and redeemable on 9th July, 2016 Interest rate of comparable Government Securities as at 31st March, 2015, 6.94% (Net of tax) Debenture trading information for the three months ended 31.03.2015 There were no transactions during the period. Debenture trading information for the twelve months ended 31.03.2015 No. of Transactions 3 No. of Debentures traded 65,500 Value of Debentures Traded Rs.71,813,617 Highest Price Rs.1,096.61 Lowest Price Rs.1,067.66 Last Traded Price Rs.1,096.61 Interest yield 12.34% Yield to maturity 7.55% Debenture 2 Listed, rated, senior, unsecured, redeemable Debentures at 7.60% p.a. payable semi annually and redeemable on 6th March, 2019 Interest rate of comparable Government Securities as at 31st March, 2015, 8.29% (Net of tax) Debenture trading information for the three months ended 31.03.2015 There were no transactions during the period. Debenture 3 Listed ,rated, senior, unsecured, redeemable Debentures at 7.85% p.a. payable semi annually and redeemable on 6th March, 2020 Interest rate of comparable Government Securities as at 31st March, 2015, 9.04% (Net of tax) Debenture trading information for the three months ended 31.03.2015 There were no transactions during the period. Ratios 31.03.2015 31.03.2014 Debt/ equity ratio 0.66 0.79 Quick asset ratio 1.27 0.42 Interest cover 2.16 1.43 278 The Quality of Life History of dividends and scrip issues No. of shares Cum. No. of Dividend Rs. Year Issue Basis Dividend '000 shares '000 '000 1952 Initial Capital 20 20 1953 First dividend 20 80% 160 1954 Rights (at Rs. 10) 1:02 10 30 55% 165 1955 30 50% 150 1956 Bonus 5:06 25 55 33% 179 1957 Bonus 3:11 15 70 38% 330 1958 Bonus 3:07 30 100 20% 200 1959 100 10% 100 1960 100 18% 180 1961 Bonus 1:02 50 150 8% 262 1962 Bonus 1:03 50 200 15% 300 1963 200 15% 300 1964 Bonus 1:04 50 250 15% 375 1965 250 20% 500 1966 250 18% 450 1967 250 15% 375 1968 250 13% 313 1969 250 15% 375 1970 250 15% 375 1971 250 15% 375 1972 250 11% 275 1973 250 11% 275 1974 Bonus 1:01 250 500 11% 275 1975 500 18% 450 1976 500 10% 442 1977 500 11% 460 1978 500 15% 584 1979 Bonus 1:02 250 750 15% 852 1980 750 16% 958 1981 Bonus 1:03 250 1,000 20% 1,863 1982 Bonus 1:04 250 1,250 21% 2,385 1983 Bonus 1:05 250 1,500 25% 3,451 1984 1,500 27% 3,774 1985 1,500 28% 3,525 279 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 History of dividends and scrip issues No. of shares Cum. No. of Dividend Rs. Year Issue Basis Dividend '000 shares '000 '000 1986 Bonus 1:03 500 2,000 33% 6,600 1987 Bonus 1:02 1,000 3,000 33% 9,900 1988 Bonus 1:03 1,000 4,000 33% 13,200 1989 Bonus 1:04 1,000 5,000 33% 16,500 1990 Bonus 1:05 1,000 6,000 33% 19,800 1991 Bonus 1:04 1,500 7,500 33% 24,750 1992 Bonus 1:05 1,500 9,000 33% 29,700 1993 Bonus 1:06 1,500 10,500 30% 31,500 1994 Bonus 4:21 2,000 Rights (at Rs. 160) 1:05 2,500 15,000 30% 40,500 1995 Bonus 1:05 3,000 18,000 30% 54,000 1996 Bonus 1:09 2,000 20,000 30% 60,000 1997 Bonus 1:10 2,000 22,000 30% 66,000 1998 Bonus 1:11 2,000 24,000 Share Trust (at Rs. 210) 2,400 26,400 30% 79,200 1999 Bonus 1:06 4,400 30,800 30% 92,400 2000 Bonus 1:14 2,200 33,000 30% 99,000 2001 Rights (at Rs. 10) 1:11 3,000 36,000 35% 126,000 2002 Rights (at Rs. 15) 1:09 4,000 40,000 35% 140,000 2003 Rights (at Rs. 20) 1:08 5,000 45,000 35% 157,500 2004 Rights (at Rs. 20) 1:09 5,000 50,000 35% 175,000 2005 Rights (at Rs. 20) 1:10 5,000 55,000 Bonus 4:11 20000 75,000 35% 262,500 2006 75,000 35% 262,500 2007 75,000 Rs.3.50 p.s 262,500 2008 75,000 Rs.3.00 p.s 225,000 2009 75,000 Rs.3.00 p.s 225,000 2010 75,000 Rs.4.00 p.s 300,000 2011 75,000 Rs.4.00 p.s 300,000 2012 75,000 Rs.4.00 p.s 300,000 2013 75,000 Rs.4.50 p.s 337,500 2014 75,000 Rs.5.00 p.s 375,000 2015 75,000 Rs.6.00 p.s 450,000 280 The Quality of Life Quarterly performance Quarter 01 Quarter 02 Quarter 03 Quarter 04 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Revenue 22,612,238 45,496,469 68,479,787 92,561,865 Profit before tax 1,088,673 2,708,168 4,442,206 6,399,915 Tax expense (305,326) (678,854) (1,077,306) (1,513,581) Profit after tax 783,347 2,029,314 3,364,900 4,886,334 Profit attributable to owners of the parent 366,818 958,360 1,694,087 2,581,298 Profit attributable to non-controlling interest 416,529 1,070,954 1,670,813 2,305,036 Total comprehensive income for the period, net of tax 906,424 2,034,256 3,262,424 7,976,138 Non Current Assets 50,026,014 50,806,432 51,790,337 55,739,446 Current Assets 35,961,382 35,602,935 36,676,646 37,587,051 Non current liabilities 16,655,860 16,801,794 17,455,084 19,104,649 Current liabilities 31,884,612 31,224,263 31,436,451 30,012,373 Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Market value of shares Closing share price 290.00 360.00 339.90 300.00 Basic earnings per share 4.89 12.78 22.59 34.42 Diluted earnings per share 4.89 12.78 22.59 34.42 Highest price recorded for the three months ending 300.00 365.00 360.00 364.00 Lowest price recorded for the three months ending 280.00 286.50 310.00 290.00 Market capitalisation (Rs. Mn.) 21,750 27,000 25,493 22,500 Share trading information No. of transactions 426 1,093 1,420 1,623 No. of shares traded 154,492 1,777,981 2,813,018 4,021,136 Value of shares traded (Rs) 44,700,238 559,825,429 922,604,601 1,331,221,677 281 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Independent assurance report 282 The Quality of Life Independent assurance report Independent Assurance Report to the Board of and statements contained within the Report, and for  Interviewing relevant the company’s personnel Directors of Hayleys PLC on the Sustainability maintaining adequate records and internal controls to understand the process for collection, analysis, Reporting Under the Integrated Annual Report that are designed to support the sustaining reporting aggregation and presentation of data. 2014-15 process in line with the GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines.  Reviewing and validation of the information Introduction and scope of the engagement contained in the Report. The management of Hayleys PLC (“the Company”) Ernst & Young’s responsibility  Checking the calculations performed by the engaged us to provide an independent assurance on Our responsibility is to express a conclusion as to Company on a sample basis through recalculation. the following elements of the sustainability reporting whether we have become aware of any matter indicators under the annual report2014-15 (“the that causes us to believe that the Report is not  Reconciling and agreeing the data on financial Report”). prepared in accordance with the requirements of performance are properly derived from the the Global Reporting Initiative G4 ‘In accordance’ Company’s audited financial statements for the  Reasonable assurance on the information on – Core guidelines. This report is made solely to the year ended 31 March 2015. financial performance as specified on page 10 of Company in accordance with our engagement letter the Report. dated 28 April 2015. We disclaim any assumption Our procedures did not include testing electronic of responsibility for any reliance on this report to  Limited assurance on other information presented systems used to collect and aggregate the information. any person other than the Company or for any in the Report, prepared in accordance with the purpose other than that for which it was prepared. In requirements of the Global Reporting Initiative G4 Limitations and considerations conducting our engagement, we have complied with ‘In accordance’ Core guidelines. Environmental and social performance data are the independence requirements of the Code for Ethics subject to inherent limitations given their nature and for Professional Accountants issued by the CASL. Basis of our work and level of assurance the methods used for determining, calculating and We performed our procedures to provide limited estimating such data. Key assurance procedures assurance in accordance with Sri Lanka Standard on We planned and performed our procedures to Assurance Engagements (SLSAE 3000): ‘Assurance Conclusion obtain the information and explanations considered Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Based on the procedures performed, as described necessary to provide sufficient evidence to support Historical Financial Information’, issued by the Institute above, we conclude that; our limited assurance conclusions. Key assurance of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka (“CASL”). procedures included:  The information on financial performance as The evaluation criteria used for this limited assurance specified on page 10 of the Report is properly  Ernst & Young selected three sectors of Hayleys engagement are based on the Sustainability derived from the audited financial statements of PLC; Plantation, Textile and Construction Material Reporting Guidelines (“GRI Guidelines”) and related the Company for the year ended 31 March 2015. to complete the Sustainability assurance process information in particular, the requirements to achieve for the company. We visited some of the selected  Nothing has come to our attention that causes GRI G4 ‘In accordance’ – Core guideline publication, sectorial offices during the assurance process. us to believe that other information presented in publicly available at GRI’s global website at “www. the Report are not fairly presented, in all material globalreporting.org”.  We have performed the assurance process based respects, in accordance with the Company’s on a sample by visiting the corporate office and sustainability practices and policies some of which Our engagement provides limited assurance as other sectorial offices belonging to Hayleys PLC as are derived from GRI-G4-‘In accordance’ Core well as reasonable assurance. A limited assurance follows: Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. engagement is substantially less in scope than a Plantation reasonable assurance engagement conducted in accordance with SLSAE-3000 and consequently does Kelani Valley Plantations PLC not enable to obtain assurance that we would become Talawakelle Tea Estates PLC aware of all significant matters that might be identified Kelani Valley Instant Tea (Private) Limited in a reasonable assurance engagement. Construction Materials Chartered Accountants Management of the Company’s responsibility for Alumex PLC 29 May 2015 the Report Colombo The management of the Company is responsible for Textiles the preparation of the self-declaration, the information Hayleys MGT Knitting Mills PLC 283 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Group companies Sub sector Company Nature of the Business Fibre Ravi Industries Ltd Industrial and household brushware Rileys (Pvt) Ltd Cleaning devices Haymat (Pvt) Ltd Coir fibre mats Creative Polymats Pvt) Ltd Moulded rubber products Hayleys Fibre PLC Value added coir-based products Bonterra Lanka Ltd Value added coir-based products Ravi Marketing Servises (Pvt) Ltd Services Chas P. Hayley & Company (Pvt) Ltd Coir and treated rubber timber products Volanka (Pvt) Ltd Investments Volanka Exports Ltd Coir-based products and essential oil Toyo Cushion Lanka (Pvt) Ltd Needled and rubberised coir products Lignocell (Pvt) Ltd Coir fibre pith Charles Fibres (Pvt) Ltd Trading in coir-based products Hand protection Dipped Products Group General purpose and speciality rubber gloves Purification products Haycarb Group Activated Carbon and Environmental Purification Solutions Textiles Hayleys MGT Knitting Mills PLC Knitted fabric Construction material Alumex Group Aluminium extrusions Alufab PLC Architectural aluminium joinery systems S & T Interiors (Pvt) LtdAssociate Interior fitout contractors Plantations DPL Plantations (Pvt) Ltd Plantation Management Hayleys Plantation Services (Pvt) Ltd Plantation Management Kelani Valley Plantations PLC Processed tea and rubber Talawakele Tea Estates PLC Processed black and green tea Kelani Valley Instant Tea (Pvt) Ltd Manufacture of readyto drink tea powder Mabroc Group Export of bulk and retail packed tea Hayleys Global Beverages (Pvt) Ltd Manufacturing instant tea and tea extract Agriculture Hayleys Agriculture Holdings Ltd Crop production and protection materials, agricultural equipment and animal health products Agro Technica Ltd Agricultural machinery and equipment Haychem (Bangladesh) Ltd Crop protection chemicals 284 The Quality of Life Sub sector Company Nature of the Business Sunfrost (Pvt) Ltd Fresh/processed vegetables HJS Condiments Ltd Retailed-packed, processed vegetables Hayleys Agro Farms (Pvt) Ltd Planting material Hayleys Agro Biotech (Pvt.) Ltd Horticultural tissue culture products Quality Seed Company (Pvt) Ltd Hybrid flower seeds Hayleys Agro Fertilizers (Pvt) Ltd Fertiliser Hayleys Aquagri (Pvt) Ltd Growing/ exporting dry seaweed for carrageenan Consumer products Hayleys Consumer Products Ltd Lighting products and solutions, photo imaging, health care and FMCG products Hayleys Electronics Lighting (Pvt) Ltd Lighting products and solutions Global Consumer Brands (Pvt) Ltd. Manufacturers, importers, retailers Hayleys Electronics Manufacturing (Pvt) Ltd. Electrical and general engineering products Hotels & resorts Hunnas Falls Hotels PLC Leisure The kingsbury PLC Leisure Amaya Leisure PLC Leisure Culture Club Resorts (Pvt) Ltd Leisure Kandyan Resorts (Pvt) Ltd Leisure CDS Conventions (Pvt) Ltd Leisure Eastern Hotels Ltd Leisure The Beach Resorts Ltd Leisure Sun Tan Beach Resorts Ltd Leisure Noegombo Hotels Ltd Associate Leisure The Qeensbury (Pvt) Ltd Leisure Aviation & Destination Management Hayleys Leisure Holdings (Pvt) Ltd Investments and Hotel Management Services Air Global (Pvt) Ltd Airline representation North South Lines (Pvt) Ltd Airline representation Millennium Transportation (Pvt) Ltd Airline representation Hayleys Travels and Tours (Pvt) Ltd Travel Agency and Destination Management Industry Inputs Hayleys Industrial Solutions (Pvt) Ltd Engineering and projects, power generation, pigments and industrial raw materials Hayleys Life Sciences (Pvt) Ltd Supplying health care equipment 285 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Group companies Sub sector Company Nature of the Business Haycolour (Pvt) Ltd Textile dyestuff and binders Power Engineering Solutions (Pvt) Ltd Marketing of power generating equipment (Mawanana) Power & Energy Bhagya Hydro (Pvt) Ltd Hydropower Neluwa Cascade Hydro Power (Pvt) Ltd Hydropower Hayleys Hydro Energy (Pvt) Ltd Hydropower Nirmalapura Wind Power (Pvt) Ltd Windpower TTEL Somerset Hydro Power (Pvt) Ltd Hydropower TTEL Hydro Power Company (Pvt) Ltd Hydropower Hayleys Neluwa Hydro Power (Pvt) Ltd Hydropower Hayleys Power Ltd Hydropower investments Kiriweldola Hydro Power (Pvt) Ltd Hydropower Aninkanda Hydro Power (Pvt) Ltd Hydropower Neluwa Upper Hydro Power (Pvt) Ltd Hydropower Kalupahana Power Company ( Pvt) Ltd Hydropower Lindula Power Company (Pvt) Ltd. Hydropower Transportation & Logistics Hayleys Advantis Group Shipping agency, international freight forwarding, express freight, bunkering, husbanding and port agency, ship chartering, ocean container repairing and conversion, container yard operation, inland logistics, energy logistics, warehousing and third-party logistics Investment & Services Dean Foster (Pvt) Ltd Investments Hayleys Business Solutions International (Pvt) Business Process Outsourcing and Centralised Shared Services Ltd Hayleys Group Services (Pvt) Ltd Secretarial/Investments Volanka Insurance Brokers (Pvt) Ltd Insurance Brokering Haydea Business Solutions (Pvt) Ltd Business Process Outsourcing Carbotels (Pvt) Ltd Hotel Investment Haylex BV Group Marketing 286 The Quality of Life GRI content index Number Description Reference/Comments Page Reference GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES-G4 Strategy and Analysis G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision maker of the Organisation about the relevance Chairman’s Message 17-21 of sustainability to the organization and the organization’s strategy for addressing sustainability. Organisational Profile G4-3 Name of the organization Hayleys PLC G4-4 Primary brands products, and services Core Areas of Operation 31-35 G4-5 The location of the organization’s headquarters Colombo, Sri Lanka Inner back cover G4-6 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries where Our Global Footprint 36 either the organization has significant operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report. G4-7 The nature of ownership and legal form Inner Back Cover G4-8 The markets served (geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers/ Our Global Footprint 36-37 beneficiaries) G4-9 The scale of the organization, including: Core Areas of Operation 11, 31,41 Total number of employees Financial Review Total number of operations Value Creators Net sales (for private sector organizations) or net revenues (for public sector organizations) Total capitalization broken down in terms of debt and equity (for private sector organizations) Quantity of products or services provided G4-10 The total number of employees by employment contract and gender. Value Creators 48 The total number of permanent employees by employment type and gender. The total workforce by employees and supervised workers and by gender. The total workforce by region and gender. Report whether a substantial portion of the organization’s work is performed by workers who are legally recognized as self-employed, or by individuals other than employees or supervised workers, including employees and supervised employees of contractors. Report any significant variations in employment numbers (such as seasonal variations in employment in the tourism or agricultural industries). G4-11 The percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. Value Creators 52-53 G4-12 Describe the organization’s supply chain. Sector Reviews 63-127 G4-13 Any significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’s size, Chairman’s Review 17-21 structure, ownership, or its supply chain, including: Changes in the location of, or changes in, operations, including facility openings, closings, and expansions Changes in the share capital structure and other capital formation, maintenance, and alteration operations (for private sector organizations) Changes in the location of suppliers, the structure of the supply chain, or in relationships with suppliers, including selection and termination G4-14 Whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the About this Report 9 organization. 287 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 GRI content index Number Description Reference/Comments Page Reference G4-15 List externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other Global Reporting Initiative initiatives to which the organization subscribes or which it endorses. (G4) Guidelines International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (SLAS) and Sri Lanka Financial Reporting Standards (SLFRS) Sector Reviews for certifications G4-16 List memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and national or • Chamber of Commerce international advocacy organizations in which the organization is a member. Business Councils • United Nations Global Compact • Lanka Business Coalition for HIV-AIDS • Institute of Chartered Shipbrokers • National Agribusiness Council • Sri Lanka Association of Inbound Tour Operators • Ethical Tea Partnership • Water Quality Association Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries G4-17 a. List all entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or Financial Statements 284-286 equivalent documents. b. Report whether any entity included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents is not covered by the report. G4-18 a. Explain the process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries. Identifying material issues 26 b. Explain how the organization has implemented the Reporting Principles for Defining Report Content. G4-19 List all the material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content. Identifying material issues 27 G4-20 For each material Aspect, the Aspect Boundary within the organization Identifying material issues 27 G4-21 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary outside the organization Identifying material issues 27 G4-22 The effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, There are no restatements and the reasons for such restatements. G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries. None Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. Stakeholder Engagement 25 G4-25 The basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. Stakeholder Engagement 25 G4-26 The organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement Stakeholder Engagement 24 G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement Stakeholder Engagement 25 288 The Quality of Life Number Description Reference/Comments Page Reference Report Profile G4-28 Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) for information provided. About this Report 9 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report (if any). Financial year ended 31st March 2014 G4-30 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial) Annual G4-31 The contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. About this Report 9 G4-32 a. Report the ‘in accordance’ option the organization has chosen. Core 9, 287-290 b. Report the GRI Content Index for the chosen option c. Report the reference to the External Assurance Report, if the report has been externally assured. G4-33 a. Report the organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external External Assurance provided 283 assurance for the report. by Messrs. Ernst and Young b. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, report the scope and basis of any external assurance provided. c. Report the relationship between the organization and the assurance providers. d. Report whether the highest governance body or senior executives are involved in seeking assurance for the organization’s sustainability report. Governance G4-34 The governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest Corporate Governance 50 governing body. Ethics and Integrity G4-56 The organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behaviour such as codes of Corporate Governance 3 conduct and codes of ethics. SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES Material DMA/Indicators Reference/comments/ Page Aspect Reasons for omission ECONOMIC ASPECTS Economic Performance G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated Financial and Operational 10 highlights G4-EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the Environmental Performance 47 Organisation’s activities due to climate change partially compiled G4-EC3 Coverage of defined benefit plan obligations Financial Statements 194 ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS Materials G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume Environmental Performance 45 Emissions G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Environmental Performance 47 G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Environmental Performance 47 G4-EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight Environmental Performance 47 289 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 GRI content index Number Description Reference/Comments Page Reference SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES Material DMA/Indicators Reference/comments/ Page Aspect Reasons for omission G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Environmental Performance 47 Effluents and Waste G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Environmental Performance 46 Compliance G4-EN29 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for nonNo significant fines compliance with environmental laws and regulations SOCIAL ASPECTS Employment: Labour practices and Decent Work G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, Value Creators 51 gender, and region partially compiled G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full time employees that are not provided to temporary or part Value Creators 51 time employees by significant location of operations Employment: Occupational health and safety G4-LA 4 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, including whether these are Value Creators 53 specified in collective agreements G4-LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health Value Creators 52 and safety committees that help monitor and advice on health and safety programmes G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational disease, lost days and absenteeism, and Value Creators 52 total number of work-related fatalities by region and gender Employment: Training and Education G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category Value Creators 52 G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued Value Creators 52 employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, Value Creators 52 by gender and by employee category Human Rights: Child Labour G4-HR5 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labour Value Creators 51 and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labour G4-HR6 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or Value Creators 50 compulsory labour, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labour Society: Compliance G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for nonNone compliance with laws and regulations Product Responsibility: Compliance G4-PR9 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes No incidence of nonconcerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and compliance sponsorship, by type of outcomes 290 The Quality of Life Group value addition and distribution Consolidated Company 2014/15 2013/14 Rs.Mn Rs.Mn Value Created Turnover 92,562 80,479 Cost of materials & Services bought in (67,491) (59,477) 25,071 21,002 Share % Share % Value Distributed To Employees as remuneration 56% 14,018 54% 11,298 To Government Revenue 7% 1,615 8% 1,637 Of Sri Lanka 1,317 1,364 Overseas 298 273 To Shareholders as Dividend 2% 450 2% 375 To Lenders of capital 18% 4,441 20% 4,286 Interest on borrowings 2,136 2,386 Minority interest 2,305 1,900 82% 20,524 84% 17,596 Value retainted for expansion & growth Depreciation 10% 2,440 10% 2,007 Profit retained 8% 2,107 7% 1,399 18% 4,547 16% 3,406 100 25,071 100 21,002 8% 10% To Employees as remuneration To Government Revenue To Shareholders as Dividend To Lenders of capital 18% 56% Value retainted for expansion & growth Depreciation 2% 7% 291 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Glossary of financial terms Actuarial Gains and Losses Gain or loss arising Dividend Payout Key Management Personnel (KMP) from the difference between estimates and actual Dividend per share as a percentage of the earnings KMP are those persons having authority and experience in a company’s pension plan. per share. responsibility for planning directing and controlling the activities of the entity, directly or indirectly, Amortisation Dividend Yield including any Director (whether executive or The systematic allocation of the depreciable Dividend per share as a percentage of the market otherwise) of that entity. amount of an intangible asset over its useful life. price. A measure of return on investment. Market Capitalisation Available for Sale EBIT Number of shares in issue multiplied by the market Non derivative financial asset that are designated Earnings before Interest and tax. value of a share at the reported date. as available for sale or are not classified as loans and receivable, held to maturity investment or Effective Tax Rate Net Assets Per Share financial assets at fair value through profit and loss. Income tax expense divided Total equity attributable to equity holders divided by profit before tax. by the weighted average number of ordinary Biological Asset shares in issue. A basis of share valuation. A living animal or plant Equity The value of an asset after all the liabilities or debts Non-controlling Interest Capital Employed have been paid. Equity in subsidiary not attributable, directly or Shareholders’ funds plus non-controlling indirectly, to a parent. interests and interest bearing borrowings. Fair Value The price that would be received to sell an asset or Other comprehensive income Capital Reserves paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction An entry that is generally found in the shareholders’ Reserves identified for specific purposes and between market participants at the measurement equity section of the balance sheet. considered not of the entity, directly or indirectly, date. including any director (whether executive or Price Earnings Ratio otherwise) of that entity available for distribution. Fair Value Through Profit and Loss Market price of a share divided by earnings per A financial asset/liability acquired/incurred share as reported at that date. Cash Equivalents principally for the purpose of selling or Liquid investments with original maturity periods repurchasing it in the near term. Related Parties of three months or less. A person or entity that is related to the entity that is Financial Asset preparing its Financial Statements. Contingent Liability Any asset that is cash, an equity instrument of A possible obligation that arises from past events another entity or a contractual right to receive cash Return on Capital employed and whose existence will be confirmed only by or another financial asset from another entity. Profit before tax and net finance cost divided by the occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more average capital employed. uncertain future events not wholly within the Financial Instrument control of the entity. Any contract that gives rise to a financial asset Revenue Reserves of one entity and a financial liability or equity to Reserves considered as being available for Current Ratio another entity. distributions and investments. Current assets divided by current liabilities. A Segments measure of liquidity. Financial Liability Constituent business units grouped in terms of Any liability that is a contractual obligation to similarity of operations and location. Current Service Cost deliver cash or another financial asset to another Is the increase in the present value of the defined entity. SoRP benefit obligation resulting from employee service Statement of Recommended in the current period. Gain on Bargain Purchase Practice. The amount of the identifiable assets acquired Deferred Taxation and liabilities assumed exceeds the aggregate Value Addition The tax effect of timing differences deferred to/ consideration transferred. The quantum of wealth generated by the activities from other periods, which would only qualify for of the Group measured as the difference between inclusion on a tax return at a future date. Gearing turnover and the cost of materials and services Proportion of total interest bearing borrowings to bought in. Dividend Cover capital employed. Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders divided Working Capital by dividend. Measures the number of times Interest Cover Capital required to finance dayto-day operations, dividend is covered by distributable profit. Profit before tax and net finance cost divided by computed as the excess of current assets over net finance cost. Measure of an entity’s debt service current liabilities. ability. 292 The Quality of Life Notes 293 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Notes 294 The Quality of Life 295 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Notice of meeting HAYLEYS PLC Company Number PQ 22 NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Sixty Fourth Annual General Meeting of Hayleys PLC will be held at Victorian Ballroom, The Kingsbury Hotel, No. 48, Janadhipathi Mawatha, Colombo 1 on Friday, 26th June 2015 at 10.00 a.m. and the business to be brought before the Meeting will be: 1. To consider and adopt the Annual Report of the Board of Directors and the Statements of Accounts for the year ended 31st March 2015, with the Report of the Auditors thereon. 2. To declare a dividend as recommended by the Directors. 3. To re-elect Mr.M.D.S.Goonatilleke, who retires by rotation at the Annual General Meeting, a Director. 4. To re-elect Mr.W.D.N.H.Perera, who retires by rotation at the Annual General Meeting, a Director. 5. To re-elect Mr.S.C.Ganegoda, who retires by rotation at the Annual General Meeting, a Director. 6. To re-elect Mr.L.R.V.Waidyaratne, who retires by rotation at the Annual General Meeting, a Director. 7. To authorise the Directors to determine contributions to charities for the financial year 2015/16. 8. To authorize the Directors to determine the remuneration of the Auditors, Messrs Ernst & Young, Chartered Accountants who are deemed to have been re-appointed as Auditors, for the Financial year 2015/16. 9. To consider any other business of which due notice has been given. Note : (i) A Shareholder is entitled to appoint a proxy to attend and vote instead of himself and a proxy need not be a Shareholder of the Company. A Form of Proxy is enclosed for this purpose. The instrument appointing a proxy must be deposited at the Registered Office, No.400, Deans Road, Colombo 10 by 10.00 a.m. on 24th June 2015. (ii) It is proposed to post ordinary dividend warrants on 8th July 2015 and in accordance with the rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange the shares of the Company will be quoted ex-dividend with effect from 29th June 2015. By Order of the Board HAYLEYS PLC HAYLEYS GROUP SERVICES (PRIVATE) LIMITED Secretaries Colombo 1st June 2015 296 The Quality of Life Form of proxy HAYLEYS PLC Company Number PQ 22 I/We………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………. of ……………………………………………………………………………………………….……………………..…………..………….…………………… being Shareholder/Shareholders* of HAYLEYS PLC hereby appoint: 1 ……..…………………………………………………………………………………………………………..…………………………………………..…… of ……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………….or failing him/them 2. ABEYAKUMAR MOHAN PANDITHAGE (Chairman of the Company) of Colombo, or failing him, one of the Directors of the Company as my/our * proxy to attend, speak and vote as indicated hereunder for me/us* and on my/our* behalf at the Sixty Forth Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held on Friday, 26th June 2015 and at every poll which may be taken in consequence of the aforesaid meeting and at any adjournment thereof. For Against 1. To adopt the Annual Report of the Board of Directors and the Statements of Accounts for the year ended 31st March 2015 with the Report of the Auditors thereon. 2. To declare a dividend as recommended by the Directors. 3. To re-elect Mr.M.D.S.Goonatillleke, who retires by rotation at the Annual General Meeting, a Director. 4. To re-elect Mr.W.D.N.H.Perera, who retires by rotation at the Annual General Meeting, a Director. 5. To re-elect who Mr.S.C.Ganegoda, who retires by rotation at the Annual General Meeting, a Director. 6. To re-elect Mr.L.R.V.Waidyaratne , who retires by rotation at the Annual General Meeting, a Director. 7. To authorise the Directors to determine contributions to charities for the financial year 2015/16 8. To authorize the Directors to determine the remuneration of the Auditors, Messrs Ernst & Young, Chartered Accountants who are deemed to have been re-appointed as Auditors, for the Financial year 2015/16. (**) The proxy may vote as he thinks fit on any other resolution brought before the Meeting. As witness my/our* hands this ……………………. day of …………………………….2015. Witnesses: ……………………………… ……………………………. ……………………………… Signature of Shareholder ……………………………… Note : * Please delete the inappropriate words. 1. A proxy need not be a Shareholder of the Company. 2. Instructions as to completion appear on the reverse. 297 Hayleys PLC | Annual Report 2014/15 Form of proxy (Contd.) INSTRUCTIONS AS TO COMPLETION : 1. To be valid, this Form of Proxy must be deposited at the Registered Office, No. 400, Deans Road, Colombo 10, by 10.00 a.m. on 24th June 2015 2. In perfecting the Form of Proxy, please ensure that all details are legible. 3. If you wish to appoint a person other than the Chairman of the Company (or failing him, one of the Directors of the Company) as your proxy, please insert the relevant details at (1) overleaf and initial against this entry. 4. Please indicate with an X in the space provided how your proxy is to vote on each resolution. If no indication is given, the proxy in his discretion will vote as he thinks fit. Please also delete (**) if you do not wish your proxy to vote as he thinks fit on any other resolution brought before the Meeting. 5. In the case of a Company/Corporation, the proxy must be under its Common Seal which should be affixed and attested in the manner prescribed by its Articles of Association. 6. Where the Form of Proxy is signed under a Power of Attorney (POA) which has not been registered with the Company, the original (POA) together with a photocopy of same or a copy certified by a Notary Public must be lodged with the Company along with the Form of Proxy. 298 The Quality of Life Investor feedback form To request information or submit a comment / query to the Company, please complete the following and return this page toStrategic Business Development Unit Hayleys PLC P.O Box 70 , No.400, Deans Road, Colombo 10, Sri Lanka. T + 94 11262 7662 E-mail : info@cau.hayleys.com Name : ............................................................................................................................................................................................. Permanent Mailing Address : ............................................................................................................................................................................................ Contact Numbers (Tel) : ........................................ .......................................... ............................................. County Code Area Code Number (Fax) : ........................................ .......................................... ............................................. County Code Area Code Number E-mail : ............................................................................................................................................................................................. Name of Company (If Applicable) : ............................................................................................................................................................................................. Designation (If Applicable) : ............................................................................................................................................................................................. Company Address (If Applicable) : ............................................................................................................................................................................................. Queries / Comments : 299 Corporate Information Name Of Company S J Wijesignhe Hayleys PLC Dr A Sivagananathan (A public limited company, incorporated in Sri Lanka in 1952) L D E A De Silva W G R Rajadurai Company Number E R P Goonethileke PQ 22 G A Dandeniya (resigned w.e.f 15.05.2015) Ms. D S Amerasinghe Stock Exchange Listing The ordinary shares of the Company are listed with the Audit Committee Colombo Stock Exchange of Sri Lanka M.D.S Goonatilleke – Chairman W D N H Perera Registered Office Dr H Cabral, PC Hayleys PLC, M H Jamaldeen P.O. Box 70, 400, Deans Road, Colombo 10, Sri Lanka Remuneration Committee Telephone: (94-11)2627000 Dr H Cabral, PC – Chairman Facsimile: (94-11)2699299 K D D Perera Website: http://www.hayleys.com W D N H Perera M D S Goonatilleke Directors M H Jamaldeen A M Pandithage – Chairman & Chief Executive K D D Perera Co-Chairman (Non Executive) w.e.f 15.09.2014 Nomination Committee M R Zaheed A M Pandithage – Chairman W D N H Perera K D D Perera S C Ganegoda W D N H Perera H S R Kariyawasan Dr H Cabral, PC Dr. H Cabral, PC L.T Samarawickrama Secretaries Dr. K I M Ranasoma Hayleys Group Services (Private) Limited M D S Goonatilleke 400, Deans Road, Colombo 10, Sri Lanka L R V Waidyaratne Telephone: (94-11)2627650 M H Jamaldeen Facsimile: (94-11)2627645 Ms. D S N Weerasooriya (Alternate Director to K.D.D Perera) E-mail: info.sec@hayleys.com (resigned w.e.f 31.05.2014) Please direct any queries about the administration of shareholdings to the Company Secretaries Group Management Committee A M Pandithage – Chief Executive Investor Relations M R Zaheed Please contact Strategic Business Development Unit S C Ganegoda Telephone: (94-11)2627662 H S R Kariyawasan E-mail: info@cau.hayleys.com Dr. K I M Ranasoma L T Samarawickrama Internet L R V Waidyaratne www.hayleys.com H C S Mendis Designed & produced by Digital Plates & Printing by Softwave Printing and Publishing (Pvt) Ltd Photography by Dimitri Crusz, Taprobane Street and Dhanush de Costa
