VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB Report on Corporate Social Responsibility 2014 CONTENT 1 LEADERS‘ STATEMENT 5 page 2 COMPANY ACTIVITIES 6 page 3 COMPANY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 10 page 4 IMPLEMENTATION OF CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ACTIVITIES 12 page Business ethics 13 page 5 WORK ENVIRONMENT 14 page Personnel 15 page Development of Employee Competences 16 page Employee involvement in the Improvement processes 17 page Remuneration System 18 page Sports Festival 19 page Anniversaries 20 page Trade Unions 21 page Employees about the Company 22 page 6 A RESPONSIBLE ATTITUDE TOWARDS THE USE OF FOREST RESOURCES 22 page Contribution to reforestation 23 page FSC® Certification and European Union Timber Regulation 24 page 7 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION 26 page Air pollution 27 page Energy saving policy 28 page 8 RESPONSIBILITY TO SOCIETY 30 page Support 31 page Assessments 32 page 2 page VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB Report on Corporate Social Responsibility 2014 VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB Report on Corporate Social Responsibility 2014 3 page MISSION LEADERS’ Ensuring customer satisfaction by manufacturing products that meet the highest requirements STATEMENT We are happy about our work during 2014, as we achieved truly excellent VISION performance results in the fields of product quality, work efficiency and overall sales. We also managed to implement our promises to customers, while retaining the results achieved even when the situation in the markets was rapidly changing. Each of us can be proud that in 2014, by collaboration, muContinual and stable development in the fields of human resources, production processes and environmental VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB tual exchange of experience and sound decision-making, we implemented protection through the use of best practices and innovation to achieve the highest results Chairman of the Board Sigitas Paulauskas a good number of highly important projects. We are also happy about the level of sales reached at Klaipėdos mediena, AB. In this respect, our achievement has made Klaipėdos mediena, AB a leading company in the Lithuanian VALUES furniture industry. Sakuona, UAB met its 20th anniversary with record results. Two units of VMG Industry in Belarus not only met their planned production capacity, but exceeded it, which also contributed to the achievement of the furniture manufacturing goals. Furthermore, we would like to note the imBalanced and sustainable development portance of the VMG Technics employees’ contribution towards the impleFlexibility and attention to customer expectations mentation of the projects. This proves once again that cooperation and the A cohesive team and qualified personnel pursuit of common goals leads to success. Product quality VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB We are confident that the coming year 2015 will bring even more positive Director General changes to our activities. We are open to new challenges and ready to strive Viktoras Adomaitis for great results and the achievement of the ambitious goals of the Company. We invite you to focus on teamwork and continuous learning, as well as taking personal initiative to improve the performance of both your team and the entire enterprise. These measures will help us fulfil our commitments and strengthen the competitiveness of our company. If each of us is involved in the pursuit of common goals, we will have more drive, gain recognition for our efforts and honest work and achieve the best results. We are able to cope with all the challenges and believe that, thanks to our joint efforts, we will remain the most attractive group of companies to our customers! 4 page VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB Report on Corporate Social Responsibility 2014 VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB Report on Corporate Social Responsibility 2014 5 page COMPANY VMG SRUCTURE KLAIPEDOS MEDIENA ACTIVITIES LOGDREV SAKUONA VMG INDUSTRY VMG ENERGY VMG TECHNICS BALTIJOS ELEKTRINIU INVESTICIJOS Services of VMG Group Production Technical Energetics Wood maintenance harvesting Klaipedos VMG Energy (BY) Mediena (LT) VMG Technics (LT) LogDrev (BY) BEI (LT) Sakuona (LT) VMG Industry (BY) EXPORT ZONES 6 page VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB Report on Corporate Social Responsibility 2014 VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB Report on Corporate Social Responsibility 2014 7 page KLAIPĖDOS MEDIENA LOGDREV SAKUONA VMG INDUSTRY VMG TECHNICS BEI 8 page VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB Report on Corporate Social Responsibility 2014 VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB Report on Corporate Social Responsibility 2014 9 page COMPANY PERFORMANCE The Company’s turnover in 2014 reached EUR 204 million. Compared to 2013, VMG, UAB sales increased by 37%. The four-fold increase in the product range and a flexible ap50 UAB „Sakuona“ plans (mio EUR) INDICATORS 45 proach to the execution of orders within the shortest pos40 42 40 sible time allowed the Klaipėdos mediena company to produce and sell products for EUR 86 million in 2014. The sales 30 30 26 24 of Sakuona, UAB increased by 29% compared to 2013, and 20 amounted to EUR 39 million. The Belarus-based companies 14 14 12 Logdrew and VMG Industry also did not fall behind: the 10 88 11 sales of the Logdrew company reached EUR 2 million, i.e. it was16% higher compared to 2013, and the production units 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Planas UAB “VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPE” growth of VMG Industry achieved EUR 39 million in production while working to reach their project capacity. UAB „VMG Technics“ plans (mio EUR) In order to reorganize the production processes so that they would become more efficient and continuously develop, the 12 11 implementation of the Lean Management System started 10 9,1 9 in 2012 within the Company and the enterprises were man8 7,6 7,8 aged by it. The Klaipėdos mediena company was selected for 6,1 205 mln. the development of a business model. During 2013 2014, 6 the implementation of the Lean Management System was 4 launched in the Sakuona and VMG Technics companies, in2 cluding VMG Industry, which carries out activities in Belarus, 0 following the standards developed at the Klaipėdos mediena 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Planas company. 100 mln. Thus, the Company expects to continue to provide quality services to its customers and to gain internal flexibility by FLLC „VMG Industry“ plans (mio EUR) producing a much wider range of production in smaller lines 80 73,36 75 and by reducing investments in the inventory of work in pro70 71 mln. gress. 60 52,6 50 VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB plans to reach 40 31,6 2010 m. 2012 m. 2014 m. a turnover of EUR 250 million in 2015. 30 20 10 0 2013 2014 2015 Planas VMG future plans (mio EUR) AB „Klaipėdos mediena“ plans (mio EUR) JLLC „LogDrev“ plans (mio EUR) 140 130 8 7 120 7 6 100 87 90 80 5 80 67 4 60 58 49 3 2,73 43 43 45 38 1,937 2 40 34 33 34 2 1,263 20 1 0 0 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Planas 2012 2013 2014 2015 Planas 10 page VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB Report on Corporate Social Responsibility 2014 VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB Report on Corporate Social Responsibility 2014 11 page IMPLEMENTATION BUSINESS ETHICS Business ethics may be identified as an entirety of moral principles that manage individual or group actions. It correlates OF CORPORATE with truth, justice and public expectations as a perception of fair competition, social responsibility and collective behaviour. The business ethics policy of VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB SOCIAL and its enterprises determines the rules applicable to the employees of the companies within the group. The success of the performance of the Company and its enterprises is not only determined by a sound strategy, the optimal structure and accurately organized processes, but also by the infrastructure RESPONSIBILITY of the Company’s ethics. In order to carry out successful organisational activities, the internal organizational ethics are shaped and upheld. It is like a link based on people’s emotional and cultural values that consolidates the efforts of the ACTIVITIES entire staff to achieve the common goals of the organization. The business ethics exist to unite people, to promote a common understanding and to encourage the growth and development of the organization. VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB and its enterprises value their partnership with their customers, suppliers and consumers. The requirements of the business ethics are to be honest with, act in good faith and respect your customers, suppliers and consumers, and to follow the following principles: • Not engage in unfair, deceptive and misleading practices; • Always present the products of the Company’s enterprises in an honest and up-front manner. • Not to offer, promise or give anything to a customer or a supplier in order to gain an unfair advantage in return. The employees of VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB and its enterprises may apply with any questions and problems they may have to the following persons in several ways: • their immediate supervisor • the Human Resources Manager of the enterprise • Where an employee of the Company or its enterprises feels that their immediate supervisor or the Human Resources Manager of the enterprise are not able to help with a problem that has arisen, or where they are directly linked to it, such an employee may apply to the Head of the Company. Thanks to the fair and purposeful business ethics within the enterprises, there is improvement in collective cooperation, the provision of mutual help and maintenance of good customer relations, which allows us to develop and move forward! 12 page VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB Report on Corporate Social Responsibility 2014 VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB Report on Corporate Social Responsibility 2014 13 page WORK ENVIRONMENT DISTRIBUTION OF EMPLOYEES BY WORK GENDER VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB and the enterprises under its management follow the principles of global labour law. The Company does not tolerate child labour exploitation, ENVIRONMENT discrimination in the workplace, harassment, bullying or vioAB “Klaipėdos mediena” lation of any other human rights, and carries out its activities 38% in compliance with the safety requirements and employee WOMEN recreation modes in order to create safe and health-friendly MEN workplaces for the employees of the enterprises. The Com62% pany and its enterprises support transparency in wage and benefit payments. PERSONNEL UAB “Sakuona” In 2014, the number of employees in VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB and the enterprises under its management was 35% WOMEN growing. The annual growth amounted to 6% and 3,207 peoMEN ple were employed within the group at the end of the year. 65% The distribution of the employees as of December 31st, 2014 was: Distribution of Employees in the Group of Enterprises as of December 31st , 2014 3% UAB “VMG Technics” Technical service Managers 5% staff 8% WOMEN Specialists 8% Technology MEN staff 79% 97% FLLC “VMG Industry” 46% WOMEN MEN The employee turnover within the Company and its enter54% prises in 2014 was 0.3% lower than in 2013, and accounted for 3.5%. It is expected that this rate will not exceed 3% in 2015. We are happy to be able to provide jobs for professionals working in various fields. FLLC “LogDrev” 15% WOMEN MEN 85% 14 page VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB Report on Corporate Social Responsibility 2014 VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB Report on Corporate Social Responsibility 2014 15 page Distribution of Employees by Age Distribution of Employees by Age in VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB and the enterprises under its management 20% AB “Klaipėdos mediena” 37% 18-25 26-35 16% 21% 20% 35-50 23% 50-65 UAB “Sakuona” 33% 15% 30% 24% 18-25 26-35 24% 35-50 37% 50-65 18-25 35-50 26-35 50-65 10% UAB “VMG Technics” DEVELOPMENT OF EMPLOYEE EMPLOYEE INVOLVEMENT IN THE 12% 18-25 COMPETENCES 41% IMPROVEMENT PROCESSES 26-35 We want the employees of the Company’s enterprises to pos37% 35-50 sess knowledge that corresponds to their qualification, so we VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB and its enterprises employ a encourage them to continually enhance and develop their comcontinuous improvement process or the KAIZEN process. It is in50-65 petencies. To this end, individual employee training and group tended for the submission of the employee improvement-relattraining takes place, as well as training in the enterprises and at ed proposals and their implementation. The aim of the KAIZEN various other training services providers. process is a small, but regularly growing gain and the spread A system intended for the preparation of qualified personnel is of the culture of continuous improvement. The employees are 7% FLLC “VMG Industry” employed in the Company’s enterprises. When a new employee given the opportunity at their own initiative to provide and im20% 18-25 starts working in a production unit, he / she is assigned a tutor plement the proposals for business processes’ improvement, who, depending on the position, teaches the apprentice from safety and quality assurance, as well as productivity enhance36% 26-35 1 week to 1 month and provides practical knowledge. After 3 ment. In this way, each employee is involved in the implemenmonths, when the new employees have acquired the theoreti35-50 tation of the Company’s objectives. The Company follows the 37% cal knowledge and practical skills, they have to pass a qualifica50-65 tion examination. “Company gain = employee gain” principle, so the employees are rewarded with prizes for their implemented proposals. The personnel qualification system used in the production unit enables workers who have acquired the needed experience and knowledge seek a higher qualification, which is directly related 5% to the employees’ salary. 15% JLLC “LogDrev” 18-25 The Company’s top and middle managers, as well as professionals, are also involved in the training of personal and func26-35 33% tional competencies’ development. Thus, the employees of the 47% 35-50 Commerce Department participated in the “Procurement Negotiations” training, the production managers took part in the 50-65 “Change Management” training course, and the top and middle management team formed of the relevant employees from all the Company’s enterprises were involved in a “Team Building” forum, where presentations were made by a famous Lithuanian director, Gytis Padegimas, and a well-known musician and architect, Algirdas Kaušpėdas. 16 page VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB Report on Corporate Social Responsibility 2014 VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB Report on Corporate Social Responsibility 2014 17 page REMUNERATION SYSTEM VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB and its enterprises have introduced a remuneration system where the employee salary depends on the work they perform in accordance with the obtained results and the value created for the Company and the team. This reward system ensures that the Company’s strategic objectives and the business management logic are reflected in the payroll system. The Company’s employee remuneration consists of financial and non-financial rewards. The financial reward system includes a monthly basic salary under the employee’s work contract and a variable part of the salary paid in accordance with the achievement of set performance results. The employees are also paid premiums (for night shifts, overtime, etc.), as esfrom a four-day trip to the Czech Republic that was organised SPORTS FESTIVAL for a group of employees in 2014 are presented below: tablished by the Collective Agreement and other internal legal acts. The Summer Sports Festival – the traditional VAKARŲ MEDuring the trip we visited the Koneprusy stalactite-stalagmite DIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB sports festival – once again took place in caves: a labyrinth of caves stretching for more than 800 meters, June 2014. By organising this celebration, the Company seeks A non-financial reward is an indirect form of employee remuwhere we saw some unique icicles called “Koneprusy Roses”. to enhance the sense of teamwork of the employees and to neration used by the Company to encourage the engagement We also took a walk along the main and only trading street in promote their interest in a healthy lifestyle. The staff members and loyalty of the employees as well as to promote their wellKarlstein with a multitude of souvenir shops, cosy cafes and of the Lithuanian and Belarusian enterprises of VAKARŲ MEbeing and to enrich their activities within the Company. This restaurants. Another short walk was up a mountain topped DIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB competed in various sports and creative includes special congratulations, personal and work anniversawith the beautiful Karlstein Castle built at different levels with contests. This time we succeeded in involving our supplier and ries, various Company events, recognition rewards for employterraces in the fourteenth century, following an example of forpartner teams from Sweden and Germany in the celebration. ees who have achieved particularly good performance results tification castles built during the 11th and 12th centuries. In and tourist trips. the dark of the evening we watched an enchanting music, light and water show: the “singing” fountains of Prague. Apart from The impressions of a travel idea initiator, Aiva Jakštienė (the all this, we became familiar with the old part of the city, and in Payroll Office Manager of VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB), our spare time we took a boat trip along the Vltava River. 18 page VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB Report on Corporate Social Responsibility 2014 VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB Report on Corporate Social Responsibility 2014 19 page ANNIVERSARIES Gargždai Division of Sodra (the State Social Insurance Fund) TRADE UNIONS spond to existing problems and faults. I always get helped delivered their thanks for social responsibility and solidarity, by them. The 20th Anniversary of the Sakuona and the significance of the company to the State Forest enThe collective labour relations at VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, I am glad that my working clothes are taken care of, that I Company: Continuous Growth terprise of Kretinga was emphasized by its Director, Antanas come to work by the company’s leased transport and that we UAB and its enterprises are based on the international and Baranauskas. the constitutional principle of freedom of association. The are served delicious and high quality meals. The Sakuona company marked its 20th anniversary on 12 employees of the enterprises have the right to form unions I am pleased that each of us is encouraged by gifts and prizes. September 2014 by holding a beautiful celebration. During the festival, the guests had an opportunity to not only that defend their interests. Currently, Klaipėdos mediena, AB familiarise themselves with the company’s production prois the only company that runs the trade union activity. Two “Now it is difficult to believe that once this place was just a cesses, but to also listen to great music: the performances trade unions: the Žemaitijos baldininkų, darbininkų sąjunga farmhouse that contained about 200 cows and a warehouse. were given by Edmundas Seilius and Kristina Zmailaitė, Sau(the Union of Samogitian Furniture Manufacturers and WorkToday it employs smart and reliable people who produce lius Šiaučiulis Quartet, and the Baltic Guitar Quartet. ers) and the Klaipėdos apskrities medienos darbininkų sąjuncomplex products”, said Mr. S.Paulauskas, the Chairman of Edita Bulkšienė ga (the Union of Klaipėda County Timber Workers) operate at the Board of VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB, while deliverQuality Inspector for the The long-term employees of the company were honoured Klaipėdos mediena, AB. ing greetings to the guests of the celebration. Furniture Products at and rewarded during the evening: Gediminas Prižgintas, the Logistics Manager, and Ingrida Žvilauskienė, a Woodworking Klaipėdos mediena, AB Mr. Viktoras Adomaitis, the Director General of VAKARŲ MEMachine Operator, who have been working for the company EMPLOYEES ABOUT THE COMPANY DIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB, in turn stressed that the Sakuona compasince 1995; Bronius Mažeikis, a Hydromanipulator Operator, ny is a leader in the group both in terms of sales figures and its Sigitas Girdziušas I have been working at Klaipėdos mediena, AB for 12 years. who started his duties within the company in 1997; Dalia unique production. Chief Specialist for ForAfter the opening of the furniture workshop, I started workŽvinklienė, a Workshop Foreman, who has been with the estry and Wood Origin ing as a Packer-Inspector. Currently, I carry out the final conenterprise for 15 years; Vaidas Tadaras, a Shift Supervisor (an “I am very grateful to the staff that has participated in the creat VAKARŲ MEDIENOS employee with the company since the 2000); and Rimantas trol of the furniture production and provide training for new ation of the enterprise and has developed it so successfully”, GRUPĖ, UAB / PhD student Jomantas, a Carpenter, who has been carrying out his work employees of the company, and make them familiar with the said Mr. V. Adomaitis. at the Estonian University duties since 2005. They were not only awarded memorable quality requirements and the workflow. Klaipėdos mediena, of Life Sciences: insignias and medals, but also rewarded by cash prizes. AB attaches great importance to the professional developIn turn, thanks to this enterprise were delivered by the reprement of staff. The enterprise has created excellent conditions sentatives of various institutions: the gratitude of the Parliafor the acquisition of knowledge. The administrative staff of VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB regarded my aspiration to mentary Board was presented by MP Kęstutis Glaveckas, the the furniture production unit carries out regular trainings and study and enabled flexible working conditions, therefore, I can successfully develop, both by deepening my knowledge courses, which allows the employees to show their talents at the university and applying it in practice. I am glad about and gain a higher category. Klaipėdos mediena, AB values such a progressive approach to the employees. the views expressed by each employee and, by the means of the Kaizen system, each employee has a possibility to provide suggestions and come up with ideas on how to improve the workplace. Points are awarded for implemented ideas, and Martynas Karnauskas the employee can use them when purchasing desired goods. Woodworking Machine The system contributes to the continuous improvement of Operator at Sakuona, the working conditions within the company by taking into UAB: account the opinion of each employee. A comfortable work atmosphere is created at Klaipėdos mediena, AB, and the staff is friendly, honest and loves teamwork. The employees are given free meals in the company’s canteens and on hot summer days, the employees are treated to ice cream at the I have been working at Sakuona, UAB for four years. I am a managers’ initiative. The work-wear maintenance is managed “D” shift operator. The work schedule is very flexible. I am satby a company contracted by Klaipėdos mediena, AB. It is isfied with the working conditions and timely paid monthly good to work in a stable and constantly growing company, as wages. Both the Workshop Foreman Virginijus Šlečkus and well as to pursue professional development and the set goals the Shift Supervisor Vaidas Tadaras are very attentive and as a member of a cohesive team. well familiar with the specifics of the work. It is very gratifying to feel a rapport between the employee and the manager of the company, who is always interested in the working conditions and work place. The atmosphere within the team is predominantly good; we understand each other and try to be helpful to each other. It is especially true about the team of metalworkers: those people are always ready to quickly re20 page VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB Report on Corporate Social Responsibility 2014 VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB Report on Corporate Social Responsibility 2014 21 page A RESPONSIBLE ATTITUDE TOWARDS THE CONTRIBUTION TO REFORESTATION USE OF FOREST RESOURCES In collaboration with the country’s foresters, VAKARŲ MEVAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ UAB, which uses timber for its DIENOS GRUPĖ UAB conducts an annual spring campaign inproduction, follows strict environmental protection regulatended for reforestation. This campaign has is already taking tions, worldwide standards and the requirements of internaplace for the fifth year in a row. Participation in this campaign tional agreements. Timber is considered a renewable nature is not compulsory, but many employees participate, wishing resource, but because of the multiple roles of forests, it is very to have a good time surrounded by nature. The purpose of important to ensure that this wealth be used responsibly. this campaign is to give back a tiny tribute to our natural environment for its resources and to strengthen the collective VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ UAB, as well as its enterprises, communication of the Company’s corporate staff. The camagrees without reservation with this provision, so it applies paign is carried out in the state forest enterprises of Kretinstrict requirements for its timber suppliers. Wood binds carga with the involvement of the staff of the forest enterprises. bon dioxide during photosynthesis, thus becoming a “colDuring reforestation, foresters show them how to correctly lector” of carbon, and we convert this carbon into things plant a tree, and talk about the peculiarities of forest growduring the manufacturing of timber products. In doing this, ing. The results of the planted forest are usually visible in the we contribute to the reduction of climate change. Moreover, autumn and due to natural selection, not all of the trees grow by using modern technologies and implementing advanced and mature. 70-100 or even more years are needed for a mamanagement and work organisation systems, we seek to use ture forest to grow from the seedlings, so it is an investment timber and its products as effectively as possible in order to for future generations. It is expected that this positive tradisave the forest, a property that is valued by all of us. tion will continue for many years. A RESPONSIBLE ATTITUDE TOWARDS THE USE OF FOREST RESOURCES 22 page VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB Report on Corporate Social Responsibility 2014 VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB Report on Corporate Social Responsibility 2014 23 page FSC® CERTIFICATION AND EUROPEAN This obligation is not just an empty promise – we are trying to implement additional control measures not provided for in UNION TIMBER REGULATION the FSC standards. Back in 2009, at the start of the implemenKLAIPEDOS MEDIENA AB tation of the FSC requirements, we participated and currently The products manufactured by the enterprises of VAKARŲ LIEPU G. 68 KLAIPEDA, LT-92100 LITHUANIA participate in the process of improvement of FSC standards. MEDIENOS GRUPĖ UAB are sold to 22 countries throughIS CERTIFIED FOR FOREST STEWARDSHIP COUNCIL™ CHAIN OF CUSTODY AND CONTROLLED WOOD Certificate Scope In 2012, we willingly agreed that representatives of the Forest out the world. Today’s modern consumer outlook, which Certificate Type: Single Chain of Custody and Controlled Wood Standard(s): FSC-STD-40-004 V2-1; FSC-STD-40-005 V2-1; FSC-STD-40-007 V2-0 Stewardship Council(R) and the global environment protecnot only takes into account the appearance and quality of a Product group(s): Particleboard, Parts of furniture, Impregnated papers Valid from 17 September 2014 to 16 September 2019 Certificate Registration Code: RA-COC-004343 tion organisation, Greenpeace, would participate in an annual product, but also its influence on the environment, is a force FSC License Code: FSC-C018158 RA-CW-004343 Certificate Issue Number: IN-2014-1 FSC audit in order to assess aspects regarding the implementhat drives us to continuously improve as manufacturers. In Additional details regarding the scope, including a full list of products and species, are available at info.fsc.org. tation of requirements concerning the origin of controlled consideration of worldwide wood market trends and underJOINT LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY raw materials under real conditions. When the European Un___________________________ LOGDREV TORGOVAYA, 14 ROOM 12 standing the importance of responsible forestry, we started Jon Jickling, Director, Certification Rainforest Alliance SMOLEVECHI, 222210 233 Broadway, 28th Floor New York, NY 10279 USA BELARUS IS CERTIFIED FOR FOREST STEWARDSHIP COUNCIL™ ion Timber Regulation came into effect in 2013, KLAIPĖDOS to implement FSC Chain of Custody standard requirements RAINFOREST ALLIANCE IS AN FSC® ACCREDITED CERTIFIER CHAIN OF CUSTODY AND CONTROLLED WOOD This certification was conducted in collaboration with NEPCon. MEDIENA AB and Sakuona UAB, enterprises of the VAKARŲ Certificate Scope in the enterprises of VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ UAB in 2009. Certificate Type: Single Chain of Custody and Controlled Wood Standard(s): FSC-STD-40-004 V2-1; FSC-STD-40-005 V2-1 The validity of this certificate shall be verified on info.fsc.org. This certificate does not constitute evidence that a particular Product group(s): Roundwood (logs); Fuel wood; Wood chips MEDIENOS GRUPĖ company, started to apply a system of due Currently, all the wood processing enterprises owned by the product supplied by the certificate holder is FSC certified Valid from 31 October 2014 to 30 October 2019 and/or FSC Controlled Wood. Products offered, shipped or sold by the certificate holder can only be considered covered Certificate Registration Code: RA-COC-007063 diligence to all imported wood and its products, which inby the scope of this certificate when the required FSC claim is clearly stated on invoices and shipping documents. RA-CW-007063 Company (KLAIPĖDOS MEDIENA AB (FSC-C018158), Sakuona FSC License Code: FSC-C122721 This certificate is the property of Rainforest Alliance. This certificate and all copies or reproductions of this certificate shall Certificate Issue Number: IN-2014-1 be returned or destroyed if requested by Rainforest Alliance. Additional details regarding the scope, including a full list of volves access to information, risk assessments of the country UAB (FSC-C013423), FLLC VMG Industry (FSC-C118066) and Version July 2013 products and species, are available at info.fsc.org. of wood origin and the supply chain, as well as risk reduction FLLC LogDrev (FSC-C122721) successfully adhere to the re___________________________ Jon Jickling, Director, Certification measures. The creation of a system of due diligence and the Rainforest Alliance 233 Broadway, 28th Floor New York, NY 10279 USA quirements of these standards and have certificates confirmSAKUONA UAB RAINFOREST ALLIANCE IS AN FSC® ACCREDITED CERTIFIER GRAUMINĖS K. KRETINGALĖS SEN., KLAIPĖDOS R. LT-96231, LITHUANIA application of timber regulation were implemented on time, ing this. Each year, independent auditors perform audits in This certification was conducted in collaboration with NEPCon. IS CERTIFIED FOR FOREST STEWARDSHIP COUNCIL™ CHAIN OF CUSTODY with the purpose of preventing the trade of possibly illegal order to ensure the clear and reliable implementation of the Certificate Scope The validity of this certificate shall be verified on info.fsc.org. This certificate does not constitute evidence that a particular wood on the European Union market. This was also approved Certificate Type: Single Chain of Custody and Controlled Wood product supplied by the certificate holder is FSC certified and/or FSC Controlled Wood. Products offered, shipped or Standard(s): FSC-STD-40-004 V2-1; FSC-STD-40-005 V2-1 sold by the certificate holder can only be considered covered FSC requirements. During these audits, documents are examby the scope of this certificate when the required FSC claim is Product group(s): furniture and parts of furniture, veneer, particleboard, clearly stated on invoices and shipping documents. at the end of 2014 by an inspection performed by competisolid and glued wood products, production waste This certificate is the property of Rainforest Alliance. This certificate and all copies or reproductions of this certificate shall Valid from 03 July 2014 to 02 July 2019 ined, communication with employees takes place, and the be returned or destroyed if requested by Rainforest Alliance. Certificate Registration Code: RA-COC-004186 tive institutions assigned by the state. During this inspection, RA-CW-004186 Version July 2013 FSC License Code: FSC-C013423 use of wood from responsibly managed forests is assessed in Certificate Issue Number: IN-2014-1 Additional details regarding the scope, including a full list of products and species, are available at info.fsc.org. it was stated that the requirements were being implemented various production chain stages, as well as analysing the doccorrectly and there were no remarks. umentation concerning the wood purchase, origin and sale. ___________________________ Jon Jickling, Director, Certification Rainforest Alliance 233 Broadway, 28th Floor New York, NY 10279 USA VMG INDUSTRY VEINIANSKY 16 MOGILEV REGION 213105 More than five years have passed since the issuance of the BELARUS RAINFOREST ALLIANCE IS AN FSC® ACCREDITED CERTIFIER IS CERTIFIED FOR FOREST STEWARDSHIP COUNCIL™ This certification was conducted in collaboration with NEPCon. CHAIN OF CUSTODY AND CONTROLLED WOOD As participants of the FSC certification system, we can safefirst certificates and we can see that our endeavours have had Certificate Scope ly state that our goal will be to apply the strict requirements Certificate Type: Single Chain of Custody and Controlled Wood positive results – the amount of FSC certified production has Standard(s): FSC-STD-40-004 V2-1; FSC-STD-40-005 V2-1 The validity of this certificate shall be verified on info.fsc.org. This certificate does not constitute evidence that a particular Product group(s): Particleboard, Parts of furniture, Other of responsible business to both us and our suppliers, as only product supplied by the certificate holder is FSC certified and/or FSC Controlled Wood. Products offered, shipped or wood products n.e.c., Cabinet, Tables, Beds, Wardrobes, increased each year, and the flow of raw materials that were sold by the certificate holder can only be considered covered by the scope of this certificate when the required FSC claim is Cupboards and chests, Shelves clearly stated on invoices and shipping documents. such kinds of business have a future. Valid from 10 September 2013 to 9 September 2018 This certificate is the property of Rainforest Alliance. This certificate and all copies or reproductions of this certificate shall purchased from responsibly managed forests has grown acbe returned or destroyed if requested by Rainforest Alliance. Certificate Registration Code: RA-COC-006581 RA-CW-006581 Version July 2013 FSC License Code: FSC-C118066 cordingly. We are glad to be able say that the preparation of Certificate Issue Number: IN-2013-1 Additional details regarding the scope, including a full list of wood and other economic activities in FSC certified forests products and species, are available at info.fsc.org. are performed in consideration of strict, globally acknowl___________________________ Jon Jickling, Director, Certification Rainforest Alliance 223 Broadway, 28th Floor New York, NY 10279 USA edged principles, inclusive of both environmental protection RAINFOREST ALLIANCE IS AN FSC® ACCREDITED CERTIFIER This certification was conducted in collaboration with NEPCon. and social aspects. In regards to such wood, we support the The validity of this certificate shall be verified on info.fsc.org. This certificate does not constitute evidence that a particular product supplied by the certificate holder is FSC certified and/or FSC Controlled Wood. Products offered, shipped or Selling of FSC certified production by enterprises owned by sold by the certificate holder can only be considered covered responsible management of forests and are socially responsiby the scope of this certificate when the required FSC claim is clearly stated on invoices and shipping documents. This certificate is the property of Rainforest Alliance. This VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ UAB certificate and all copies or reproductions of this certificate shall ble. We do not engage in, directly or indirectly, with: be returned or destroyed if requested by Rainforest Alliance. Version July 2013 • the illegal preparation of wood or illegal trade in wood 500000 or wood products • the violation of traditions or human rights in forestry activity 400000 • the destruction of specially significant values in forestry activity 300000 m3 • the significant conversion of forest areas into plantations or non-forested property land 200000 • the use of genetically modified organisms in forestry activity 100000 • the violation of any of the main conventions of the International Labour Organisation (ILO) as defined by the ILO Declaration on main principles and rights at work. 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015* 24 page VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB Report on Corporate Social Responsibility 2014 VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB Report on Corporate Social Responsibility 2014 25 page ENVIRONMENTAL One of the underlying goals of VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ UAB is the organisation of activities oriented to the improvement of the condition of the surrounding environment, as well as the application of pollution prevention measures in PROTECTION order to reduce any negative impact on the environment while providing employees with clean and safe working conditions. VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ UAB and its enterprises adhere to the conditions and requirements indicated in Integrated Pollution Prevention and Control permits. Monitoring control is constantly performed as well as the control and management of chemical materials and preparations under usage, including those that are new or being introduced. We try to replace the chemical materials and preparations used in the production of companies with non-dangerous or less dangerous materials. All employees have been familiarised with the provisions of the Company’s policy on environmental protection. Each of them is responsible for the appropriate implementation of their duties when seeking environmental protection goals. AIR POLLUTION In 2014, the amount of pollutant emissions into the atmosphere was significantly reduced as compared to the maximum allowable concentration established in the Integrated Pollution Prevention and Control permit, ever since Klaipėdos mediena AB started to use air cleaners, arm-type dust collector bags and installed a 6 MW NESS boiler that uses bio-fuel. Pollutants Emitted into the Atmosphere Klaipėdos mediena, AB Maximum allowable concentration Year 2014 0 100 200 300 400 500 600 700 Pollutants emitted into Year 2014 Maximum allowable the atmosphere, t/year concentration 328.586 648.134 26 page VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB Report on Corporate Social Responsibility 2014 VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB Report on Corporate Social Responsibility 2014 27 page VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ UAB constantly looks for new The thermal power of Sakuona UAB used for technological ENERGY SAVING POLICY possibilities and implements new technologies in the Comprocesses (drying, pressing, etc.) and for the heating of prempany’s enterprises. Klaipėdos mediena AB uses bio-fuel for ises is generated in a boiler-room located within the territory The sustainable energy vision of VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ thermal power generation in order to reduce greenhouse efof the Company. Two bio-fuel boilers are installed there. The UAB is to be a modern, up-to-date, environment and enerfect causing gas emissions. The amount of pollutants emitted bio-fuel emissions consist of carbon monoxide, nitrogen oxgy-saving group of companies that apply advanced manuwas reduced in comparison with the years 2012–2013, when ides and particulates. The amount of pollutants emitted into facturing technologies. a 6 MW NESS boiler that uses bio-fuel was put into operation. the atmosphere in 2014 was significantly reduced in comparThe amounts of CO2 emitted were: 13,774t in 2012, 4,636t in ison to the maximum allowable concentration established in In performing their industrial-economic activities, the group 2013 and 4,553t in 2014. Filters for the reduction of particuthe Integrated Pollution Prevention and Control permit. of companies shall take responsibility for the effective use of lates and for the improvement of working conditions for the energy resources and in concern for any influence on the enemployees were installed in the Company using European VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ UAB and its enterprises sort vironment, shall: Union funds. waste and secondary raw materials that are produced during • pay constant attention to the reduction of energy rethe companies’ activities. Separate containers for the collecsources necessary for the manufacturing of every protion of portable batteries and voltaic cells are maintained. All duction unit; Total Amount of Greenhouse Gas Emissions the accumulated waste is transferred to companies that have • perform the activities by following the laws, regulations, Klaipėdos mediena, AB licences necessary for that activity. requirements and any other legal acts regulating the activities, as well as management decisions of the group of 14000 companies and other management bodies; 12000 • adhere to pollution prevention principles and constantly 10000 improve the efficiency of environmental protection; 8000 • seek to economically and effectively use energy and natural resources; 6000 • determine principles for the implementation of an ener4000 gy management system in order to support this policy; 2000 • assign the necessary resources for that purpose and con0 stantly follow the implementation of policy and goals; 2012 2013 2014 • involve all the employees of the group of companies in The amount of greenhouse gas emissions the implementation of the policy on the effective use of during the combustion (tonnes, CO2) energy resources. In 2014, Klaipėdos mediena AB used 2,448,648 nm3 of natural gas for production. Innovative technology is used in the production of chipboards and RR-80 hothouses to maximally Pollutants Emitted into the Atmosphere Sakuona, UAB reduce air pollution from wood dust. Wood dust is burned in fires and is passed on to burners as a compound of air and Maximum allowable dust. In 2014, after a 6MW NESS boiler was employed in the concentration production of chipboards, a thermo boiler press and heater were not used anymore, and this resulted in lower consumpYear 2014 tion of natural gas and reduced environmental pollution. 0 100 200 300 400 500 600 700 Pollutants emitted into Year 2014 Maximum allowable the atmosphere, t/year concentration 328.586 648.134 28 page VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB Report on Corporate Social Responsibility 2014 VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB Report on Corporate Social Responsibility 2014 29 page RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY TO SOCIETY ball team, as well as sponsors and organisers of the annual Lithuanian Open Show Jumping Championship VMG Cup. VMG Industry, the youngest enterprise of the Company, is SUPPORT not only happy with its growth in turnover, but also with its active collaboration with the local community. In 2014, the TO SOCIETY The Company and its enterprises have collaborated with Executive Committee of Mogilev, Belarus gave thanks to the non-profit organisations and local communities. In 2014, the VMG Industry company for its active participation in the New Company’s support for various organisations amounted to Year Charity Campaign Our Children and for support and asEUR 230,000. sistance to create a cosy environment in the newly opened family-type foster home. We are proud to be sponsors of Klaipėda’s “Neptūnas” basketThe foster home, beneficiary of the support, made the employees of the VMG Industry company very happy by organising an exhibition of children’s works in the company. 30 page VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB Report on Corporate Social Responsibility 2014 VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB Report on Corporate Social Responsibility 2014 31 page ASSESSMENTS In 2014, the VMG Industry company was awarded with the nomination, “The Best Entrepreneur of the Mogilev Region: founder of new workplaces”. A Social Activity Responsibility Report in the Lithuanian, English and Russian languages is published on the Company’s VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ UAB website: http:// www.mediena.lt and the United Nation Global Compact website: http://wwwunglobacompact.org/ 32 page VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB Report on Corporate Social Responsibility 2014 VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB Report on Corporate Social Responsibility 2014 33 page
