2015 Allergan’s UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Allergan committed to the UN Global Compact in May 2009. The following statements and links to the Allergan Sustainability Performance Report including the GRI G3 Reporting Guidelines Conformance analysis will substantiate Allergan’s commitment to the Compact. This report represents Allergan’s fourth UN Global Compact report and will cover the period from January 2014 through December 2014. Subsequent reports will cover the calendar-year commitments and performance for those periods. Message from David E.I. Pyott, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer Allergan, Inc. is a multi-specialty health care company focused on discovering, developing and commercializing innovative pharmaceuticals, biologics and medical devices that enable people to live life to its greatest potential — to see more clearly, move more freely, express themselves more fully. Our focus fosters deep engagement with medical specialists and we make it our business to listen closely to their needs so that together we can advance patient care. We combine this strategic focus with a diversified approach that enables us to follow our research and development into new specialty areas where unmet needs are significant. In partnership with the medical community, we bring scientific excellence and rigor to deliver leading products that improve patient outcomes. And, we go above and beyond this to provide education and information, with the highest level of integrity, that helps patients to fully understand the choices available to them and make well-informed treatment decisions with their doctors. We know we are successful when doctors and patients place their trust in our products and our company, when our employees excel and when our efforts make a meaningful difference in the lives of the patients and communities we serve. For over 60 years, Allergan has been committed to the health, safety, and well-being of the people who put their trust in our products. Every day, we strive to better people's lives in a wide range of ways — from developing new treatments for complex and disabling medical conditions to offering science-based medical aesthetic solutions. Our determination to make a positive contribution extends to not only the people who benefit from our products, but also to our employees and to the global community in which we live and work. It remains our goal to ensure that our contribution to science reflects our commitment to safe, healthful workplaces, strong communities and responsible, ethical business practices in everything we do, from research and development to sales and marketing. In this introduction, I am highlighting some of our key achievements and challenges relating to our corporate social responsibility. More information about these and other areas of our commitment is provided throughout the Responsibility section of our website. You can also read more about our business environment, strategy, goals and performance in our Annual Report and Form 10-K and about the philanthropic ventures of the Allergan Foundation in its Annual Report. Allergan defines Sustainability as the balance between the competing priorities of economic, social and environmental responsibilities. As stated above, Allergan has been in business for over 60 years and plans to ensure that its business continues to be strong. To ensure this, Allergan has established short, medium and long term corporate social responsibility goals. Allergan has and will continue to commit resources and measure performance against achieving these goals. Allergan has achieved great success with the previous corporate social responsibility goals set forth in its past three five-year plans and has set some very challenging long term goals in its 2020 Sustainability Vision. I am proud to report that Allergan is achieving these goals as it has done consistently in the past and strives to continue to do in the future – this is sustainability to Allergan! Allergan Energy Star certified the Allergan Pharmaceuticals facility located in Waco Texas for the sixth year in a row. Allergan received the Energy Star Partner of the Year and Sustained Excellence from the USEPA for energy efficiency in 2015 based on 2014 performance. When comparing 2014 with 2013, Allergan achieved the following:  The occupational injury and illness frequency rate was 0. 501  The waste generated was reduced by waste was reduced by 18% year over year,  Recycling reached a rate of more than 83% of total nonhazardous waste generated,  Total energy consumption decreased by 10% year over year normalized to sales revenue,  Total water consumption decreased by 14% year over year normalized to sales revenue, and  Total Greenhouse Gas emissions reduced by 10% year over year normalized to sales revenue. Allergan remains focused on sustainable business practices including:  Offering needed products that have environmental health and safety design considerations,  Managing climate change through energy efficiency and carbon footprint reduction,  Continuing to improve operational efficiency, reduce waste and increase recycling,  Providing a safe and healthy workplace for our employees,  Working with our supply chains to improve corporate responsibility performance, and  Enhancing positive community interaction. In conclusion, Allergan has had a long commitment to sustainable business values. We work to keep these core values in mind in all aspects of our business so that we can maintain the excellent reputation and respect that we enjoy with our stakeholders and the communities in which we operate. ________________________________ David E. I. Pyott Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer Allergan, Inc. 1. The occupational injury and illness rate is determined by multiplying the total number of injury and illness incidents by 200,000 hours and dividing this by the total number of hours worked, i.e. an incident rate of 1.00 would be equivalent to 1 incident per 200,000 hours worked. UN Global Compact Commitments and Performance The following narrative and links will demonstrate how Allergan is addressing each of these Principles and plans for improving performance in each of these areas. Principle 1 Protection of Human Rights Allergan approaches the Protection of Human Rights as it does any other personal freedom and has articulated this support through its Code of Conduct. The Code of Conduct applies to all Allergan employees and in all of Allergan’s business dealings. The Code of Conduct requires, among other things, that employees respect human rights and do not discriminate against anyone based on characteristics protected by law. Harassment is not tolerated in any form. Violence or threats of violence in the workplace are not tolerated. The Code of Conduct applies to persons or entities representing or working on behalf of Allergan as well. In 2011, Allergan committed to three charters and principles that provide for the protection of Human Rights, including the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, and the ILO Tripartite Declaration of Principles concerning Multinational Enterprises and Society. These three sets of principles deal with protecting Human Rights. Allergan is in alignment with each of these sets of Principles and found its commitment to them to be a natural method to strengthen its resolve in the area of Human Rights. In 2012, Allergan continued its commitment to its Code of Conduct and ensuring that employees and representatives of the company continue to follow the Code by providing extensive training regarding the expectations based on the Code of Conduct and requiring that all employees complete this training process. In 2013, Allergan continued its commitment to its Code of Conduct and ensuring that employees and representatives of the company continue to follow the Code by providing extensive training regarding the expectations based on the Code of Conduct and requiring that all employees complete this training process. In addition in 2013, Allergan became an active member of the Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative (PSCI) which promotes the ethical sourcing and responsible procurement of goods and services. PSCI, on behalf of its membership including Allergan, conducted and is conducting supply chain partner audits that include aspects such as human rights. In 2014, Allergan participated in the Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative (PSCI) which tackled awareness of sustainability areas such as protection of human rights. A PSCI conference was held in China to introduce the PSCI Principles and to provide insight and tools to manage issues such as human rights. A global webinar was also conducted to educate supply chain partners on the PSCI Principles including human rights. Principle 2 Complicity in Human Rights Abuses Allergan will not be complicit in Human Rights abuses as stated in its Code of Conduct. In 2011, Allergan committed to three charters and principles that provide for the protection of Human Rights including the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, and the ILO Tripartite Declaration of Principles concerning Multinational Enterprises and Society. These three sets of principles deal with protecting Human Rights and stopping Human Rights abuses. Allergan is in alignment with each of these sets of principles and found its commitment to them to be a natural method to strengthen its resolve in the area of stopping Human Rights abuses. In 2012, Allergan continued its commitment to its Code of Conduct and ensuring that employees and representatives of the company continue to follow the Code by providing extensive training regarding the expectations based on the Code of Conduct and requiring that all employees complete this training process. In 2013, Allergan continued its commitment to its Code of Conduct and ensuring that employees and representatives of the company continue to follow the Code by providing extensive training regarding the expectations based on the Code of Conduct and requiring that all employees complete this training process. In addition in 2013, Allergan implemented an audit process that includes verifying with supply chain partners that potential human trafficking and slavery practices are not present as they come up for selected audits. Allergan joined the Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative (PSCI) which promotes the ethical sourcing and responsible procurement of goods and services. PSCI on behalf of its membership including Allergan conducted and is conducting supply chain partner audits that include aspects such as human rights. In 2014, Allergan participated in the Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative (PSCI) which tackled awareness of sustainability areas such as combatting human rights abuses. A PSCI conference was held in China to introduce the PSCI Principles and to provide insight and tools to manage issues such as human rights abuses. A global webinar was also conducted to educate supply chain partners on the PSCI Principles including combatting human rights abuses. Principle 3 Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Allergan approaches the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining as it does any other personal freedom and has articulated this support through its Code of Conduct. The Code of Ethics applies to all Allergan employees and in all of Allergan’s business dealings. In 2011, Allergan committed to three charters and principles that provide for the protection of Human Rights, including the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, and the ILO Tripartite Declaration of Principles concerning Multinational Enterprises and Society. These three sets of principles deal with protecting Human Rights. Allergan is in alignment with each of these sets of principles and found its commitment to them to be a natural method to strengthen its resolve in the area of Human Rights. In 2012, Allergan continued its commitment to its Code of Conduct and ensuring that employees and representatives of the company continue to follow the Code by providing extensive training regarding the expectations based on the Code of Conduct and requiring that all employees complete this training process. In 2013, Allergan continued its commitment to its Code of Conduct and ensuring that employees and representatives of the company continue to follow the Code by providing extensive training regarding the expectations based on the Code of Conduct and requiring that all employees complete this training process. In addition in 2013, Allergan joined the Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative (PSCI) which promotes the ethical sourcing and responsible procurement of goods and services. PSCI, on behalf of its membership including Allergan, conducted and is conducting supply chain partner audits that include aspects such as freedom of association and collective bargaining. In 2014, Allergan participated in the Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative (PSCI) which tackled awareness of sustainability areas such as freedom of association and collective bargaining. A PSCI conference was held in China to introduce the PSCI Principles and to provide insight and tools to manage issues such as freedom of association and collective bargaining. A global webinar was also conducted to educate supply chain partners on the PSCI Principles including freedom of association and collective bargaining. Principle 4 Forced and Compulsory Labor Allergan will not be complicit in forced or compulsory labor per Allergan’s Code of Conduct. In 2011, Allergan committed to three charters and principles that provide for the protection of Human Rights, including the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, and the ILO Tripartite Declaration of Principles concerning Multinational Enterprises and Society. These three sets of Principles deals with protecting Human Rights and stopping forced and compulsory labor. Allergan is in alignment with each of these sets of principles and found its commitment to them to be a natural method to strengthen its resolve in the area of Human Rights. In 2012, Allergan continued its commitment to its Code of Conduct and ensuring that employees and representatives of the company continue to follow the Code by providing extensive training regarding the expectations based on the Code of Conduct and requiring that all employees complete this training process. In 2013, Allergan continued its commitment to its Code of Conduct and ensuring that employees and representatives of the company continue to follow the Code by providing extensive training regarding the expectations based on the Code of Conduct and requiring that all employees complete this training process. In addition in 2013, Allergan implemented an audit process that includes verifying with supply chain partners that potential human trafficking and slavery practices are not present as they come up for selected audits. Allergan became an active member of the Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative (PSCI) which promotes the ethical sourcing and responsible procurement of goods and services. PSCI, on behalf of its membership including Allergan, conducted and is conducting supply chain partner audits that include aspects such as forced and compulsory labor. In 2014, Allergan participated in the Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative (PSCI) which tackled awareness of sustainability areas such as forced and compulsory labor. A PSCI conference was held in China to introduce the PSCI Principles and to provide insight and tools to manage issues such as forced and compulsory labor. A global webinar was also conducted to educate supply chain partners on the PSCI Principles including forced and compulsory labor. Allergan also implemented and surveyed suppliers concerning forced and slave labor as required by the California Transparency in Supply Chains Act. Principle 5 Child Labor Allergan will not be complicit in the use of child labor per Allergan’s Code of Conduct. In 2011, Allergan committed to three charters and principles that provide for the protection of Human Rights including the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, and the ILO Tripartite Declaration of Principles concerning Multinational Enterprises and Society. These three sets of Principles deals with protecting Human Rights and Child Labor prevention. Allergan is in alignment with each of these sets of Principles and found this commitment a natural method to strengthen its resolve in the area of Human Rights. In 2012, Allergan continued its commitment to its Code of Conduct and ensuring that employees and representatives of the company continue to follow the Code. Allergan provides extensive training regarding the expectations based on the Code of Conduct and requires that all employees attend and pass this training process. In 2013, Allergan continued its commitment to its Code of Conduct and ensuring that employees and representatives of the company continue to follow the Code by providing extensive training regarding the expectations based on the Code of Conduct and requiring that all employees complete this training process. In addition in 2013, Allergan became an active member of the Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative (PSCI) which promotes the ethical sourcing and responsible procurement of goods and services. PSCI, on behalf of its membership including Allergan, conducted and is conducting supply chain partner audits that include aspects such as child labor. In 2014, Allergan participated in the Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative (PSCI) which tackled awareness of sustainability areas such as child labor. A PSCI conference was held in China to introduce the PSCI Principles and to provide insight and tools to manage issues such as child labor. A global webinar was also conducted to educate supply chain partners on the PSCI Principles including child labor positions. Principle 6 Discrimination Allergan approaches discrimination as it does any other personal freedom and has articulated this support through its Code of Conduct. The Code of Ethics applies to all Allergan employees and in all of Allergan’s business dealings. The Code of Ethics requires that employees respect human rights and do not discriminate against anyone based characteristics protected by law. Harassment is not tolerated in any form. Violence or threats of violence in the workplace are not tolerated. The Code of Conduct applies to persons or entities representing or working on behalf of Allergan as well. In 2011, Allergan committed to three charters and principles that provide for the protection of Human Rights, including the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, and the ILO Tripartite Declaration of Principles concerning Multinational Enterprises and Society. These three sets of Principles deals with protecting against discrimination. Allergan is in alignment with each of these sets of Principles and found its commitment to them to be a natural method to strengthen its resolve in the area of discrimination. In 2012, Allergan continued its commitment to its Code of Conduct and ensuring that employees and representatives of the company continue to follow the Code by providing extensive training regarding the expectations based on the Code of Conduct and requiring that all employees complete this training process. In 2013, Allergan continued its commitment to its Code of Conduct and ensuring that employees and representatives of the company continue to follow the Code by providing extensive training regarding the expectations based on the Code of Conduct and requiring that all employees complete this training process. In addition in 2013, Allergan became an active member of the Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative (PSCI) which promotes the ethical sourcing and responsible procurement of goods and services. PSCI, on behalf of its membership including Allergan, conducted and is conducting supply chain partner audits that include aspects such as discrimination. In 2014, Allergan participated in the Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative (PSCI) which tackled awareness of sustainability areas such as the precautionary approach and its use in decision making. A PSCI conference was held in China to introduce the PSCI Principles and to provide insight and tools to manage issues such as the precautionary approach and its use in decision making. A global webinar was also conducted to educate supply chain partners on the PSCI Principles including the precautionary approach and its use in decision making. Principle 7 Precautionary Approach Allergan has adopted the Precautionary Approach in all its business dealings and articulates this in its Annual Sustainability Performance Report. Allergan has always practiced the precautionary principle with regard to its products and operations. The inherent nature of researching and developing drug products for human use demonstrates the precautionary principle in action. Allergan considers the impacts of actions undertaken through a rigorous risk assessment process with multiple gates through which the company proceeds when the multitude of risks are determined to be acceptable to Allergan and the various stakeholders in the process including patients, physicians, employees, government officials, investors, and others. Principle 8 Environmental Responsibility Allergan has a very strong stand on environmental responsibility as indicated by its EHS policy, programs and various performance reports. Specifically as part of its commitment to the UN Global Compact, Allergan has committed to the UN Global Compact Caring for Climate Program and the CEO Water Mandate. Allergan participates in meetings and offers suggestions and examples of strategies and projects that have worked for Allergan. Allergan contributes to policy and framework development. Ultimately, Allergan has been very successful at reducing energy and water consumption at its facilities and has aggressive goals to continue this performance. Allergan will continue to contribute to these efforts and anticipates achieving its goals in the timeframes stated. In 2011, Allergan actively participated in the CEO Water Mandate Steering Committee and Water Disclosure Working Group and has contributed its first testimonial which was posted on the UN Global Compact website. Allergan also posted a statement by David E.I. Pyott, Allergan’s Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer describing why this initiative is important to Allergan and should be important to everyone. Allergan also provided comments and guidance on the memoranda of understanding developed between the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) and the World Resource Institute (WRI) regarding water consumption reduction and management technology. In 2011, Allergan participated in the Caring for Climate C4C group and provided guidance and an example energy/greenhouse gas reduction project for the Committee to use in support of the Rio+20 Conference. In 2012, Allergan continued its involvement and support of the Caring for Climate (C4C) and CEO Water Mandates. Allergan entered two case studies in the CEO Water Mandate Water Action Hub. Allergan recommended adding the Tiete River located in Sao Paulo Brazil to the Water Action Hub river basins along with a specific case study based on work conducted by our Brazilian operations. Allergan endorsed and helped prepare the RIO+20 Water CEO Communiqué presented at the Rio+20 meetings in Rio De Janeiro. Allergan contributed to the CEO Water Mandate Corporate Water Disclosure Guidelines. Allergan also participated in the Sustainable Energy for All (SE4All) preparations as well as the Caring for Climate presentations and notices to the Rio+20 representatives. In 2013, Allergan continued its involvement and support of the Caring for Climate (C4C) and CEO Water Mandates. Allergan contributed to the CEO Water Mandate Corporate Water Disclosure Guidelines. Allergan also participated in the Sustainable Energy for All (SE4All) preparations as well as the Caring for Climate presentations and notices. In 2013, Allergan continued its commitment to its Code of Conduct and ensuring that employees and representatives of the company continue to follow the Code by providing extensive training regarding the expectations based on the Code of Conduct and requiring that all employees complete this training process. In addition in 2013, Allergan became an active member of the Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative (PSCI) which promotes the ethical sourcing and responsible procurement of goods and services. PSCI, on behalf of its membership including Allergan, conducted and is conducting supply chain partner audits that include aspects such as environmental responsibility. Allergan continued its supply chain auditing process in 2013 as it has since 1992. Allergan also participated with Ecodesk to collect supply chain partner energy and greenhouse gas data. Supply chain partners were requested to enter their data for 2012 and 2013 as well as to link this data to Allergan. Allergan has used this data to develop its scope 3 footprint. Allergan has also reached out to partners who make up a large part of Allergan’s scope 3 footprint and has conducted benchmarking sessions regarding energy management and associated potential greenhouse gas reductions. Allergan intends to measure the impact of these sessions over time using the Ecodesk platform to compare data from year to year overall and by supplier. Allergan has made its data public on this site as well. In 2014, Allergan participated in the development of the CEO Water Mandate 2014/2015 Strategic Plan. This Plan outlined the efforts and areas to be focused on during this two year period. Allergan also contributed to the Corporate Water Disclosure Guidelines which were released at the Rio+20 UNGC Meeting in June 2014. Principle 9 Environmentally Friendly Technologies Allergan has made its approaches and technologies used to achieve the results captured in Principle 8 available to the public through various initiatives such as the US EPA Energy Star and WasteWise Programs as well as through the Allergan website, trade publications and speaking engagements. In 2011, Allergan posted a testimonial and supplied guidance to the CEO Water Mandate Steering Committee and Water Disclosure Working Group as to how Allergan has tackled water consumption reduction at its facilities worldwide. Allergan participated in the Water Action Hub survey conducted by Deloitte Global Services, Ltd. in conjunction with the CEO Water Mandate. The survey was designed to determine which water sheds CEO Water Mandate endorsers were interested in as part of their business operations. Allergan participated in the drafting of a Communiqué to be delivered to the Rio+20 Dignitaries at the upcoming Conference emphasing the importance of water in all our lives. In 2011, Allergan participated in the Caring for Climate C4C group and provided guidance and an example energy/greenhouse gas reduction project for the Committee to use in support of the Rio+20 Conference. Allergan also provided a profile of industrial energy efficiency to the US EPA Energy Star Program regarding its boiler system conversion and upgrade project at its Westport Ireland facility. In 2012, Allergan continued its involvement and support of the Caring for Climate (C4C) and CEO Water Mandates. Allergan entered two case studies in the CEO Water Mandate Water Action Hub. Allergan recommended adding the Tiete River located in Sao Paulo Brazil to the Water Action Hub river basins along with a specific case study based on work conducted by our Brazilian operations. Allergan endorsed and helped prepare the RIO+20 Water CEO Communiqué presented at the Rio+20 meetings in Rio De Janeiro. Allergan also participated in the Sustainable Energy for All (SE4All) preparations as well as the Caring for Climate presentations and notices to the Rio+20 representatives. In 2013, Allergan continued its involvement and support of the Caring for Climate (C4C) and CEO Water Mandates. Allergan contributed to the CEO Water Mandate Corporate Water Disclosure Guidelines. Allergan also participated in the Sustainable Energy for All (SE4All) preparations as well as the Caring for Climate presentations and notices. In 2013, Allergan continued its commitment to its Code of Conduct and ensuring that employees and representatives of the company continue to follow the Code by providing extensive training regarding the expectations based on the Code of Conduct and requiring that all employees complete this training process. In addition in 2013, Allergan became an active member of the Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative (PSCI) which promotes the ethical sourcing and responsible procurement of goods and services. PSCI, on behalf of its membership including Allergan, conducted and is conducting supply chain partner audits that include aspects such as environmental responsibility. Allergan continued its supply chain auditing process in 2013 as it has since 1992. Allergan also participated with Ecodesk to collect supply chain partner energy and greenhouse gas data. Supply chain partners were requested to enter their data for 2012 and 2013 as well as to link this data to Allergan. Allergan has used this data to develop its scope 3 footprint. Allergan has also reached out to partners who make up a large part of Allergan’s scope 3 footprint and has conducted benchmarking sessions regarding energy management and associated potential greenhouse gas reductions. Allergan intends to measure the impact of these sessions over time using the Ecodesk platform to compare data from year to year overall and by supplier. Allergan has made its data public on this site as well. In 2014, Allergan participated in the development of the CEO Water Mandate 2014/2015 Strategic Plan. This Plan outlined the efforts and areas to be focused on during this two year period. Allergan also contributed to the Corporate Water Disclosure Guidelines which were released at the Rio+20 UNGC Meeting in June 2014. Principle 10 Corruption Allergan has established positions against corruption including bribery in its Code of Conduct. Allergan has also committed to the UN Global Compact Anti-Corruption and Bribery Principle by becoming a signatory to the CEO Letter on Anti-Corruption. In 2011, Allergan committed to three charters and principles that provide for the protection of Human Rights, including the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, and the ILO Tripartite Declaration of Principles concerning Multinational Enterprises and Society. Allergan is in alignment with each of these sets of Principles and found its commitment to them to be a natural method to strengthen its resolve in the area of corruption. In 2012, Allergan continued its commitment to its Code of Conduct and ensuring that employees and representatives of the company continue to follow the Code by providing extensive training regarding the expectations based on the Code of Conduct and requiring that all employees complete this training process. In 2013, Allergan continued its commitment to its Code of Conduct and ensuring that employees and representatives of the company continue to follow the Code by providing extensive training regarding the expectations based on the Code of Conduct and requiring that all employees complete this training process. In addition in 2013, Allergan joined the Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative (PSCI) which promotes the ethical sourcing and responsible procurement of goods and services. PSCI, on behalf of its membership including Allergan, conducted and is conducting supply chain partner audits that include aspects such as corruption and bribery. In 2014, Allergan participated in the Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative (PSCI) which tackled awareness of sustainability areas such as combatting corruption and bribery. A PSCI conference was held in China to introduce the PSCI Principles and to provide insight and tools to manage issues such as corruption and bribery. A global webinar was also conducted to educate supply chain partners on the PSCI Principles including combatting corruption and bribery. Conclusion Allergan will continue to enhance support of the UN Global Compact Principles. Allergan will collaborate with the UN Global Compact on methods and means to improve its performance and the performance of all entities regarding these Principles.
