You Dream, We Display 2 014 2 0 1 5 LG Display Sustainability Report About this Report LG Display has annually published its sustainability report since 2011 as a communication channel to deliver its economic, environmental, and social performance to its stakeholders. The 2014-2015 Sustainability Report of LG Display was prepared in accordance with the standards and processes recommended in the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Guideline. Reporting Principle & Assurance This report was prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Guidelines at the Core Level and part of the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) framework. Please refer to the GRI Guideline Index on page XX to read about our activities in the areas specified by the GRI. Additionally, the credibility of the contents and the inReporting Period tegrity of the data used in this report were verified by an The LG Display Sustainability Report covers our business acindependent and objective assurance group to ensure the tivities during the period from January 1 to December 31, reliability of the report. 2014, and some important management information that extends into Q1 2015. The quantitative performance indicaFurther Information & Suggestions tors are based on data gathered over three years from 2012 You can search for and download LG Display’s sustainability to 2014, in order to show the trends more clearly. Data subreports from its website at http://www.lgdisplay.com. Please ject to changes during the year were reported as of the last contact our Social Contribution Team for more information or day of the fiscal year (December 31), and notes on reporting inquiries. We look forward to receiving various feedback from periods were added when necessary. our stakeholders. Reporting Boundaries LG Display CSR Team The LG Display Sustainability Report 2014-2015 was deTel 02-3777-0865 E-mail csr@lgdisplay.com signed to cover our business activities at our Seoul Head Office and domestic worksites in Gumi and Paju. We also aimed to deliver more comprehensive reports including those on the performance of our overseas worksites in China (LGDCA*, Guangzhou, Nanjing and Yantai), and Poland (Wroclaw). We plan to report the sustainability performance of all worksites at home and abroad in all aspects going forward. * LGDCA : LG Display (China) Co.,Ltd. Contents 01 CEO Message 06 Management Messages from Management 08 Company Overview 10 LG Way 12 Business Model 13 Corporate Governance 14 Enhanced Risk Management 15 Jeong-Do Management 16 Compliance 17 Information Security 18 Sustainabiliy Management Scheme 19 02 Issue 1 Production 26 Material Issue 2 Safety & Health 31 Issues Issue 3 Employees 34 Issue 4 Supply Chain 40 Issue 5 Eco-friendly management 46 Issue 6 Communities 50 03 Special Page LGDCA 58 Corporate Interview with the head of LG Display’s Chinese subsidiary 59 Social Safety & Health 60 Responsibility Employees 61 in China Eco-friendly management 63 Communities 64 Supply Chain 66 Corporate Social Responsibility in Poland 68 04 Economic Data 70 Environmental Data 70 Performance Social Data 73 & Appendix Other Data 74 GRI G4 Guidelines 75 UN Global Compact 79 Third Party Assurance Report 80 Contributors to Report Preparation 81 Awards, Recognitions and Memberships 82 4 You Dream, We Display Quarterly Executive Meeting in January 2014 O1 •Management ㅣ Material Issues ㅣ Corporate Social Responsibility in China ㅣ Performance & Appendix 5 management CEO Message 06 Messages from Management 08 Company Overview 10 LG Way 12 Business Model 13 Corporate Governance 14 Enhanced Risk Management 15 Jeong-Do Management 16 Compliance 17 Information Security 18 Sustainabiliy Management Scheme 19 6 You Dream, We Display CEO Message Dear Stakeholders, I would like to thank all our stakeholders for your continued support and trust in us. In year 2014, despite the continued uncertainly in the global economy and the slow-down in the display market, LG Display successfully held onto its No. 1 position in the global display market. We solidified our market dominance in the large-sized TV panel market with the largest market share in the global UHD TV panel market, and secured future growth engine with the development of of the thin and light LCD panels and flexible and transparent OLEDs. Along with such solid business performance, we promote various activities on ethics management underpinned by Jeong-Do Management in our effort to fulfill our social responsibility as a responsible corporate citizen. In addition, we continued to pursue low-carbon, green management initiatives in response to conflict minerals, GHG emissions reduction and energy-efficient, green product development, and accelerated the effort for shared growth with partners. In addition, we have expanded stakeholder communication, maintaining communication with customers and local communities and operating customized midto long-term programs for local community engagement. Such efforts earned LG Display a spot on the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI World) for two consecutive years. •Management ㅣ Material Issues ㅣ Corporate Social Responsibility in China ㅣ Performance & Appendix 7 Looking ahead, LG Display will strive for a preemptive competitive advantage in core business areas, secure new growth engines through investments into next-generation technologies an proactively manage CSR risks so as to reinforce the framework for sustainable management. Guided by our management philosophies of “Customer Value Creation” and “People-oriented Management,” we will remain committed to growing into a good corporate citizen that pursues sustainable growth even amid adverse business conditions through the combined effort of all employees. I hope that you will continue to support and encourage us as we march forward. JUNE 2015 CEO Sang Beom Han 한상범 8 You Dream, We Display Messages from Management “Unless you set a limit yourself, technology is bound to develop endlessly, and a company should always Head of OLED Division | prepare for the future with a long-term strategy.” President Sang Deok Yeo LG Display is taking on a long-term perspective and focusing on investing in OLED projects as we are convinced that there is a future in OLED technologies. When we decided to focus on the IPS (In-Plane Switching) technology*, it did not draw much attention compared to the VA*(Vertical Alignment) technology despite its high definition and wide view angle, owing to the high levels of difficulty in designing and processing. However, we made continuous efforts to add a differentiated value to the technology. The technology has been widely recognized by the market and it is now applied to a variety of electronic devices, such as laptops and smartphones. We believe that the same will hold true for OLED technology in the near future. As to OLED TVs, we set the goal for the year of 2015 as ‘establishment of business foundation’ and ‘preparation for the future’. To this end, we will strengthen cost competitiveness by stabilizing the rate of production and the quality of products. We will also make proactive efforts to secure customers who will serve as a stable source of demand. In addition, we will strive to hire talented individuals with master’s and doctorate degrees to secure and foster human resources for R&D, which is our core capacity. Meanwhile, we will boost the execution capacity of LGenius and research expert programs in order to enable LG Display to maintain its leadership in the global display market. * IPS and VA technologies : LCD (Liquid Crystal Display) is divided into the three types of TN, IPS, and VA, depending on how the core material of liquid crystal is operated. In the case of the IPS technology, the liquid crystal is horizontally arranged while in the VA technology, the molecules of the liquid crystal are vertically arranged. The IPS technology produces a clear definition that remains uncompromised within the parameters of 178 degree viewing angles from right to left, top to bottom. COP (Chief Production Officer) | Vice President Cheol Dong Jeong “Safety always comes first.” I believe that CSR activities should be a sincere effort to allow various stakeholders to feel that LG Display is a truly good company. With regard to the issue of safety and health, LG Display has continued to make advancement in hardware and processes, while pursuing a variety of activities to raise awareness of the employees. To this end, we promptly established and announced the ‘LGD Safety Rules’ based on 8 detailed action plans under the slogan of ‘Safety always comes first.’ Furthermore, we have expanded the scope of safety management from manufacturing lines to the entire enterprise and partner companies and provided education programs tailored to the members of organization, whose tasks are directly related to safety issues. Each worksite of LG Display is certified with all three international standard certificates in the field of green business, namely in energy management system, environment health and safety. We are running the eco campaign that envisions cutting back on the power consumption by 20% from 2013 to 2015, in a bid to make our vision for ecofriendly management a reality. In order for LG Display to become a sustainable business operator, we need to minimize energy consumption and pollutant emissions while aligning the development direction of new products with ‘green’ management philosophy. Going forward, we will continue to make our ‘reaching out efforts’ to reassure our stakeholders that LG Display is engaging in CSR activities with true sincerity. •Management ㅣ Material Issues ㅣ Corporate Social Responsibility in China ㅣ Performance & Appendix 9 “We will pursue CSR activities that actually General operation management of Chinese benefit Chinese local communities.” subsidiaries | Vice President Yu Seong In The expanding share of Chinese market in LG Display’s business operations coincides with the growing perception in China about the importance of CSR activities. Therefore, it is vital that we begin to work on establishing and pursuing a consistent direction of CSR activities. All CSR efforts need to be built around the activities that can make direct contributions to the local communities. To boost the effect of our efforts, we are planning to set the tone of our CSR theme based on the understanding of Chinese culture and monitor the results on a regular basis. We expect that such activities will serve as a foundation to improve our corporate value as well as the loyalty of our employees. Going forward, LG Display will continue to fulfill its responsibilities in China. Head of Management Support Group | “CSR is our ground rule.” Managing Director Bang Soo Lee Our main clients are global companies. They expect high levels of CSR activities, and the global guideline of our industry is both clear and strict. Therefore, CSR activities play a crucial role in defining the corporate identity of LG Display. In other words, any CSR activity of LG Display needs to have its management policies reflected on it, and this is our ground rule. To this end, we put together a TF team and established a CSR system in 2014 in order to boost the execution capacity of our CSR activities, and we are expanding our channels with various stakeholders for direct communication. Just like the relationship between an opportunity and a crisis, CSR and risk management are the two sides of the same coin. Risks exist in all sectors of corporate activities, and a company pursues CSR activities to preempt such risks. I think a comprehensive approach is needed in dealing with various issues such as promoting eco-friendly management, securing price competitiveness, or minimizing harmful substances to minimize any adverse impact on various stakeholders. “In the display industry, human resource directly Head of HR Group | Standing determines the company’s competitiveness.” Director Seong Min Kim LG Display was able to grow into a global leader based on the concentrated efforts of its employees. Thanks to our ‘energetic and healthy corporate culture,’ we were able to achieve successful results and introduce various display technologies for the first time in the global market. In particular, a sense of enterprise and indomitable spirit of our employees are one of the strongest advantages of LG Display. We are making multi-faceted efforts to pursue diversity. In order to foster talented female workers, we are promoting supportive programs, such as the maternity leave. Moreover, we are gradually increasing the number of female managers. We also strive to secure talented individuals with global capabilities. In the display industry, “human resource directly determines the company’s competitiveness.” We believe that a joyful work experience leads to joyful individuals. We will make efforts to foster an environment that will keep our employees motivated and energetic. I think that building a healthy corporate culture and creating a happy workplace are social responsibilities that a company needs to pursue in terms of HR management. 10 You Dream, We Display Company Overview Vision In LG Display's vision, “You Dream, We Display,” the word “You” refers to all our stakeholders including customers, partners, and employees of LG Display, while “Display” signifies the realization of dreams that transcends the mere concept of showing. LG Display will create a world that people dream of through creative thinking and innovative technology. LG Display Brings your dreams to life Vision You Dream, We Display Always at your side, LG Display is here to turn the world you deram of into reality. Goal Global No.1 Display Company Core Strengthening Customer-oriented Markting Capabilities Competencies Developing Market-leading Products and Technologies Constructing the Most Competitive Production System Building an Optimized Supply Chain Maximizing Management Efficiencies Creating an Organizational Culture that Aims to be No.1 Core Values Open communication, Proactive Collaboration, Change & Leap Right Prople Passion, Professionalism, Teamwork Business Area Technological advances have eliminated the boundaries in the applications of display technology, enabling LG Display to develop new products and venture into various new markets ranging from mobile displays to commercial displays. OLED TV is equipped with a self-illuminating display which beautifully delivers the natural color without any distortion from any angle. Also, with a full lineup of UHD, products of various sizes are introduced to the market, ensuring LG Display’s leading position in the industry. As for the display products for PCs, we are increasing the sales of premium products. Additionally, based on a solid customer base, it has diversified its market segments by expanding into the professional/industrial display and optical/medical equipment markets. Going forward, LG Display aims to retain market dominance through continuous R&D and investment in next-generation display solutions. OLED TV LCD TV Monitor Laptop PC Mobile Transparent Display Flexible Display Tablet PC Auto Display Professional & Industrial Display Optical and Medical Equipment •Management ㅣ Material Issues ㅣ Corporate Social Responsibility in China ㅣ Performance & Appendix 11 Financial Performance Sales and Operating Profit / In 2014, LG Display posted anMarket Share According to a report released by market / nual sales of KRW 26.5 trillion and grew its annual operating watcher DisplaySearch in first quarter of 2015, LG Display profit by 17 percent over the previous year, thereby making a secured the No. 1 position in the global market for large LCD re-entry into the “KRW 1 Trillion Operating Profit Club*”. Prepanels for four consecutive years with a market share of paring for the future and further strengthening our business 23.7%. The company plans to further strengthen its competicapabilities, we will remain focused on developing new prodtive advantage in the premium market going forward. ucts, including OLED and flexible displays, as a way to proactively respond to the fast-changing global market landscape. Company A 19.8% KRW in Sales Company B billions Operating Profit 19.3% 30,000 29,430 27,033 26,456 Global No.1 25,000 25,511 24,292 8% P  anel for Laptop LG Display 14% Panel for 20,000 Monitor 23.7% Company C 15,000 19% Panel  for tablet PC (Shipment Share in 2014) 10,000 23% Panel for 16.2% Mobile 5,000 36% Panel for TV 1,689 -764 912 1,163 1,357 Others 0 21.0% 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 * KRW 1 Trillion Operating Profit Club : A group of companies whose operating profits surpass the KRW 1 trillion mark Global Network Headquartered in Korea, LG Display operates a global network of 24 worksites composed of 6 manufacturing bases, 6 sales subsidiaries and 12 sales offices across the world. We deliver customer values which leads to customer satisfaction by maximizing our contact channels with customers and localizing manufacturing and distribution. Nanjing, Guangzhou, Yantai Manufacturing Base : 6 Regions Shanghai, Shenzhen Qingdao, Beijing, Shenzhen Sales Subsidiary : 6 Regions Ratingen Sales Office : 12 Regions Gumi, paju Wroclaw Poland Germany Tokyo USA Turkey China Korea Japan Osaka Istanbul Taiwan Penang Taipei Malaysia Singapore San Jose Singapore H  ouston, Austin, Irvine, Washington D.C. Detroit, Los Angeles, San Diego 12 You Dream, We Display LG Way The “LG Way” is a guiding principle for every LG employee. At the same time, it is our unique belief in attaining the vision of becoming “No. 1 LG” through Jeong-do Management that is rooted in “Customer Value Creation” and “People-oriented Management. “No. 1 LG” is the ultimate goal that all LG businesses strive to achieve. It shows our commitment to provide our customers and investors with unrivaled value and become a dominant leader in the global market, based on the market's trust and the admiration from youthful talents. Vision Trusted by Attractive to Admired by the Feared and customers investors best and the emulated by brightest competitors No. 1 LG Jeong-Do Management is LG’s unique code of conduct, pledging to pursue ethical management practices and constantly developing its business capabilities. Based on this unique application of ethics management, we strive to gain the complete trust of our customers and live up to the expectations of our stakeholders, which include employees, partners, shareholders and communities. Fair Competition Code of Jeong-Do Integrity Fairness Based on Conduct Competence Management Transparent Fair trade and equal Unrivaled competiTangible management based opportunity in all tiveness based on Achieveon principles and business relationships fairness and ceasements standards less hard work Our management philosophy, the origin of which can be traced back to the foundation of the company, has been perfected through decades of experience and serves as our unique management principle and the very reason of our existence. •View customers as the starting point of every business activity Customer and think from their perspective Value •Deliver substantial value to customers and identify their latent needs Creation •Innovate to generate unique ideas and create unprecedented value ManageCustomer Value Creation ment Philosophy People-oriented Management •E  ncourage the employees to continuously try out new ideas and approaches People•R espect the personalities of individuals, as well as their oriented Managediversity, and provide them with opportunities to make the ment most of their potential •Evaluate and reward employees fairly based on their capabilities and short-term and long-term performance Business Model Inputs Input Value Financial Environmental Social • Asssets  •Environment Investments • Total  Labor Cost KRW 22,967billion KRW 8.7billion KRW 2,924.6billion •R  &D Investment •Energy Consumption •B enefits KRW 1,787.6billion at Domestic & Overseas KRW 68.8billion Woksites • Average Factory •S ocial Contribution Utilization Rate 67,276TJ Expenses Gumi Plant 99.8% •GHG Emissions KRW 11.6 billion Paju Plant 100% 7,548,019tCO2eq •N o. of Social Contribution Guangzhou Plant 100% Program Participants (duplicates allowed) 39,009 persons Business Model (Business Activities) Sourcing R&D Manufacturing Sale Value Creation Outcomes Financial Environmental Social •S  ales • Green  Prouct No.1in Job Creation for •  KRW 26,455.5billion Certifications 7 Recent 5 Years (source : Analysis of 100 Top Job•O  perating Profit •Energy Intensity at creating Companies by the KRW 1,357.3billion Domestic & Overseas Federation of Korean Industries) Woksites •L  CD Global Market Share 0.25 TJ/KRW in •A  ttrition Rate 4.8% 23.7% hundred million (average for large •D  ividends businesses : 9%) •GHG Reduction KRW 178.9billion 376,913 tCO2eq • Flagship  CSR Program 34 IT Power Plants • No.  of CSR Activities 2,906 Cases 14 You Dream, We Display Corporate Governance Board of Directors As of April 2015, the Board of Directors of LG Display consists of seven members – one nonstanding director, two inside directors and four outside directors. The BOD operates three committees: the Audit Committee*, the Outside Director Candidates Recommendation (ODCR) Committee** and the Corporate Governance Committee*** BOD Formation Category Name Position Audit ODCR Corporate GoverCommittee Committee nance Committee Non-standYu SigKang BOD Chairman, Vice President of ● ing director LG Economic Research Institute Internal Sang Beom Han Representative Director and CEO ● director Sang Don Kim CFO ● Outside Jin Jang Professor, Department of Informa*  Monitoring overall business ● ● director tion Display, Kyung Hee University management and accounting and conducting internal audits Dong Il Kwon Professor, Department of Materials Engineering, Seoul ** Recommending outside director candidates for appointment National University *** Deliberating on issues related to Joon Park Professor, School of Laws, general management and financial ● ● Seoul National University affairs in order to enable the BoD to President of resident of Samchully focus on more significant agendas and Sung Sik Hwang ● facilitate speedy business execution at Co., Ltd. management level Independence and Expertise of BoD To support effective and efficient decision-making of the BOD as well as to ensure its high level of expertise, LG Display selects outside directors from a pool of reputable professionals in the fields of business management, law, corporate accounting and engineering. All four outside directors meet the qualification requirements stipulated by the Commercial Law and other relevant laws and regulations. At LG Display, outside directors are nominated by the ODCR Committee, approved by the BOD, and finally appointed at the General Shareholders’ Meeting. None of the outside directors engage in any transaction with the company, nor do they have any conflict of interest with the company. Outside Director Nomination Process ODCR Committee BoD General Shareholders’ Meeting Identify & Recommend Candidates Review & Approve Candidates Final Appointment Key BOD Agenda Performance in 2014 In 2014, the BOD of LG Display considered 30 items in total, including the quarterly business performance reports, Meetings Held approval of the LG brand usage agreement, and approval by Each Committee of the OLED TV investment. Being the company’s ultimate decision-making body, the BOD ensures that the interests of various stakeholders are represented in the company’s BoD Meetings • Audit Committee 5 session Tabled at the management in the company’s constant effort to fulfill its 1 Convened •ODCR BoD for social responsibility. Committee session deliberation 8 • Corporate 30 Items session Governance Committee 4 session •Management ㅣ Material Issues ㅣ Corporate Social Responsibility in China ㅣ Performance & Appendix 15 Performance Assessment and Remuneration Shareholders The remuneration of the BOD and the company's manageLG Display briefs its shareholders on the business status of ment is commensurate with the results of reviews on midto the company at the annual General Shareholders’ Meeting, long-term management objectives as well as performance and faithfully abides by its obligation to disclose its financial assessments. The remuneration of directors is determined data to the Financial Supervisory Service, sharing its quarterly, within the limit approved by the General Shareholders’ Meethalf-yearly, and annual business performance reports on its ing (KRW 8.5 billion). website. By doing so, LG Display aims to identify the various needs of its shareholders through diverse channels and live up BOD Remuneration unit : KRW million to their expectations. Category No. of Total remuneraAverage remuneradirectors tion paid tion per director Registered directors 3 1,907 636 Others Outside directors 1 66 66 2.64% LG Electronics Audit Committee Minority 3 198 66 members Shareholders* 37.9% Total 7 2,171 49.3% * No remuneration is paid to registered director You Sik Kang Remuneration paid* and calculation criteria Share unit : KRW million Ownership Name Total RemuCategory (Position) neration Paid (Remarks) Sang KRW Base Salary KRW 1,046 million (CalcuNational Pension Beom 1,408 million lated as per the company’s executive reSystem 10.16% Han (CEO) muneration policy approved by the BOD) Incentives KRW 362 million (Remuneration was calculated and paid in consideration of his performance, including the * Shareholders holding 1/100 or less of the total issued stocks competitive edge in OLED market, busi* For further information on share ownership, please refer to the “Report on the Filing ness restructuring and enhanced EBITDA.) of Changes in Ownership of Block Shares” in the Financial Supervisory Service's DART * Applicable only to registered directors with annual remuneration above KRW 500 million System (http://dart.fss.or.kr). Risk Management Financial Risk LG Display classifies financial risks into fiour groups: credit risk, liquidity risk, market risk, and exchange risk. Credit Risk Exchange Risk Liquidity Risk Market Risk Deciding on means of risk Hedging exchange risks by using Financing through external Maintaining market risk mitigation (i.e., third-party the same currencies for both sales commercial borrowing or exposures within an acceptable guarantee, insurance or and purchases; utilizing forward corporate bond issuance; and level through managing factoring) based on credit contracts for trades with maturity opening lines of credit with variable / fixed debt ratio limit adjustment and shorter than a year; managing risk commercial banks company analysis for each client through adjusting discount levels of foreign currency-denominated trade receivables Non-financial Risk At LG Display, non-financial risks are factors that can impact its business operation into fair trade, HR/labor, intellectual property, information security, environment/safety, product quality, and general matters. LG Display has established an integrated risk management system for each category to lay the groundwork for sustainability management. We promote non-financial risk management as an integral part of all of our business activities by gradually expanding its management scope to overseas subsidiaries. It has also established and distributed risk prevention guidelines throughout the company via various communication channels to ensure continuous and systematic risk prevention. 16 You Dream, We Display Jeong-Do Management Operational Scheme LG Display operates Management Diagnosis Team and Ethics Bureau to put Jeong-Do Management into practice in a systematic way. In 2014, we became the first entity in LG Group to establish a Management Diagnosis Team in China to ensure Jeong-Do Management is upheld and practiced in our Chinese worksites as well. Jeong-Do Management Education Target Training The company conducts training on Jeong-Do Management Employees Build the basic knowledge on that is closely related to the positions and job functions of its Jeong-Do Management and ethical standards employees, aiming to raise their awareness on Jeong-Do ManOrganization Promote the culture of agement and to internalize the company's values and its JeongLeaders Jeong-Do Management and foster leaders Do Management commitment in all business activities. It also Departments with Enhance the sensitivity of teams that are provides special lectures on an as-needed basis for organizaExternal Contacts exposed to high risks of corruption tions at risk of Jeong-Do Management violation or corruption. Overseas Enhance the Jeong-Do Management mindset and Assignees share matters that must be noted during overseas assignments Pledge of Jeong-Do Management Practice Aiming to improve its code of ethics compliance as well as its practice of Jeong-Do Management, LG Display requires all employees and the heads of partner companies to sign the Pledge of Jeong-do Management Practice upon joining the company and at times when they are promoted to a higher position. The pledge can be submitted online, and all submitted pledges are managed at a company-wide level. By signing the pledge, which specifies what is required of each individual when practicing Jeong-Do Management, members can show their commitment to joining the company's Jeong-Do Management efforts and also strengthen mutual trust. Jeong-DO Management Cyber Whistleblower System In order to renew attention to Jeong-Do Management and to foster a zero-tolerance ethical culture, LG Display operates “JeongDo Management Cyber Sinmungo,” our online anonymous whistleblower system. Any information indicating or insinuating the identity of a wistleblower is not disclosed without his or her consent, and the company clearly states that it will take full responsibility for undoing any disadvantages caused as a result of a failure in keeing a whistleblower’s identity confidential. Whistleblowers are rewarded if their reports are confirmed to be true based on the calculation of the benefits and losses to the company. Jeong-Do Management Survey LG Display conducts annual surveys on employees and partner companies on their awareness of the Jeong-Do Management. Jeong-Do Management is pushed forward by the management or the company to gather necessary information required for further improvements. Promoting Jeong-Do Management To promote Jeong-Do Management, LG Display has renewed the bulletin board and implemented an application where various Jeong-Do Management activities are introduced and shared to encourage staff members in their day-to-day work. Staff can also participate in a wide array of promotional LG Jeong-Do Management Webpage events designed to raise awareness. •Management ㅣ Material Issues ㅣ Corporate Social Responsibility in China ㅣ Performance & Appendix 17 Compliance monitoring and improving compliance management. A compliance control standard was devised according to the Achievement and Future Direction Commercial law, and a compliance officer system was introIn 2014, LG Display actively carried out a variety of activities duced to better manage compliance risks in the company. designed to improve compliance. We created a global compliance management plan through system implementation and Compliance Issue Management at Overseas Subrisk identification, and performed regular compliance checks sidiarie and follow-up actions at domestic and overseas worksites. At Ever since the launch of its Overseas Compliance Project in the same time, we continued to increase compliance awareOctober 2009, LG Display has been managing compliance ness among employees by distributing a multilingual version risks at its overseas subsidiaries through a variety of compliof our compliance guideline, publishing monthly newsletters, ance initiatives. Such initiatives include (1) monitoring legal and providing training sessions on the Foreign Corrupt Pracregulations, government policies, and issues; (2) addressing tices Act (FCPA)* for all employees exposed to high risk. In critical issues; and (3) training compliance managers. Further2015, we remain committed to our goal of making complimore, to ensure compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Pracance part of our organization’s culture. To this end, we will tices Act (FCPA) at its overseas subsidiaries, the company has engage in division-specific risk mitigation activities at overimplemented an advanced compliance system to detect and seas subsidiaries and continue to raise compliance awareness mitigate corruption risks by assessing the level of risk and across the organization through providing an integrated comcorruption in a region and by assessing industry-specific risks. pliance guideline, offering compliance training to an increased number of employees and adding new contents to training “Bribery is not a difficult concept to understand.” curriculum. It is well known that bribery weakens efficiency of the market economy and compromises fair competition in international trade. * F CPA(Foreign Corrupt Practices Act) : a US law that prohibits bribery of foreign In response to this problem, the OECD has introduced global government officials anti-corruption guidelines, including the Convention on Combating ** High-risk  Group : Those directly or indirectly impacted by Foreign Corrupt Practices Bribery of Foreign Public Officials in International Business TransAct, including executives, project managers, and staff responsible for government relations, and permits/certification actions. Korea, on its part, has introduced the Act on Combating Bribery of Foreign Public Officials in International Business Transactions, and is making concentrated efforts to abide by the Act. The Importance of Compliance Management Countries across the globe, with the US on the lead, have Compliance is the act of companies or employees following reinforced and expanded the application of the Foreign Corrupt relevant laws, regulations, or internal policies. Compliance risk Practices Act which was first legislated in 1977. The Act not only refers to the risk of a company violating the law either beregulates corruption occurring in domestic companies, but also cause the employees were not aware of the laws, regulations, that of foreign companies. As a listed company in the American or internal policies, or had violated them intentionally by pushStock Exchange, LG Display is subject to anti-corruption laws of ing ahead with the work they were involved in. The bigger the various countries, such as the American FCPA. The FCPA defines influence of a company, the greater the impact its non-coma bribe as “anything of value,” which means that there is no standard regarding the amount or form of the bribe. Bribes can be in, pliance or irregularities have on society. The corresponding but not limited to, the form of cash, travel tickets, entertainment damage affects not only the company but other stakeholders tickets, sports items, luxurious gifts, job opportunities, or product as well. With this understanding, countries across the world discounts. LG Display employees are well aware of this fact impose heavy obligations on companies in order to encourage --“Bribery is not a difficult concept to understand.” transparent and sustainable management. In the same sense, law-abiding is required by companies through strict compliance management. Publishing Compliance Newsletters LG Display publishes Compliance Newsletters starting May Compliance Officer System 2014 with the aim at living up to its social responsibilities, reThe Commercial Law in Korea requires all corporations taining clients’ trust and preventing potential conflict or sancwhich exceed a certain size to appoint a compliance oftions. Covering the latest compliance trend of legal issues and ficer who meets qualifications under the law to conduct informing the readers of the appropriate way of conducting compliance control aimed at preventing legal risks that business, Compliance Newsletters are used as the guidebook may occur during business activities. Even before this reto entrench a culture of compliance across the organization quirement was stipulated by the Commercial Law, LG Disby encouraging every employee to comply with legal and regplay has organized a compliance team to be in charge of ulatory requirements. 18 You Dream, We Display Information Security Personal Information Protection We operate a personal information protection scheme at Security-first Culture the enterprise level and conduct assessments on personal LG Display ensures secure management of various informainformation security and regular inspections on vulnerabilition that, if misused, can have direct impact on the company’s ties, in order to preemptively respond to risk factors regardcore national technologies, confidential business information, ing privacy concerns. In addition, we laid out guidelines for and client information. LG Display complies with the informasubstantial improvement of privacy protection based on the tion security-related laws and regulations, which include the ‘field inspection on personal information protection,’ which Industrial Technology Drain Prevention Act and the Personal was introduced for commissioned personal data processors* Information Protection Act. in November 2014, with the aim of preventing business risks. * Commissioned personal data processors : parties commissioned with the undertaking and handling of personal data Scope of Information Security Management Core Article 9 of the Act on Prevention of Divulgence and Shared Growth Program for Security of Partner National Protection of Industrial Technology Technology -T  echnologies for the design, processing, production, Companies and operation of TFT-LCD panels beyond the 7th With cooperative ties that bind companies into close relations, generation (1870×2200mm) security management of individual entities is not sufficient in Technologies for the design, processing, effectively preventing and blocking leakage of core informaand production of AMOLED panels ※ excluding the processing technology for module tion. Based on the understanding that the partner companies’ assembly independent effort to enhance security is important, LG Display is running a “Shared Growth Program for Security” for Confidential Article 2 of the the UnfairCompetition Prevention major partners which have source technology or are involved Business and Trade Secret Protection Act in joint development projects with government agencies. Information Any information that is not publicly known and has independent economic value, such as technical or Shared Growth Program for Security business information on production, sales, and other promotional activities, whose confidentiality has been maintained with considerable efforts Corporate Product-related information protected by the NDA, SMEs Government LG Display Client including specifications, pilot products, images, prices, Information and production information •Security Staff •Solution •Sharing of / Organization infrastructure infrastructure and Partner setup knowhow Technologies shared by partners and information on support from Company their businesses •Minimum SME Technology •Secuity consulting Information infrastructure Security Center services Personal Personally identifiable information as specified by the investment •Financial •Education/ Information Personal Information Protection Act, such as personal •IT security support for promotional identifiers, general information, credit information, solution secrity support sensitive information, and visual information investment infrastructure implementation Technological Controls against Data Leakage and IT System Intrusion To be prepared against hacking or information leakage/system infiltration attempts, LG Display ensures ongoing security monitoring at all times, and conducts security vulnerability assessments annually to identify and address risks. In addition, LG Display has isolated its business network from the internet network to safeguard critical information assets including national core technologes and client information. Various security activities are performed by utilizing security systems to monitor major data leakage routes and thwart any attempts in a preemptive manner. Ceremeny of Shared Growth Program for Security •Management ㅣ Material Issues ㅣ Corporate Social Responsibility in China ㅣ Performance & Appendix 19 Sustainability Management Scheme LG Display strives to fulfill its economic, social and environmental responsibilities expected by our stakeholders, while pursuing sustainable development of the society we belong to. To achieve our goal, we derive strategic directions and key focus areas to engage in systematic CSR activities. Strategic Initiative and Roadmap goal Global No.1 Sustainable Display Company StrateManagement of Communication with Internalization of CSR Strategic CSR Activities gies CSR-related Risks Stakeholders •Operate the CSR •CSR risk assessment & •Publish •Develop/operate flagship Key Committee remediation by worksite sustainability reports programs in Korea Action (seven focus areas) and partner • Run a council for •Operation of CSR Items •Track progress by •Response to client stakeholder engagement programs requiring business unit and make needs and regulations • Respond to external employee participation improvements •Specialized training by CSR evaluations •Develop global CSR • Raise awareness and job position programs offer training Implementation of doRoadmap mestic CSR 2014 Risk management Direction-setting for decisionsystem establishment domestic making system Expand Develop response training to external Implemencurriculum tation of Improveevaluations overseas flagship Increase Implement a CSR compliance ment of Stakeholder programs / Development/ employees' 2015 system assessreporting advisory launch of new flagship participament and scope and council programs at home and tion in China monitoring Implement a Implementation quality abroad in volunteer system CSR system of domestic CSR activities in China decision-making system Improve Launch of new flagship Establish a the level of Companyprograms utilizing the 2016 global CSR wide training external system company’s business evaluations strengths CSR Committee CEO BOD CSR Steering Committee Stakeholde (chaired by Head of Advisory Council Management Support Group) CSR Team Ethics Environment Social Fair Trade Shared Growth Labor Rights Health & Safety Management Management Contribution 20 You Dream, We Display Internalizing CSR At LG Display, we operate CSR Committee to ensure an integrated and systematic implementation of sustainability management. The Committee serves as a control tower that identifies companywide CSR issues, defines the sustainability management direction and performs ongoing monitoring. In 2014, the Committee was convened to review documents, such as the sustainability management report, external CSR review ratings, and the internal self-assessment. The Committee also discussed improvement areas and progress. The Committee offers CSR training programs for employees to raise CSR awareness across the organization, and periodically publishes CSR Newsletters to communicate the company’s CSR philosophy, key performances and social contribution activities. CSR Committee CSR Newsletter CSR Risk Management Need for Managing CSR Risks / Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) is a coalition dedicated to electronics supply chain responsibility. The EICC Code focuses on five areas: labor, environment, health and safety, ethics and management system. Integrated in the supply networks of key clients that are members of the EICC*, LG Display makes efforts to adopt and abide by the EICC Code voluntarily with key partner companies. * EICC Code of Conduct : Implementation Guideline for CSR Risk Management CSR Risk Assessment / We surveyed all production worksites using the EICC checklist and conducted onsite assessment of the Chinese worksites. Identified non-compliance areas have been addressed through periodic check-ups. In 2015, we plan to improve the assessment tools to measure the actual progress by comparing the compliance level before and after remediation actions. Risk Assessment Process and Results • Prohibition on consecutive work • Excessive work hours EICC • Objective : Analyze anticipated risk by worksite days (up to seven days) (60hr/week) Self-survey Labor • All worksites at home and abroad • Prohibition on night work by • Probation period not minors exceeding six months • Objective : Review management status and derive improvement areas Ethics • Personal information protection for those disciplined •Scope : all worksites in China Onsite (Nanjing, Guangzhou, Yantai) Assessment • Approach : A team of domain experts will be Environ• Separate handling of hazardous waste discarges formed to perform onsite inspections against ment EICC Audit operational manual • Keeping emergency exits at all times • Objective : Ensure improvement areas identified Safety • Conducting annual emergency evacuation drills are addressed Improvement • Approach : Relevant teams develop and Tracking Manageexecute an improvement plan / Improvement to ment • Requiring partners to observe EICC Code be tracked on a monthly basis System EICC Compliance Education / Prior to an onsite audit, we offer training sessions to frontline staff members on the EICC audit checklist and perform a trial audit, helping trainees learn about the audit and connect their understanding into work. LG Display’s plan is to increase the level of awareness and expertise in CSR across its supply chain by expanding training opportunities for employees of LG Display and its business partners. •Management ㅣ Material Issues ㅣ Corporate Social Responsibility in China ㅣ Performance & Appendix 21 Stakeholder Communication By allowing stakeholders to access various channels, such as the Stakeholder Advisory Council meetings, client inquiry sessions, and external assessments, LG Display understands what consumers require and builds trust with its stakeholders by reflecting their opinion to the management. We intend to disclose our activities in the sustainability management report in a transparent manner. Stakeholder Advisory Committee In November 2014, LG Display held a Stakeholder Advisory Council meeting to listen to the voices of external stakeholders. Looking ahead, we will continue to hold meetings periodically to ensure the opinions collected are reflected in our sustainability management report and our day-to-day CSR activities based on further review and discussion by relevant teams. Discussion Action Plan Recommendations • Effort to expand the scope of GHG emissions management for Expand the scope to Scope 3 and strengthen for CSR Activities further reduction cross-functional communication • Seamless cross-functional cooperation coordinated centrally by the CSR organization Sustainability • Securing genuineness: Issues the company faces and Discussion underway between relevant teams Management remediation efforts should be disclosed and shared to increase the scope of information disclosure Report review • Specifying reasons for increased carbon emissions Apply starting with the 2015 report • The figures should show the company’s global performance by encompassing all overseas worksites Direction • Activities targeting local communities rather than customers are Launch local community-based programs for social more appropriate given the B2B nature of the business where employees can participate contribution • The company would do well to focus on addressing one specific issue the society faces • Effort to focus on and address one specific social issue at the Review new programs designed to help company level remediate social issues • Social contribution activities linked with the company’s Review underway of flagship programs for business or global operation help improve on negative impact overseas worksites Attendees 1 6 1 Catholic University of Korea _ Professor Joon Young Rha 2 3 5 4 2 IMCSR_ CEO Hyeon Lee 3 Korea Sustainability Investing Forum _ Executive Director Chun Seung Yang 4 The Better Future, Chosun Ilbo _ CEO Yin Jeong Heo 5 Community Relations Center _ Head Tae Hyeong Yim 6 HR Administrative Support Group, POSCO_ Director Jin Hong Kim Joining UN Global Compact / LG Display joined the UN Global Compact (UNGC), an international compact for corporate social responsibility, in September 2014. UNGC was launched with the aim at promoting a balanced, sustainable growth for the world economy through forging a cooperative relation between the UN and businesses. UNGC has grown into the world’s largest voluntary corporate sustainability initiative with 10 principles in the four key areas: human rights, labor, environment and anticorruption. Becoming a signatory of the UNGC, LG Display publicly announced its continued commitment to enhancing sustainability management performance and fulfilling its CSR. Strategic social contributions LG Display is running flagship programs and regional participation programs based on the voluntary engagement on the part of members of business and regional partners. We are providing the opportunities for healthy growth to the underprivileged, children, and youth through social contribution programs such as the IT Power Plant Program and blindness prevention activities. Moreover, we are invigorating organizational culture and implementing social responsibilities through various programs, such as the LG Dream Festival and the LGD Hope School, designed to engage employees. In 2014, an improvement plan was set up based on the overall evaluation on our programs. The plan was aimed at resolving social issues and harnessing LG’s fortes. In 2015, we are planning to establish a flagship program for Chinese subsidiaries. 22 You Dream, We Display Stakeholder Engagement We define our stakeholders into five groups: shareholders and investors, clients, employees, partner companies, and local communities. Through various communication channels that are established, we listen to the voices of our stakeholders on the company’s long-term direction for sustainability management. This report presents LG Display's response to the stakeholder needs and achievements. Communication Channels Contacts Plan • IR presentations • IR •C  SR website • CSR • Disclosure • Corporate Affairs •C  ompany Love Center • Joyful Workplace • Shareholder meetings • Promotion at the Gumi Plant • Regional Committee • IR Meeting • Management Support •P  aju Village • Roadshows at home and Foremen Council abroad We will maintain the market leadership and LG Display has engaged in CSR programs, including the increase sales through our investment in advanced IT power plant program and blindness prevention program. technologies. We will also enhance transparency in We will set the direction of our flagship CSR activities, based our management, disclosing executive remunerations on which we will systematically expand our volunteer proand criteria. grams, USR* activities, and social welfare activities in Korea. * USR : U  nion Social Responsibility rs l de ors Co L o m oca eh st m l h ar Inve un S d iti es • Fresh Board an • Sales • Labor-management • Overseas Council Stakeholders ers Em • Top Management Standards • Publication • Labor tom Relations plo Meeting • Quality Planning (magazine:D) s Cus • Technology • Newsletter • Joyful yee • CS surveys • Sales activities by Planning • Online Grievance Workplace business units • Development Committee • HR Planning Partners • Industrial Health & • Corporate Affairs • CS Service Center Planning Safety Committee • Industrial Safety LG Display offers various benefit We have made continued R&D investprograms to ensure that its employees ments so as to offer products that maximize and their families lead healthy and customer satisfaction. Also, as part of our prosperous lives. LG Display also efforts to inform customers of product takes care of their health by proinformation in a transparent manner, viding free medical checkups we have obtained various labels and and by operating the Well• Partner Company • Ethics Bureau certifications and met productbeing Room. LG Display will Meetings •P rocurement related standards such as EICC. also actively utilize Idea • Online WhistlePlanning We will continue to gather Bank and other chanblower System • CSR your suggestions through nels through which a regular consultation we can receive To achieve shared growth, we fully support our body by business unit various ideas on partner companies through the Management Doctor and incorporate them the company’s System and also provide support for green management. into our managemanageAt the same time, we maximize the value of shared ment activities for ment. growth through performance sharing with partners. improvement. •Management ㅣ Material Issues ㅣ Corporate Social Responsibility in China ㅣ Performance & Appendix 23 Materiality Test Process The 2014-2015 Sustainability Report of LG Display was prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Guidelines and the integrated reporting framework requirements published in 2013 by the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC). The materiality assessment process is as below. The material issues selected will be further utilized to diagnose the sustainability management practices and identify future improvement areas. Step 1. Developing the Issue Pool Step 3. Selecting Core Issues We performed a variety of studies to identify most discussed Based on the level of social concern and business impact of issues relevant to sustainability management during the reeach issue, we have identified seven material issues that are porting period. covered in further detail in this report. Media research Materiality Matrix We searched 18,737 media reports on LG Display by media outlets at home and abroad throughout 2014. We then listed Business Impact Material both positive and negative issues in the economic, environmenIssues tal, and social fronts. 1 3 Media reports on LG Display in 2014 8 2 18,737Reports 6 5 4 7 Sustainability management trend analysis 12 LG Display has reviewed the latest CSR trend and issues 13 9 14 through analyzing global initiatives launched by international 11 10 organizations, including UN Global Compact, GRI, ISO 26000 (guidance on social responsibility), Dow Jones Sustainability In15 dex. We have also looked into sustainability reports issued by 21 18 leading companies in the industry to understand the reporting 16 20 trend of the industry. 17 22 19 Stakeholder surveys and interviews Social Concern We surveyed internal and external stakeholders to identify which issues they consider most material, and conducted interviews with key external stakeholders including those representProduct Development and Eco-friendly Product 1 Innovation 12 Development ing partners and local communities. Customer Satisfaction 2 Health & Safety 13 Enhancement Step 2. Assessing Key Issues Sustainability Management Hazardous 3 Scheme 14 Substance Management We prioritized the 22 sustainability management issues Workforce Diversity & derived from research based on the degree of interest per4 Capacity Building 15 Ethics Management ceived by internal and external stakeholders as well as their 5 Supply Network Management 16 Work-Life Balance impact on the company’s business operations. 6 Shared Growth 17 Market Position of Products Social Concern We took into account the degree of interest external stakeEnvironment Management 7 System 18 Greater Financial Stability holders have in a specific issue. We then analyzed the impact of each issue on the activities or decision-making process of Awards & External Activities 8 Stakeholder Communication 19 Relating to CSR stakeholders. Respect for Human Rights of Local Community 9 Employees 20 Development and Growth Business Impact Corporate Governance 10 Response to Climate Change 21 We prioritized the issues on the basis of our CSR strategy, media and BOD analysis and industry-specific issues to understand the correlaSocial Contribution at Home 11 and Abroad 22 Intellectual Property Rights tion between our management strategy and CSR issues as well as their impact on our business operations. 24 You Dream, We Display Material Issues O2 Issue 1 Production Issue 2 Safety & Health Issue 3 Employees Issue 4 Supply Chain Issue 5 Eco-friendly management Issue 6 Communities 26 31 34 40 46 50 CES 2014 LG booth in the foreground Management ㅣ •Material Issues ㅣ Corporate Social Responsibility in China ㅣ Performance & Appendix 25 Key Achievements in 2014 issue 01 •Gold Award of “2014 Display of the Year” from SID Products •Silver Award of “2014 Display of the Year” from SID Best in Show R&D/Sales Ratio(%) 4.7 6.2 6.8 2012 2013 2014 Context While the market for traditional IT devices such as laptops and monitors is stagnant, smartphones continue to grow in tandem with the fast paced world of mobile technologies. The TV market posts continued growth led by emerging markets, and the trends are towards larger size panels and higher resolutions to meet the customer needs and wants. High-end markets including the one for mobile displays are expected to grow rapidly. Approach Response Next Step The R&D organization of LG LG Display continues its R&D In 2015, LG Display will Display is made up of the CTO efforts for OLED TV, plastic expand its market position and respective business units. The OLED, transparent displays, in the OLED market through CTO is in charge of conducting next-generation displays, etc. diversifying its product researches on fundamental LG Display is also dedicated to portfolio and strengthening technologies, advanced developing power-saving, ecoproduction capability. In the technologies and next-generation friendly technologies for green LCD market, the company displays, while the business units product development. It also plans to leverage its are tasked with the development strives for unparalleled product differentiated technologies to of TV, IT/mobile, and OLED quality based on the fail-proof solidify its market dominance products. As a member of the quality assurance system that and secure a platform for National R&D Roadmap Planning covers the entire manufacturing new businesses. Committee, LG Display contributes process, from development to to the planning of governmentproduction. funded projects and engages in university-industry strategic collaboration initiatives to secure future source technologies. Management ㅣ •Material Issues ㅣ Corporate Social Responsibility in China ㅣ Performance & Appendix 27 R&D Efforts for Technology Innovation R&D Organization LG Display’s Technology Prowess The R&D organization of LG Display is made up of the CTO LG Display has continuously developed and preempted indusand respective business units. The CTO is in charge of contry-leading technologies, including IPS, AIT* and 3D FPR. LG ducting researches on fundamental technologies, advanced Display recently accelerated its effort to secure differentiated technologies and next-generation displays, while the business competitiveness by bolstering its technologies in OLED and units are tasked with the development of TV, IT/mobile, and UHD products. We consolidate our position as the market OLED products. All R&D activities conducted at LG Display leader through engaging in new technology development and are centered around three tenets: Reality, Ambience, and Inmass-production. telligence. These tenets are also applied when each business * Advanced in-cell Touch unit identifies customer needs and develop technologies that deliver innovative customer value. World’s First Technologies Developed by LG Display R&D Structure 2011 • Development of 55-inch OLED TV displays CTO Business • Development of 5-inch FHD LCD for smartphones Units 2012 • Development of 84-inch UHD LCD Research Lab Business Units Development • Development of 55-inch curved OLED TV panel • Development of 5.5-inch QHD LCD for smartphones • Fundamental •Advanced • TV technologies 2013 • Production of 6-inch flexible OLED smartphone panel technologies technologies •IT/mobile • Development of 105-inch curved LCD for UHD TVs • Future OLED technologies technologies • OLED • Development of UHD M+ LCD for 42-/49-/55-inch TVs • Next-generation technologies • LTPS AH-IPS UV alignment for smartphones and displays development of N-type LCD • Development of 6-inch plastic OLED panel 2014 for smartphones Research Fellow / Expert Advisor Program • Development of 18-inch transparent OLED LG Display has expanded its research fellowship/expert adviand flexbile OLED sor program since 2009 with the purpose of nurturing core • Development/mass-production of 1.3-inch circular technology talents. The program rewards employees, who plastic OLED panel made great contributions in improving the company's business performance with their research and competence, by providing them with executive-level treatments. This year Patent Management we selected 13 FPR* 3D and OLED panel experts, which inLG Display is number one in the display industry in terms of creased the number of LG Display's fellow researchers and its patent competitiveness, active engagement in patent apexpert advisors on the program to 36. This expansion is explication, analysis, litigation management, licensing, and purpected to bring the company at a better position to focus on chase. We boast an extensive patent portfolio covering statedeveloping technologies and securing business competitiveof-the-art technologies, such as the award-winning WRGB ness. OLED (Patent Technology Award in 2014), and efficiently * FPR : Film-type Patterned Retarder manage patents through an internal management system. R&D Investment Patents Held by LG Display We have invested more in R&D as a strategic move to mainCategory 2012 2013 2014 tain our market leadership. R&D to Sales ratio was increased from 6.2% in 2013 to 6.8% in 2014. This increase is largely Accumulated Domestic 8,982 11,779 13,164 attributable to the proactive R&D activities in OLED, the inNumber of Overseas 10,731 12,040 13,354 Patents vention of next-generation technologies and products, and Total 19,713 23,819 26,518 the increase in the average R&D resources at the same period. 28 You Dream, We Display Core Products and Technology Innovation Increased Dominance in OLED Market OLED TV / LG Display’s OLED panel that employs WRGB* together with oxide-TFT** backplane ensures images are rendered with perfect blacks, infinite contrast ratio and exceptional picture quality. With no need for a large screen, backlight unit and liquid display, there is no danger of any light bleeding for a curved screen. The borderless design and ultra-thin form factor also enable innovative designs. 55-, 65and 77-inch curved and 77-inch flexible ultra HD OLED TVs adopt the optimal radius of curvature to provide a uniform viewing distance across the screen when standing at the center of the screen. The screen also minimizes the image distortion and resolution reduction from increased viewing angle to offer the best viewing environment. Our technology leadership in large-sized OLED panels has been recognized in various global tradeshows and conferences, including the Consumer Electronics Show (CES) and Society for Information Display (SID). 55-, 65-, and 77-inch Curved and 77-inch Flexible UHD OLED TV * WRGB : White Red Green Blue ** Oxide TFT : Oxide Thin-Film Transistor Key Achievements 77-inch UHD Curved OLED TV •CES 2014 Best of Innovations Award •IFA 2014 EISA European High End 55-inch Full HD Curved OLED TV TV Award •Silver Award of “2014 Display of the Year” from SID G Flex (the first deviceto use flexible plastic OLED display) •Gold Award of “2014 Display of the Year” from SID 55/ 65/ 77-inch UHD Curved OLED TV Series •SID2014 Best In Show 77-inch UHD Flexible OLED TV •CES 2015 Innovations Awards 18-inch HD Flexible OLED •“2014 Product Innovation Awards by Popular Science magazine Management ㅣ •Material Issues ㅣ Corporate Social Responsibility in China ㅣ Performance & Appendix 29 Plastic OLED / Combining the benefits of OLED and plastic, Plastic OLED comes in various forms, which include bendable, foldable, and rollable Plastice OLED. It is also 60% lighter than glass, which makes it more portable. Moreover, plastic OLED is more sturdy in that it does not break easily even when it is dropped. LG G Flex is the world’s first mass proBy unveiling the world’s largest, 18-inch In 2014, LG Display started the world’s duced device that uses flexible plastic HD flexible OLED panel with a curvature first volume production of circular plastic OLED panel. The 6-inch, large-screen, radius of 30R, LG Display was lauded by OLED displays. The circular display maxicurved display gives the user an additional the world for realizing a next-generation mized the user friendliness with 57% level of immersion and it is designed for display. Our plan is to develop a translarger screen area compared to the conconvenience and durability. The full HD parent, yet bendable 60-inch display by ventional square displays. With Alwaysdisplay used for LG G Flex 2 is brighter, 2017. On ambient mode with minimum power thinner and lighter than its predecessors. usage and ultra slim thinness of less than 0.6mm, the disply currently leads the design innovation for wearable devices. Differentiating LCD Securing Market Leadership in New Business Areas LCD TV / The market trends are moving towards large screen Auto Displays / LG Display is a trusted display supplier for and high resolution due to the recent emergence of UHD global car makers in Europe, Japan and the United States. displays. LG Display has demonstrated its industry-leading With the goal of becoming No. 1 in auto display market in technologies by unveiling the 105-inch curved UHD TV of 11 2016, we will increase the application of In-Plane Switchmillion pixel. This product is five times that of a full HD TV. LG ing (IPS), leverage differentiated technologies such as plastic Display also presented a 98-inch 8K quad UHD TV that bears OLED-based dashboard, and diversify our product portfolio. a resolution of 16 million pixels. Expanding the application of M+ and Art Slim technologies, the company delivers differCommercial Displays / Used for data transmission in public entiated customer value, which allows users to consume less spaces, LG Display’s portfolio of commercial display prodpower without missing any of the fine qualities and designs ucts differentiated products for different purposes, includof the product. ing the world’s narrowest 3.5mm bezel video wall unveiled at ISE 2014, 98-inch large-size UHD display and 47-inch FHD transparent displays. In 2015, we plan to grow our market share by launching a next-generation video wall and e-boards of various sizes. 105-inch UHD curved LCD TV Mobile Displays / LG Display developed the world’s first 5.5-inch QHD AH-IPS LCD panel for smartphones. With more pixels and four times the image resolution of HD panels, it ensures high resolution images and videos of Blu-ray quality. 30 You Dream, We Display Eco-friendly Technologies and Manufacturing M+ Technology Fundamental Principles Underlying M+ Technology M+* technology, which uses the uniqe algorithm of LG Display, achieves enhanced resolution and more efficient power consumption. The green technology makes a display 50% brighter than LCD, and reduces power consumption by 34% to achieve the same level of brightness. * M+ technology : It enhances light transmittance by adding one white pixel to red, green or blue sub-pixels. RGB M+ UV Photo Alignment and N-type LC Technology Contrast LG Display enables vivid picture quality with high contrast raRatio 30%, tio and low power consumption through improved transmitBrightness 20% tance ratio with its UV alignment technology for sophisticated display alignment and N-type liquidy crystal technology. Power Consumption 12% 5.2 FHD Rubbing 4.95 FHD UV Alignment Developing Carbon Footprint Calculator In 2014 LG Display performed R&D activities to develop an in-house carbon footprint calculator optimized to its business in its pursuit of environmentally-responsible and sustainable management. The calculator automatically estimates carbon footprint of a product when details of the energy, intensity of parts, active areas, and manufacturing process are entered. We will make sure that carbon footprint is utilized for green product evaluation and marketing activities so that it becomes a factor that determines a product's eco-friendliness. Management ㅣ •Material Issues ㅣ Corporate Social Responsibility in China ㅣ Performance & Appendix 31 issue 02 Safety & Health Key Achievements in 2014 Establishing LCD Safety Rules Industrial Incidents(%) 0.039 0.015 0.003 2012 2013 2014 Context A string of workplace incident accidents occurred in 2014 in various industries including steel, transport and construction due to lack of safety protections. These incidents have served as a wakeup call for Korea and led many companies to implement much tougher security management plans. Approach Response Next Step With the aim at protecting We assess equipment safety LG Display will remain workers’ health and safety criteria and periodically committed to creating and creating a safe work examine work environment safe and healthy work environment, LG Display has for occupational hazards environments, carrying out set up an executive-level in order to create safe scenario-based emergency industrial health and safety workplaces. LG Display drills and nurturing emergency task force that reports earned the highest rating response professionals. directly to the CPO. We have of “P” in the Process also implemented the “LG Safety Management (PSM) Display Safety Rules” in an assessment in 2014. effort to establish a strong safety culture. 32 You Dream, We Display Worksite Safety & Health Management Scheme LG Display strives to provide a safe and healthy work environSurprise • Surprise drill early in the morning ment to all employees through relentless efforts. We operate Drill Response to Gas leaks, chemical spills and fires an executive-level industrial safety and health task force that Emergency • Emergencies in production sites directly reports to the CPO. Contact Emergency contact list • Earning highest ratings in external safety assessments Earning Highest Rating in PSM Assessment PSM Assessment (P rating), Safety In 2014, Units 1, 2 and 3 of Gumi Plant and Paju Plant were Safety & Promotion with Partners (A rating), Workplace recognized as best worksites in safety management receiving with excellent health promotion practice, etc. the highest rating of “P” in the Process Safety Management Health • Acquiring OHSAS 18001 Management (PSM) assessment. • Acquiring KOSHA 18001 System • Acquiring Safety Zone Certification Gumi • Conducting emergency drills for all employees Category Paju • Operating an in-house clinic and various health Unit 1 Units 2 & 3 Units 4, 5 & 6 promotion programs Rating P P P P Date of • Ensuring equipment safety through safety 2014. 8 2014. 8 2013. 9 2014. 8 Assessment certification checks Safe • Preemptively managing risk factors through risk Hardware assessment Implementation Employee Health Promotion Activities • Designating prohibited substances within LG Display (1,227 types) LG Display provides employees with annual medical examinations including the customized thorough checkup for employees who are 35 years old or above. LG Display also operates •Ensuring “safety leadership” through the Safety the in-house hospital and health center to provide various executive-level consultation group Culture medical services including counseling on physical activities • Operating Safety Center / Safety School Promotion and health. Thanks to the aggressive efforts for employee • LGD Safety Rules health promotion, we received the Certificate of Outstanding Business for Health Improvement Programs from the Korea Occupational Safety and Health Agency. Emergency Drills LG Display conducts surprise emergency drills for all employees. Comfortable Working Environment Through repeated drills, we have enhanced fire safety awareLG Display contracts third parties to measure the harmful ness, drill participaton rate, evacuation, and response capabilielements in working environment twice each year. We also ties of employees. Going forward, as part of our commitment engage in various activities to prevent musculoskeletal disto ensuring a safe workplace, we will continue to conduct sceorders, take care of workers’ exposure to heat, and conduct nario-based emergency drills and nurture safety professionals. in-house inspection of local ventilation systems so that all employees work in a comfortable environment. Key Emergency Drills Category Description Equipment Safety Certification Process At LG Display, all new devices are assessed against its own Evacuation • Evacuation in emergencies (fire/leak) Evacuation of all premises including production sites, device safety criteria, which reflects both domestic and inoffices and company housing ternational safety standards. We also carry out the activities Understanding of time, route and means of evacuation to enhance the safety of equipment already in operation in Response • Emergency response order to Response to chemical spills Management ㅣ •Material Issues ㅣ Corporate Social Responsibility in China ㅣ Performance & Appendix 33 LGD Safety Rules LG Display newly established and distributed “LGD Safety Rules” to bring about tangible changes in safety awareness and behavior among employees and create a unique safety culture. LGD Safety Rules were derived based on the risks innate to the industry and company. It was also derived based on the causes and types of previous accidents. LGD Safety Rules Do not proceed unless it is safe to do so. Work-related Incident Cause Type Equipment /Chemicals 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 1. Report any unsafe condition to the control tower Safety Rules immediately. LGD Risks 2. Wear protective equipment. 3. Don’t remove or disarm safety devices. 4. All work should be performed in teams of at least two people. 5. Take security measures before working with fire, at height or in a confined space. 6. Display MSDS (Material Safety Data Sheet) in Korean Non-work related Incident Cause and attach warning labels on gas and chemical Incident Type Staff Outing etc. substances. 7. Keep fire extinguishing system, fire shutter, and emergency exit clear at all times. 8. Warm up and stretch before sports. Safety Management Competition for Partners Opening Safety Center With the aim to expand the safety management activities to In an effort to create a zero-accident, zero-fatality workplace, partners, LG Display organized the first safety management LG Display opened Safety Centers at Paju Plant and Gumi competition for partners in 2014. This competition was dePlant and thereby enhanced in-house training for safety acsigned to share best practices in workplace safety promocident prevention. The Safety Center has audio-visual classtion and thereby raise awareness and enhance safety manrooms and a lab where staff can learn about hazards, risks, agement among partner companies. Going forward, we will and prevention measures. In order to spread a safety culture continue to support partners to provide a safe working enviacross the supply network, we plan to offer safety training ronment until safety management entrenches as part of LG to resources of partner companies as well as all employees Display's corporate culture. of LG Display. Response to Nitrogen Gas Leak Accident in Paju Plant An accident occurred in the Paju plant in January 2015, where employees of LG Display and partner companies inhaled nitrogen gas during maintenance of processing equipment. LG Display will make the best effort to strengthen safety management standards and employee training in order to prevent recurrence. Safety Center issue 03 Key Achievements in 2014 Employ No. 1 in Job Creation in Recent 5 Years -ees (100 companies for job creation in 2014 by the Federation of Korean Industries) Attrition Rate(%) 8.8 6.1 4.8 2012 2013 2014 Context Businesses pay more attention than ever to securing, nurturing and retaining core talents at a time when global competition is intensifying. LG Display introduces its vision, next-generation growth engines, and major technological innovations through holding LGenius programs and Technical Talk meetings. Approach Response Next Step LG Display operates a variety Designed to nurture all LG Display adopted human of programs to secure talented employees into experts in rights guidelines to spearhead employees with global their respective fields, the the effort for human rights competency and expertise, career development program promotion in workplace and including LGenius Program to of LG Display is diversified conducted varius education nurture outstanding students into each job level and field. programs to raise employee into R&D leaders of the future Our compensation scheme awareness of human rights and differentiated competency ensuring compensation through various education building programs for commensurate with programs. Furthermore, we employees. We strive to create performance boosts have included human rights a joyful environment through motivation and keeps protection in the supplier various benefits that can help employees focused on their selection assessment criteria, employees relax and focus on goal. and thereby expanded the their work. scope of human rights protection to the entire supply network. Management ㅣ •Material Issues ㅣ Corporate Social Responsibility in China ㅣ Performance & Appendix 35 LG Display's Right People and Effort for Talent Development LG Display’s Right People LG Display focus on uncovering and nurturing talent, which is key to securing competitiveness and market leadership. We especially operate various programs that are geared to find and develop R&D resources. LG Display favors workers who endeavor towards the best, based on their professionalism, teamwork, and strong passion. We will make continued efforts to secure and develop talented people based on the three values: professionalism, passion, and teamwork skills. Challenging spirit, Proactive Attitude Passion A person with passion and proactive attitude for work, who strives to provide quality service. Concept of Human Talent at LG Display Customer Orientation, Creative Problem Solving, Fairness Members of LG Display who A person who provides the best customer value through fair Professionalism pursue the best based on competition based on relentless innovation and creative thinking professionalism, teamwork, and strong passion Listening / Consideration, Mutual Respect, Total Optimization Teamwork A person who pursues common values and goal based on mutual respect and trust Talent Programs LGenius Program / Named by combining LG Display and Technical Talk / LG Display holds “Technical Talk” seminars, genius, the “LGenius” program is designed to nurture where the company invites undergraduate students to our outstanding students into R&D leaders of the future. The worksites and provide them with job counseling and overview program allows students to prepare for their career at the of the display industry and technologies. Instead of visiting company in advance by exposing them to LG Display's corstudents on campus, we invited students to our sites this porate culture and work. This program effectively reduces year so that students can get to better know about the intheir learning curve after they join the company. Through the dustry and technologies by having hands-on experience. program, students are provided with tuition fee support and allowances, internship experience at LG Display, an opportunity to pursue a graduate degree, one-on-one mentoring, the opportunity to take courses on display R&D, and an offer to join the company after graduation. LGenius Program Technical Talk 36 You Dream, We Display Talent Nurturing Talent Nurturing Program LG Display offers differentiated talent development programs that are greared toward skillset development and capacity building. With the goal of fostering global core talents for LG Display, we also provide language and job-specific courses and opportunities to acquire a global mindset. In our continued effort to become a true market leader, LG Display will work with each and every member, helping them develop and make full use of their capabilities. Talent Development Scheme Vision Achieving Office Work Leadership General Job-specific Global Line Work Executive (Research Fellow) Division Head Leadership Training General Manager Gisung Senior Shift Enterpreneur·Core Talent (Principal Research Engineer) In-house Language Courses LG Display Value On-the-job Training Leader Overseas Assignees Team Gijng Administration & Support Deputy General Manager Head Common Courses Sales & Marketing (Senior Research Engineer) Unit Gijang Production Manager Supervisor (Research Engineer) R&D Juim Assistant Manager (Associate Research Engineer) Gisa Asociate New (Researcher) Assistant Recruits IDP (Individual Development Plan) IDP(Individual Development Plan) / Members of LG Display strive to build their capabilities and the values the company is looking for in the right people. We operate the Individual Development Plan (IDP) program to support capability building and continuous career development of individual employees. The IDP is basically a career-building process where employees evaluate their own capabilities, establish a self-development plan to build their career and improve their capabilities, receive career coaching from their line manager, and materialize / execute their plans. The plan also furthers mutual understanding among employees and reinforces individual capabilities from a long-term perspective, thereby contributing to the fundamental competitiveness of the company. IDP Process Career vision IDP Career Continued support visualizing development Coaching for progress Management ㅣ •Material Issues ㅣ Corporate Social Responsibility in China ㅣ Performance & Appendix 37 Respect for Human Rights Fair Compensation The code of ethics, which presents the basic direction of the LG Display offers compensations and rewards commensurate company’s management principle of Jeong-Do Management, to the performance of individual employees as a way to imhighlights the corporate responsibility to respect human prove motivation and teamwork, which will eventually bolster rights. We have adopted strict and clear human rights guidethe organization’s capability. All compensations are given fairly lines on the work environment, legally-protected freedom, based on the wage system. The rewards system reflects the and respect for humanity, and are making jointed efforts to needs of employees to maximize effects and employee satabide by the guidelines with our partners. LG Display will reisfaction. main committed to supporting and respecting human rights and improving the quality of life and work morale of employCompensation ees in our journey to become a good company respected by all stakeholders. LG Display’s Human Rights Policy No. 1 Performance Guideline Description Respect All employees should be treated with the respect they for Human are entitled to as human beings, and all efforts should Creative Fair Rewards Rights be made to prevent inhumane treatment. Value-added and CompenProhibition Employees' mental or physical freedom should never of Forced be restrained unjustly for the purpose of subjecting Products sations Labor them to involuntary work. Anti-child Hiring children under the age of 15 is prohibited, Labor while adolescent workers aged under 18 should be Challenging protected from exposure to high-risk tasks that may the Limit/ threaten their safety or health. Strengthened Voluntary AntiDiscrimination based on gender, race, nationality, disCapability of Motivation discrimination ability, religion, union activities, and any other grounds Individuals and is strictly prohibited. Organization Work Hours Work hours should not exceed the limit established by the labor regulations and laws of the respective country or region. Wages & All employees’ wages should be higher than the Benefits minimum wage prescribed in the labor regulations and laws of the respective country or region. Leadership Development Freedom of Employees should be given opportunities to comLG Display operates a leadership development process that is Association municate with one another, and the freedom of aimed at maximizing its core competence by nurturing future association must be guaranteed. Union membership and activities cannot be used as reasons for disadleaders. We define the “LG Display leadership qualities” and vantageous treatment. “leadership competencies” required of each rank, and conduct Compliance All work conditions should comply with the labor regular leadership competence evaluations. We will continue with Labor regulations and laws of the respective country or Laws region. to offer a range of leadership development programs that enable the self-assessment of employees' leadership potential and style. Expanding Human Rights Protection Efforts to Partners On-the-job Training LG Display, which puts human resoures as the most valuable LG Display offers a variety of on-the-job training programs asset of the organization, strives to fulfill its obligations as a that are customized to the respective fields and duties. Intruly globalized market leader, by strictly observing the labor depth courses for on-the-job training that are designed to standards set by the UN and International Labour Organizaoffer accumulated knowledge and technologies within the tion (ILO)*, and by adhering to regulatory / legal requirements respective business units are available. In particular, to foster of the respective region. LG Display operates various training OLED experts who will lead future / strategic businesses, we programs designed to improve human rights awareness, and provide training at all skill levels, and run OLED schools to help incorporates human rights protection into its evaluation crinew and displaced workers to get used to their positions. teria for selecting partner companies for the promotion and protection of human rights. * ILO : International Labour Organization 38 You Dream, We Display Benefits and WorK & Life Balance Joyful Workplace As part of LG Display’s unique corporate culture that is rooted in the people-oriented management philosophy of the LG Way, Joyful Workplace is centered around three key concepts: Wellness (promoting a full, healthy life and increasing work efficiency), Family Friendly (helping strike a balance between work and life) and Joyful Atmosphere (creating a vibrant and enjoyable organizational culture). Achieving the Vision Vision Gumi Plant’s Family Camping Festival Joyful Workplace Joyful Work Employees feel strongly attached to the organization -place (emotional commitment) Joyful Workplace Lifecycle-based Care Programs wellness Family Friendly Joyful Energy Category Key Programs Throughout the • Leader’s Special Day Gift Direction Helping strike Promoting a Creating a Lifecycle • Bring your parents to work day a balance full, healthy life vibrant and between work and increasing enjoyable Marriage Preparation •W  edding car for workplace couples and life work efficienc organizational / Period for Singles • L eisure resource book publication culture Period of Pregnancy • Childbirth gifts LG Way and Childbirth (Management People-oriented Management Philosophy) Period of Infant • Family month events in May Care • Bring your kids to work day Period of Elementary •G  ifts to children entering elementary and Secondary school Wellness / For any business looking for sustainable growth, it Education •S  pecial lectures for students preparing is important to help employees maintain physical and mental for high school fitness. LG Display, in this regard, is very keen on providing •G  ifts to students for college enrance support so that all employees can execute operations with exams positive energy and greater efficiency. For employees’ physiPeriod of Children’s • Silver care program Happy 100 cal wellness, we offer yoga classes, fitness programs, and Independence and massage therapies, to name a few. Mental wellness promoRetirement Preparation tion programs are also available, including one-on-one/group counseling, stress relief programs and meditation programs. Family Friendly / ‘Based on one of LG Display’s management philosophies, which is epitomized by the saying, “When one's Joyful Energy / An enjoyable corporate culture starts with home is happy, all goes well,” we offer various care programs a vibrant and healthy environment. Joyful members desigthat not only help employees maintain happiness at home nated for each division champion various activities that are and balance work and life, but also improve their focus on aimed at fostering an energetic atmosphere and promoting work. In 2014, we organized a family camping festival for emcross-functional communication and VOE (Voice of Employployees and their family members so that they can enjoy a ees) sharing. Our motivational programs include Dream Tree time for family gathering. In addition, the care programs that Program where the company encourages and support the we provide are designed to correspond to each of the five dreams and visions of individual employees, end of year faresteps in the lifecycle to better reflect their needs. wall event and CEO’s inspiration program. Management ㅣ •Material Issues ㅣ Corporate Social Responsibility in China ㅣ Performance & Appendix 39 Labor-Management Relations Mutually Beneficial Industrial Relations face. At FB, employees communicate with the management of Instead of the conventional term, “labor–company relations,” the company. The FB Committee members and management charged with negative connotations such as conflict and verholds quarterly FB conferences to deliver opinions of workingtical relationships, LG Display adopted the term “Labor-Manlevel employees to the company, and share updates on the agement Relations“to describe the company’s exceptional company’s policies and current management status. LG Display labor relations based on mutual trust and respect. Based on plans to deepen employee engagement through FB confersuch a notion, LG Display and the Labor Union of LG Display ences and use employee feedback to create a joyful workplace. maintains an exceptional industrial relation, working hand in hand to discuss plans of improving the company's competiSubgroups by Job Rank / There are different subgroups by tiveness and leading the market. In addition to the quarterly job rank, respectively for office workers and engineers, to labor-management council meetings, the Management and gather feedback from employees of all ranks, facilitate comrepresentatives from the Labor Union also convene meetmunication within the organization, and form a sound orgaings when they are required and when there occurs material nizational culture. The subgroups also contribute to the dechanges to the company's business or policy. velopment of local communities through actively taking part in CSR activities. Employee Communication and Engagement Channel Labor Union / The Management and Labor Union of LG DisHandling Employee Grievance play engage in ongoing communication through diverse chanLG Display has employee grievance handling procedure, allowing nels, such as labor-management council meetings, working-level employees to report workplace problems and grievances, includworkshops, and monthly review meetings. Throughout such ing sexual harassment, verbal/physical abuse, and unreasonable channels, opinions on the management environment, areas repractices. The company reviews grievance reports submitted quiring improvement and labor issues are discussed. The Labor and provides feedback to help solve the problems. Grievance Union of LG Display furthurs its USR (Union Social Responsibilhandling is closely aligned with our Joyful Workplace initiative, ity) activities to lead the labor movement paradigm changes and which we pursue to help address work-related concerns, imfulfill its social responsibilities. In 2014, union members visited a prove concentration at work and create a vibrant environment. vocational rehabilitation facility for the disabled to participate in volunteer work and engaged in overseas volunteer programs in Grievance Handling Process Cambodia and Mongolia. These events have set a good example of mutually beneficial labor-management relations. System access Grievance Investigation Result and registration reporting performed notified Fresh Board / The Fresh Board (“FB”), a consultation body for filed the company's junior officers, is an essential communication channel that listens to grievances and challenges employees USR Vision Direction Mission Activities Engaging in worksite-based Raise satisfaction / awareness of union activities / union activities Strengthen communication, empower union representatives Ensuring Preventing harmful sound Remediate three major harmful practices, Back to the basics practices corporate LGD USR governance Improve communication with the frontline workers as a Strengthening management management partner, Provide motivation for business partnership performance Creatingshared Engage in value creation activities for local communities, Diversifying CSR activities values for society Global CSR activities, Green Union programs Key Achievements in 2014 issue 04 Technology Sharing: 257 domestic & Supply int'l patents shared Chain Conflict-free Smelters*(%) 36 62 2013 2014 * L G Display has been working to increase the share of CFSs (Conflict Free Smelters) through various activities since 2013, and tantalum is all sourced from CFSs in 2014. Context Win-win cooperation between SMEs and large companies is gaining in importance and increasingly becoming a management strategy for ensuring sustainable growth in the 21st century. Large businesses view win-win cooperation as a long-term investment tool instead of subsidies for partners. SMEs, on their part, make efforts to strengthen their competitiveness to continue the cooperative ties. An increasing number of businesses are successful increating shared values through cooperation and adopting win-win cooperation with partners as part of their management stragety. Approach Response Next Step For ensuring voluntary LG Display provides partner LG Display runs fair trade compliance with fair trade, LG companies with technological, risk prevention programs, Display undertakes a variety financial and HR supports and continuously engages of activities that are geared to build mutual trust, a key in education, inspection and to promoting fair and free to the win-win cooperation. remediation activities for transactions and building Additionally, with the probable risks that are likely mutual trust and cooperation objective of expanding the to be observed in internal between businesses. In scope of CSR management audits. addition, we established the to the entire supply chain of Supplier Code of Conduct LG Display, we periodically in 2014 for efficient CSR conduct onsite CSR management throughout inspections and relevant the supply network, and training sessions in order to are conducting onsite CSR increase social responsibility inspection into overseas awareness among business worksites. partners. Management ㅣ •Material Issues ㅣ Corporate Social Responsibility in China ㅣ Performance & Appendix 41 Shared Growth Shared Growth with Partners Partner Support Programs LG Display is actively taking part in activities for shared Technology Escrow* / Under the technology escrow system, growth with partners, aiming high while growing together. partner companies register their core technologies with the We provide capacity building programs including those on Foundation for Cooperation Between Large Companies and funding support, educational support, and management supSMEs as a proof of their technology development. LG Display port, all of which are designed to strengthen the fundamental fully funds the registration cost as this system is effective in competitiveness of partners. We spare no effort in supporting protecting confidential information or new technologies that our partners to become market leaders. In addition, we make are not patented and kept as a trade secret. decisions on the direction of our efforts on shared growth * Technology Escrow : Placing technology data in safekeeping with a reliable third-party during exchanges with partners doing our best to promote with escrow facilities to secure it. This allows SMEs to reduce risk associated with technology leak, and large corporations to keep constructive development. their access to an escrowed technology even in the event of bankruptcy of an SME owning the technology. Financial Support to Partners / LG display helps partner companies gain competitiveness by proving financial sup• Technological support and protection • Management consulting service port, based on alliances with financial institutions. Examples • Training and hiring support of support programs include the Shared Growth Fund, which provides loan with low interest rate to partners, Network Partners’ Capacity Loan, which supports the production capital in the form of Building a minus account, and the Win-win Guarantee program, in • Improved payment terms which the guarantee institutions provide credit guarantee to • Price adjustments in contract the partner recommended by LG Display while financial insti• Financial support l tutions provide funding support. O com pen ncia mun Fina ance icat ist io n ass Industrial Innovation Movement 3.0 / Through this program, LG Display and first-tier suppliers provide assistance to second-, third-, or lower-tier suppliers (subcontractors) so that • Jeong-Do Management system implementation they can voluntarily innovate their work environment and pro• Mutual cooperation team operation duction processes. LG Display dispatches expert human re• Shared Growth Portal sources and partly bears costs for the thorough inspection of the suppliers’ production sites; encouraging innovation across the general field of process, management, and technology. Shared Growth Portal / Shared Growth Portal / With the Equipment Technology Contest / LG Display invites particiintention to strengthen communication with partners in order pants from universities, research institutes, and small and meto foster shared growth, LG Display opened a shared growth dium-sized equipment companies to hold an EquipmentTechportal (winwin.lgdisplay.com) in 2014. As the portal facilinology Contest for innovative ideas on new technologies. The tates communication and serves as an excellent venue for objective of the contest is to maintain LG Display’s dominance reporting problems and sharing opinions of the field, it allows in the market and leadership in the field of differentiated fupartner companies to freely propose ideas for new technolture technologies. As the contest is open-ended, new ideas ogy or express complaints. The portal introduces information are always welcome, and LG display provides full or partial of various programs on funding, technology, education, and support regarding the equipment development cost. management, which are utilized by the partners in order to enhance their competitiveness. 42 You Dream, We Display Management Doctor / In the management doctor program, Support to Partners for Environment / a group of advisors from the Federation of Korean Industries Safety Management provide management consultation to partner companies on LG Display recognizes environmental safety·health as a major building a foundation for midto long-term growth, introducfactor of corporate management, and fulfills social responsiing efficient management methods, or improving managebilities regarding green environment safety and health-relatment performances. Designed to nurture the management ed management. We contributed significantly to reducing the competitiveness of partners, the program recommends strataccident rate and raising safety awareness by improving the egies to foster competitiveness in each field based on a comsafety and health of partners’ worksites based on continuous prehensive diagnosis, which consists of the analysis of the expansion of business. In 2014, a safety management concompanies’ strength and weakness. The program also comes test was held with an aim to encourage partners to improve with post-management and mentoring services. their management capabilities and raise awareness about safety management. Performance Sharing / LG display cooperates with partners to achieve accomplishments and divide the benefits as agreed Sustainable Cooperation Program / ‘With the implementain advance under the performance sharing program. The bention of the “safety·health cooperation project” which is designed efits can come in various forms including cash payment, price to improve safety·health of worksites and provide technological protection, purchase protection long-term contract, increase support, we are making efforts to enhance safety in partners’ in trade volume, joint patent, and division of sales revenue. work environment to match the level of LG Display. We are devising measures for improvement based on risk assessment, in Technology Sharing Project / LG Display is pushing for a order to prevent industrial accidents and create a safe working “Technology Sharing Project,” which is designed to improve environment. the availability of idle patents by transferring their ownership for free to SMEs seeking to utilize the patents. For this, we Process of Health•Safety Cooperation Program entrusted the Korea Institute for Advancement of Technology (KIAT) with a total of 257 patents including 141 domestic Step 1 Business Partner Identification and Selection and 116 overseas patents, and shared 35 patents to seven partner companies free of charge. The patents in question inStep 2 Program Operation and Planning volve the technologies of display equipment such as sealing, inspecting, and cleaning equipment, as well as the patents Application & Review of our domestic and foreign affiliates that can be instantly Step 3 commercialized, making contributions to commercializing the Risk Assessment technologies of SMEs. Step 4 Shared Growth Programs and Achievements Improvement Plan Submission Step 5 Technology Sharing Improvement Plan Implementation Project Step 6 257cases Industrial Innovation Technology Movement 3.0 Step 7 Completion Report Submission and Review Escrow 16 cases 86 cases Performance Management Sharing Doctor 22 cases 1 case Management ㅣ •Material Issues ㅣ Corporate Social Responsibility in China ㅣ Performance & Appendix 43 Fair Trade CSR Management throughCreating a Culture of Fair Trade out Supplier Network LG Display is undertaking various activities designed to encourage voluntary compliance with fair trade practices in orAs a B2B business, LG Display recognizes the importance of der to enable companies to engage in fair and free trade, and CSR management throughout the supplier network for global to build mutual trust and a framework of cooperation. To this supply network engagement, and implements a wide range of end, we are implementing risk prevention programs on fair activities aimed at promoting CSR awareness and managing trade. We also conduct internal inspections while continuassociated risks. ously implementing educational programs, inspections, and improvement activities to monitor risk factors with high levels Code of Conduct for Partners of breach probability. LG Display has developed the code of conduct for partners based on the EICC Code and client needs, and forged a conExcerpts from CEO Notes in April, 2014 sensus around it with partners. LG Display and its key partners remain committed to complying with the laws and reguIn doing business, getting the best result is important, but what matters more is whether our success is a result of fair competilations of the regions they operate and fulfilling its social and tion. In that regard, our company has made a continued effort environmental responsibility. to implement various programs to encourage voluntary comLabor Each partner of LG Display is committed to upholding the pliance with fair trade practices, such as education programs, rights and human rights of workers, and treating them with dignity legal advisory, and risk inspection/improvement programs to human and respect. This applies to all workers including tempoallow our employees to fulfill their tasks in compliance with rights rary, migrant, student, contract, direct employees, and any fair trade laws. Furthermore, I would like to ask all employees other type of worker. to keep in mind the principle of mutual trust and consider your Health & Each partner of LG Display cooperates with LG Display Safety in designing safe processes and maintaining a healthy clients, affiliates, and partner companies as equals. Let us all work environment in order to ensure continued quality of work towards becoming the best through our efforts only and products and services and efficiency of production. Each through fair competitions. partner also makes efforts to create a safe and healthy work environment for all its workers in accordance with local laws and regulations. EnvironEach partner of LG Display recognizes environmental rement sponsibility as a critical factor in producing world class prodFair Trade Self-Compliance Program ucts and does its best to minimize adverse effects on the community and environment in manufacturing operations. LG Display pursues transparent management and fair comEthics Each partner of LG Display is to uphold the higest stanpetition, and it is accordingly making an earnest effort to dard of ethics in all business dealings, and should not enbecome a trustworthy business operator. The Fair Trade Selfgage in any forms of corruption, extortion, embezzlement, or bribery. Compliance program is designed to make companies volunResponEach partner of LG Display shall have a policy to reasontarily abide by the regulations on fair trade. It provides clear sible ably assure that the tantalum, tin, tungsten and gold in guidelines to prevent breach at an earlier stage. Through the Sourcing the products they manufacture do not directly or indirectadoption of the program, LG Display is pursuing proactive of Minerals ly finance or benefit armed groups that are perpetrators of serious human rights abuses in the Democratic Repubprevention activities to create the culture of fair trade. lic of the Congo or an adjoining country. Each partner shall exercise due diligence on the source and chain of custody of these minerals and make their due diligence measures Compliance Program available to customers upon LG Display’s request. ManageEach partner of LG Display shall adopt or establish a manment agement system whose scope is related to the content of Improvement of External Credibility Ratings Internal System this Code, and the management system shall be designed to ensure compliance with applicable laws, regulations and customer requirements as well as conformance with Incentives including reduction in fines this Code. Each partner should also facilitate continual improvement. Risk Management CSR Presentation Sessions for Partners Global Standard We held two CSR presentation session in Gumi and Seoul to introduce the code of conduct for partners helping them Prceemptive loss prevention learn about CSR requirements and proactive management of CSR risks. 44 You Dream, We Display CSR Risk Management of Partners Onsite CSR Inspection Results EICC self-survey and onsite CSR inspection were carried out Category Key Improvement Areas on key partners to identify CSR risks.The onsite inspection Labor • Preventing interns from doing overtime work included both paperwork and fieldwork based on the EICC • Observing the regular work hours Code and audit requirements for clients. Improvement areas • Having in place workforce management policy, were derived and best practices and client needs were shared system and procedures as a result. For the Nanjing subsidiary where client companies Health & • Displaying personal protective equipment in chemicals requested the report of the EICC Audit, LG Display has conSafety warehouse ducted a three-party audit with Nanjing partner companies • Identifying /managing workplace risk factors which fall into the range of the Nanjing subsidiary’s supply • Managing chemicals in workplaces chains. As a follow-up measure, we supported and managed Environ• Ensuring periodic environmental impact assessment the establishment of measures to resolve the issues that ment •R  ecording and tracking hazardous waste discharges were pointed out. • Assessing service providers for hazardous waste discharge Receiving AA Grade for Compliance Program In August 2014, LG Display earned the AA grade in Compliance Program (CP) with the final endorsement of the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy. A CP participant is a trader with the capacity to comply with export control by classifying their own items, checking the validity of end-user, thoroughly reviewing transaction details and conducting regular audits. Benefits a CP participant can enjoy include fast-track processing of export applications and exemption from the need for supplementary documents. The AA grade of LG Display was largely attributable to the operation of strategic goods management process and system and internal training programs. Certification of Highest Grade by AEO LG Display is certified with AAA, the highest grade granted by the Customs Service to the Authorized Economic Operators (AEO). The AEO certification indicates that the company is officially recognized with its credence and safety by the Customs Service among the logistics agents involved in the transfer of cargo, such as exporters, importers, customs brokers, forwarders, warehouses, or cargo-handling agencies. The certification applies not only to the Korean customs but also to the foreign customs offices that signed the AEO Mutual Recognition Agreement. The AEO certification is establishing itself as an institution of countries with advanced customs offices, and it is posed to expand globally into the BRICs nations as well as other emerging economies. At the final stage of deliberation, LG Display received excellent evaluations on multiple fronts such as the operation of a systematic item classification for the entire manufacturing subsidiaries and the establishment of an advanced and safe supply chain by overseas subsidiaries through AEO certifications. We were able to attract new clients and maintain our business with the supply chain partners and AEO-certified partner companies through the AEO certification. AEO-certified Importer / AEO-certified Exporter AEO Certification Criteria Fina ce nc ian ial • Reason for Disqualification pl • More than 50 import/export reports • 80 points or over in legal compliance Lega So • Delinquemcy records lC ss d ne assessment • Appropriateness of financial audit om un AEO Authorized Economic • AEO management policy establishment nt • Handling procedure management Operator me • AEO objective establishment Inte ge • Facilities & equipment management • AEO management organization establishment rn na • Information & technology management al Co a • Import/Export Risk Assessment nt M •Education & training ro l ty •Internal Control Assessment Safe • Partner management •Operational Manual/Process Establishment • Fleet management • Access control management → Assessment score of 80 points or over • HR management → compliance rate of 70% or over Management ㅣ •Material Issues ㅣ Corporate Social Responsibility in China ㅣ Performance & Appendix 45 Conflict Minerals Response to Conflict Minerals In order to look into the use conflict minerals in its supply Conflict Minerals chain, LG Display actively engages in activities to track the Conflict minerals refer to natural resources like tantalum, tin, origins of minerals in accordance with international standards tungsten and gold extracted in conflict zones most repreand guidelines. sentatively, the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) and its adjoining countries. There are concerns that the conflict min•Partner training and due diligence erals indirectly finance or benefit armed groups that are perConducting conflict minerals training and management petrators of serious human rights abuses including child labor. system monitoring for 1st& 3nd-tier partners In response to these concerns, the U.S. Congress passed the •Conflict mineral management system implementation Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Raising credibility of information managed, tracking Act in 2010. Section 1502 of the Act requires all companies conflict minerals by customer/product listed on the U.S. stock exchange to conduct due diligence to •Encouragement for smelters to join CFSP* determine if the products they manufacture contain conflict •Operation of a LG Group-wide consultative body for minerals, disclose the mine of origin and their supply chains, response to conflict minerals and report the results to the Securities and Exchange Com•Strengthening of internal/external communication mission (SEC). Sharing partners’ policies and taking part in public-private forums and conferences Conflict Zones: DRC and 9 adjoining countries * CFSP : Conflict Free Smelter Program Use of Conflict Minerals Sudan LG Display surveyed its suppliers to check if conflict minerals Central African Republic are used in its supply chain, and discovered that 247 smelters Uganda source minerals originated from conflicted areas. That said, Congo continued efforts of LG Display and its suppliers have paid Rwanda off, as seen in the fact that tantalum is all sourced from CFSs (Conflict Free Smelters). Burundi Smelters Using Conflict Minerals Tanzania Category Tantalum Tin Tungsten Gold Total Zambia CFS 36 36 15 66 153 Active 13 16 6 35 Angola Non-CFS 25 2 32 59 Democratic Republic Total 36 74 33 104 247 of the Congo CFS(%) 100% 49% 45% 63% 62% CFS+Active(%) 100% 66% 94% 69% 76% Conflict Minerals Management Policy LG Display has established the conflict minerals management Future Plan policy in order to ensure legal compliance and fulfill its soLG Display will make every effort to ensure that the entire cial responsibilities. Aimed at preventing minerals from armed supply chain sources minerals from CFSs within 2015. To this forces in conflict zones from entering LG Display's supply end, we will raise awareness of regulations on conflict minerchain, the policy requires business partners to: als and encourage voluntary compliance through due diligence • establish policies and processes on conflict minerals; and training. Moreover, LG Display will do our best to prohibit • define the process of tracking the origins of minerals; the use of conflict minerals throughout our supply chain by • develop and implement a contingency plan; and requiring those uncertified smelters to commit to the Con• establish and implement due diligence plans as per flict Free Smelter Program (CFSP). We will also actively work the OECD due diligence guide. with clients, business partners, government authorities and LG Display has publicly announced that it will actively parthe academia to coordinate a national response to the issue ticipate in international efforts to prohibit the use of conflict of conflict minerals, and live up to our social responsibilities by minerals based on its policy, together with partner companies. not using any of those minerals. Key Achievements in 2014 issue 05 Prime Minister Award as Leader in Resource Environ Circulation -ment Recycling Rates of Domestic Sites(%) 89 71 72 2012 2013 2014 Context As the industrial structures are growing more complex and sophisticated, the impact on the environment is also growing big and wide-spread across all the other sectors. The governments around the world are strengthening their regulations to cope with international environment issues such as climate change, environmental degradation, and depletion of national resources and the greenhouse gas emissions scheme was implemented starting 2015 to impose emission quotas, increasingly demanding that companies take more responsible actions and responses for the environment. LG Display, a green company that has acquired all four certifications relating to green management, plans to introduce energy saving performance indicators as a way to enhance the operational efficiency of the energy management system. Approach Response Next Step LG Display groups the risk In order to conform to the LG Display is an eco-friendly, factors accompanying climate United Nations Framework green business that is certified change into regulatory, physical, Convention on Climate with all four major certificates or other factors, and develops Change (UNFCCC) and GHG/ in green management. Going a response plan depending Energy Target Manageforward, we will computerize on the severity of each issue. ment System, LG Display has environmental data and We have made investments acquired energy management introduce energy saving into facilities for reducing GHG systems standard ISO 50001, performance indicators as a emissions and energy conand implemented energy way to enhance the operational sumption, and implemented saving projects at the Gumi efficiency of the energy a proactive response system and Paju plants. Furthermore, management system. against the uncertainties we make a preemptive effort around climate change, allowto prevent contamination ing waste water recycling and accidents with a system of redundant raw materials sourcmonitoring water quality ing system. 24/7. Management ㅣ •Material Issues ㅣ Corporate Social Responsibility in China ㅣ Performance & Appendix 47 Climate Change Climate Change Response Framework LG Display groups the risk factors accompanying climate idea contest for saving energy and a corresponding incentive change and carbon management into regulatory, physical, system, designed to promote power reduction at the enteror other factors. As the regulatory and physical risks of cliprise level. mate change are on the rise, social responsibilities required of companies which omit significant amount of carbon are Establishment of a Manwoo-stream Environment increasing. Risks on how a company’s inappropriate response Committee might undermine corporate reputation are also increasing. Reflecting on the increasing interest and demand from loAmid such circumstances, LG Display is participating in extercal residents on environmental issues, LG Display established nal evaluation including the CDP and DJSI on climate change a Manwoo-stream Environment Committee in December response and carbon management, and disclosing informa2014, to facilitate preemptive response in the face of traffic tion in a transparent manner via various channels such as the or safety accidents on the roads adjacent to the Manwoosustainability report. stream. The committee reviews optimal solutions for major issues, discuss detailed plans, and make decisions regarding Implementation of GHG Emissions Trading Scheme / Under measures to reduce wet fog over the Manwoo-stream area. the GHG Emissions Trading Scheme which was launched in January 2015, the government set the total amount of allowable Climate Change Response Efforts of Partners greenhouse gas emissions for each company and companies While providing Green consulting to partner companies, LG that need higher costs for GHG mitigation may buy emissions Display built a carbon partnership in order to spread the efpermits in the market, whereas companies that need relativeforts regarding environmental conservation, and to support ly lower costs for mitigation may sell extra emissions permits. the green win-win initiatives. LG Display provides support for LG Display expects to gain profits by selling the additional perthe partners to preemptively respond to GHG regulations mits to be earned from its participation in the CDM project. through Green consulting, which involves the establishment * CDM : Clean Development Mechanism of the GHG inventory and energy diagnosis. In addition, a carbon partnership certification is granted to partners which Scope 3 Emissions Management / LG Display manages Scope have fully completed the Green SCM consulting program, and 3 GHG emissions as well, by tallying GHG inventory from loadditional incentives are provided upon regular post managegistics and employees’ business trips into the total emissions. ment and purchase, all part of the effort to bolster green winwin initiatives. We have provided technological support and Climate Change Response comprehensive inspection on environmental management to LG Display is implementing various activities to cut GHG emisour partners since 2013, with an aim to nurture their resions. In 2014, LG Display successfully reduced up to 376,913 sponse capabilities with regards to environmental regulations. tCO2eq of GHG emissions by improving systems and boosting the efficiency of operation. We plan to gradually increase the amount of reduction by unearthing new ideas and strateCarbon Partnership Process gies. LG Display is focusing efforts to cut GHG emissions and generate profit through the trading of acquired carbon credit. • Presentation session Selection of • Developing of a pool of participating partners As a result, we developed an alternative gas application techParticipants nology to the SF6, which significantly contributed to reducing GHG emissions and cutting costs. Greem • Setting-up of GHG inventory SCM • As-is diagnosis and recommendations for energy saving Consulting • Sharing of best practices in energy/facility operations for Power Saving 1520 Campaign benchmarking In a bid to become a company with the least power conCarbon • Consulting results review and decision-making sumption, LG Display has been implementing a “Power Saving Partnership with partners 1520 Campaign,” which calls for a reduction of power usage Certification • Carbon partnership certification granted to participants by 20% by 2015. To accomplish this goal, we are fixing parts that lead to power loss in production equipment, replacing Follow-up • Sharing of energy-saving ideas Inspection & •Support for adoption of environmental technology existing equipment with high-efficient devices, and promoting Support (electricity, utility and environment) energy-saving activities in everyday life. In addition, there is an 48 You Dream, We Display Renewable Energy Production As a result, the glass fiber papers were successfully made into with Partner Companies natural pulp, translating into high-value added recycling and LG Display began producing renewable energy through cobetter protection of natural resources with the glass papers operative ties with its partner (Serveone). Solar power genreplacing imported materials used to make natural pulp. LG erators were built on the idle rooftop space of the Gumi and Display and the partner company acquired joint patent for Paju plant through cooperation with the partner, with plans the recycling technology, further expanding cooperation and to sell all of the generated electricity to shared growth. KEPCO. This will create a rent profit of KRW260million annually, and contribute LG Display’s Effort for Biodiversity Protection to resolving environmental challenges With the destruction of the ecosystem becoming more seby generating eco-friendly renewable vere by the day due to industrialization, LG Display is taking energy. Solar power generators part in activities to conserve biodiversity as a responsible corporate citizen. The Paju plant signed an MOU with Paju KoSigning of an MOU for “Demonstration Project on rean Federation for Environmental Movement to make jointthe Management of Resource Circulation” efforts on a monthly basis, to preserve the habitat of golden LG Display signed an MOU on a demonstration project for frogs, which are on the verge of extinction, and protect the managing resource circulation in May 2015, with hopes to wetlands of Gongreung-stream in Paju. Starting with the advance the resource circulation activities and contribute to golden frogs, LG Display plans to expand the scope and exthe development of the national system of resource circulatent of its environmental conservation activities, and actively tion. The LG Display Paju plant will set goals regarding recontribute to the protection of our environment. source circulation until 2016, devise specific action plans, and implement them as pursuant to the MOU. The LG Display Paju Water management system plant makes multi-faceted efforts to minimize incineration or LG Display makes preemptive effort to prevent contaminalandfills of production wastes, and instead recycles over 90% tion accidents with a system of monitoring water quality at of waste organic solvent, waste glass, waste papers, and othall times. A rainwater utilization system was installed so that er waste materials. As a result, the plant received the Prime when chemicals are discharged, hazardous substance is diMinister Award as a leading company of resource circulation rected away from rivers and transferred into a wastewater twice in 2011 and 2014, in an initiative spearheaded by the treatment plant. Wastewater discharged from the Gumi plant Ministry of Environment. Highly recognized as a worksite with undergoes primary treatment to be sent to the local water excellent resource circulation, the Paju plant was selected as reclamation plant before being discharged into the Nak-dong a demonstration project site. river. The contaminant concentration of the wastewater is strictly maintained below 50% of the legal requirements. As for the wastewater discharged from the Paju plant, it is sent to local water reclamation plants after primary treatment, and finally used to maintain the water level of the Manwoo stream. Reducing Water Consumption and Promoting Water Reuse LD Display is eliminating factors of risks based on the analysis and assessment of water consumption and reducing water use by enhancing equipment and process. Such effort has not MOU Signing Ceremony for Management only reduced water consumption but also lowered the need of Resource Circulation Demonstration Project to further invest in water use and wastewater treatment facilities. LG Display aims to maximize the efficiency of water Technology Development of Reusing Natural Pulp usage with effective facilities for reusing wastewater. from Waste Papers Furthermore, LG Display began investing in a wastewater reUncontaminated glass fiber papers generated during LCD use facility project worth billions of KRW in 2004, in order to production are processed into recycled pulps in the same preemptively respond to the global issue of water shortage. method applied to ordinary waste papers. LG Display found a More than 50% of wastewater is reused in the production partner which can help develop advanced technologies of reor utility manufacturing process after undergoing treatment. using waste glass fiber papers, and conducted a joint project. Management ㅣ •Material Issues ㅣ Corporate Social Responsibility in China ㅣ Performance & Appendix 49 Hazardous Substance Enhanced Chemical Management System and Process The Act on Registration, Evaluation, etc. of Chemicals, which Management was introduced in January 1, 2015, requires new chemicals or existing chemicals designated and announced as subject Preemptive Response to the Chemicals Control Act to registration, to be registered for hazard review or risk asThe existing Toxic Chemicals Control Act was amended and sessment before being imported. As an importer of chemicals, reinforced into the Chemicals Control Act, which took effect LG Display enhanced its chemical import process and cuson January 1, 2015. This Act puts a stronger emphasis on toms clearance system in order to apply for registration on the worksites’ accountability regarding chemical accidents each of the chemicals used in its products before they are and includes an evaluation system on the effects of external imported. LG Display strictly abides to the reinforced legislarisks in order to establish a framework for accident prevention by having relevant teams review and approve the reports tion and response. In addition, it has stricter requirements on beforehand. the safety procedures of suppliers treating hazardous chemicals. In response to the amendments, LG Display devised a Application Review Process set of guidelines for worksites to follow, including the establishment of a systematic reporting system for chemical accidents, standards for treating hazardous chemicals, and rules Chemicals for equipping the worksites with protective gear and requiring Application Application import Clearance workers to wear them. Moreover, LG Display designed safety filing verification application education courses for all employees of the worksites, and for those in charge of treating and managing hazardous chemicals, as part of the effort to actively respond to the reinforced legislation. Approve Reject Categorization Legal Requirements Support for Safe Chemicals Management for Glass Chemicals Slimming Companies •Implementing incident reporting process in the event of injuries, fatalities or environWith the aim of strengthening chemicals management promental impact beyond the worksite cess of glass slimming companies and preventing serious in the event of leaks/spread of toxic chemicals incidents, LG Display visits the chemical treatment facilities, of more than 5ℓ or 5kg shares information and recommendations for improvement, and follows up on action items. For four slimming outsourcHazardous Chemicals (Toxic substances, substances requiring companies that handle toxic substances including HF, we ing preparation for accidents, prohibited substances, etc.) checked their response to, and preparations for, new and re•Worksite permission vised regulations on chemical substances, identified potential : Off-site Risk Assessment / Risk Management Plan risk factors and shared knowhow and remediation actions, Reporting of contractors engaging in hazardous supporting the partners to implement a stable chemicals chemicals treatment management system. We have also set up a regular commu•Clear definition of hazardous chemicals treatment nication channel among the partners facilitating information standards and the standard for wearing & displaying sharing. We will continue to perform inspections and proof protective equipment vide technological support in our effort for green and shared •Safety training on hazardous chemicals growth with our partner companies. General training for all employees Trainee-specific training (those dealing with chemicals and managers) Key Achievements in 2014 Flagship CSR Program issue 06 34 IT Power Plants (Cumulative) Local Communi No. of Social Contribution Program -cation Participants*(Person) * duplicates allowed 39,009 32,876 29,335 2012 2013 2014 Context The market’s changing perception on CSR activities calls for companies not only to yield economic results but also to fulfill responsible activities as a corporate citizen. CSR activities are expanding to answer the growing demand of the times, and more companies are sharing corporate profits with their societies. Recently, companies are trending towards ‘strategic CSR activities,’ which not only fulfill the original purpose of making contributions to society but also allow the results of CSR activities to benefit corporate management in turn. Approach Response Next Step LG Display strives to provide Under the slogan of ‘Love of In order to boost the opportunities for healthy Young Dreams,’ LG Display execution capacity of the IT growth to the underprivileged, has made a sustained effort power plant, which is one of children, and youth with to pursue social contribution our main social contribution potential, invigorate activities in various sectors activities, we are planning organizational culture by in a strategic manner with to launch an IT university inducing participation of its corporate characteristics volunteer corps in conjunction employees, and fulfill its taken into consideration. with adjacent universities to corporate social responsibilities. We are linking businesses promote more systematic To this end, the company is with local communities and continuous education pursuing social contribution while encouraging voluntary programs. activities based on the two participation of our employees main pillars that are flagship through a set of activities that programs and employee can harness the core capacities participation. of LG Display, such as the IT power plant program, blindness prevention activities, and overseas volunteer programs for exemplary employees. Management ㅣ •Material Issues ㅣ Corporate Social Responsibility in China ㅣ Performance & Appendix 51 CSR Implementation Scheme Flagship CSR Programs Based on its slogan, ‘Love of Young Dreams,’ LG Display is fulIT Power Plant filling its social responsibilities through education and public Since 2008 when the IT power plant program was first heath projects. We are linking businesses with local communilaunched, LG Display has helped out the children from unties while encouraging voluntary participation of our employderprivileged families through IT education projects designed ees through various activities such as the IT power plant proto address digital divide and provide learning environment. By gram, blindness prevention activities, and overseas employee 2014, a total of 34 IT power plants were established includvolunteer programs for innovation leaders so as to give couring 33 locations in Korea and one in Poland, where more than age and hope to the marginalized and underprivileged in local 2,000 children and residents enjoy the concomitant benefits. communities. This opened up a new horizon of communication for many of the students who once had a hard time in studying and CSR Programs communicating for the lack of personal computers and internet environment, enabling them to understand about the world better and dream bigger. LG Display will focus not only Slogan Love of Young Dreams on facility investments but also on promoting systematic and continuous education programs by launching an IT university Providing opportunities for healthy growth to the volunteer corps in tandem with adjacent universities. underprivileged, children, and youth with potential, invigorating organizational culture by inducing participation Objective of employees, and fulfilling corporate social responsibilities / Category No. of IT Region Education · Medicine / Alignment with business sectors and IT Power PlantsPower Plants local communities and employee participation 2008 2 Gyeongbuk1, Gyeonggi(Paju)1 2009 7 Gyeongbuk2, Gyeonggi2, Jeonbuk1, Flagship Programs USR Chungnam1, Poland1 2010 3 Gyeonggi2, Gyeongbuk1 Alignment with business Health labor-management sectors and local relations, strong ties with local 2011 6 Seoul1, Gyeongbuk2, Gyeongnam1, communities and communities Jeonnam1, Gangwon 1 employee participation • Scholarships for children of Strategic 2012 5 Dajeon2, Jeonbuk1, Jeonnam1, Activities • IT Power Plant police officers and firefighters Chungnam1 •Blindness prevention who died on duty programs • Overseas employee volunteer 2013 6 Seoul1, Gyeongbuk2, Jeonbuk1, activities for high-performing Chungnam1, Jeju1 employees 2014 5 Gyeongbuk1, Gyeongnam1, Chungbuk1, Chungnam1, Incheon1 Total 34 Gyeongbuk9, Gyeongnam2, Gyeonggi5, •Assistance provided to sister families/ Jeonbuk3, Jeonnam2, Chungbuk1, facilities Chungnam4, Daejeong2, Incheon1, Jeju1, Social •Talent nurturing (sponsored by executives) Welfare •LGDream Fund Gangwon1, Overseas1, Seoul2 •Special activities & seasonal volunteer work Employee •Therapeutic horseback riding for children partici with disabilities(Gumi) Community -pation •Job training for children with disabilities(Paju) Engagement •Fcility improvement for senior care Overseas centers in China Volunteer •Eye clinics in Cambodia Work Business·Community-based programs, Principles Voluntary participation of employees IT Power Plant 52 You Dream, We Display Low-vision Children’s Summer Camp USR (Union Social Responsibility) From 2008 to 2014, LG Display hosted summer rehabilitation camps to provide low-vision rehab programs for lowUSR Overseas Volunteer Programs vision children and their siblings. The summer camp in 2014 Under the slogan “We bring light to shine through the darkwas co-organized by the Korea Foundation for the Prevention ness,’ employees of LG Display Paju plant visited the capital of Blindness, and the students made fond memories parof Cambodia, Phnom Penh, and nearby villages for volunteer ticipating in various activities designed to inspire interesting programs aimed at promoting eye health of local residents. LG perspectives on the world and energize themselves by imDisplay’s labor union spearheaded the programs, thereby realproving the sensitivity of all senses including vision under the izing the social responsibilities of unions. A hospital storage theme of ‘Awakening Your Five Senses’. The camp consisted room was remodeled to become an ophthalmic clinic, serving of various programs such as ‘Learning Sand Art’ for tactile both as a doctor’s office and an optician’s shop. Employees and visual stimulation, ‘Making Ocarina’ for acoustic stimulavisited villages where there were no doctors to diagnose or tion, and ‘Experiencing Cookie Clay’ for the improvement of treat patients in need of support for visual health, dental care, gustatory senses. or internal medicine. Korean ophthalmologists sponsored by LG Display joined the program to perform surgery on about 20 patients suffering from severe cases of eye disease, helping them to recover their eyesight. Furthermore, the volunteer team donated 150 solar powered lanterns to light up the homes of people who had thus far lived in the darkness. Low-vision Children’s Camp Cho-rong-e Eye Care Class LG Display has conducted ‘Cho-ronge-Eye Care Classes’ since 2008 to provide eye care education sessions for the children who are still in growth period. The program adopts the form Ophthalmic Clinic in Cambodia (USR) of a musical play, teaching thechildren daily habits on promoting healthy vision, providing tips on preventing blindness, and Meanwhile, employees of the LG Display Gumi plant visited implementing programs that help children to understand the underdeveloped regions of Mongolia to provide help for the visually challenged. Furthermore, we are pursuing continuity construction of a tree nursery and an educational center for of educational effect by having the children keep ‘Eye-care residents. The volunteer team went to the village of Jargalant, Journals’ so as to induce the child participants to practice about one hour apart from the Mongolian capital Ulaanwhat they learned here in their daily lives. As of November, baatar, to participate in activities aimed at supporting the 2014, a total of 8,080 students participated in the eye care self-sufficiency of residents and promote sustainable green classes for over 44 sessions. environments. These activities included the project of planting 10,000 pine seedlings, and block paving the road for the central hall, which will be used as an educational center. As a Cho-rong-e Eye Care Classes corporate citizen, we are going to reach out across the world to anyone who is in need, promote the spirit of giving and Year No. of Classes Participants sharing, and realize the social responsibilities of unions. 2009 7 746 2010 32 3,934 2011 48 7,276 2012 36 6,641 2013 40 6,511 2014 36 6,777 Total 199 31,885 Cho-rong-e Eye Care Class at A visit to a Mongolian Family Dongho Elementary School, Seoul Management ㅣ •Material Issues ㅣ Corporate Social Responsibility in China ㅣ Performance & Appendix 53 USR in Job Rehabilitation Center for the Disabled Social Contribution The employees of LG Display took part in volunteer activities in the Kyonam Dongsan, a job rehab center for the disabled Activities Tailored to Regions located in the city of Paju. Gathering and packaging potatoes with disabled workers, members of the Labor-managementActivities of Kyoung-buk Council in 2014 Council and employees joined together in spending a meanLG Display is conducting a wide range of activities in order ingful time at the center. We plan to conduct various USR to emerge as a region-friendly company based on regional activities in a creative and practical manner, in order to fulfill investment and social contribution in Gumi. our role as a responsible corporate citizen, as we interact and Key Community 22nd LG Mothers' Volleyball grow hand-in-hand with the society. Tasks engagement Tournament LG Love Sharing with event college entrance examinees “Happy Day” 14th LG Dream Festival Communication Improving corporate image through with community promoting brand LG in community events and other gatherings LG Affiliate/Social Community CSR activities in contribution cooperation with other LG affiliates activities Public relations Descrip•Regional festivals and events Labor-Management Council’s Social Contribution tion Commemoration for the victims of Sewol Ferry accident and festival for sharing and harmony •Culture festival for citizens and students Foundation Day event and culture booth Kimchi Sharing Event •Career searching/culture experience for college entrance LG Display held the fifth annual event of “Kimchi Sharing” in examinees, Love for Neighbors event December 2014. Ingredients for the Kimchi including napa Special lectures / Intramural talent shows/ Kimchi sharing cabbage, radish, and red pepper flakes were bought from the Kyonam Dongsan, a job rehabilitation center for the disabled, Sharing Activities for the Chuseok Holidays and the Moonsan farming association which is operated by The employees of the LG Display Gumi plant held sharing acsenior citizens. Approximately 250 employees processed tivities for Chuseok, in order to share love with those who are over 5,000 heads of cabbages to make kimchi and delivered marginalized from the society during one of the biggest holithem to approximately 40 welfare facilities including the Paju days of Korea. The workers went to the Gumi social welfare Children Center and Senior Welfare Center, and 230 under center located near the LG Gumi plant, and spent a meanprivileged households. It was a volunteer program which asingful time making rice cakes with the senior citizens and sisted those in need and boosted the regional economy at keeping their company. In addition, they delivered self-made the same time. We hope that the Kimchi sharing will help rice cakes, lunch boxes, and daily necessities to the elderly poverty-stricken families weather through the harsh winter, living alone near the welfare center. Meanwhile, the volunteer and pledge to continue to make efforts for a brighter world team from the LG Display’s head office put together a ‘Nufilled with warmth and compassion. tritious gift bag for Chuseok’ filled with holiday food, fruits, and snacks, and delivered them to the senior citizens living in Yeongdeungpo. An Onnuri gift certificate which can be used in nearby markets was included in the bag, hoping to contribute to the regional economy consisting of small shop owners. LG Display will continue to exert effort in devising various ways to help the underprivileged based on sharing and volunteer work, and create a society where everyone can be happy. Kimchi-making Sharing Activities for the Chuseok Holidays 54 You Dream, We Display The Miracle of Christmas The LG Basketball Cup For the ‘Miracle of Christmas, Santa’s Hope Project’, LG Display As part of the effort to strengthen cooperation between collected letters containing Christmas wish lists from chiloverseas subsidiaries and local comdren living in poverty near the worksites of Seoul, Paju, and munities, LG Display began holding Gumi. The employees then delivered presents they prepared regular basketball games between the themselves to about 200 children. The ‘Miracle of Christmas’ Stanford University and UC Berkeley in project was first introduced in 2010 with a mission of giving San Jose(California, USA), where the hope to children living in financially challenged homes. As the US subsidiary is located, since 2014. By project is not a donation which helps a random group of benpromoting friendly relations between eficiaries but rather lets the employees learn about who they the LG Display’s head office, employees are actually helping, it is an extremely rewarding experience. of the US subsidiary, student basketball Employees participating in the project give not only presplayers, and their families, LG Display is ents but also dreams, hopes, and happiness to the children. showing dedicated efforts as a member of the local community. The Miracle of Christmas 2nd Class of the Dream School Employees of the LG Display Paju plant have participated in the dream school program since 2013 as part of their social contribution activities, providing counseling and career advice to students in Paju. Employees with work experience in various sites meet with students who are struggling with career decisions to share experiences and give sincere advice, thereby supporting them to follow their dreams. The mentoring programs are operated for five months, matching one mentor per two mentees to provide not only career or academic counseling but also opportunities of university visits The LG Basketball Cup or cultural experiences. Employees actively take part in the career education programs in order to present diverse experiences to teenagers living in marginalized regions, creating a relationship of shared growth with the regional economy and pioneering into a new field of social contribution. LG Display Dream School Management ㅣ •Material Issues ㅣ Corporate Social Responsibility in China ㅣ Performance & Appendix 55 Stakeholder's Interview Located in Walong town, Paju, Gyeonggi Province, LG Display is making significant economic contributions to the local community. The company is also pursuing activities that can actually benefit the local communities by opening a market dealing in local specialties within the Paju plant and by using only locally grown rice for its cafeteria supplies. In addition, various programs have been implemented, such as a portrait photo service for senior residents and volunteer activities to help farming families during farming season. For such reasons, the residents of Walong town have very special affection towards LG Display. It would not make much sense if LG Display sought to win the heart of consumers across the world Town Chief Gi Sang without winning the heart of the locals first. In this regard, it would have been better if we had heard the Lee, Walong Town, recent nitrogen gas leak accident and the company’s response directly from the company, rather than Paju City, Gyeonggi through media coverage. With the establishment of the Paju Advisory Council in 2014, which unified the Province, Korea communication channels with the local residents, we hope that they will make varied efforts to promote transparent communication with the local people and contribute to the development of our community in the midto long-term. Having forged special ties with the city of Gumi, LG Display has made many contributions to reviving the local economy for a long time. While there are many large companies operating their plants in the city, it is LG Display that is hiring the most number of local residents. The company is also pursuing many social contribution programs without much fanfare that are tailored to the characteristics of the local community, and we feel that they are working for the development of Gumi with true sincerity. LG Display reaches out first before being asked of what the residents need, which has earned the company significant trust from the local community. Despite the nitrogen gas leak incident earlier this year at the Paju plant, Director Jong Bae Kim, stakeholders in local communities have unwavering trust in the ESH management system of LG Display. Gumi CCI Furthermore, I think the company is making contributions not only to the local community but also to the national economy as it has successfully achieved specialized localization. I think if LG Display harnesses its experiences of specialized localization here in Gumi, it will be very conducive for the company to establish a global worksite with as much success. Ill-equipped without computer or other proper facilities necessary for their studying, children in social welfare facilities were faced with a lack of motivation and poor academic performance. Thanks to the ties with LG Display we could join the IT Power Plant program, and have created computer rooms at 33 sites across the country, helping students from marginalized groups do better at school and communicate with the wider world. LG Display reached out to those in need, and shared dreams and hopes with them. The Korea National Association of Child Welfare (KNACW) will continue to work with LG Display to further develop and expand on the IT Power Plant program, mobilizing undergraduate volunteers, providing IT Director Hye Gyeong Lee, courses, and replacing obsolete PCs. I hope KNACW and LG Display continue to work hand in hand to Korean Association of Child Welfare promote children’s rights with the higher goal of nurturing children into productive and contributing members of society. 56 You Dream, We Display Corporate Social Responsibility O3 in China Special Page LGDCA 58 Interview with the head of LG Display’s Chinese subsidiary 59 Safety & Health 60 Employees 61 Supply Chain 63 Eco-friendly management 64 Communities 66 Children of Migrant Workers visit Nanjing Science and Technology Museum Management ㅣ Material Issues ㅣ •Corporate Social Responsibility in China ㅣ Performance & Appendix 57 Yantai Nangjing Guangzhou 58 You Dream, We Display special page LGDCA The first overseas panel plant, LGDCA (LG Display China Co., Ltd.) LG Display has established a global manufacturing system through localized production based on module plants in Nanjing(China), Guangzhou(China), Yantai(China), Wroclaw(Poland), and Reynosa(Mexico). This means that while the panels, which are the core technology of LCD production, are produced domestically, only the back-end process involving modules takes place in local sites. Panels show common characteristics of an equipment industry, such as high investment cost. Furthermore, as the government designates it as a core industry, government approval is needed before a plant can be constructed overseas. The approval of the Chinese government is required as well in order to receive investment in China, as well as a number of LGDCA other negotiations. Despite such difficulties, LG Display pushed on with its efforts to construct a CA panel plant in order to consolidate the company’s leadership within the Chinese market, amid the Chinese government’s decision to raise tariffs from 3% to 5% and increase the self-sufficiency rate of LCD panels from 60% in 2014 to 80% in 2015, in order to better protect its LCD industry. Optimal Condtions of LGDCA for Logistics and Close-range Support As TV client companies in China are located in the Guangdong province including Shenzhen, the LGDCA was built in Guangzhou to optimize logistics and close-range support. This location can save logistics costs and tariffs through local production, and enhance customer satisfaction by providing on-site services and support. In addition, the nearby Guangzhou module plant can create synergy effects by sharing operation expertise and experiences. The fact that the LGDCA is the only overseas plant with an exhibition room is another distinctive feature. Customers can observe various business divisions of LG Display in this room, and neighboring schools even use it for science education. As such, the exhibition room is Exhibition Room at LGDCA a popular attraction not only to customers but also to the local community. Accomplishing Yield Goal in Short Period The LGDCA accomplished a high goal of production capacity and yield in a short period of time. Preemptive management of risks that can occur during plant operation was a major factor of success. As equipment management is of the utmost importance in manufacturing panels, production data on problems that may arise in the facilities was collected and organized, based on the needs of the LGDCA. The production data, which included up to 15,000 cases for each of the equipment class, was used to preemptively analyze risks and make preparations. Technology verification was consistently conducted before the launch of the plant, and a computer system was set up so that even in automatic mode, opLGDCA Plant Launch erational activities can be monitored whenever necessary. To equip resources with the skillsets required, we provided engineers and maintenance resources/implementers with training for eight months and six months, respectively, before the production line started the operation. First “Green Manufacturing Plant” in China First “Green Manufacturing Plant” in China / The 8.5 generation LGD plant was accredited as a “green manufacturing Plant plant” for the first time in China, as a result of the LGDCA’s active participation in China’s eco-friendly policies. The green manufacturing Plant certification system is an eco-friendly industrial policy initiated by the Chinese government, aiming to promote eco-friendly practice throughout product lifecycle ranging from production, use, to disposal. It also includes observation of environmental regulations, and various management indices. Upon introducing this system initially in the electronics industry, the Chinese government plans to expand it across all industries by 2030. The LGDCA focused on eco-friendly production strategies early on from the design phase of the 8.5G LCD production plant, and applied systems that meet international standards. As a result, we acquired seven international standard certifications in a short period of time, such as the ISO50001 certification for energy management, ISO14001 certification for environmental management, and the OHSAS18001 certification for health and safety management. Based on such achievement, we passed all six areas and 32 requirements under the green manufacturing Plant certification system, including the establishment of basic equipment, compliance of environmental regulations, energy/resource management, establishment of management systems, manufacturing of eco-friendly products, sound eco-friendly performance indicators, and other factors related to international standard certifications. Consequently, LGDCA became the first in China to acquire the ‘green manufacturing Plant certification.’ Green Manufacturing Plant Certification Energy Environment Safety ManageQuality RoHS GB / T Carbon GHG Management Management ment OHSAS Management 26125, Footprint Emissions ISO 50001 ISO 14001 18001 ISO 9001 26572 PAS 2050 ISO 14064-1 Management ㅣ Material Issues ㅣ •Corporate Social Responsibility in China ㅣ Performance & Appendix 59 Interview with the head of LG Display’s Chinese subsidiary The leadership of LG Display for sustainable management I believe that complying with laws and responding to customer demands are the most critical in enhancing sustainable management of the Nanjing subsidiary. The Nanjing subsidiary closely abides by the Chinese government’s Labor Law with regards to underage workers or working hours, and laws related to environment and safety. We operate our business strictly within the boundaries of laws and principles. In addition, we make the best of our efforts to respond to additional customer demands by employing part shift schedules or working on weekends. As for some demands from client companies involving the Jeong Gon Shin, ban on underage workers’ night work or extended working hours, I believe that a more flexible policy is Head of Nangjing needed for workforce management. LG Display will continue to formulate and expand a cooperative laborsubsidiary management relationship for value creation, which will eventually help achieve the production capacity and business profile required of the Nanjing subsidiary. The Guangzhou subsidiary of LG Display accomplished every production and quality objective during 2014 on the back of enthusiastic support of the employees, and made effort to resolve problems that were pointed out in customer demand surveys. will make concerted efforts to become a “Clean, Safe, and Professional Company,” which is the management direction for 2015. Employees will abide by principles, and managers will set good examples in order to enhance the creative values of LG Display. The Guangzhou subsidiary provides many educational programs to enhance business capabilities of partners and promote shared growth. In addition, various activities to raise safety awareness are being Jung Beom Heo, conducted for the employees to immediately respond to emergency, such as fire or accidents. There are Head of Guangzhou subsidiary plans underway to improve offices and cafeterias to provide a clean and comfortable work environment. Furthermore, programs that visit families of exemplary workers to boost their sense of pride are provided in order to create an enjoyable and happy workplace. The Guangzhou subsidiary strives to become a more competitive organization, identifying the root cause and tackling the fundamental problem whenever it is faced with a challenge. As the head of the Yantai subsidiary, I believe that creating economic value and actively pursuing social responsibilities are the top priorities.. Communication with local residents and employees is essential given the regional characteristics of China. The Yantai subsidiary strives to promote a one-family culture where the diversity of our employees is fully respected, in order to better understand their culture and lifestyle. We are successfully realizing the one-family organizational culture based on our efforts to create a company aspiring to become No.1, promote communication between people, and foster a culture full of Min Soo Park, warmth, in order to become a workplace that employees want to come to every morning. I will continue to Head of Yantai do my best to make Yantai subsidiary an exemplary case for good company culture in China. Subsidiary 60 You Dream, We Display nated from the company’s head office, we strive to create Safety & Health a safe and pleasant work environment in all of our overseas subsidiaries. LGDCA Safety & Health Promotion Activities and Improvement Safety & Health Promotion Activities of Guangzhou subsidiary Areas / The LGDCA established an on-site safety management system in 2014 to enhance stability during the initial Direction Action Items stage of new plant construction. As a result, we achieved zePrevention • Establish a safety accident prevention system of industrial • Reinforce regulations on construction ro-incidents, zero-fatalities in worksites. The LGDCA will exert accidents and safety managemen effort to establish an optimized safety system and prevent reinforcement • Carry out regular preventive activities, such as fundamental causes of accidents, with a long-term goal to of safety safety inspections and training for each department create a safe and healthy workplace. We are committed to management • Establish a standard on wearing protective framework equipment enhancing the health of our employees, which will lead to imRule-based • Full-time compliance with EHS regulations, including proved productivity and business performances. implementaOHSAS 18001 standards tion of safety • Improve the results of system assessments Safe Production Committee / A Safe Production Committee and fire fightby customers and the head office was established in June 2014 to hold monthly meetings on ing system • Maintain a good relationship with the government and maximize the use of resources safety·health issues and make relevant decisions. The commitReinforced • Prevent violations in relation to safety, fire fighting, tee is composed of the Chairperson (head of the plant), two prevention of and the environment thr ough management activities managers, seven representatives of workers, and seven reprelaw violation • Launch PR activities on in-house safety regulations sentatives of the company. The committee pursues the estabPrevention • Reinforce personnel access management lishment of a safe workplace based on on-site communication. of leakage • Enhance the security and monitoring system of important • Control employees' access authority assets Safety & Health Awareness Raising Activities Category Activities Yantai subsidiary Employee • Monthly Safety & Health training safety • Manager training Legal & Regulatoy Compliance / training • Special training Key Changes to Laws & Regulations and LG Display’s Reponse • Quarterly evacuation drill Health • In-house clicic / Physiotherapy Room New / ReDescription Improvement promotion •Psychological test and counseling for short-term vised Article assignees and FSE Article 4 •A company shall stan•O nline registration and • Medical examination for ISE dardize and enhance the relevant tasks are in level of safe production progress as requested Nanjing by Yantai Safety subsidiary Authorit Safety & Health KPI / With the development of a safety·health Article 19 •For ensuring safe •Assessment criteria for KPI, the Nanjing subsidiary consistently checks the level of production, a company safe production have achievement against the set goals. In 2014, the Nanjing subshall clearly define the rebeen established sidiary successfully enhanced safe management of plants, sponsible parties as well strengthened security management, upgraded security-related as assessment criteria fo safe production system facilities, and improved operation efficiency. Article 21 •A  staffing company shall •Training for conduct safe production subcontract workers Guangzhou subsidiary training for in-house has been included Conducting Safety Education / The Guangzhou subsidiary subcontract workers •Workers’ right provides systematic safety education in order to raise the has been revised in the subcontract agreement safety awareness of workers and to prevent safety accidents. In particular, employees are educated on the proper ways to handle hazardous or dangerous materials during work to preMajor Safety Education / The Yantai subsidiary provides a vent any safety accidents from occurring. Furthermore, the diverse range of safety education to train employees to efsubsidiary provides safety training that is tailored to different fectively respond to safety accidents. Educational videos on positions and departments. Based on effective safety manvarious incidents and accidents are used to raise awareness agement practices and safe environment policies dissemiabout the importance of accident prevention. Management ㅣ Material Issues ㅣ •Corporate Social Responsibility in China ㅣ Performance & Appendix 61 Safety Training Employees Title Trainee Description Hours New hires New hires • Production safety / health 8 Respect for Employees Human Rights training management hours/ Prohibition of Child Labor and Guarantee of Voluntary • Public health / fire safety year Work / LG Display's Chinese subsidiaries strictly follow the Regular Frontine • Safety and Health / fire safety 2 LG Group's HR policies as well as the relevant regulations in safety engineers • Safe handling of chemicals hours/ training month China. As per the country's law on the minimum age of emSpecial High-risk • Production / fire prevention / 16 ployment, they do not hire workers younger than 15 years of (job-specific) operators health hours/ age; when they hire workers who are 18 years old or younger, safety • Special equipment year they abide by all related regulations and laws and do not astraining (e.g., forklift) sign them to dangerous work that may threaten their health • Electrical safety Safety Safety • Roles & responsibilities of 16 or safety. At the same time, the subsidiaries guarantee their training for supervisupervisor hours/ employees' right to make voluntary decisions in relation to managers sors • Safe production year work, and under no circumstances do they subject them to • Firefighting devices forced labor. Safety Safety • Production safety / health 2 training for champion • fire safety / contract times/ partners at partners management yea Freedom of Association and Ban on Discrimination / LG Safety vendor • Basic compliance with safety 2 Display's subsidiaries in China guarantee the freedom of assotraining for resources rules hours/ ciation of all their employees, based on the autonomous and vendors • Cautions for those working year smooth communication emphasized by the company's head with fire office. Furthermore, employees are not subject to discrimiSafe Safe envi• Firefighting / electricity / 1.5 environment ronment facility safety hours/ natory treatments when it comes to employment, promotraining staff year tion, compensations, and training opportunities on grounds Safety All • External speakers invited 3 of their race, color, age, gender, sexual orientation, nationalpromotion employees • firefighting / traffic / health / times/ ity, disabilities, pregnancy, religion, political inclination, union activities police year membership, or marital status. Welfare & Benefits Emergency Dril The Yantai subsidiary held a fire fighting / LG Display offers a wide range of welfare programs that are technology contest in June 2014 at its worksite, with an aim tailored to the circumstances in China. to improve the workers’ emergency response capabilities and Category Description create a safe workplace. A total of 42 employees participated in the contest in teams of two, to receive training on using fire Health Regular Regular health checkups are provided to all Health employees to keep them health extinguishers, connecting hoses to a fire hydrant, and wearcheckups ing oxygen masks. The contest improved workers’ response Health The in-house health center enables employees to to fire-related accidents and raised fire safety awareness by center receive free treatment awarding those who showed exemplary performance. Medical Medical expenses are provided up to a certain expenses amount in the event of unexpected accidents or subsidy diseases caused by personal reasons LiveliDormitoIn-house dormitories and shuttle bus service for hood ries and commuting are provided free of charge to ensure the shuttle bus employees' comfort and stability service GuaranEmployees receive a certain number of days of teed leave paid leave in accordance with the labor law and other related regulations Support A certain amount of congratulatory/condolence for family money is provided for the employees' family events events Others Free Courses on investment techniques, Korean, courses and other topics that reflect the employees' needs are provided free of charg Support Physical and financial support is provided to various Emergency drills for club in-house clubs to increase communication among activities employees and encourage wholesome hobbies 62 You Dream, We Display Nanjing Joyful Workplace subsidiary Joyful workplace scheme / The Chinese subsidiaries of LG Children’s Day Event / The Joyful Workplace team and the Display strive to realize a ‘No.1 LG Display’ and achieve corNanjing subsidiary council organized an event for Children’s porate visions through activities that focus on three areas: a day in May 2014. 500 families took part in various activicompany where talents can grow, employees filled with posities during a three-hour-long event held in the company gym. tive mindsets, and a culture that unites people together. There was a meaningful program for experiencing Korean traditional food, designed to promote cultural exchange beJoyful Workplace Scheme tween Korea and China. Positive A company A culture that people growing with gathers all its members Peopleoriented One No. 1 Vision management Family LG Display Children’s Day Event Bus Service for Employees to Go Home on Chinese New Year / Chinese New year is one of the most important holiLGDCA days in China throughout the year. The Nanjing subsidiary arChinese New Year Event / In February 2014, the LGDCA ranged special buses to safely send employees back home to held a special event with Chinese traditional performance to their families, especially for those who failed to get tickets celebrate together Chinese New Year, the biggest holidays in due to a busy work schedule. There were a total of 37 buses China. 1,300 employees and their family members gathered provided, filled with snacks, which enabled 1,032 employees for the event, experiencing each other’sfood and culture. to safely visit their homes and their families. Chinese New Year Event Bus Services on Chinese New Year Guangzhou Badminton Games / The LGDCA held badminton games for subsidiary the employees in June 2014, with an aim to consolidate exDelivery of Thank-you Letters / The Guangzhou subsidiary change between different departments and promote an endelivered letters of thanks to the families of employees who joyable work culture. The games, which were held throughout received individual awards during the New Year kick-off meetthe month, boosted the health and fitness of employees and ings, as part of its family-friendly management policies which enhanced satisfaction of leisure activities. are based on the belief that a happy family can make all go well. Badminton Games Guangzhou subsidiary Thank-you Letters Management ㅣ Material Issues ㅣ •Corporate Social Responsibility in China ㅣ Performance & Appendix 63 Eco-friendly management Invitation of Families of Employees / The Guangzhou subLGDCA sidiary held an event to invite family members of employees Application of LED Lamps / From the initial stage of conliving in nearby cities. There were various programs including struction, the LGDCA was built to be an eco-friendly energy the city-tour of downtown Guangzhou, visit of the worksites, establishment by applying LED lamps to its plants. Unlike fluand participation in events provided for the families, which orescent lights, LED lamps are eco-friendly products that are strengthened relationships with the company and consoliboth mercury-free and CO2-deductible. LED lamps are exceldated a sense of unity and bond between family members. lent in clarity and visibility, and they are also immune to safety hazards as they do not fragment in a fall. Thanks to the LED lamps, the power bill has been cut by 3,515,297MWh a year. The LGDCA is planning to replace 27,000 lights at its plants and dormitories with LED lamps by the second half of 2015. Invitation of Families of Employees Yantai subsidiary Compliment campaign between employees / The Yantai Inside an Office of LGDCA with LED Lights in Place subsidiary holds a compliment campaign in order to facilitate communication between employees and to create a joyful Water Recycling System / The LGDCA is running a waste atmosphere at the workplace. Employees can post compliwater recycling system. In a bid to cope with water insufments of other workers on the compliment boards which are ficiency in a proactive manner, we are saving water resources installed within the workplace, and share their good deeds by retrieving the waste de-ionized water discharged from fawith everyone. cilities and reusing it for other processes. Water Recycling Facilities ph level Safety Recycling I adjustMF R/O DI water boiler ment Filter ph level Aeration Recycling II adjustMBR C/T 1st SCR ment tank Compliment campaign ph level 2nd SCR, Clean Recycling III adjustA/C Filter water (Fab, UT, ment WWT) MBR(Membrane Bio-Reactor) R/O(Reverse Osmosis A/C Filter(Activated carbon Filter) MF(Membrane Filter) 64 You Dream, We Display Nanjing subsidiary Communities Acquisition of ISO 5001 Certification / The Nanjing subsidiary has acquired ISO 5001 certification, an international manLGDCA agement standard system certified by the Events to promote social contributions / The LGDCA invited International Organization for Standardiza28 community leaders to its worksite, shared the results of tion (ISO). We will strictly comply with govits CSR activities, and sought ways to fulfill social responsiernment regulations, and make an effort to bilities for the neighboring local communities together with save energy and increase energy efficiency. ISO 50001 them. The LGDCA is planning to pursue various activities so that it can make contributions to the local communities with Guangzhou subsidiary local residents. Promotional Activities for Energy Saving / The Guangzhou subsidiary is preserving the environment through various promotional activities focused on saving energy resources. Our activities include attaching awareness stickers at the dormitories, cafeterias, and restrooms, and installing banners and signs within our business areas. With the environment and energy department at the center of our efforts, we are LGDCA Social Contribution Actiities promoting awareness on the importance of energy saving by sharing tips with our employees that they can practice in Nanjing everyday life such as switching off unused lights, unplugging subsidiary cords, closing doors, and saving water. Volunteer work at nursing homes / Two dozens of employees at the Nanjing subsidiary visited nursing homes in the neighborhoods and took part in volunteer work for the seniors with physical challenges by caring for the elderly and keeping their company. We are doing our best to observe Chinese culture which place a high value on respecting the elderly and fulfilling our social responsibilities. ”Turn off the Light” Sticker Yantai subsidiary Activities to Cut Energy Use / During the year of 2014, the Yantai subsidiary implemented various energy saving campaigns such as replacement of LED lamps, recycling of reVolunteer work at nursing homes sidual heat, optimized operations of heating and cooling, and the use of remodeled dish washers. As a result, we were able Volunteer work at orphanage / The employees at the Nanto slash the energy cost by 3,348,187 yuan. The subsidiary jing subsidiary visited an orphanage in the local community will improve its energy equipment and facilities to maximize to participate in volunteer work. We donated televisions and energy efficiency, thereby practicing energy saving and envidaily necessities and practiced the spirit of sharing by playing ronmental protection in a more proactive manner. clay with the children and decorating their bedrooms. It was a great opportunity to take care of the children born to the Activities Unit Progress marginalized families in local communities and to communiWater saving 927,390 cate with them. Saving from dish washer replacement and 293,300 steam recycling LED lamp installation 435,040 CNY Saving from optimized operation of heating and cooling 587,175 Optimized operation of idle facilities 819,060 Others 286,222 Volunteer Activity at Orphanage Management ㅣ Material Issues ㅣ •Corporate Social Responsibility in China ㅣ Performance & Appendix 65 Charity bazaar / The employees at the Nanjing subsidiary again. To promote environmental preservation, the Guangheld a charity bazaar in order to help local communities. The zhou subsidiary is planning to pursue various activities to cut entire proceeds worth 9,228 yuan went to the unprivileged greenhouse gas emissions and preserve the ecosystem. living in nearby local communities. The subsidiary and its emYantai ployees will continue to pursue activities to share with its losubsidiary cal neighbors. Activities of Yantai Subsidiary in 2014 / The Yantai subsidiary is pursuing various CSR activities with the social condiMuseum tour for the children of migrant workers / Twice tions of local communities taken into consideration. We are a year, the Nanjing subsidiary invites the children of migrant polishing our corporate image through sincere activities and workers to its showroom to let them experience cutting-edge pursuing sustainable management by strengthening partnerdisplay technologies such as 3D TVs and OLED effect. We ship with government organizations. guide the students to visit Nanjing Science and Technology Provision of • Yantai special education school Museum and encourage them to develop an academic intercare for the • Visits to nursing homes est as well. The Nanjing subsidiary will provide various acaunderprivileged • Visits to the families of employees demic opportunities for the children so that the workers can with financial trouble feel at ease and focus on work. • Volunteering Donations • Mandatory blood donation • Donation to poverty areas in mountains • Donation to disaster-stricken areas Local • Medical examination communities • Visits to underprivileged groups in local communities • Visits to neighboring towns during national holidays Museum tour for the children of migrant workers • Free lectures on health for local communities Environmental • Forestation of the LG Display Forest Guangzhou subsidiary protection • Cleanup activities for public facilities and sea waste Street sweeping / The employees at the Guangzhou subsidiary have spearheaded the effort to make our streets clean by CSR Performance of Yantai Subsidiary cleaning up the roads in the vicinity of its business areas and pursuing various cleanup activities. As a responsible corporate Category Unit 2012 2013 2014 citizen, we will make an effort to boost the awareness on No. of participants in Persons 15 65 655 environmental protection and contribute to the development CSR activities of local communities. Street sweeping Provision of school supplies for the nearby elementary schools Tree planting / The Guangzhou subsidiary’s tree planting initiative was a responsible step to address the growing social issue of environmental degradation and a decision to contribute to the vision of low-carbon, green growth. It was a unique volunteering activity designed to engage more employees and give them a chance to think about the importance of nature 66 You Dream, We Display Supply Chain Fair Trade Nanjing Establishment of Ethical System / LG Display is making subsidiary the best effort to run ethical business and practice JeongPledge for the Observance of the Basic Principles / The Do Management by adhering to global standards, including Nanjing subsidiary took the pledge from its employees for the protection of private information, and complying with the observance of the basic principles. It has highlighted the the domestic laws of the countries concerned. LG Display will leaders’ role of leading the others by example and encouraged provide its employees with systematic education programs employees to abide by the basic principles of compliance. on corporate ethics and strive to establish the principles of Yantai Jeong-Do Management as a fundamental corporate culture subsidiary for its Chinese subsidiaries through various PR activities. Distribution of Ethics Guidebook / The Yantai subsidiary distributed to all employees a guidebook containing the ethical Conducting Jeong-Do Management Training / Our Chinese codes of conduct based on Jeong-Do management. Containsubsidiaries have incorporated Jeong-Do management into ing the responsibilities and duties for our customers, fair comtheir compulsory training programs for new hires to clearly petition and trade, and responsibilities for the country and disseminate the principle. Through our well-thought-out society, the guidebook is an easy guide for staff who can align training programs new employees learn the seemingly unfatheir way of behavior with the codes of conduct and practice miliar concept of Jeong-Do management and establish the Jeong-Do management in their day-to-day work. ethical way of thinking and behavior. Interview with Chinese partners The Nanjing subsidiary of Yangji Electronics has specialized in the display backlight for vehicles. It has maintained a business partnership with LG Display since 2006, and it was designated as an excellent partner at the Dream Shared Growth, a performance sharing event held in 2014. Yangji Electronics is encouraging its field workers to foster multi-tasking capabilities through education programs. We hire Chinese employees who studied in Korean universities and make sure to train them first before dispatching them to Nanjing, thereby serving as a link between the Korean resident employees and the local people in China. This allowed us to deliver the requests from LG Display to the entire organization faster than any Sang Ho Park, other competitor through the assistance of Chinese Korean experts, and our customer responsiveness has Head of Nanjing improved as much. Every Tuesday, LG Display conducts 5S evaluations on its partner companies with regard subsidiary, Yangji to the environment/safety support activities, and each partner gets feedbacks in the form of scores. If LG Electronics Display shares its know-hows on the processes and manuals of CSR evaluation and environmental safety assessment, small-and medium-sized partner companies will be able to learn advanced management skills and upgrade their business quality at the same time. Newoptics is a manufacturer of electrical and electronics parts. The company produces back light units for LCD TVs. We provide outsourcing services for the manufacturing of modular products at LG Display’s manufacturing plant in Guangzhou. As new models are launched, it has become very important for the partner companies to meet a set of criteria in satisfying quality expectations. LG Display shares with partners preliminary plans on the issues regarding the quality or manufacturing of new models, and it deals with issues through immediate responses, receiving various support that are aimed at boosting productivity. Newoptics is engaged in a variety of activities to secure competitiveness. The company adopted performance-based wage Sun Woo Nam, system for office workers and production line workers to boost the motivation of employees, and it achieved Head of Guangzhou a zero defect objective and increased the production volume through the tailored establishment of KPI for subsidiary, Newoptics. individual employees. We believe that such a virtuous circle will directly translate into the competence of LG Display, and we will pursue various activities and do our best to achieve shared growth with LG Display. Management ㅣ Material Issues ㅣ •Corporate Social Responsibility in China ㅣ Performance & Appendix 67 Selected among China's 10 strongest Businesses in Corporate Culture Competitiveness / The Yantai subsidiary was selected as one of the 10 strongest businesses in China in Corporate Culture Competitiveness at the 2014 Chinese Corporate Culture Convention. The subsidiary has no record of violation of state laws or regulations in the recent two years and has spread its cororate culture to all its employees through various promotional and educational activities. In recognition of its contribution the Yantai subsidiary was selected among the 10 most culturally influent companies, securing the leadersip in the field of corporate culture. Award for Corporate Culture Competitiveness Daeseong Gas is a partner of LG Display supplying nitrogen and other specialy gases for its panel production process. Being a high-pressure gas producer, my company faces many difficulties in establishing subsidiaries in foreign countries. LG Display has provided help for us both directly and indirectly in dealing with some of the difficulties, and it made us feel that they consider their partner companies as true global business partners. Furthermore, LG Display has frequently provided information on safety and environment regulations, and it has also conducted regular supervisions once a week so that its smaller business partners can preemptively respond to the regulations that are strictly emphasized by the Chinese government. Some of the common concerns of the partners operating overseas will be to secure professional workers and receive management Won Sik Lee, Head of Guangzhou support for large investments. The competence of partners in terms of human resources affects the subsidiary, Daeseong Gas competence of contractors like LG Display in terms of quality control. We place a great importance on job training, keeping in mind that our competence determines the competence of our partner companies. One thing I hope is for LG Display to provide more management support to its partners and establish a more stable business structure so that its partners can better maintain their business competitiveness in overseas markets. The Yantai subsidiary generates the second largest sales revenue within the areas of our business operation. In other words, the subsidiary has a huge economic effect. Hui Seong Electronics receives both direct and indirect help from LG Display as one of its primary partners. Everyday, we hold meetings on technological development, education, and HR support in conjunction with our counterparts from LG Display. In particular, we received technical assistance in setting up a process at the Yantai plant in June, last year. Here at Hui Seong Electronics, we are making contributions to the development of local communities by visiting nursing homes and orphanages, planting trees, and providing schools with class equipment. At an early stage, we Gi Joo Cho, did not have much information about the city, and the infrastructure established by LG Display paid off Head of Yantai subsidiary, handsomely. However, given the volatile nature of our business that makes it difficult to predict the midto Hui Seong Electronics long-term demand, efficient management of resources and workers has always been challenges for us. I ask for a continued support and cooperation from LG Display in the technology and HR fronts as we jointly seek to build a mutually-beneficial cooperative relationship. 68 You Dream, We Display Corporate Social Responsibility in Poland Head of Polish subsidiary Jeong Woong Yeo I believe that CSR activities start from keeping the basics and principles. All decisions executed at the Polish subsidiary should be based on the principles of localization, not the standards of Korea. In other words, the resident workers need to learn how to boost the performance of other employees and make themselves resourceful to the local people instead of sticking to their Korean ways. I think that the caliber of a leader can be gauged by looking at how wisely he weathers through the times of a crisis. In addition, an organization yields the best results only when it can operate organically and naturally. To this end, detailed considerations need to be taken for each individual employee, and when such small changes accumulate, we can pursue CSR activities more naturally in the end. Bridgehead to Europe Polish subsidiary Joyful Workplace Established in September 2005, the Polish subsidiary aims to The Joyful Workplace initiative at the Polish subsidiary derived from secure competitiveness in the European market and is facing ro‘Human-oriented Management’, one of the management philosophies bust challenges and vibrant changes. Located in Wroclaw that of LG Group. We believe that fostering an energetic corporate culture boasts one of the highest levels of human resources in Poland, is a source of fun, and we work towards striking a sound balance bethe subsidiary manufactured its first LCD module in December tween mental, physical, and social elements, so that our employees can 2006. The subsidiary has continued to advance afterwards. In focus on work better. July 2008, the subsidiary reached a cumulative mark of 5 million in manufacturing and sales, and it set a new record of 10 million Directions and Key Achievements units merely ten months later. The subsidiary has played a major •Presentation sessions held •Monthly themes role in carving out a market share in the European •Satisfaction survey •Company outings TV market by reaching the milestone of 40 milconducted •Cooking festivals lion in production and sales as of June 2012. •Company •Sporting events Bala e nc newsletters as rship work e •Family-oriented e a I een in owncre published tw events for employn be d life ees and children Direction of n 2014 Joyful ri Workplace •Contribution Cont so •Month of Safety b to et & donation cie utio f y event ty n Sa programs •Health promotion •Social contribution program programs Polish subsidiary Grant Program Under Grant Program, LG Display provides financial support to employees who reach out to local communities Based on the notion that local employees understand the needs and wants of their local community best, we have launched the program. Anyone in LG Display can apply for the Grant Program, and applications are screened internally twice a year to select a total of six initiatives designed to contribute to local community development. In November 2014, we supported Club of Model Making, an organization based in Dzieroniów, Poland, offering a space for students participating in the organization to design, make, and test fly model aircraft, as well as equipment and other supplies needed. Support for Club of Model Making Month of Safety Event During March, which is designated as a month of safety, various events related to safety regulations and a safety quiz contest were held to raise the safety awareness of employees. Safety guidelines were devised and a promotional video on safety was aired to further bolster safety awareness. Safety Event Management ㅣ Material Issues ㅣ •Corporate Social Responsibility in China ㅣ Performance & Appendix 69 performance & Appendix Economic Data 70 Environmental Data 70 Social Data 73 Other Data 74 GRI G4 Guidelines 75 UN Global Compact 79 Third Party Assurance Report 80 Contributors to Report Preparation 81 Awards, Recognitions and Memberships 82 70 You Dream, We Display Economic Data Environmental Data R&D Investments Green Product Certification (RoHS, Carbon Footprint) Category Unit 2012 2013 2014 No. of Certified Green Products Unit : cases KRW in R&D Expenses 1,372,787 1,674,780 1,787,593 million 7 R&D-to-Sales % 4.7 6.2 6.8 0 0 Ratio Government-sponsored R&D project expenses* 2012 2013 2014 In a government-funded project Unit : KRW hundred million 163.2 Use of Resources at Domestic Worksites 152.5 85.4 Unit 2012 2013 2014 Backlight thousand 307,782 271,694 291,321 Glass m² 89,911,228 86,574,350 98,240,683 Polarizer thousand 693,596 652,323 690,204 2012 2013 2014 Drive IC thousand 1,444,083 1,295,768 1,324,140 * participating  organizations in the consortium conduct R&D with government subsidies, Liquid Crystal kg 126,022 122,696 129,138 based on the direction of R&D put forth by LG Display. However, as LG Display is expected to benefit from the outcome of the project, a government-funded project refers to all the contributions of the consortium and the government subsidies directly granted to particWater Withdrawls by Source at Domestic Worksites ipating organizations. As such, relevant data has changed from that of last year’s report. Unit 2012 2013 2014 Industrial water 76,760,228 75,084,925 76,071,329 Residential water ton 2,235,056 2,166,580 1,917,412 Underground water 346,112 420,894 383,461 Water Recycling Rate* Unit 2012 2013 2014 Reusing Rate % 115 125 130 Reused Water 92,006,999 95,711,255 101,236,796 Water Newly ton 80,156,957 76,465,506 77,860,413 Supplied * Figures of previous years have been changed in line with the new method of water recycling rate calculation based on reused water/water newly supplied Management ㅣ Material Issues ㅣ Corporate Social Responsibility in China ㅣ •Performance & Appendix 71 Emmissions of Air Pollutants by Domestic Worksites Type Unit 2012 2013 2014 Entity Discharge Unit 2012 2013 2014 Classification Method NOx 47,455 83,421 35,885 Nanjing HazardProcessed 32 60 7 SOx kg/yr 49,938 68,306 17,638 ous Incineration 0 0 0 OthersPersistent wastes 110,577 151,837 104,644 Recycled 0 0 0 organic pollutants General Incineration ton 1,368 335 225 wastes Landfill 1,620 1,638 2,181 Discharge of Water Pollutants by Domestic Worksites* Recycled 2,891 2,052 2,991 Type Unit 2012 2013 2014 Ocean dumping 0 0 0 Total discharge ton/yr 75,235,370 71,242,941 72,457,159 Recycling rate % 48 46 93 Water quality BOD 14.9 14.8 23.3 GuangHazardProcessed 4 2 2 zhou ous COD ton/d 9.1 10.3 15.2 Incineration 0 0 0 wastes SS 5.2 6.2 8.4 Recycled 0 0 0 General Incineration ton 0 0 0 * The increase in emissions is largely attributable to the production increase wastes Landfill* 700 496 525 Recycled 3,593 3,939 5,103 Waste Generation of Domestic and Overseas Worksites* Ocean dumping 0 0 0 Recycling rate* % 84 89 91 Entity Discharge Unit 2012 2013 2014 HazardProcessed Classification Method Yantai 0 0 0 ous Paju / Hazardous Processed 1,104 939 808 Incineration 1 6 7 wastes Gumi wastes Recycled 105,905 73,545 79,552 Recycled 0 0 0 General Incineration 765 799 1,067 General Incineration ton 0 0 0 wastes ton wastes Landfill 42,934 39,250 11,280 Landfill 95 233 515 Recycled 58,045 55,478 30,378 Recycled 1,024 1,400 2,990 Ocean dumping 10,253 9,660 0 Ocean dumping 0 0 0 Recycling rate % 71 72 89 Recycling rate % 91 85 85 LGDCA Hazardous Processed 0 0 2,367 Wroclaw HazardProcessed 0 0 0 wastes ous Incineration 0 0 28 Incineration 0 0 0 wastes Recycled 0 0 1,166 Recycled 101 11 2 General Incineration ton 0 0 0 General Incineration ton 716 375 307 wastes wastes Landfill 0 0 218 Landfill 153 114 112 Recycled 0 0 4,331 Recycled 2,287 2,045 1,726 Ocean dumping 0 0 0 Ocean dumping 0 0 0 Recycling rate % 0 0 68 Recycling rate % 73 81 80 * Figures of 2013 were recalculated using revised calculation criteria * Data collection scope : Domestic and overseas worksites 72 You Dream, We Display Energy Consumption at Domestic and Overseas Worksites * Energy Intensity at Domestic and Overseas Worksites * Category Account Unit 2012 2013 2014 Unit 2012 2013 2014 Paju / Direct LNG 1,504 1,319 1,103 Energy consumption 66,889 66,082 67,276 TJ Gum energy Biofuel 28 0 0 Manufacturing thousand 7,853 7,670 8,425 Ohers TJ 210 230 0 performance glasses Indirect Electricity 59,238 59,384 58 ,178 Energy TJ/thousand 8.5 8.6 8.0 energy intensity* glasses Steam 197 159 0 LGDCA Direct * For manufacturing performance estimation, the total area of all glasses manufactured LNG 0 0 43 was divided by the area of a single 8th generation glass energy Biofuel 0 0 0 Ohers TJ 0 0 0 GHG Emissions by Domestic Worksites Indirect Electricity 0 0 1,223 energy Category Unit 2012 2013 2014 Steam 0 0 0 Total GHG emissions 6,161,151 6,921,656 7,537,108 Nanjing Direct LNG 10 12 11 energy Scope1 tCO2eq 3,284,122 4,035,498 4,696,481 Biofuel 0 0 0 Ohers TJ 0 0 0 Scope2 2,877,029 2,886,159 2,840,627 Indirect Electricity 1,509 1,296 1,177 * The increase in emissions is largely attributable to the production increase energy Steam 121 12 79 GuangDirect LNG 56 35 159 Scope 3 GHG Emissions by Domestic Worksites zhou energy Biofuel 0 0 0 Category Unit 2014 Ohers TJ 0 0 0 Employees’ business travel 3,871 Indirect Electricity 3,727 3,385 4,051 energy Goods transportation Shipping tCO2eq 4,933 Steam 0 0 0 Import 2,107 Yantai Direct LNG 20 13 13 energy Biofuel 0 0 0 Ohers TJ 16 16 17 GHG Emissions by Overseas Worksites Indirect Electricity 82 87 115 Category Unit 2012 2013 2014 energy Steam 34 27 16 LGDCA 249,879 WroDirect LNG 3 3 3 Nanjing 136,922 118,502 102,999 claw energy Biofuel 0 0 0 Guangzhou tCO2eq 56,043 36,230 32,903 Ohers TJ 0 0 0 Yantai 105,028 22,928 16,699 Indirect Electricity 134 104 88 Wroclaw 1,244 1,191 1,097 energy Steam 0 0 0 * Data collection scope : Domestic and overseas worksites GHG Emission Reduction by Domestic Worksites Category Unit 2012 2013 2014 GHG emission tCO2eq 928,211 409,178 376,913 reduction Management ㅣ Material Issues ㅣ Corporate Social Responsibility in China ㅣ •Performance & Appendix 73 Social Data Employees Data Employee Turnover Rate Category Unit 2012 2013 2014 Category Unit 2012 2013 2014 Domestic Male 24,066 23,851 23,449 Employee Turnover Rate % 8.8 6.1 4.8 Female 10,679 9,884 9,079 persons Overseas Male 9,993 8,281 8,461 Female Employees Female 10,883 9,189 8,432 Unit 2012 2013 2014 New Employment Female workforce ratio % 38.8 37.2 35.4 Unit 2012 2013 2014 New Office Line Office Line Office Line The Ratio of Entry-level Wage by Gender Compared Emworkworkworkworkworkworkto Local Minimum Wage ployers ers ers ers ers ers ment perNew 325 2,264 727 487 311 65 Category Unit 2012 2013 2014 sons Exmale 277.7 276.9 279.5 peri57 236 79 73 74 0 % Female 272.7 276.2 264.3 enced Industrial Incidents Annual Average Training Hours per Employee Industrial Incidents Unit : % Category Unit 2012 2013 2014 0.039 0.015 Annual Average Training 36.5 41.9 33.4 Hours per Employee 0.003 Hours Total Training Hours 127ten 145ten 110ten thousand thousand thousand No. of Trainees per34,745 34,501 33,018 2012 2013 2014 at Domestic Worksites sons Social Contribution Investment & Participation Category Item Unit 2012 2013 2014 Social contribution Corporate Donation* KRW 15,300,189,800 16,266,981,600 11,597,381,520 investments Social contribution Volunteering Donation Volunteering Donation Volunteering Donation participation No. of Social Contribution Programs cases 1,810 31 2,050 31 2,862 44 No. of Participants persons 25,465 3,870 28,198 4,678 33,843 5,166 (double counting allowed) Voluntary Donation Amount** KRW 77,697,830 114,482,740 121,320,850 * Corporate Donation : Sum of donations recorded under “Corporate Donation” account ** Amount donated by employees (excluding matching grants) Hours of Employee Training on Policies or Procedures Concerining Human Rights and the Number of Employees Trained HR Education Program Type 2012 2013 2014 Classification Person hours Person hours Person hours Anti-secxual harassment, Jeong-Do Collective Office 368 2,920 720 5,712 505 2,815 Management and Fair Trade Modules education included in the training for new hires Line 2,414 3,489 553 1,106 64 128 Building pleasant and healthy corporate Collective 1,162 1,743 31,446 46,898 20,541 20,541 culture (prevention of sexual harassment) education Prevention of sexual harassment at work e-Learning 11 55 11,583 17,375 13,178 13,250 Jeong-Do Management course e-Learning 10,461 10,461 609 609 364 1,820 74 You Dream, We Display Social minority Other Data Unit 2012 2013 2014 Disabled QUIN(Quality Information Network)* No. of Models requested Minority group (Nanumnuri persons 325 415 492 in the system / assessed for safety standards and certified included) Share % 0.9 1.2 1.5 No. of User Health & Safety Impact Unit : Number Assessments Performed Patriots & persons 319 317 333 veterans 588 542 Share % 0.9 0.9 1.0 536 No. of Employees Coveredby Corporate Pension Plan Unit 2012 2013 2014 Defined benefit (DB) 32,726 32,609 32,528 persons 2012 2013 2014 Defined contribution (DC) 4 7 7 * LG Display’s Quality Management System Number of staff who received regular performance evaluation Local Procurement of Major Worksites Staff subject to regular performance evaluation Unit : persons Unit 2012 2013 2014 and career development assessmen Local procurement Korea 86 84 85 33,153 33,646 32,528 policy & practice China % 98 100 100 Poland 100 100 100 2012 2013 2014 Reports of Human Rights Issues & Grievances Unit 2012 2013 2014 Labor Union Membership Total no. of complaints reported in relation to labor 12 27 30 Participate rate Unit : % practices No. of complaints being dealt cases 68.6 67.7 67.4 with No. of complaints resolved 12 27 30 No. of labor union members Unit : persons 23,819 22,828 21,938 2012 2013 2014 Use of Parental Leave ※Restricted to domestic worksites Unit 2012 2013 2014 No. of employess on parental leave 312 394 543 No. of employees returning to 134 266 342 work after parental leave persons No. of employees still employed in the company 12 months after the 71 146 241 end of parental leave Management ㅣ Material Issues ㅣ Corporate Social Responsibility in China ㅣ •Performance & Appendix 75 GRI G4 Guidelines Standard Disclosures ◐ Partially Reported ● Fully Reported ○ Not Reported Third-party Category Indicators Core Contents Reporting Page Assurance Strategy G4-1 ● A statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization ● 6~7 ● and (such as CEO, chair, or equivalent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to Analysis the organization and the organization’s strategy for addressing sustainability OrganiG4-3 ● The name of the organization ● 10~11 ● zational G4-4 ● The primary brands, products, and services ● 10~11 ● Profile G4-5 ● The location of the organization’s headquarters ● 10~11 ● G4-6 ● The number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries where ● 10~11 ● either the organization has significant operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report G4-7 ● The nature of ownership and legal form ● 14~15 ● G4-8 ● The markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of ● 10~11 ● customers and beneficiaries) G4-9 ● The scale of the organization ● 10~11 G4-10 ● the total number of male and female employees by employment contract, ● 72~73 ● employment type, and share of employees and supervised workers, total workfoce by region and gender, work scope of non-regular workers, and any significant variations in employement numbers G4-11 ● The percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements ● 72~73 ● G4-12 ● The organization’s supply chain ● 40~45 ● G4-13 ● Any significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’s size, ● 2 ● structure, ownership, or its supply chain G4-14 ● Whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed ● 15,19 ● by the organization G4-15 ● List of externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, ● 82 ● or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or which it endorses G4-16 ● Memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and national or ● 82 ● international advocacy organizations Identified G4-17 ● Any entity included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or ● See Business ● Material equivalent documents is not covered by the report Report Aspects G4-18 ● The process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries and how the ● 22~23 ● and organization has implemented the Reporting Principles for Defining Report Content Boundaries All the material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content G4-19 ● ● 22~23 ● G4-20 ● The Aspect Boundary within the organization for each material Aspect ● 22~23 ● G4-21 ● The Aspect Boundary outside the organization for each material Aspect ● 22~23 ● G4-22 ● The effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, ● N/A ● and the reasons for such restatements G4-23 ● Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries ● N/A ● StakeholdG4-24 ● List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization ● 22~23 ● er EngageG4-25 ● The basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage ● 22~23 ● ment G4-26 ● The organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement ● 22~23 ● (by type and by stakeholder group) G4-27 ● Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, ● 22~23 ● and the organization’s response, and the stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and concerns Report G4-28 ● Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) ● 2 ● Profile G4-29 ● Date of most recent previous report ● 2 ● G4-30 ● Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial) ● 2 ● G4-31 ● The contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents ● 2 ● G4-32 ● The ‘in accordance’ option the organization has chosen (Core v.s Comprehensive) and the ● 2 ● GRI Content Index for the chosen option, and the reference to the External Assurance Report, if the report has been externally assured 76 You Dream, We Display ● Fully Reported ◐ Partially Reported ○ Not Reported Third-party Category Indicators Core Contents Reporting Page Assurance Report G4-33 ● The organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external ● 2 ● Profile assurance for the report, the scope and basis of any external assurance, the relationship between the organization and the assurance providers, and whether the highest governance body or senior executives are involved in seeking assurance for the sustainability report GoverG4-34 ● The governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest ● 14~15 ● nance governance body and any committees responsible for decision-making on economic, environmental and social impacts G4-36 Executive-level positions with responsibility for economic, environmental and ● 14~15 ● social topics G4-38 The composition of the highest governance body and its committees ● 14~15 ● G4-39 Whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer ● 14~15 ● G4-40 The criteria used for nominating and selecting highest governance body members ● 14~15 ● G4-41 Processes for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest ● N/A ● are avoided and managed G4-42 Executive-level roles in setting purposes, values, and strategy ● N/A ● G4-43 The measures taken to develop and enhance the highest governance body’s collective ● 14~15 ● knowledge of economic, environmental and social topics G4-46 The highest governance body’s role in reviewing the effectiveness of the organization’s ● 14~15 ● risk management processes for economic, environmental and social topics Ethics and G4-56 ● The organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as codes of ● 16~17 ● Integrity conduct and codes of ethics Specific Standard Disclosures ● Fully Reported ◐ Partially Reported ○ Not Reported Third-party Aspect Material Indicators Contents Reporting Page Assurance Economic Economic ● DMA General Manangement Approach ● 26 ● Performance ● G4-EC1 Direct Economic Value Generated and Distributed ● 13 ● Financial Implications and Other Risks and Opportunities for the Organization’s ● ● G4-EC2 ● 46 Activities Due to Climate Change ● G4-EC3 Coverage of the Organization’s Defined Benefit Plan Obligations ● 73 ● ● G4-EC4 Financial Assistance Received from Government ● 70 ● Indirect Economic DMA Management Approach for each Aspect ● 26 ● Impacts G4-EC7 Development and Impact of Infrastructure Investments and Services Supported ● 50~54 ● Environmental Materials DMA General Manangement Approach ● 46 ● G4-EN1 Materials Used by Weight or Volume ● 70~72 ● G4-EN2 Percentage of Materials that are Recycled Input Materials ● N/A ● Energy ● DMA Management Approach for each Aspect ● 46 ● ● G4-EN3 Energy Consumption within the Organization ● 70~72 ● ● G4-EN4 Energy Consumption outside the Organization ◐ N/A ● ● G4-EN5 Energy Intensity ◐ 70~72 ● ● G4-EN6 Reduction of Energy Consumption ● 70~72 ● ● G4-EN7 Reductions in Energy Requirements of Products and Services ◐ N/A ● Management ㅣ Material Issues ㅣ Corporate Social Responsibility in China ㅣ •Performance & Appendix 77 Third-party Aspect Material Indicators Contents Reporting Page Assurance Water ● DMA General Manangement Approach ● 46 ● ● G4-EN8 Total Water Withdrawal by Source ● 70~72 ● ● G4-EN9 Water Sources Significantly Affected by Withdrawal ◐ N/A ● ● G4-EN10 Percentage and Total Volume of Water Recycled and Reused ● 70~72 ● Emissions ● DMA Management Approach for each Aspect ● 46 ● ● G4-EN15 Direct GHG Emissions ● 70~72 ● ● G4-EN16 Indirect GHG Emissions ● 70~72 ● ● G4-EN17 Other Indirect GHG Emissions ● 70~72 ● ● G4-EN18 GHG Emissions Intensity ● 70~72 ● ● G4-EN19 Reduction of GHG Emissions ● 70~72 ● ● G4-EN20 ODS Emissions ● 70~72 ● ● G4-EN21 NOX, SOX, and Other Significant Air Emissions ● 70~72 ● Effluents and ● DMA Management Approach for each Aspect ● 46 ● Waste ● G4-EN22 Total Water Discharge by Quality and Destination ● 70~72 ● ● G4-EN23 Total Weight of Waste by Type and Disposal Method ● 70~72 ● ● G4-EN24 Total Number and Volume of Significant Spills ● N/A ● ● G4-EN25 Weight of Transported, Imported, Exported or Treated Waste Deemed ● N/A ● Hazardous under the Terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and Percentage of Transported Waste Shipped Internationally ● G4-EN26 Identity, Size, Protected Status, and Biodiversity Value of Water Bodies and ◐ 70~72 ● Their Habitats Significantly Affected by the Organization’s Discharge of Water and Runoff Products and ● DMA General Management Approach ● 46 ● Services ● G4-EN27 Extent of Impact Mitigation of Environmental Impacts of Products and ● 43~47 ● Services ● G4-EN28 Percentage of Products Sold and Their Packaging Materials Reclaimed by ● N/A ● Category Social Labor Practices and Decent Work Employement ● DMA Management Approach by Aspect ● 34 ● ● G4-LA1 Number and Rates of New Employee Hires and Employee Turnover by Age, ● 72~73 ● Gender and Region ● G4-LA2 Benefits Provided to Full-time Employees only (not to Temporary or Part-time ● 38 ● Employees) by Significant Locations of Operation ● G4-LA3 Return to Work and Retention Rates After Parental Leave, by Gender ● 72~73 ● Occupational ● DMA Management Approach by Aspect ● 31 ● Health and ● G4-LA5 Percentage of Total Workforce Represented in Industrial Health and Safety ● 72~73 ● Safety Committees that Help Monitor and Advise on Occupational Health and Safety Programs ● G4-LA6 Type of Injury and Rates of Injury, Occupational Diseases, Lost Days, and ● 72~73 ● Absenteeism and Total Number of Work-related Fatalities, by Region and Gender Training & ● DMA General Management Approach ● 34 ● Education ● G4-LA9 Average Hours of Training per Year per Employee by Gender, ● 72~73 ● and by Employee Category ● G4-LA10 Programs for Skills Management and Lifelong Leearning that Support Contin● 36~37 ● ued Employability of Employees and Assist Them in Managing Career Endings ● G4-LA11 Percentage of Employees Receiving Regular Performance and Career ◐ 72~73 ● Development Reviews, by Gender and by Employee Category 78 You Dream, We Display Third-party Aspect Material Indicators Contents Reporting Page Assurance Supplier ● DMA Management Approach for each Aspect ● 40 ● Assessment for ● G4-LA15 Significant Actual and Potential Negative Impacts for Labor Practices ● 41~43 ● Labor Practices in the Supply Chain and Actions Taken Labor Prac● DMA Management Approach for each Aspect ● 34 ● tices Grievance ● G4-LA16 Number of Grievances about Labor Practices Filed, Addressed, and Resolved ● 74 ● Mechanisms through Formal Grievance Mechanisms Human rights Human Rights DMA Management Approach for each Aspect ● 34 ● Investment G4-HR2 Hours of Employee Training on Policies or Procedures Concerining Human ● 72~73 ● Rights Relevant to Operations, and the Number of Employees Trained NonDMA General Manangement Approach ● 34 ● discrimination G4-HR3 Total Number of Incidents of Discrimination and Corrective Actions Taken ● N/A ● Freedom of DMA Management Approach for each Aspect ● 34 ● Association G4-HR4 Operations and Suppliers Identified in which the Right to Exercise Freedom of ● 39 ● and Collective Association and Collective Bargaining May be Violated or at Significant Risk, Bargaining and Measures Taken to Support These Rights Child Labor DMA General Manangement Approach ● 34 ● G4-HR5 Operations and Suppliers Identified as Having Significant Risk for Incidents of ● N/A ● Child Labor, and Measures Taken to Contribute to the Effective Abolition of Child Labor Forced Labor DMA General Manangement Approach ● 34 ● G4-HR6 Operations and Suppliers Identified as Having Significant Risk for Incidents ● N/A ● of Forced Labor, and Measures Taken to Contribute to the Elimination of All Forms of Forced Labor Supplier ● DMA Management Approach for each Aspect ● 40 ● Human Rights ● G4-HR11 Significant Actual and Potential Negative Human Rights Impacts in the Supply ● 43~44 ● Assessment Chain and Actions Taken Society Local ● DMA Management Approach by Aspect ● 50 ● Communities ● G4-SO1 Percentage of Operations with Implemented Local Community Engagement, ◐ 51~54 ● Impact Assessment and Development Programs ● G4-SO2 Operations with Significant Actual and Potential Negative Impacts ● N/A ● on Local Communities Anti● DMA Management Approach by Aspect ● 16~17 ● corruption ● G4-SO3 Number AND Percentage of Operations Assessed for Risks Related to ● 16~17 ● Corruption and the Significant Risks Identified ● G4-SO4 Communication and Training on Anti-curruption Policies and Procedures ● 16~17 ● ● G4-SO5 Confirmed Incidents of Corruption and Actions Taken ● N/A ● Anti● DMA Management Approach by Aspect ● 16~17 ● competitive ● G4-SO7 Number of Legal Actions for Anti-competitive Behavior, Anti-trust and ● N/A ● Behavior Monopoly Practices and Their Outcomes Product ● DMA Management Approach by Aspect ● 26 ● and Service ● G4-PR3 Type of Product and Service Information Required for Labeling and Percentage ◐ 28~30 ● Labeling of Significant Product and Service Categories Subject to Such Information Requirements ● G4-PR4 Number of Incidents of Non-compliance with Regulations and Voluntary Codes ● N/A ● Concerning Product/Service Information and Labeling, by Type of Outcomes ● G4-PR5 Results of Surveys Measuring Customer Satisfaction ● N/A ● Management ㅣ Material Issues ㅣ Corporate Social Responsibility in China ㅣ •Performance & Appendix 79 UN Global Compact LG Display has been committed to upholding the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) in the four areas of human rights, labor standards, the environment, and anti-corruption. We produce an annual Communication on Progress (COP) on the progress that has made, and will continue to launch various activities that abide by the UNGC principles going forward. UN Global Compact Principles and LG Display’s Actions Category Principle Actions Taken Page Human Rights 1. Support and respect the protection of internationally In-house training on sexual harassment prevention 37~38 proclaimed human rights and human rights 2. Noncomplicity in human-rights abuses Employee benefits to help balance work and life Labor 3. Uphold the freedom of association and the effective Freedom of association and the right to collective 39 recognition of the right to collective bargaining bargaining 4. Elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor Compliance with ILO regulations and UN Global 5. Effective abolition of child labor Compact principles Ban on gender-based discrimation in wage, 6. Elimination of discrimination in respect of employment assessment or promotion and equal employment and occupation opportunity through online application submission Environment 7. S upport a precautionary approach to environmental Establishment and implementation of environment 46~49 challenges management policy 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental Signing of toxic chemical management agreement responsibility 9. Development and diffusion of environmentally friendly Development of eco-friendly, high-efficiency products technologies Anti10. W  ork against corruption in all its forms, including Employees’ voluntary compliance pledge and 16~17 corruption extortion and bribery education on ethics management 80 You Dream, We Display Third Party Assurance Report To the Stakeholders of LG Display interaction and dialogue, through which the direction of long term sustainable The Korea Productivity Center (“the KPC” or “the assurance provider” heremanagement is being set. after) was commissioned to perform a third party assurance engagement of the “2015 LG Display Sustainable Management Report” (“the Report” hereMateriality: Selection and Reporting of Key Issues LG Display has proceedafter) by LG Display. The KPC presents its findings as follows. ed with the GRI G4 Guideline, industry characteristics indicator, benchmarks of similar companies, etc., based on the issues of the last report. By visitResponsibility and Independence ing overseas affiliates and conducting interviews, LG Display has gathered The responsibility for the information and statements included in the Report a pool of issues raised by the opinions of global industry sites. Through the lies solely with LG Display. The KPC is responsible for the assurance findings materiality evaluation, the influence on the organization and the influence on generated in the Report. As an independent assurance provider, the KPC was the decision making processes of the stakeholder were combined, and their not engaged in the preparation of the Report in any other way and does not order of priority determined. Along with the 2014 performance, the future have any interest in LG Display in a way that may hamper its independence objectives regarding the determined 7 key issues have been treated in the as an assurance provider. Reported in a balanced way. Assurance Standards Responsiveness: Organizational Response to Issues The KPC verified that The KPC performed a Type 1 moderate level assurance engagement in acthe Report properly demonstrates LG Display’s awareness of the key issues cordance with AA1000AS (2008)1) . Following these assurance standards, that would impact stakeholder judgment of its performance and that it unthe KPC verified the Report againstprinciples such as inclusivity, materiality, dertook measures to resolve such issues. LG Display is disclosing its susand responsiveness in accordance with AA1000APS (2008)2). In addition, the tainable management vision, promotion organization, and annual promotion KPC verified whether the Report complied with the GRI G4 Guidelines. plan through the Report, while stakeholders are making detailed proposals on 1) A  A1000 Assurance Standard (2008): A global assurance standard developed by Acfuture strategies and promotion plans through the stakeholder participation countability that provides methods for the reporting on an organization’s management page. of sustainability issues beyond financial indicators including its adherence to the Accountability Principles Standard and the reliability of its sustainability performance information. Recommendations 2) A  A1000 Accountability Principles Standard (2008): A global assurance principles develKPC highly rates the range of endeavors and achievements made by LG Disoped by Accountability that provides a framework for the AA1000 standards. play to advance its sustainability and presents the following recommendations to enhance LG Display’s future reports and its level of sustainability Limitations management. This assurance engagement covers LG Display’s 2014 performance in ac• Sustainable management strategies and related, detailed activity objectives cordance with the assurance standards stated above. The KPC verified the need to be proposed in order to systematically drive sustainable managefinancial data through financial statements and publicly announced materials. ment. The KPC suggests that LG Display identify and consistently manage In addition, the KPC verified the environmental and social performance data tasks and key performance indicators (KPI) based on the system in order by performing a Type 1 and sample-based moderate level assurance engageto drive focused sustainability management and produce standardized rement. On-site inspections were limited to LG Display’s corporate headquarters porting on its sustainability management activities and achievements. It is in Seoul, Korea. It should be noted that the results may change in cases in further recommended to consider measures to report these transparently which additional verification processes are carried out. through this Report. • The range of this Report includes the environment performance data of Assurance Methods 5 overseas affiliates in China and Finland. It is recommended that, in the The KPC adopted the following methods in assuring this Report. future, the verifications and integrated data management not be limited to • The KPC verified whether the Report met the requirements of the Core Opthe environment field but also include the general, social field. tion of the GRI G4 Guidelines. It can be difficult to represent the opinions of the entire group of stakeholders • The KPC verified whether the Report abided by the principles that concern through surveys and employee interviews. It is recommended that an objecthe report content and quality in accordance with the GRI G4 Guidelines. tive, quantified evaluation and management program be established in order • The KPC, based on media research and benchmarking analysis, reviewed to objectively verify that the collected opinions of each stakeholder group whether major issues were selected and described appropriately in this Rerepresent the opinion of the entire group. port. • The KPC verified the appropriateness of the report content, and any errors June, 2015 regarding the representation of such content, through comparative analyses Hong Soon-Jick, Chairman and made with other sources. CEO of Korea Productivity Center • The KPC conducted on-site inspections to verify the evidence of major data and information as well as internal processes and systems. Findings The KPC believes that the Report is a sincere and fair representation of LG Display’s sustainability management initiatives and achievements. The KPC Dong-Soo Kim, Yang-Ho Lee, Seung-Tae Cheong, Beom-Taek Oh, verified that the Report satisfies the requirements of the Core Option of the Director of Korea Team Leader Expert Adviser Expert Adviser GRI G4 Guidelines. Productivity Center · Inclusivity: Shareholder Engagement LG Display categorizes its stakeholdThe Korea Productivity Center Sustainability Management Center is an assurance agency ers into five groups, investors, customers, employees, suppliers, and local officially certified by Accountability, which established AA1000 (international standards communities, in compliance with the Principles of Inclusivity. The KPC verified for stakeholder engagement and assurance), and is qualified to perform independent asthat LG Display clearly defined the communication channels and expectations surance engagements. Our Assurance Committee is comprised of competent experts who have ample experience in sustainability management consulting and assurance and have of each group and gathered the opinions of its stakeholders through active completed the relevant professional training. Management ㅣ Material Issues ㅣ Corporate Social Responsibility in China ㅣ •Performance & Appendix 81 Contributors to Report Preparation Team Name Overseas Standards Byung hee Choi Compliance Mi na Park Overseas Legal Affairs Ji Won Yin Consumer Insight Yeon Jeong Heo Corporate Affairs ho wook Lee, Luke Lee, Alice Park Global HRD Ji Young Seo Global Litigation Yeo Wool Bae LGDCA Name IR Brian Heo HR Moon Yeol Choi, wenjing(温静) IT/Mobile Development Planning Sung Won Lee Management Support Sang Yeob Kim, Jinlongfei(金龙飞), dingyingjin(丁英今) OLED Development Planning / Hyung Jun Maeng, Gyeongbuk Advisory Council Yoon Seok Jang Management Diagnosis Jeong Cheol Kim TV Development Planning Hoon hee Cho Procurement Jeong Hoon Yoo Gyeongbuk Advisory Council Gi Soo Jang Production Gwang Il Jeong Management Support Planning Jae woo Kim Safety Sang Hyeon Seong, Young Han Kim Management Innovation 2 Min Wook Kim Environment Sang Wan Jeon, Dal Yeon Hwang, Jae Young Ahn, Seong Wook Kim, Jinhuafeng(金华峰) Procurement Planning Gu won Kim, Dae youn Kim Gumi Green Team Jang Jong Lee, Hyun Kyung Lim, Nanjing Subsidiary Name Chun Kyo Seo Gumi Construction Jae Won Park HR Sang Han Bae, Jindongjun(金东军) Gumi Joyful Workplace Seung Hoon Lee Management Support Hyeon Gun Lee, Jong Soo Kim, Songyan(宋艳) Gumi Administration Hyeon Soo Choi Procurement Gab Joon Han Domestic Legal Affairs Jang Yeol Jo Labor-Management Guofei(郭飞) Technology Planning Se Hoon Kim, Jung ok Kim Safety Jiangying(蒋颖), Gaochenyan(高陈燕), Huawei(华伟) Technology Cooperation Geun Mo Kim Environment Ranjingbo(冉静波), Chensonglin(陈松林) Labor-Management Cooperation Seung Hyeon Jo Public Affairs Nam Il Choi Guangzhou Subsidiary Name Logistics Min Ju Kim HR Se Jin Lee, Zhengmeiling(郑美玲), ZhaopSecurity Analysis Jin Soo Kim ingzeng(曾照萍), Linpanpan(林盼盼) Security Operations In Ho Park Safety Lixuanjin(李轩进) Security Strategy Myeong Soo Jeong Information Security Geon Ho Lee Industrial Safety Younghan Lee, Min Cheol Shin Environment Sunzheshan(孙哲山), Xiaoyalin(肖亚林) Winwin Technology Sang Chul Byun Import & Export Supprt Seok Ho Song Yantai Subsidiary Name Ethics Bureau Kyung Jin Yoo HR Jong Hyeon Kim, XuYan(徐妍), YuKai(于凯), HR Planning Yong Hoon Jo Shenjinlong(沈金龙) Finance & Accounting Seong Hee Jo Management Support Choong Heon Song Joyful Workplace (Seoul) Won Seok Choi Environmental Safety Zhuxiulei(朱秀磊) Manager, Paju Green Young Joo Park, Mi-Ri Lim, Jiangxinqiang(姜新强) Cho rong Kim Paju Construction Min Yeop Choi Poland Subsidiary Name Paju Advisory Council Seong Wook Park HR Zbigniew Miedziński, Klaudia Morawiec, Paju Joyful Workplace Dong Beom Son Tomasz Celer Packaging Development Wan Ho Park Administration/Planning Eui Jong Kim Quality Planning Won Min Lee Legal Affairs Sung Ho Lim, Michał Westerlich IP Strategy Sung Ho Yang Legal Affairs/Facility Piotr Stopa, Dominik Gąsiorowski 82 You Dream, We Display Awards, Recognitions and Memberships Awards & Recognitions No. Award & Recognition Organizer Date 1 11th Korea Safety Contest, Presidential Award (Gumi Plant) Safety & Certification Association 2 2012 Investment Attraction Award, Grand Prize (Gumi Plant) Gyungsangbuk-do 3 Family-friendly Management Award, Prime Minister’s Award Ministry of Gender Equality and Family 2012 4 Korea World-class Product Award for WRGB OLED Panel Ministry of Knowledge Economy 5 SID Best in Show: 55 FHD 3D OLED Panel SID 6 World Health Day “Hidden Man of Merit Citation” by Prime Minister Ministry of Health & Welfare 7 AAA Certification, AEO, Authorized Economic Operator Korea Customs Service 8 Korea Green Management Excellence Award, Environment Minister’s Citation Ministry of Environment 9 National Display R&D Project Workshop, Award from Minister of Trade, Ministry of Trade, Industry & Energy 2013 Industry & Energy 10 Listed in DJSI Asia Pacific Index Dow Jones, RobecoSAM 11 77 UHD Curved OLED Display, Award from Minister of Trade, Industry & Energy 2014 Ministry of Trade, Industry & Energy 12 Citation by Chairman of Fair Trade Commission for excellent performance in Fair Trade Commission shared growth agreements 13 Citation from Prime Minister as a Resource Recycling Leading Company Ministry Ministry of Environment of Environment 14 Citation on Industrial Technology Security Day Ministry of Trade, Industry & Energy 15 G Flex (adopting flexible plastic OLED), Gold Display Application of the Year Award SID 2014 16 55 Full HD Curved OLED TV, Silver Display Application of the Year Award SID 17 55 , 65 and 77 UHD Curved OLED TV, Best In Show SID 18 KAIST Intellectual Property Award Korea Patent Attorneys Association, KAIST, Korean Association of Intellectual Property Services 19 Listed in DJSI Asia Pacific Index Dow Jones, RobecoSAM 20 Listed in East Asia 30 Hankyoreh Economic Research Institute Memberships No. Associations and Organizations No. Associations and Organizations 1 Federatin of Korean Industries 12 Paju Fire Safety Association 2 Korea Chamber of Commerce and Industry 13 Industrial Health Association 3 Korea Display Industry Association 14 Korea Association of Occupational Health Nurse 4 Korea Printed Electronics Association 15 Korea Information Display Society 5 Korea International Trade Association 16 High Touch Industry Association 6 Fair Competition Federation 17 Korea Association for Industrial Technology Security 7 Korea Listed Companies Association 18 UN Global Compact 8 Korea Investor Relations Service 19 Korea Intellectual Property Association 9 Nano Technology Research Association 20 Korea Invention Promotion Association 10 Consortium of Semiconductor Advanced Research 21 International Trademark Association 11 Korea Industrial Safety Association Designed by_into Graphic This report is printed on FSCTM(Forest Stewardship Council) certified paper with soy ink.
