August 10, 2015 RE: United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress To all of our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm Agility Fuel Systems’ continued support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. This is our second annual Communication on Progress (COP) in which we describe our actions to continue the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders by posting it to our corporate website. Sincerely Yours, William Nowicke Chief Executive Officer August 10, 2015 Agility Fuel Systems 1815 E. Carnegie Ave, Santa Ana, CA 92705 Telephone 949 236 5520 www.agilityfs.com 1. Human Rights Principles Assessment, Policy and Goals Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Knowing and showing that we respect human rights throughout our business and business relationships is important. Agility Fuel Systems’ goal is to use our influence so that our employees and all our business partners respect the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and Environmental Protection. Agility places great emphasis on Business Ethics and Human Rights considerations, and we require our suppliers to do the same. Implementation Agility has taken the following measures to prevent human rights violations in its facilities: • We have begun performing site visits to our key suppliers to audit their adoption of our policies on human rights, labor, the environment and corruption. • We’ve installed a box in each location for employees to submit their complaints and/or issues with regards to unfair treatment. These complaints are reviewed by management and discussed immediately. • We maintain an “Open Door Policy” for addressing employee concerns about their job, working conditions, or the treatment that they have received. • We’ve published our Standards of Conduct for our Business Ethics and Customer Relations. • We are developing a web page to broadly communicate these positions to all our stakeholders. Procedures are in place to ensure that any suspicions of inappropriate conduct can be voiced. All employees are systematically made aware of the Codes and the related Standards of Business Conduct and are reminded of the whistleblowing procedures annually. The internal guidance sets out examples of the types of wrongdoing which should be raised by employees, including non-compliance with legal obligations or a breach of human rights, as well as identifying who to contact, namely the Director of Human Resources. Measurement of outcomes All concerns raised during the year were addressed in line with the company’s Open Door Policy outlined above, including concerns raised by employees in partner and supplier organizations. Each new employee confirmed that they received a copy of this document in our Employee Handbook. Agility Fuel Systems 1815 E. Carnegie Ave, Santa Ana, CA 92705 Telephone 949 236 5520 www.agilityfs.com 2. Labor Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: The elimination of forced or compulsory labor. Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Assessment, Policy and Goals Equal opportunity means creating a work environment which allows all of our employees to fulfil their potential. We seek to foster a culture in which our employee-related decisions, whether it be hiring, training or promotion, are taken based solely on an individual’s ability and contribution to Agility’s success. This is irrespective of gender, age, ethnicity, disability or sexual orientation. This is fully described in our Employee Handbook. Implementation As communicated in our Employee Handbook, Agility does not tolerate harassment or any behavior which creates a hostile, offensive or intimidating environment for its employees. We make it clear that any breaches of this policy may lead to an investigation and when appropriate, dismissal. We encourage all employees to report any incidents of harassment forbidden by the policy and we provide the appropriate phone number and web site address to take action. Agility’s Supplier Code of Conduct requires that our suppliers perform in a manner that is appropriate, as it applies to their ethical, legal, environmental, and social responsibilities. The Code covers labor relationships, employment practices, human rights and ethical business principles. Measurement of Outcomes Agility requires our suppliers and business partners to acknowledge and sign the Supplier Code of Conduct. Our goal is to increase the number of signatories to this Code of Conduct each year. Data on population diversity is reviewed periodically by our Human Resources Department and Top Management to aid in diversity planning and decision-making. 3. Environmental Principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Agility Fuel Systems 1815 E. Carnegie Ave, Santa Ana, CA 92705 Telephone 949 236 5520 www.agilityfs.com Assessment, Policy and Goals Agility’s activities have a very low environmental impact. The production of our fuel systems is currently limited to the United States and Canada. We will carry out energy audits across our businesses and seek to respect the most demanding environmental standards when building new manufacturing facilities. Implementation To further our commitment to world-class environmental impact, we have set the goal to become certified to the ISO 14001 Environmental Management Systems Standard in 2017. The management team will review our environmental performance and determine if existing initiatives are sufficient or if new initiatives are required. They will report our progress to our Board of Directors. Measurement of outcomes As we implement the ISO14000 Standards, we will assess the various aspects of our business that have environmental impacts and develop metrics that will be used to determine if we are making improvements in those areas. Environmental impact data will be reviewed annually. 4. Anti-Corruption Principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Assessment, Policy and Goals Agility has published an Internal Standards of Conduct. The Standard has been made available to all employees upon hiring. The Standard includes Agility’s clear opposition to all forms of bribery and corruption. Implementation Reporting procedures are in place to ensure that any suspicions of inappropriate conduct can be voiced. All employees are systematically made aware of the Standards of Conduct. We train employees to ensure that an ethical culture is developed within the company and integrated in our management systems. Measurement of outcomes All concerns raised during the year were addressed in line with Agility’s Standards of Conduct, including concerns raised by employees in partner organizations, such as suppliers. We conduct comprehensive training of new employees and we annually reconfirm that all employees are familiar with our Standards of Conduct. The responsibility and accountability for the implementation of the anti-corruption commitment rests with Management. Agility Fuel Systems 1815 E. Carnegie Ave, Santa Ana, CA 92705 Telephone 949 236 5520 www.agilityfs.com
