United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress The United Nations Global Compact began as a speech in Davos and since has become the one of, if not the, world’s largest Corporate Citizenship initiatives with over 10,000 participants from more than 145 countries. The goal of the Global Compact is two-fold and simple:  To mainstream the ten principles in business activities around the world  To catalyse actions in support of broader UN goals, including the Millennium Development Goals What are the principles of the Global Compact? The ten principles of the Global Compact focus on four areas: Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption.  Human Rights o Principle 1: businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights o Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses.  Labour o Principle 3: businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining o Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour o Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour o Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation.  Environment o Principle 7: businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges o Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility o Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally-friendly technologies.  Anti-Corruption o Principle 10: businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Statement of continued support from the Director of Explosive Learning Solutions Ltd: “I am pleased to confirm that Explosive Learning Solutions Ltd. (ELS) reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. Through its daily operations, through policy and procedure, ELS ensures the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact are continuously considered and adhered to. Ensuring that as a company, ELS is always aware of the impact its operations can have on an international scale. ELS is committed to sharing this information with its stakeholders. “ Jim Convery, Director, Explosive Learning Solutions Ltd, 2015 Human Rights Principles As part of international operations, ELS has worked with some governments with a questionable history regarding human rights. However, in its role as consultancy and training organisation, ELS has been delivering training to some of those governments to ensure that internationally recognised best practice is followed in its operations. The nature of ELS’ business is defence and homeland security, where we are given the opportunity to introduce international best practice into a wide variety of international settings. Through this we are able to help government/countries to change their approach to include international best practice. ELS tries to improve from within. ELS will not train any governments, regimes or military organisations that will use the training outside of international best practice standards. ELS is proud to have established best practice for those governments it has worked with to improve its standards and practices. As an employer, ELS supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. ELS has not been involved in any Human Rights contraventions and follows all Human Rights protections as enshrined in UK law. Labour Principles Operating as a domestic learning and development and consultancy company within the United Kingdom, ELS has a limited impact in regards to international issues of child or forced labour. ELS adheres to the International Labour Organisation’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work and looks to implement this into corporate policy in the future. Within its own operations, ELS is proud to operate a fully open and inclusive working environment. ELS welcomes diversity in the workplace. ELS has policies in place for the following topics, which ensure its commitment to equality, diversity, safety and fairness in the workplace and in its operations:  Equality and Diversity Policy o Including statement to adhere to the Equality Act 2010 o Breaches of this policy are considered as misconduct by the employee  Grievance Policy and Procedure o Allowing easy access to raise an issue with the company Director  Bullying and Harassment Policy o Zero tolerance approach  Recruitment Policy and Procedure o Operating in conjunction with the Equality and Diversity Policy o Employing on merit and via proper means o Anti-nepotism  Working Hours Policy o Allows for compensatory rest and time off in lieu  Health and Safety Policy and Procedure  Overseas Deployment Policy o Appropriate risk assessments are undertaken ELS also operates as a consultancy to the international market, in both hostile and non-hostile environments, including post-conflict zones. The importance of securing safe labour for all employees whilst in these areas is of the utmost importance. ELS ensures that risk assessments are undertaken before any individual enters a hostile environment. All possible precautions are taken ahead of travelling overseas and all assessments are stored and fully auditable. ELS is an ISO 9001 accredited company and as such ensures it upholds high standards of auditing throughout the business. ELS holds a quarterly Director’s Meeting whereby all staff are asked to comment on the company’s operations, policies and procedures. All issues raised are then reviewed and dealt with in a timely manner. Throughout the year, all ELS policies are reviewed and updated where necessary. All changes and reviews are documented and are fully auditable. Environmental Principles ELS is an ISO 14001 accredited company. The company takes its responsibility to the environment seriously, ensuring that it minimises waste of energy, refuse and water. Utilities and resources are measured and monitored towards targets, and any overuse of resources is remedied through appropriate means. These measurements are recorded and discussed quarterly at the Director’s meeting. ELS ensures the safe disposal of toxic items such as toner cartridges, batteries and chemicals and has taken the step to using recycled paper for all internal printing requirements. ELS offsets the carbon emissions from all air travel undertaken for company operations. The carbon offsets support climate and development projects in the developing world. As its operations grow, ELS intends to measure all travel and offset emissions related to other means of business transport. It is also company policy to travel by public transport when possible to meetings and events. Case Study LifeStraw Carbon for Water One of the projects that ELS supports by offsetting its carbon emissions is also one of nine lighthouse projects selected in 2012 by the United Nations as an example of a project ‘shining a light on climate action’. Through support from companies such as ELS, the LifeStraw project not only reduces carbon emissions but also provides safe drinking water to families in Kenya, who are in danger of health damage from wood smoke in the home as well as illness from drinking unsafe water. Anti-Corruption Principles As a consultancy firm dealing with sensitive information, ELS takes its responsibility to anti-corruption and bribery with the utmost seriousness. ELS will never co-operate with organisations or individuals that request breaches of the anti-corruption principle. All ELS staff are externally vetted by the Government. ELS has the following policies:  Whistleblowing and Protected Disclosures Policy  Anti-collusion Policy  Anti-bribery Policy o Adhering to the Bribery Act All ELS policies are reviewed regularly to ensure best practice is followed and the company is up to date with legislation. As an ISO 9001 accredited company these policies are reviewed externally as part of attaining this status. ELS does not put its operations in a position where it can be put under pressure to undertake bribery or corruption. ELS’ commitment to anti-bribery and anti-corruption is measured by the companies with which it does business and measured by the outcome of compliancy with internal policies and international laws. The Security Officer within the company will report any infringement directly to the police and the Ministry of Defence if required.
