REPORT 2014 The future starts here The restructuring of Votorantim’s management and governance model has prepared it to face a new business environment INTRODUCTION This report presents the main activities and results of Votorantim Industrial (VID) in 2014, and the company’s strategy for the short, medium and long terms. The report contains financial and non-financial information and has been prepared considering the principles and guidelines of the G4 version of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), the International Integrated Report Council (IIRC), the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD). The Votorantim Report 2014 also includes information on the main results and highlights of its industrial subsidiaries during the year. Additional information on the industrial subsidiaries can be found in their individual annual reports.Votorantim Industrial’s financial statements and the opinion of the independent auditors are available at: www.votorantim.com.br/ir. The PDF Versions of this report can be accessed at http://www.votorantim.com/report. In order to improve our reporting process and overall management processes we would be pleased to receive your feedback. Please send your opinions, suggestions and comments to: contato@vpar.com.br We hope you find the report a good read! FOR US, AT VOTORANTIM, TO PRODUCE IS AN ART. Legend Color Code It is with the same passion, and carefull eyes, that we observe every detail of the production process. With the same care, we develop our skills. With the same concern, we invest in social GRI Indicators Reference G4‑XX and environmental initiatives. And with the same precision, we develop innovative ideas. All to serve our customer better. IIRC Capitals Reference XX Capital VOTORANTIM. TO PRODUCE IS AN ART. OECD Guidelines Reference OCDE Global Compact Principles Reference GC-XX Votorantim’s Report 2014 1 Votorantim’s Report LIST OF CONTENTS 13 29 2014 a year of growth and 34 good results 52 New Votorantim Energy management business and establishes governance itself as a new structure asset in our Image, portfolio reputation Search for innovation and our first corporate 10 extends to new markets brand campaign 43 Antônio Ermírio de Moraes: a sense of purpose PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS . . . . . . . . . . . 4 VOTORANTIM INDUSTRIAL . . . . . . . . . 12 OUR MANAGEMENT APPROACH . . . . . . . . . . 24 VALUE CREATION . . . . . . . . . . 33 PEOPLE & ORGANIZATION . . . . . . . 46 OUR PORTFOLIO . . . . . . . . . . 59 COMPANY PROFILE MANAGEMENT PILLARS IN OUR BUSINESS ACTIVITIES HUMAN CAPITAL VOTORANTIM CIMENTOS The evolution of the Guidelines define each role . . 25 When energy became a business 34 Talented people at the Sector leader . . . . . . . . . 60 holding company . . . . . . . 13 core of our strategy . . . . . 47 6 VOTORANTIM METAIS MANAGEMENT IN THE COMMUNITY STATEMENT . . . . . . . . . . . VALUES AND BELIEFS A step ahead . . . . . . . . . 36 Between challenges and . . . . . . . . . 62 Votorantim’s corporate identity 16 opportunities LETTER OF THE CHAIRMAN Competitiveness is a key issue . . . . . . . . . . 6 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Faster decision-making . . . . 18 FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT . . . . . . . . 28 IN THE ENVIRONMENT A precious reserve . . . . . . 38 IMAGE & REPUTATION . . . . . . . . . 51 VOTORANTIM SIDERURGIA Efficiency gains . . . . . . . . 64 PERFORMANCE VOTORANTIM ENERGIA STRATEGY A year of good results . . . . 29 Beyond power generation . . 66 LETTER OF THE CEO The future starts here . . . . . . 8 Striding into the future . . . . 21 OUR BRAND A long-term asset that 40 . . . . . . . . 52 FIBRIA OPERATIONAL generates value TRIBUTE TO ANTÔNIO ERMÍRIO DE MORAES EXCELLENCE . . . . . . . . . Leading player in the pulp industry . . . . . . . . . 68 The most important legacy THE VOTORANTIM INSTITUTE of a great leader . . . . . . . 10 SHARED SOLUTIONS Work that focuses on local CITROSUCO Centers of Excellence increase development . . . . . . . . . 54 Innovation in orange groves . 70 competitiveness . . . . . . . 41 INSTITUTIONAL RELATIONS . . . . 57 72 INNOVATION Defending the industry Innovation, a cross-cutting theme . . . . . . . . . . . . 43 ABOUT THE REPORT . . . . . 2 Votorantim’s Report 2014 Votorantim’s Report 2014 3 Votorantim’s Report PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS Consolidated Ebitda of R$ 7.1 Consolidated net revenues of R$ 28.1 1.4 “To produce is an art” billion billion million hours dedicated to personnel 1 corporate st an increase of 32% (7% higher than in 2013) training G4-LA9 brand campaign compared to 2013 G4-EC1 +2.6 R$ 563 13 position, th R$ 76.5 million hectares million spent in a Brazilian corporate reputation survey, million of protected or restored on environmental management an improvement invested in external social and projects, including both investments habitats G4-EN13 and operational expenses G4-EN31 of 6 positions cultural initiatives Source: Ibope/Merco Survey 4 Votorantim’s Report 2014 Votorantim’s Report 2014 5 MANAGEMENT STATEMENT LETTER OF THE CHAIRMAN With the implementation of the new management and governance structure, Votorantim has broadened the scope of its long-term vision and has prepared itself to meet future challenges. Competitiveness is a key issue Votorantim has maintained its level of investment and, in recent years, has consistently to achieve a higher level of operational efficiency. In 2014, it took business operations while the holding company assumed a new role centered intensified its efforts to internationalize an important step aimed at ensuring on portfolio management. In this role Throughout its history, the company subsidiaries, resulting in the capture voluntary adherence to the UN Global its business through the development its long-term business continuity. After it takes a wide-ranging look at the has contributed to the development of synergies and greater operational Compact, whose principles we follow of overseas production facilities. Our more than a decade of a centralized current portfolio of assets and at new of the Brazilian industrial sector. It has efficiency. The benefits of this process in all our business activities. investments in Peru play an important governance structure, in which the market opportunities, and evaluates the made pioneering investments in basic have been significant, and have allowed role in our metals and mining activities. individual industrial companies reported alternatives for capital allocation. industries, incorporated technologies Votorantim to grow consistently In recent years, however, Brazilian In the cement sector, we have grown to the industrial holding company, in its production processes and throughout its history. Its business industry has faced an increasing loss in the Americas and, more recently, Votorantim Industrial, and to the VPAR As a result of the new structure, the expanded its activities overseas, activities have been continuously of competitiveness due to factors in Europe, Asia and Africa, following Board, a new de-centralized corporate organization has broadened its longmaking it one of the benchmark expanded both in terms of production such as exchange rate volatility, a our asset swap with Cimpor, the governance structure was implemented. term vision and strengthened itself to companies in Brazilian industry. capacity and geographical reach – the complex and burdensome tax system, Portuguese cement company. In Under this new structure the industrial meet future challenges, while ensuring organization is currently present a deficient logistical infrastructure the long steel sector, we have made companies have established their own the preservation of Votorantim’s In the process, especially in the last in 19 countries. This has also led and increased real wages without investments in Colombia and Argentina. Boards of Directors and Advisory management beliefs, values and culture. 15 years, the company has made to the adoption of a cross-cutting equivalent gains in productivity, The company’s overseas assets now Committees, giving them greater great progress in developing an approach to sustainability. It has been resulting in higher unit labor costs. account for around 30% of its Ebitda. autonomy to manage their individual effective management approach. It incorporated as a fundamental factor These factors have adversely impacted operations in an increasingly complex has identified the best operational in our operations, enabling us to industrial large-scale projects, which Although macroeconomic issues have global business environment. practices and institutionalized them, generate value for both our business have increased production and undermined the competitiveness of Raul Calfat creating internal standards that have and society. A demonstration of exports, and thus reduced the drivers Brazilian domestic enterprises in general, Thus, each industrial company began Chairman of the VPAR Board of Directors been applied to all its industrial this commitment was Votorantim’s for growth in Brazil. internally,Votorantim has worked to concentrate solely on its own 6 Votorantim’s Report 2014 Votorantim’s Report 2014 7 MANAGEMENT STATEMENT LETTER OF THE CEO When we look back at Votorantim’s history, we can see that the company has always been prepared for the future. The future starts here Votorantim will complete 100 years water resources for our hydroelectric With its roots firmly planted in Brazil, perspectives, that enabled us to adapted processes in the search for Looking into the future, and searching of business activities in 2018. It is an plants, which began in the 1950s; and Votorantim has always believed in perform so well in 2014. Even with solutions to these issues. We have for ways to anticipate its trends, is an appropriate moment to reflect on the restoration of native forests in the country’s development, and its stagnant Brazilian economy and weak made progress in the responsible use everyday concern for all of us who what brought us to where we are mining areas, in the 1970s. All of these own capacity to make the necessary global growth,Votorantim increased of natural resources, the generation work at Votorantim. Here, people are today. From its modest beginning as initiatives were done long before they resources available and to serve net revenues by 7%, to R$ 28.1 billion, of clean energy from renewable continuously challenged to find answers a textile factory in the interior of became legal requirements or common customers with products and services, and Ebitda by 32%, while maintaining sources, higher energy efficiency, to these big questions. This is how the state of São Paulo, the company market practice. in both domestic and international the level of investment and reducing waste treatment, the Votorantim we intend to ensure the company’s has grown into a conglomerate markets. Today Brazil is a leader in financial leverage. Institute’s social technologies and the business continuity, enabling it to make with a highly diversified portfolio, a Over the years, Brazil has the pulp market, one of the sectors development of products and services its contribution to a more just and significant international presence and experienced periods of adverse in which we operate, and where This result has its foundations in a that provide positive outcomes for inclusive society for the next hundred a reputation for excellent governance economic situations – when many we are the largest producer. Our culture, present in Votorantim since its society. Some examples that stand years. Or even more. and sustainability practices. When we doubted the capacity of the country industrial operations, resting on a origins, with which all who work here out impermeable concrete that look back at the history of Votorantim, and its companies to recover. solid base in Brazil have, since 2000, can identify. It is these people who facilitates water drainage, aluminum The future starts here. we can see that the company has Votorantim was not one of the expanded overseas. In all cases, we have make the company what it is. They truly applications in the automotive always been prepared for the future. doubters: without ever losing its introduced the Votorantim standard for make a difference. industry, the production of bio-fuels There are many examples throughout focus on its business, the company operational excellence, and have stayed from eucalyptus bio-mass, techniques our long history: investment in the selflearned a lot in these difficult times, true to our culture and principles. They have helped Votorantim to for pest control in our orange groves generation of energy, since the early overcame them and continued to address some of the major issues and the reuse of the wood lignite João Miranda days; equal rights for men and women grow, demonstrating persistence, It was this strategy, of building a facing humanity today regarding its waste from pulp production in the CEO of Votorantim Industrial employees, adopted in the 1920s; the tenacity and ethical behavior in its diversified portfolio, from both the future and that of the planet. We have development of carbon fiber for the preservation of the areas that provide way of doing business. geographical and business sector adopted a number initiatives and aeronautics industry. 8 Votorantim’s Report 2014 Votorantim’s Report 2014 9 Tribute to ANTÔNIO ERMÍRIO DE MORAES This reminded me of a method for who were second, third and fourth Thinking about Antônio Ermírio de ranking the most influential people in in this category, respectively. All four Moraes, I realize that his impact went history, in a very interesting way, which donated a significant part of their well beyond the creation of thousands was developed by the Massachusetts wealth during their lifetimes and of jobs and opportunities that his Institute of Technology (MIT) (http:// exerted a large positive impact on the companies contributed to Brazil’s pantheon.media.mit.edu/). Information lives of thousands of people. Sense of development in the 20th century. I is collected from various sources and purpose, again, was something they can see that his biggest impact came analyzed from a number of different had in common. precisely from his example, the way perspectives, such as, country of he lived according to essential values, origin, age or profession. The list of Context is the second determining which are often forgotten in our personalities analyzed is large and factor. It was due to this factor that, Brazilian culture: determination and varied, ranging from Jesus Christ to up until the year 1300, the only way hard work, humility and simplicity, Adolf Hitler. Aristotle, Plato and to have any influence was to be a ethical behavior and gratitude. These important business leaders of the 20th politician or the founder of a religion. are the traits that we inherited from century are also there. Artists, idem. Food for thought. If we then look my great-grandfather, José Ermírio Even football players. at the period from the late Middle de Moraes. For me, the best legacy Ages to the year 1850, this situation he could have left was precisely this Although each personality is very changes significantly. If we look deep sense of purpose. We have to different, they share some interesting only at the period from 1950 until look at the examples given by these The most important legacy of similarities. Great leaders of mankind today, with the massive expansion great men, who came before us, have entered the history books for of access to public TV channels, the and see them not as exceptions or many different reasons, but two picture changes again. Actors, singers unattainable ideals. We should, rather, a great leader aspects are crucial in all cases: the and football players have acquired see them as examples of what it is legacy they left society and the previously unimaginable degrees of possible to do and achieve as human context in which they lived. In other influence. This makes sense. Just look beings, when we are dedicated to a words, the person’s impact is key, at the number of Twitter users that higher purpose than just ourselves. My Antônio Ermírio de Moraes, similar to many other great leaders throughout history, left whether positive or negative, and it follow the Brazilian football star, grandfather did this for a lifetime. And as his legacy: a deep sense of purpose is for this reason that Adolf Hitler is Neymar. At 17 million people this is he did it without saying a word. He considered the second most influential the second largest in the world. The did it by example. I am grateful to my F politician in history. In the business crucial point, however, is to know grandfather for what I am. environment, Warren Buffett appeared whether these currently influential or a long time I wondered Most of them highlighted, among other to him knows this and assuredly has a in first place and shared a common people will perpetuate such influence what was it that made issues, something that is at the core of good story to tell. characteristic to Bill Gates, Oskar throughout history. This will depend someone’s life memorable. my reflections: a sense of purpose. Schindler (illustrated in a Steven directly on the impact they have and Antônio Ermírio de What were the common I also have my stories and they are Spielberg film) and John Rockefeller, the legacy they leave for humanity. Moraes Neto characteristics of great leaders Antônio Ermírio de Moraes did not many. It is often said that although throughout history and what is the become an influential figure because words influence people’s emotions, legacy that one could leave society of his actions or the wealth he built it is the example that inspires them today? These questions bring back through hard work and considerable to act. In this sense, my grandfather MANY DEEDS IN A FEW WORDS reflections I’ve had since I was 16 effort. For him, the most important was the one who most inspired me Antônio Ermírio de Moraes (1928 – 2014) graduated as a metallurgical engineer in the United States and led years old, but last year they gained thing was not “what” he did, but “why” when I was considering key decisions Votorantim for four decades. He was responsible for the growth and consolidation of the organization as a deeper meaning after the death of he did it. And he did it because he about my future. When we look at one of the largest business conglomerates in Brazil. He also dedicated himself to philanthropic activities. He my grandfather, Antônio Ermírio de was tirelessly dedicated to developing the story of his life, we can see that was appointed President of the Beneficência Portuguesa Hospital of São Paulo in 1971, a position he held Moraes. Much was written and talked people and Brazil. He never stopped its greatest virtue went far beyond until 2008. Later he became the institution’s Honorary President. Between 1960 and 1970, he was active in about him in the days following his dreaming of a more just and honest a mere personal quest for wealth the Green Cross Association and chaired the Red Cross Organization. He also wrote three plays and was a death. More than 6,800 articles were country, with better access to health or recognition. He had a strong and candidate for Governor of the State of São Paulo in 1986, placing second in the election, with 3.6 million votes. published about him in just four days. and education. Anyone who was close inspiring sense of purpose. 10 Votorantim’s Report 2014 Votorantim’s Report 2014 11 COMPANY PROFILE Votorantim The evolution of the holding company Industrial Votorantim Industrial has delegated its operational responsibilities to its industrial subsidiaries and has taken on the more strategic role of portfolio management V otorantim has a presence in 19 countries spread over five continents. In its 97 years of business activities, it established itself as one of the largest business conglomerates in Brazil, with operations in a number of strategic economic sectors. Globally, the company has more than 44 thousand employees. They work in more than 650 operating units, including plants, offices, farms, power plants, distribution centers and other types of facilities in countries ranging from India to the United States and from Germany to Turkey. In Brazil, the company has an extensive logistics metals and mining, steel, energy, pulp dissemination of synergies contributed composed of trucks, ships and shipping and orange juice. For over ten years, to bringing all the industrial companies terminals, as well as, 33 hydroelectric it has contributed to expanding these up to the same organizational level and power plants capable of supplying companies and strengthening the increased their operational efficiency. more than 70% of the energy needs Votorantim brand in Brazil and around Year after year the rewards accumulated. of its Brazilian production units. The the world. G4-8 Even under adverse external conditions, company also owns the largest private the company reported solid results. reserve of Atlantic Forest in Brazil. During this period, it broadened its This reserve, known as the Legado das strategic role and opened up new In 2013, a new governance structure Águas – Reserva Votorantim (Water market opportunities, at the same was announced, under which Votorantim Legacy), extends across an area of over​​ time as implementing improvements Industrial would cease to be the 31 thousand hectares in the state of São in business management. One of these corporate and operational center Paulo. initiatives was the creation of the and, instead, would be responsible Votorantim Management System, which for portfolio management. Under the Votorantim Industrial manages the brought together the best practices new, more decentralized, governance organization’s portfolio of industrial of the individual companies. As a structure, the company took on the activities. Established in 2001 to result, new processes were created, role of a center for influencing and coordinate and manage the business with common goals and objectives monitoring the industrial businesses. Its activities in the sectors of cement, for all the businesses. The capture and responsibilities include the preservation Votorantim’s Report 2014 13 VOTORANTIM INDUSTRIAL COMPANY PROFILE VOTORANTIM INDUSTRIAL IN A NUTSHELL G4‑9 The Votorantim organization also Privately held companies 6 operates in financial markets through, Banco Votorantim, which is composed organization operating in 100% basic of a commercial bank, a consumer finance company (BV Financeira), a leasing company (BV Leasing), an asset equity management company (Votorantim Asset Brazilian-owned G4-7 investments G4‑4 industry sectors Management) and a securities broker (Votorantim Corretora de Títulos e Valores Mobiliários).The information and results of these activities are outside the scope of this report. For information on their performance, please refer to their website at: https://www.bancovotorantim.com.br/ir CANADA BELGIUM AUSTRIA of the organization’s culture and values, ​​ market opportunities. In this way, the are responsible for all their corporate SPAIN and the maintenance of the operational organization will be able to expand its activities, while the holding company USA TURKEY MOROCCO JAPAN centers that provide solutions for its vision of the future, thus contributing repositioned to focus on portfolio TUNISIA CHINA subsidiaries in Information Technology, to strengthening Votorantim’s long-term management and business development. INDIA Shared Solutions and Real Estate. In competitiveness. this way, the subsidiaries have gained The decentralization of corporate COLOMBIA greater autonomy enabling them to be An evolving organization activities and the creation of Boards of better prepared to meet new business Directors in the industrial subsidiaries PERU G4-13 BOLIVIA BRAZIL challenges, which are increasingly These changes were the result of an have resulted in more flexibility in complex and on a global scale. ongoing evolution of the Votorantim decision-making processes and a greater AUSTRALIA organization as a whole. In recent focus on the specific challenges of each CHILE URUGUAY The new structure was implemented years, the industrial companies have business and the markets in which ARGENTINA in 2014. As the portfolio manager, restructured themselves, taken on new each company operates. Advisory Votorantim Industrial continues responsibilities and extended their range Committees were also set up to Presence in 19 +650 to monitor the performance of its of activities to absorb areas previously support the new Boards in the areas of subsidiaries, but it focuses on the big performed by the holding company, finance, personnel and auditing. picture, taking a broader perspective such as, matters related to tax, legal, of the existing assets and new human resources and finance. Now they The year of 2014 was also marked by a new positioning of the Votorantim countries G4‑6 operating units 33 brand. For the first time in its history 87% EMPLOYEES 2014 the company carried out a corporate BY REGION Other G4-10 2013 Brazil Countries media campaign, focusing on its strategic themes of people, sustainability and hydroelectric +44 thousand Paid Monthly 29,849 24,118 7,363 innovation. The campaign, entitled Paid Hourly 13,776 8,320 2,940 “To produce is an art,” summarized of the energy plants for power Trainees 48 11 8 some important characteristics, such consumed in Brazil generation Interns and Apprentices 1,382 1,440 122 Total 45,055 33,889 10,433 as the care, attention and precision of comes from employees globally G4‑10 industrial processes. self-production 14 Votorantim’s Report 2014 Votorantim’s Report 2014 15 VOTORANTIM INDUSTRIAL VALUES AND BELIEFS Votorantim’s corporate identity Our corporate identity is expressed by our products, services and processes, by the way we interact with our stakeholders and by the environment we create around us T his identity was molded over the years, by generations of people who passed through the company and by the example of entrepreneurs, such as Antônio Ermírio de Moraes. Through trial and error, the company gradually built up a body of knowledge and experience that helped to consolidate its identity. This identity is what unites everybody who works at Votorantim, and is what differentiates the company from many others, enabling it to attract talented people who can themselves identify with these values and ​​ beliefs. OCDE Beliefs G4-56 Cultivating Talents Open Dialogue The organization’s beliefs are the We believe in and trust people, so we We believe that an environment of CODE OF CONDUCT OECD embodiment of our values and​​ invest time and resources cultivating trust favors open dialogue and a forum Values G4-56 represent both our way of behaving their talents. to speak and to be heard in, where a These values are ​​ the foundation of Votorantim’s Code Our values determine who we are and how we do and the principles that the company’s diversity of opinions can create better business, and are represented by the acronym SEREU: of Conduct. The Code defines the basic principles and rules for carrying out the company’s business activities leaders believe in and put into Meritocracy solutions. practice. These seven beliefs should be We believe that people are unique and, Solidity and provides guidance for the day-to-day routine of its employees and business partners. The Code understood as being interconnected. thus, deserve to be valued fairly and in Alliance Pursuing sustainable growth and value creation. The meaning of each one should not be accordance with their accomplishments We believe our success is a the expresses our commitment to ethics in our relations viewed separately from the others: and deliverables. outcome of the joint construction, Ethics with customers, employees, shareholders, suppliers, strengthened by genuine relationships government, media, communities Excellence Cultivating Talents Always acting responsibly and transparently. and win-win alliances. and society in general. It is a We believe we can do more and better, Respect fundamental guide designed for application in our daily activities. Ex cel Me rito cra cy overcoming challenges with discipline, Sense of Ownership Respecting people and always being ready to learn. len ce humility and simplicity. We believe those who take-on It also serves as a guideline for responsibilities, who work with Entrepreneurship the actions and decisions taken by the Ombudsman area. G4‑LA15 G4‑SO5 Pragmatism Pragmatism passion, who walk the talk, celebrate Growing with the courage to do, innovate and invest log ue We believe that it is essential to achievements and turn mistakes into G4‑SO7 G4‑SO10 G4‑HR3 G4‑HR5 G4‑HR6 Dia en All concentrate efforts on what is relevant, learning experiences. Op Sense of Ownership Unity ian G4‑HR11 GC-1 GC-2 GC-4 GC-5 GC-6 GC-10 ce in an objective manner without losing The whole is stronger than the sum of the parts. sight of the big picture and the future. 16 Votorantim’s Report 2014 Votorantim’s Report 2014 17 VOTORANTIM INDUSTRIAL CORPORATE GOVERNANCE In 2014, the main changes were: •• Votorantim Metais constituted its BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF Board of Directors and Advisory VOTORANTIM PARTICIPAÇÕES Committees for Auditing and (VPAR) Compensation & People; The VPAR Board of Directors is Votorantim’s highest governance body •• Votorantim Cimentos, which and is responsible for defining the guidelines and strategic direction had already created its Board of for the portfolio, including both the industrial and financial sectors. Directors in 2013, established the Board members are elected for a term of three years and reelection Advisory Committees for Finance, is permitted. The current Chairman of the Board is Raul Calfat, Auditing and Compensation & formerly President of Votorantim Industrial until December 2013. People; THE VPAR BOARD IS COMPOSED OF THE FOLLOWING MEMBERS •• Votorantim Energia and Votorantim •• Raul Calfat •• Fabio Ermírio de Moraes Siderurgia established Boards of Directors; •• Luís Ermírio de Moraes •• José Ermírio de Moraes Neto •• Citrosuco, in which Votorantim •• Cláudio Ermírio de Moraes •• José Roberto Ermírio de Moraes shares the control with the Fischer •• Clovis Ermirio de Moraes organization, established an Advisory Scripilliti Board to support the Board of Directors, which already existed, and For more detailed information please refer to the website at: http://www. an Auditing Advisory Committee. votorantim.com.br/en-us/grupovotorantim/governanca/pages/governanca.aspx Fibria, which is part of Votorantim’s representatives. They also Under this structure,Votorantim Faster decision-making investment portfolio, is a publicly establish a number of attributes Industrial, as the manager of the traded company, participant in for the proper functioning of the organization’s portfolio, establishes the “New Market” section of the governance structure. key policies and guidelines, provides BM&FBovespa stock exchange, and support to the VPAR Board in its has its own established corporate The Board of Directors is responsible decision-making processes and The new corporate governance structure included the establishment of Boards of governance structure.Votorantim for guiding the company’s strategic exerts influence over the industrial Directors in the industrial subsidiaries to give them more autonomy and responsibility. Industrial participates in Fibria’s direction, approving significant projects subsidiaries through its participation in controlling group of shareholders and and investments, and monitoring its the formal governance bodies (Boards I holds 29.42% of the total capital. performance. and Advisory Committees). G4-13 ++ Governance principles G4-34 The Advisory Committees are The organization’s governance composed of representatives of the n the process of implementing The Boards of Directors of the organizational structure aims to give principles, and the internal holding company and independent the new governance structure, many subsidiaries are composed of greater autonomy and responsibility to regulations of the Board of members and they report to the functions previously carried out by members of the Board of Votorantim the industrial companies. This should Directors and its Advisory respective Boards of Directors. The role the holding company were transferred Participações, the executives from enable them to focus on the training of Committees, are formalized, and of an Advisory Committee is to monitor, to the subsidiaries. For example, the holding’s current management, their own teams, to reflect and discuss complemented by the statutes of discuss and evaluate issues related to among the functions transferred were, former Votorantim executives and issues in greater depth at their Board each industrial company. These the management of the business and strategic planning and part of the independent members (in the cases and Committee meetings, to take faster documents define the roles and make recommendations to the Board. responsibilities for risk management, of Fibria,Votorantim Cimentos and decisions and actions and to perform at responsibilities of each company’s The Advisory Committees do not have legal, financial and human resources. Votorantim Metais). Overall, this new a higher level. administrative bodies and respective a decision-making role. 18 Votorantim’s Report 2014 Votorantim’s Report 2014 19 VOTORANTIM INDUSTRIAL CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGY MAIN RESPONSIBILITIES Of the industrial subsidiaries: Of the holding company: ++Develop strategies in line with ++Carry out its activities in an ++Discuss institutional issues and Votorantim Industrial’s overall integrated manner with the matters related to Votorantim’s guidelines. VPAR Board; corporate image and reputation; ++Conduct business activities ++Define the overall business ++Deliberate on issues relevant autonomously; strategy and the development of to the subsidiaries at their the portfolio; respective General Shareholder ++Capture synergies between the Meetings; industrial subsidiaries through ++Establish corporate guidelines their own initiatives and with the for the subsidiaries at the macro ++Manage Votorantim’s Centers of support of the holding company. level via their governance bodies; Excellence. Striding into the future ORGANOGRAMA G4‑34 Family Votorantim VPAR Corporate Board Institute Board Board Development (Votorantim The changes to portfolio management reinforce the importance of a long-term vision and Participações) Institutional Relations and Sustainability seek to anticipate market trends and challenges Legal O Votorantim Votorantim Industrial Holding Institute (VID)¹ General Information ver its long history, the geographical changes in the A recent example is the case of Management Technology Votorantim has consumption of its products, the Votorantim Energia that began trading been through migration of Value through the industry energy two years ago and has now Controlling and CSC many different supply chain, the price volatility of established itself as an important asset Finance Compensation Image and Committee 2 and Personnel Reputation kinds of economic situations. It has inputs, consumer behavior and increased in the portfolio. The company was Committee 2 Committee 2 Human and faced crises in Brazil and globally, pressure on margins. initially set up to manage Votorantim’s Organizational Development accompanied the profound changes power generation assets and to in society and overcome all of these Such a scenario requires a develop energy efficiency projects for Treasury and Investor Relations difficulties due to the diversity of comprehensive view of the the industrial subsidiaries. In 2014, its portfolio and the strength of its composition of the portfolio and all Votorantim Energia began to sell Audit individual businesses. The organization the organization’s assets. Votorantim is energy directly in the market, achieving has also become more resilient well positioned in attractive industries, significant results (please see page 34 over time and this has enabled it which have a balanced risk-return for more information). to anticipate market challenges and profile, good potential for growth Votorantim trends, based on investments in and superior value creation. The Downturn in Brazilian Financial Votorantim Votorantim Fibria Citrosuco Votorantim Votorantim innovation, employee commitment organization is always monitoring industry Holding Cimentos Metais Siderurgia Energia and its relations with society. market trends and constantly The year 2014 was marked by a sharp Votorantim Board Board Board Board Board Board searching for new opportunities. This downturn in Brazilian industry, with low Bank Votorantim’s long-term competitiveness also applies to its existing assets, levels of demand and consumption and relates to its perception of a new which have great potential for the an unfavorable panorama for investments. 1 VID executives are members of the Industrial Companies’ Boards and Advisory Committees. 2 VPAR Board Advisory Commitees strategic context, which encompasses creation of new business. The devaluation of the R$/US$ exchange 20 Votorantim’s Report 2014 Votorantim’s Report 2014 21 VOTORANTIM INDUSTRIAL STRATEGY VALUE DRIVERS are in Brazil and two overseas. In Brazil of consolidated Ebitda, demonstrating incorporation of assets previously there are: two in the state of Ceará, in that the process of internationalization owned by Cimpor, the Portuguese The main strategic actions aimed at increasing the value generation by Votorantim Industrial’s subsidiaries in the the municipalities of Pecém and Sobral can be a good opportunity to cement company. coming years are as follows: (completion in 2017); one in the state accelerate the growth rate of some of Pará, in Primavera (completion in of its industrial companies.Votorantim Regarding exports,Votorantim Metais, 2015/2016); one in the state of Goiás, Metais’ Polymetallic Division generates Fibria and Citrosuco all have strong Cement Metals and Mining Steel in Edealina (completion in 2015/2016); around half of its cash flow from global customer bases and are well ++Implement production ++Reduce costs due to the new ++Implement initiatives in the one in the state of Paraíba, in Caaporã operations outside Brazil, especially positioned in their respective markets. capacity expansions, especially aluminum market reality in sales area to maximize the (completion in 2017). The two overseas from its zinc production plants in Peru, In addition to boosting out export in the Northeast of Brazil and Brazil value from the customer are: one in Santa Cruz de la Sierra, which, in 2014, recorded strong results, business, the devaluation of the R$/ Turkey base, considering the various Bolivia (completion in 2016); and one both in volume and in sales. US$ exchange rate also contributed ++Ensure the operational in Sivas, Turkey (completion in 2017). In to reducing the leverage of the market segments, product mix ++Reduce operating costs stability of the zinc and addition to expanding installed capacity, Votorantim Cimentos also has industrial companies. They were able and sales channels nickel operations, to increase this expansion will put the company a strong international presence. to significantly reduce their foreign production and sales volumes ++Maintain the focus on in a privileged position at a time of Today, its plants, grinding centers currency debt, preparing themselves for operational excellence economic recovery in these markets. and aggregates units spread over a new growth cycle. ++Integrate the zinc operations 14 countries in the Americas, Europe, of the Atacocha and El Porvenir mines in Peru Global presence G4-6 Africa and Asia. Our expansion in the Operational efficiency Currently, a significant part of cement segment occurred through Another important strategic factor Votorantim’s business comes from acquisitions, in a mix of both mature in 2014 was cost reduction and its international operations. These and fast-growing markets. This the ongoing search for operational activities account for more than 30% process accelerated in 2013 with the efficiency. In all the industrial Energy Fibria Citrosuco companies, the efforts to optimize ++Invest in new opportunities ++Prepare for new growth ++Reduce the unit cost of resources achieved highly positive for power generation, cycles oranges by increasing the results, and confirmed their ability especially those from productivity of the orange ++Continue to be at the to adapt themselves in the face renewable energy sources forefront of technological groves INNOVATION ON THE AGENDA INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL of adverse external situations. At ++Increase the range of services innovations Votorantim Siderurgia, for example, the In the corporate environment, the ability to re-create, transform and implementation of a cost-reduction for new customers in the seek efficiency is increasingly linked to human capital, innovation and program generated significant savings energy markets technology, and sustainability. In line with the holding company’s new in 2014 (please see page 42 for more role as portfolio manager, these three themes have gained an increased information). impetus and relevance for the company’s strategic actions.They are now considered to be cross-cutting themes, which have direct links to the In this way, with good planning and businesses and which ensure the generation of Value in the long term. financial discipline,Votorantim Industrial rate favored export-oriented businesses, situations depending on the specific In addition,Votorantim continued The possibilities in this regard involve a number of aspects, from the made significant progress in 2014, both such as non-ferrous metals, orange business (please see page 59 for more to invest in organic expansion in development of new productive processes and the use of new raw in the sectors in which it operates juice and pulp, but the Brazilian market information on the performances of the the cement sector in a number of materials to the creation of new consumer markets.This positioning and overall, compared to industry in situation, and the low level of GDP individual companies).This overall scenario, opportunities located in several regions also includes the generation of shared value, for both the organization general. As a result, the company ended growth required a lot of discipline to forecasted to occur in the organization’s of Brazil and in Europe. The objective and society. An example is the work being developed at the Legado das 2014 with increased net income and mitigate the effects on production. strategic plan, resulted in a decision to is to expand Votorantim Cimentos’ Águas – Reserva Votorantim (Water Legacy).This reserve, which is the Ebitda, compared to 2013, despite Globally, the recovery of the United maintain its investments, to ensure the geographical reach enabling it to supply largest privately-owned reserve in the Atlantic Forest biome, is located a volatile economic environment. States economy and the deceleration of operational stability of its production the faster-growing markets such as in the interior of the State of São Paulo. Agreements with research The company also made consistent the growth rate in China also influenced processes and to focus on expanding those in the North, Northeast and centers and universities aim to identify the potential value of the progress in terms of other indicators market sectors where Votorantim’s its business in the international markets Center-West regions of Brazil. To reserve’s biodiversity (see page 38 for more information). (please see the chapter on Financial companies are active.There were both through both its assets abroad and achieve this, the strategic plan includes Management, beginning on page 28, for positive and negative impacts from these exports from Brazil. seven expansion projects, of which five more information). G4-34 22 Votorantim’s Report 2014 Votorantim’s Report 2014 23 MANAGEMENT PILLARS Our Management Guidelines define each role Approach The management pillars are the formalization of a set of guidelines that express Votorantim’s way of being and behaving. They preserve the principles and values ​​that have defined the company’s identity throughout its history. T he bodies of knowledge and best practices embedded in the company that have been acquired throughout its history as well as its beliefs and values have​​ been synthesized in a document known as “Votorantim’s Governance Principles that The Management Pillars DNA”. It provides guidance and express our way of governing represent our way of managing explains, in a broad-brush manner, our companies. These principles our companies. These pillars are: the organization’s way of being and consist of: •• Financial management – Ensures behaving, managing, and governing its •• Governance bodies (VPAR Board, financial discipline and aims to companies. This document, which was Boards of Directors and Advisory achieve the desired risk-return prepared in 2014, was developed to Committees of the industrial profile; guide the organization’s decisions and subsidiaries, Directors of these •• Value creation – Establishes a vision, actions and, also the relations among subsidiaries and the holding identifies the potential business value the holding company, its subsidiaries company,Votorantim Industrial) and translates this into concrete and their various stakeholders. and the definition of the roles and plans that align and mobilize the Intellectual Capital responsibilities of their members; various areas of the organization; •• Decision-making powers for •• Operational excellence – The constant The document consists of three main these bodies and their members search to improve processes through sections: (formalized and complemented the sharing of best practices and by the statutes of the subsidiaries the capture of synergies among the Values ​​and Beliefs that represent and the governance principles companies; our way of being and behaving. themselves); •• People and organization – Preserves •• Our values: Solidity, Ethics, Respect, •• A corporate agenda, which Votorantim’s culture through leaders Entrepreneurship and Unity. coordinates the principal that incorporate its values and ​​ beliefs; •• Our beliefs: Cultivating Talents, management macro-processes, •• Image and reputation – Preserve and Meritocracy, Excellence, Pragmatism, discussions and decisions among enhance the image and reputation Open Dialogue, Alliance and Sense the subsidiaries, the VPAR Board of of Votorantim with its various of Ownership. Directors and Votorantim Industrial. stakeholder groups. Votorantim’s Report 2014 25 Our Management Approach MANAGEMENT PILLARS THE CHALLENGES THAT LIE AHEAD With its strong presence in Brazil and Our Value Chain ++Environmental aspects: Some of our main could contribute to transforming many of the globally,Votorantim faces numerous activities, such as the production of metals, are organization’s business processes and products in the challenges related to both internal and electrical energy intensive industries. Others, such near future. Intellectual Capital Manufactured Capital Shareholders external aspects. Many of these challenges as cement, are intensive in the consumption of ++Diversity: The integration of women into the relate to the nature of our activities, the non-renewable fuels. This requires considerable Votorantim’s workforce is still not significant, inherent risks of our operations and the ongoing management efforts and investments in especially in terms of leadership positions. economic environment in which we do VID energy efficiency initiatives, in order to achieve a Exceptions are the positions of Apprentice and business. Others are a result of the recent reduction in our greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Intern, where the percentages of women are changes to the organization’s governance per metric ton of product. In a similar manner we 36% and 52%, respectively. Similarly, employees structure. In this respect, some points for Companies have, in recent years, sought to be more efficient in over 50 years old represent less than 10% of the reflection have received special attention water consumption by implementing closed-loop employees in each functional category (except from managers and others in leadership water circulation systems, maximizing the reuse for senior management positions, in which they positions. OCDE of water in our operations. Another challenge has represent 22%). G4-LA12 Human Capital GC-2 GC-6 ++Value chain: We have over 80 been the systematic reduction of waste generation thousand suppliers, of which 3,200 Company Infraestrutura Infrastructure or its transformation into new products. These are ++Ombudsman: Due to changes in governance became part of our value chain ongoing efforts in the permanent search for more structure, the Ombudsman function was decentralized and each company set up its own Activities Margin for the first time in 2014. All our efficient solutions for the production processes. companies have a process to approve Recursos Human Resources humanos G4-EN5 G4-EN18 G4-EN31 GC-7 GC-8 GC-9 area to receive complaints from employees and suppliers, but they are at different external stakeholders. However, the procedures and ++Innovation: We have a number of initiatives under systems for registering complaints and processing stages in terms of the approval Desenvolvimento Technological Development tecnológico Margin development in the industrial subsidiaries that seek and monitoring are still the same. The responsibility criteria for the identification and to promote innovation throughout the supply chain. for improving the system, formerly with Votorantim evaluation of social, environmental The biggest challenge is to implement a culture of Industrial, now rests with the subsidiaries. In 2014, and labor risks. Another challenge Procurement Suprimentos innovation. We see new market opportunities and the Ombudsman received 222 complaints, of which is to increase the number of critical new uses for raw materials as in the case of the Zero 93 were for incidents of discrimination. Of these, 59 suppliers that have been submitted to Waste Project, developed by Votorantim Metais, were considered valid. In the previous year, there social and environmental audits. G4-12 Inbound Outbound Marketing Logistics Operations Logistics and Sales Service based on the concept of disruptive innovation. We had been 554 complaints in total, of which 178 were G4‑EN32 G4‑EN33 G4‑HR5 G4‑HR6 G4-HR9 G4‑HR10 are only at the beginning of this journey, but are considered valid. G4-HR3 GC-1 GC-2 GC-6 GC-10 G4‑HR11 G4‑LA14 G4‑LA15 G4‑SO9 G4‑SO10 Primary Activities confident that the possibilities already identified Manufactured Capital 26 Votorantim’s Report 2014 Votorantim’s Report 2014 27 PERFORMANCE Financial A year of good results Management Despite the adverse economic conditions in the Brazilian and global markets, Votorantim recorded positive results in key financial indicators D espite the adverse economic conditions in the Brazilian and global markets, Votorantim achieved good results in all its businesses, recording increases in net revenues, Ebitda (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization) and net income. The strength and diversity of the portfolio, the continuous improvement in revenues; improved cost control; and Participation of the Votorantim companies operational efficiency and the discipline the sale of surplus electrical energy. 8% exercised in investments were the Energy key factors contributing to the results The cost of goods sold also 43% 13% Cement Long steel obtained in the period. increased during the period, to a total of R$ 20.2 billion in 2014, total 6% For 2014,Votorantim Industrial’s up 6% compared to the previous revenues Mining consolidated net revenues totaled year. Contributing to this increase R$ 28.1 billion, 7% higher than in were the high cost of purchasing 2013. The consolidated Ebitda totaled zinc concentrate, the increase in 30% R$ 7.1 billion, an increase of 32% energy consumption in our North Metals over the previous year, and the Ebitda American cement operations and margin rose to 25.3%, an improvement the higher price of steel scrap in our of 4.8 percentage points. From the long steel operations in Brazil. The aigrenE aigrenE macroeconomic perspective, these improved operational stability of our sognol soçA 6% sEnergy ognol soçA results were due to several factors. We plants and the constant drive to find oãçareniM 6% obtained price increases in the majority opportunities to reduce business 49% siateM oãçareniM Long steel Cement 9% of our businesses. The main factors costs resulted in an increase of sotnemiC siateM Mining contributing to the increases in net 0.9 percentage points in our gross total sotnemiC revenues and Ebitda margin were: the recovery of metal commodity prices on margin, which rose to 28.0% in 2014. Selling expenses totaled R$ 1.8 billion Ebitda the London Metal Exchange (LME); the in the period, up 10% compared to 30% positive impact of the devaluation of 2013, primarily reflecting the increase Metals the R$/US$ exchange rate on export in freight costs in the cement Votorantim’s Report 2014 29 aigrenE aigrenE aigrurediS FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PERFORMANCE business in Brazil. The general and administrative expenses remained R$ 1.7 R$ 2.5 R$ 7.4 billion billion billion stable at R$ 2.3 billion. Net income totaled R$ 1.7 billion in 2014, an increase of R$ 1.4 billion of net profit in investments cash, cash equivalents over 2013, due to the strong operating performance in our companies, in 2014 and financial complemented by a positive equity investments pick-up result from our shareholding in Fibria. Investments in fixed assets an increase of 2.4% compared to R$ 16.5 billion, a reduction of 1.8% will constantly seek opportunities to totaled R$ 2.5 billion in 2014, of which 2013. During the year, a number of compared to the previous year, despite amortize its gross debt and administer 75% were destined to maintenance, transactions were executed to manage the devaluation of 13.4% in the R$/ its foreign exchange exposure in order modernization, safety, health and the the organization’s financial liabilities. US$ exchange rate. Financial leverage, to maintain its leverage compatible environment, and the remaining 25% to This resulted in a net amortization of as measured by the ratio of Net Debt with the level desired by the expansion projects. Of these projects, R$ 0.8 billion of debt and reduced our to Ebitda, maintained its downward shareholders. Financial Capital OCDE 74% was allocated to the expansion of exposure to the R$/US$ exchange rate. trend and ended the year at a level of cement production capacity, especially The devaluation of R$/US$ exchange 2.32 times, a reduction of 0.80 times in the North, Northeast and Centerrate, however, resulted in an increase in compared to 2013. West Regions of Brazil. total debt of R$ 1.3 billion. Debt management also resulted in a Liquidity and debt The measures taken to manage debt gradual amortization profile, with an The reductions in leverage and and the execution of transactions average term to maturity of 7.3 years Debt by currency foreign currency debt were important in the international capital markets at year-end 2014. Only a small fraction strategies to prepare the Votorantim generated non-recurring expenses, of the company’s commitments are companies for a new investment directly impacting the net financial short term and its liquidity position is 51% 38% cycle. At the end of 2014, total expenses, which totaled R$ 2.3 billion sufficient to cover the commitments USD BRL debt amounted to R$ 24.0 billion, in 2014, a 44% increase compared maturing in the next 36 months. If to 2013. On the other hand, these transactions also resulted in savings the availability of a revolving credit facility of US$ 1.5 billion were taken 2013 from the issuance of new debt at a into account, this coverage would lower cost, and enabled the company extend to the next 48 months. We have to achieve its goal of reducing its now achieved a comfortable financial 11% EUR DVA – DISTRIBUTION OF VALUE ADDED G4-EC1 foreign currency exposure, with a net position due to the combination of a reduction of US$ 755 million. high cash position, a low level of short2013 2014 term maturities and an amortization LRB LRB In 2014, the free cash flow before debt schedule of long-term maturities Remuneration, social charges and benefits 3.604 3.770 RUE transactions was R$ 1.6 billion, due that does not concentrate principal RUE 43% D$U 43% Taxes, fees and contributions 5.032 5.597 to a combination of a solid operating payments in any single year. USD D$U BRL result and financial discipline in the Remuneration of third-party capital 6.098 5.937 implementation of investments during the year. If we exclude the costs Votorantim will continue to actively manage its financial liabilities in order 2014 Remuneration of own equity 238 1.681 associated with the management of the to keep the average debt term at financial liabilities, the free cash flow a level, which is appropriate for a Distribution of Value added 14.972 16.985 would have been R$ 2.4 billion. capital intensive company, spreading 14% its debt maturities over a number of EUR Net debt at year-end 2014 totaled years. In this process, the company LRB LRB 30 Votorantim’s Report 2014 RUE Votorantim’s Report 2014 31 RUE D$U FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PERFORMANCE INVESTMENT GRADE MAINTAINED We maintained our investment Value Creation grade ratings with the three major global rating agencies: BBB from Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings and Baa3 from Moody’s. Even though it is a privately held familycontrolled company,Votorantim adopts best practices regarding the disclosure of its results to the market. The organization is guided by the principles of transparency, balance, timeliness and comparability in the dissemination of information. This includes the certification of its financial processes according to the criteria of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the disclosure of quarterly financial results, as well as personal meetings with investors annually in São Paulo and New York. In 2014, the company contributed to the preparation of the “Handbook on Best Practices in Corporate Governance for Closed-capital NET DEBT (R$ BILLION) Companies” published by the AND NET DEBT/EBITDA Brazilian Institute for Corporate Governance (IBGC). It was launched at a seminar held in December 3.12x 2.98x in São Paulo, where a case study 2.85x on the evolution of Votorantim’s 2.51x 2.32x corporate governance structure was presented (more information is available at: http://www.ibgc.org.br/ 16.8 17.4 17.1 17.2 16.5 inter.php?id=19118. For the coming years, the company Dívida Líquida remains committed to its policy of maintaining credit parameters that are compatible with those required for an investment grade rating. 4Q13 1Q14 2Q14 3Q14 4Q14 Ebitda 5.4 5.8 6.0 6.9 7.1 32 Votorantim’s Report 2014 VALUE CREATION IN OUR BUSINESS ACTIVITIES This context has put it in a unique and small hydroelectric power plants position to leverage its knowledge and (SHPs). The company held its first transform what had been a strategic discussions with wind farm developers input into a product. and specialist service providers. These latter companies carry out the The turning point came in 2013, when technical analysis of the generation the company geared up to offer energy potential and provide services for management services and efficiency the operation and maintenance of programs to other companies of equipment, among other functions. all sizes and sectors. As it did so, it The aim is to further strengthen these acquired knowledge and improved its partnerships in 2015 and evaluate processes for selling surplus energy on potential projects for new wind power the open market. Thus, the company parks at a more detailed level. transformed itself from being a cost center into a business. We opted for wind power given that it has become much more competitive Its customer base has grown rapidly. in recent years. It is also a sustainable At the end of 2013, it had about 24 energy source and complementary to external customers that counted on hydroelectric power generation, since it for their energy supply. In the first the seasons of rain and wind alternate half of 2014, with a more structured during the year in Brazil. team and legal support to understand * In addition to the 29 hydroelectric plants administered the industry regulatory issues, the by Votorantim Energia, Votorantim Cimentos has four small hydroelectric plants (SHPs) supplying its plants company participated in the public directly. auctions for marketing surplus energy, organized by the National Electrical Energy Agency (ANEEL). At these VOTORANTIM auctions, Votorantim Energia sold ENERGIA IN A 327 MW of surplus energy from Votorantim Metais. NUTSHELL When energy became a business it has gained experience in a highly regulated market, and developed skills, abilities and capacities. As a result, the By year-end, the customer base added up to over 90 customers, composed mainly of small and medium companies 29* hydroelectric Votorantim Energia expanded its portfolio of external customers and established a company has created the necessary conditions to take the next step and seeking greater price stability in the free market compared to the regulated power plants position as an increasingly important asset in the company’s portfolio. begin to look beyond the Votorantim market. The list included service sector companies. companies such as shopping centers, 2,604 MW V supermarkets and retailers, as well as of installed capacity In addition to acting as a generator, many different types of industries such operator and marketer of energy, as automotive, textile and electronics. otorantim Energia years of experience, it has established those that are company-owned and over time Votorantim Energia has come to have a deep understanding Wind power 94 clientes Manufactured Capital at year-end 2014 was created in 1996 to integrate and itself as one of the largest operators those held in consortia. The company of the needs and difficulties of the The year of 2014 was also important coordinate all of Votorantim Industrial’s in the country, with 2,600 MW of has also developed its business as an industrial consumer, since it is part of for investments. The company invested company-owned electric power generation operations. In almost 20 installed capacity and a portfolio of 29* hydroelectric power plants, including energy trader, rising to be the fifth largest in Brazil. During this period, a group with a number of businesses in the basic sectors of the economy. in strategic partnerships for power generation, focusing on wind power R$ 2.4 bilhões in net revenues 34 Votorantim’s Report 2014 Votorantim’s Report 2014 35 VALUE CREATION IN THE COMMUNITY A step ahead using the methods developed by the Votorantim Institute. A three-year agreement, signed with the municipal graduated. This corresponds to more than 2,300 students who have taken training courses to prepare themselves and population in the region have already become a reality. G4-24 G4‑26 G4‑SO1 Social and Relaiionship Capital government of Rondon do Pará, to work in the areas of civil engineering, Votorantim Metais and the Votorantim Institute are investing in a project in Rondon do led to the creation of two work production, agriculture, sales and local Pará even before knowing whether it will be possible to operate on the site fronts: the modernization of public industrial development. Furthermore, administration and the improvement of the municipality’s infrastructure. the participants were equally divided between men and women with the ALUMINA With an investment of approximately clear intention of promoting diversity RONDON years, rising to around 73 thousand R$ 765 thousand in 2014, the company in the workforce. By the end of 2016, it PROJECT – inhabitants. helped in a number of ways. It assisted is estimated that the project will have FACTS AND Historically, the city grew due to the municipal government to apply for a R$ 5 million loan from the Brazilian trained around 8,000 people in the region, which covers the municipalities FIGURES the construction of major highways in the 1970s and 1980s. However, National Development Bank (BNDES) through its program for Tax Collection of Rondon do Pará, Abel Figueiredo and Dom Eliseu, facilitating their entry into 1.6 billion metric the investments made then did not Improvement (PMAT). The investment the labor market. tons of bauxite potential of translate into good socio-economic was also used to arrange public hearings mineral reserves in the Rondon indicators. The municipal budget in and to develop municipal government Environmental license do Pará region 3 million metric tons 2013 was for R$ 68 million of revenues plans, including the Master Plan, the The plans to install operations in the and R$ 70 million of expenditures. Basic Sanitation Plan, the Urban Mobility region also depend on other factors. In About 70% of the population earns Plan and the Housing Plan. 2014, an important step was made when is the expected annual alumina up to two minimum salaries and 20% the State Council for the Environment production capacity of the project have no income at all. More than The Master Plan is still under review (Coema), in an unanimous decision, 1,150 households do not have toilets or adequate sanitation. A number by the municipal legislature, but the others have already been approved. approved a preliminary environmental license for the project.The technical 9 million metric tons of bauxite processing capacity of sectors are deficient, especially in These plans were passed into law and, feasibility studies were concluded in health and education. therefore, they must be adopted by future administrations. These plans the first half of the year, after which discussions with potential investment R$ 9 billion is the estimated investment for the It was in this context that Votorantim also included the preparation of partners began. It is expected that the Alumina Rondon project Metais initiated the Alumina Rondon detailed execution schedules for four Alumina Rondon project will begin R$ 765 T project. Its main objective was to projects: water supply, solid waste operations in 2019, with an annual minimize the risks and adverse impacts (landfill), urban drainage and the production capacity of 3 million metric he municipality of A viable operation on this site would by supporting initiatives that aimed collection and treatment of sewage. tons of alumina and 9 million metric tons thousand were invested Rondon do Pará is require an investment of about to anticipate the needs of society. Together, these projects represented of processed bauxite. by Votorantim Metals in 2014, in located 500 kilometers R$ 9 billion. The bauxite would be In partnership with the Votorantim a potential request for R$ 190 million programs to provide support to from Belém, the transported to the Port of Barcarena, Institute, the company began in 2013 for funding by a number of federal There are also important infrastructure the public administration and the capital of the state of Pará, and within 500 kilometers away. Such a project a social action project in the region, government programs. issues to be resolved. To be viable local community its limits, there is an area of great ​​ would generate jobs, which would peak even before setting up any form of the project requires improvements mineral wealth. In that region, there at around 9 thousand people during the operation on the site. These initiatives The reasoning for supporting the to the logistics systems in the region, 100 training are two enormous plateaus that have the potential to produce 1.6 billion construction phase, considering those employed directly and indirectly. Then, were extended to various stakeholder groups, and the local government improvement of public administration also applies to education. In 2013, especially in the highway and railway networks, and infrastructure at the courses were held metric tons of bauxite, the basic raw when the construction work has been authorities and the local community Votorantim Metais, in partnership Port of Barcarena. This has become one in the region material for aluminum production. These completed, an estimated 1,600 people were directly involved. with the Votorantim Institute, helped of the biggest challenges of the project. deposits, discovered in 1974, have been will be needed for ongoing operations. introduce the Federal Government’s However, regardless of the project’s 2,300 people the subject of many studies in recent It has also been estimated that the The initiatives developed for Pronatec program into the region. This implementation, the doors to the local trained in the industrial, decades, in order to define the best way population of Rondon do Pará would government entities focused on program provides professional training community have been opened and the commercial, agricultural and to exploit its mineral capacity. grow by approximately 30% within five supporting public administration courses and 112 classes have already benefits for the public administration service areas 36 Votorantim’s Report 2014 Votorantim’s Report 2014 37 VALUE CREATION IN THE ENVIRONMENT A precious reserve www.legadodasaguas.com.br The Legado das Águas – Reserva Votorantim (Water Legacy) is an area of Atlantic Forest https://www.facebook.com/legadodasaguas which has been preserved by Votorantim for more than 50 years. The natural reserve https://instagram.com/legadodasaguas has enormous potential to generate new business opportunities and contribute to the development of the Ribeira Valley region. (Pró-Carnívoros) and the Pro-Muriqui In 2015, we intend to increase the Association, has resulted in the sightings number of Versions of the course and F of a number of different animal species, extend them to external audiences.We many of them rare in the region, such as will also offer other corporate training or over 50 years, environmental protection, scientific University of Campinas (Unicamp).The jaguars, ocelots and spider monkeys.The courses for managers of companies Votorantim has preserved research and regional development. Reserve has facilities for lectures, courses latter animal is the largest non-human interested in learning about Votorantim’s 5 INTERESTING a huge area of pristine This vocation evolved in 2014 with the and fieldwork.The research currently primate in the Americas, endemic to technology, and its environmental and FACTS ABOUT Atlantic Forest in the expansion of a series of initiatives carried being carried out includes the gathering the Atlantic Forest.The survey of flora, social management methods. G4-A9 THE LEGADO Ribeira Valley region of the state of out in partnership with universities, of information on the fauna and flora, as carried out through fieldwork, resulted in São Paulo.The region comprises the local municipal governments and the well as studies on the preservation of the identification of 782 plant species. New business DAS ÁGUAS municipalities of Juquiá, Miracatu and community in the region. biodiversity and the genetic enrichment The work at the Reserve opens up Tapiraí.The area of the Reserve is located of the forest.This research, and The initiatives with the local municipal opportunities to better exploit the 1. The area of the Reserve between state parks and other protected The Reserve immediately became a other studies conducted by partner authorities also advanced in 2014. A economic potential of the region, such corresponds to 1.5% of the areas. It covers 31 thousand hectares major subject of research by academics institutions such as The Institute for the partnership was established to develop as eco-tourism, and the fostering of remaining Atlantic Forest in the and today is one of the largest private from the Luiz de Queiroz College of Conservation of Neotropical Carnivores a public administration improvement small businesses that contribute to state of São Paulo reserves of Atlantic Forest in Brazil. Agriculture (ESALQ), the University of plan between the Legado das Águas, local development. The Reserve itself 2. The Reserve is ten times larger São Paulo (USP), the Federal University the Votorantim Institute,Votorantim has great potential for generating than the Tijuca Forest in Rio de The area was officially established as of São Paulo (UNIFESP) and the State Energia and the municipal authorities shared value and is a good example of Janeiro, and five times larger than a reserve in 2012 in a memorandum in the region. The first phase of the how Votorantim’s assets can generate the Cantareira Park, in São Paulo of understanding signed between program focused on the analysis of opportunities that go far beyond Votorantim and the government of the the accounts and budgets of five cities the traditional sectors in which the 3. Over R$ 1 million was invested in state of São Paulo. It soon showed in the region (Miracatu, Tapiraí, Juquiá, company operates. the Reserve’s management plan. how a partnership between Ibiúna and Votorantim). The next Work on the development of the the private sector, the phase, planned for 2015, is to develop The approval of the Reserve’s business plan began in 2013 and it will be government and specific projects that help municipalities plan in 2014 opened up a number of completed in 2015 G4-EN31 civil society can access Federal Government resources, possibilities in this regard. In 2015, a contribute to through its various incentive seedling nursery will be installed to 4. Research in the region indicated mechanisms (please see page 54 for more cultivate and market native Atlantic that 75% of the area of the information on the Public Management Forest species for reforestation and Reserve is in excellent state Program). G4-SO1 G4-24 G4-26 sustainable landscaping. The goal is of conservation. The remaining to have the first seedlings available 25% is in intermediate stage of In relation to education, in 2014, the by the end of the year and be ready regeneration first courses of the Environment School, to enter this market in 2016. Other organized by Votorantim’s corporate opportunities are under development, 5. In a pioneering initiative, with university, the Academy of Excellence, such as the rental of forestry offsets, the photographer Luciano were held at the Reserve.The courses the sustainable exploitation of forest Candisani, we obtained the first covered the issues related to obtaining assets, and numerous possibilities recorded sighting of an albino operating licenses, environmental legal related to biodiversity research in the tapir, in its natural habitat, using aspects and best management practices. It Atlantic Forest biome. G4‑EN13 trip cameras installed in the was attended by 20 company employees. Natural Capital Social and Relationship Capital OCDE Reserve 38 Votorantim’s Report 2014 Votorantim’s Report 2014 39 SHARED SOLUTIONS Operational Centers of 7 GOALS FOR Excellence increase OPERATIONAL Excellence EXCELLENCE competitiveness 1. Manage “from the outside in”, in other words, the focus starts with the customer and then production, not vice-versa; Our efforts to improve operational stability and capture of synergies between the industrial subsidiaries contribute to 2. Prioritize the creation of optimizing processes and improving business results Value and not the volume of production; T 3. Ensure predictable operations that deliver the planned volumes via operational stability; he constant drive the use of more efficient processes. to improve operational efficiency This approach is supported by three 4. Be diligent in the process of is an intrinsic characteristic of all centers of excellence managed by approval and implementation of Votorantim’s industrial companies. It is the holding company: the Center investment projects; an important value driver, especially in for Shared Solutions (CSC), the 5. Be a global benchmark in times of rapid change in the business Information Technology Competence health, safety and environmental environment. The organization is Center (CCTI)and the Center for Real management; recognized for investing in advanced Estate Solutions (CSI). production systems, in cutting-edge 6. Maximize the use of information technology in its industrial plants, and for Located in Curitiba, the CSC was technology in management and adopting best practices to ensure the created 10 years ago to provide decision-making processes; quality of management and operations. solutions for the industrial companies in the areas of accounting, finance, 7. Capture significant synergies This contributes to building a culture controlling, payroll and people from the operations of our focused on operational stability and management. Initially, it had 100 industrial companies. increased competitiveness in order to employees and mainly provided maximize the value of its existing assets. services for the operations of Other important issues are the capture Votorantim Cimentos. Today, it has of synergies among the industrial about 600 employees and has clients companies and the use of information in all Votorantim’s industrial companies. technology to improve management and For the past three years, according to decision-making processes. a study by the Institute of Engineering and Management (IEG), the CSC A good example of this culture being was considered a benchmark for the put into practice is the cooperation types of services it offers that are between the logistics and procurement comparable to those offered by other areas, since some of the companies Brazilian service centers. In 2014, with work with common inputs and the opening of a CSC office in Peru, services. They can be optimized the center expanded its activities through the capture of synergies and internationally. In Peru it provides the Votorantim’s Report 2014 41 OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE SHARED SOLUTIONS INNOVATION same range of services as the Brazilian Good management generates savings THE CSC – Innovation, a cross-cutting operation, with a focus on serving Votorantim Metais’ investments in The search for excellence and FACTS AND metals and mining (please see the inset operational stability has led to a new FIGURES theme at the side for further details). management approach in Votorantim The CCTI also seeks to capture Siderurgia. It was adjusted to address a sharp downturn in the long steel ++592 synergies in human and material resources in the area of information market. The VS+ project introduced a number of changes, including: the employees technology. Its mission is to contribute creation of process and project Investment in research and development to the generation of Value in the committees; the consolidation of ++5 business is the key to winning new business and consumer markets industrial companies by incorporating improvements and competitive interdepartmental forums to track the performance of activities and segments served: cement, pulp, energy, metals and T advantages in their business processes. operations; the identification of To achieve this it seeks to apply the opportunities for new business; and mining and steel best practices, and internationally the optimization of resources and cost he results of the latest Innovation Survey recognized technology standards, in IT management. The CCTI operates reductions. This new approach enables decisions to be made in a coordinated ++250 (Pintec) conducted by the Brazilian Institute for Geography and Statistics together with the IT departments of the industrial companies. This ensures manner and produces faster results. It facilitates the monitoring of key companies in 30 (IBGE) and published in early 2014, showed that 37% of the surveyed companies had launched countries served: consolidates that the work undertaken is developed company projects and prioritizes its their financial statements in 18 new products or implemented new processes between in a coordinated and interdependent strategic themes. It also contributes different currencies 2009 and 2011. The survey also revealed that the industrial way, with a clear separation of the to the coordination of Various teams sector accounted for 90% of all innovation projects in respective roles and responsibilities. and areas, resulting in faster decisionthe Brazilian business environment, including both the Real-estate management making processes. ++31 thousand renovation and upgrading of existing processes and the development of new products. employees receive their In 2014 the Center for Real-Estate The most important projects for the monthly payroll and benefits Solutions (CSI) was established to company have been identified. Two through its processes These figures showed that there was still a lot of room for manage Votorantim’s real-estate examples are, firstly, the P80 project, investments in research and development in Brazil, and that assets. The organization owns 797 which aims to achieve the full potential the industrial sector was in the best position to lead this thousand hectares of land, distributed throughout Brazil. This includes the of the steel production capacity installed in the Resende (RJ) plant by improving ++300 thousand movement. cash payments processed per operational and strategic areas for its its operational stability and, secondly, month In the case of Votorantim, the possibilities for R&D plants, mines, forests, hydroelectric the sales area’s mobility project which are innumerable. They begin with the search for energy power plants and distribution centers. seeks to digitize its processes in order efficiency from the use of biomass and the conversion of The CSI’s management objectives are to reduce the risks associated with to increase productivity. Through these and other initiatives, such as the weekly ++R$ 60 billion in waste into new products. They then extend to entering the market for bio-fuels produced from eucalyptus trees and cash transactions owning real estate, such as regularizing cost control system and the systematic the development of new applications for by-products. This documentation, to seek fiscal incentives monitoring of targets, the VS+ project also involves addressing the theme internally, through the and to evaluate business opportunities in the real estate sector. contributed positively to the results for 2014. Intelectual Capital ++13 thousand Academy of Excellence, which, in 2013, included innovation as one of its focuses for training. During 2014, seven courses calls per month received in its were held, involving a total of 192 participants. Intelectual Capital Call Center If you add up all the patents obtained by Votorantim’s industrial subsidiaries, you will arrive at a total of 88 patents, 13 of which were developed in 2014. Fibria invested R$ 48 million in research projects covering genetic improvement, forest 42 Votorantim’s Report 2014 Votorantim’s Report 2014 43 OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE INNOVATION fuel costs, the wear and tear of streets and highways and greenhouse INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL gas emissions. In November 2014, a group of executives representing Votorantim’s Another project is the installation of a industrial companies visited the National Institute of Technology (INT), new system to fire up the combustion in Rio de Janeiro, to explore the possibilities for partnerships and the chamber used in nickel production. development of innovation projects, especially those that could be It has enabled the substitution of eligible for financing from the Brazilian Company for Industrial Research fossil fuel oils by renewable fuels such and Innovation (Embrapii).The aim was to encourage the industrial as Eco-fire, made from the cotton companies to seek innovative solutions to optimize the use of resources plant. This process could generate and to increase the rates for the reuse of water, energy and waste. annual savings in input costs of up The discussions at the INT also covered the legal instruments that to R$ 10 million, a reduction of 4% related to encouraging innovation, the issuance of technical reports, the compared to current expenses. The management of industrial property and product certification. Following new system has been tested in pilot the visit, a schedule of activities was prepared that included visits by INT plants and can be adjusted for use by representatives to all Votorantim’s industrial companies.Two of these all units that consume fossil fuel oils. visits have already taken place, one to Fibria and the other to Votorantim In addition, it was estimated that the Metais.The visit by Votorantim executives to INT was preceded by two new firing system will reduce current workshops, held at Votorantim Industrial’s offices, on the themes of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions sustainability and innovation, with presentations made by representatives by 105 thousand metric tons of of the INT and the Institute for Technological Research (IPT). In addition, management, product development, and technologies that would enable it to New applications for established products 88 patents during 2014, three other internal workshops were carried out on CO2eq/year. There is also an important social benefit, since the use of bioenter into new markets. developed by the the subject of incremental innovation, addressing issues related to mass will generate jobs and increased Votorantim companies Manufactured Capital GC-8 GC-9 technology, processes and products. Intelectual Capital income in areas near the industrial Fibria’s Technology and Innovation There are many other examples of plants. G4-EN18 department, established in 2014, innovation in the industrial companies. Fibria’s investments conducts its R&D initiatives.The new Votorantim Cimentos pioneered in innovation department’s mission includes seeking the production of impermeable out opportunities in its current business concrete, used in block form in civil 59% Radical 23% Incremental REDUCED PEST INFESTATION IN (pulp), and promoting innovation as a construction projects in large urban innovation Innovation ORANGE GROVES driver for generating new business in centers. It facilitates the drainage of other markets – the so-called disruptive rainwater, thus helping to prevent Greening is a disease that affects 60% of the orange groves in the State of São Paulo and is one of the main factors that reduced orange innovation process.The research so far has focused on increasing the floods. Votorantim Metais developed new applications for aluminum that 2014 production in the United States in recent years.This disease is also one of the factors that contributed to doubling the cost of citrus production productivity of forests, improving wood could provide solutions to meet quality, increasing the efficiency of needs in the transportation, civil in the last decade.To combat greening, Citrosuco has invested in production processes, and the sustainable construction and long-life packaging improvements in genetic development and protection against the pests 18% development of high quality products. It sectors. One of the company’s 15 Disruptive that cause it. For example, the company signed an agreement with the Innovation Brazilian Agricultural Research Institution (Embrapa) and established a was in this context that an opportunity innovation projects is a participation to reuse lignite was identified. Lignite, in the development of a silo truck partnership with institutions in the United States to study the problem in which is a substance extracted from that could reduce the total weight of order to find short-term solutions.The company also began to monitor the wood during pulp production, can be used to create carbon fibers for the vehicle by two metric tons. This new vehicle could generate savings R$ 48 million avitpursiD oãçavonI latnemercnI oãçavonI avitpursiD oãçavonI Investimentos its groves and those 23% in neighboring identify sourcesInovação of contamination. daproperties IncrementalAs Fibria emmore a result, it inovação has rigorously managed (2014) to to maintain the aviation industry. Another area of for logistics companies, and benefits invested in research latnemercnI oãçavonI lacidaR oãçavonI 18% the level of greening infestation below 1%, which is much lower than the Inovação Disruptiva research is the development of bio-fuels for society and the planet. The lighter and development by lacidaR oãçavonI average levels for the Brazilian and global industries. Intelectual Capital GC-7 from eucalyptus trees. weight has a direct impact on reducing Fibria in 2014 44 Votorantim’s Report 2014 Votorantim’s Report 2014 45 HUMAN CAPITAL People & Talented people at the core of our strategy Organization A review of the Votorantim Development System led to the adoption of a more strategic vision for people management and also resulted in a number of practical initiatives for related topics T he development of employees through internal training programs has been the best way to preserve and enhance the knowledge base accumulated in the Votorantim industrial companies and to prepare the whole organization for longterm business continuity. In recent years, an extensive review of the company’s people management model involved senior management in the discussion of the main issues and led to the updating of the Votorantim Development System (SDV).The SDV is a platform that provides guidance for our efforts in human resource management and establishes priorities and processes for developing our talented people. The starting point for these discussions were the four main issues raised by the Climate Survey, carried out in November 2013, namely: health, safety and the environment; remuneration and benefits; employee development; and transparency and direction. Based on these results, we created focus groups, involving all levels of leadership, from the CEO to managers and coordinators, as well as groups of employees and young professionals, considered to have high potential.The holding company developed a program to define the initiatives needed to improve our people management approach and transform Votorantim Industrial into a Votorantim’s Report 2014 47 PEOPLE & ORGANIZATION HUMAN CAPITAL benchmark for a high performance work culture and the details of the new In addition, the People Forum organized environment. Human Capital OCDE people management model.The SDV the first meetings between the directors Committees produced detailed and of the Human Development and IN SEARCH OF EXCELLENCE At the end of the year, these efforts in-depth discussions on the role of Organizational (DHO) areas of the The Votorantim Academy of Excellence is a center common to all the company’s experts, regardless culminated in the construction of an managers and leaders and succession industrial companies and the holding of expertise for training the companies’ managers of the individual company’s area of business activity, assessment model for high potential planning (please see the inset). company, in order to agree on the main and employees and is one of the main instruments such as maintenance, capex, and health and safety, employees based on the definition points that should be disseminated in all to support the implementation of Votorantim’s among other issues. of the professional profiles that were Other initiatives to improve the SDV the companies. culture. The Academy was established in 2006 and, prerequisites for success in the various also went into effect during the year. To address these two distinct fields of learning in collaboration with renowned business schools, processes that make up the SDV.The There was a wide-ranging discussion For 2015 the goal is to refine the analysis within the Academy, the Leadership and Technical designed courses that were specifically directed to Centers are structured on three common pillars: objective was to work with four main on the attraction and retention of and implement the new employee Votorantim’s needs, and which incorporated realdimensions in the annual development talented people and the role of the development model, in such a way that Fundamental learning – Programs and activities life case studies from the industrial subsidiaries. cycle: assessment of adherence to the holding company in the construction of it enables synergies to be obtained by for the development of fundamental management Since then, the Academy has broadened its activities desired profile; performance evaluation a common high performance culture, creating a single Votorantim organization, practices that are the foundation for excellence in and undertaken initiatives in different spheres of committees (SDV Committees); which would then be embedded in the and also ensures the training of successors professional performance and leadership. the organization, while continuing to maintain the Performance and Development entire organization. The structure of for all the company’s strategic functions. Discussions; and the Individual the procedures for the performance development of training modules and courses. Accelerated learning – A set of experiences that Development Plan (IDP). evaluation and the assessment of The Academy’s programs are organized in two main aim to stimulate, in an accelerated manner, the adherence to the desired profile were areas: the Leadership Center and the Technical development of those professionals who have potential to assume more complex and demanding In parallel to the process of defining and structuring the program, some initiatives defined using the method known as “Nine Box”. This is essentially a matrix 5 GOALS OF Center. The former is dedicated to the training positions in the organization. The “Potenciar” went into effect immediately.The that cross-references several types THE PEOPLE of current and future company managers. Some Program, focused on young talented employees and training modules are aimed at standard management Training Program for General Managers of objective information about the FORUM practices and others have a specific focus on the trainees, is a good example of this pillar in practice. and the Top Team Program, which employee and assesses his/her potential demands of each stage of an employee’s career, that Strategic learning – Training and practical involve the CEO and directors, helped for development and performance in 1. Reflect on the management is, they aim to develop leaders capable of sustaining experiences to provide support to managers to to disseminate the high performance the period. of the “Votorantim DNA” the processes that transform the organization. enable them to address the organization’s main by sharing best practices and The latter aims to share best practices and seek strategic challenges. The objective is to encourage NEW SDV MODEL proposing improvements improvements to Votorantim’s technical and them to break with existing paradigms and promote Development 2. Search for synergies among the strategic expertise. They address the issues that are organizational change. G4‑LA9 OCDE rantim Sys to tem industrial companies in relation to Vo n S tio tran tegy people management processes Rete 3. Serve as a discussion forum DP Ass k &I es on the optimum use of the n elopme t Strategy Fee ent industrial companies’ human db ac sm g S t ra t e g y capital and knowledge bases. Dev Profile 4. Act as the governing body for a the Academy of Excellence rm d H iri n Perf o reer (corporate university) s ee n ca ia c e a n it t m lo g d C om 5. Discuss and align the decisions ue taken by one industrial company Pip elin e nt that could affect the others M anage me in matters related to this management pillar (synergies in recruitment processes, contracting benefits, etc.) 48 Votorantim’s Report 2014 Votorantim’s Report 2014 49 PEOPLE & ORGANIZATION HUMAN CAPITAL Image & Reputation SDV Committees THE ACADEMY The implementation of the SDV – FACTS AND Committees in 2014 contributed FIGURES FOR to the governance structure 2014 for the issues related to people management in the holding company. 1,317 people trained These committees are made up of managers who evaluate their 57 courses own teams and the teams of their peers. The committee must reach Directors, supported by the Advisory a consensus on the classification of Committees for Remuneration & People 6 new courses each employee evaluated, using the “Nine Box” methodology. This results (if any), and senior managers from the companies’ human resource areas. The 4,328 people participated in an assessment, which weighs the opinions of professionals from other Chairmen of the companies’ Boards report the individual goals contracted 120 groups areas, as well as that of the respective manager, ensuring the impartiality with the CEOs and their performance evaluations to the VPAR Board, annually. 1,198 hours of the process. For the companies’ It is the responsibility of the companies’ CEOs, this role is performed by the Boards to approve the succession pool presidents of the respective Boards of of CEOs and directors. 50 Votorantim’s Report 2014 IMAGE & REPUTATION OUR BRAND development of new business and the and processes that had helped build the number of skilled jobs. However, industry attraction of talented people. strength of the brand. At the same time produces different impacts on people’s it emphasized Votorantim’s capacity to lives and the environment.Therefore, a The task is not easy. In the case of transform, based on its strategic themes company needs to innovate and reinvent Votorantim, the company evolved from a of innovation, sustainability and people. itself all the time. textile company into a conglomerate that has operations in many different sectors The campaign aimed to show that Although reputation is a long-term of the economy. On many occasions the underlying the work of the companies’ asset, the novelty of the campaign company anticipated macroeconomic employees, there was a common force and its positioning contributed to trends and was able to translate society’s that united them.The slogan “To produce Votorantim rising six places (from 19th real needs into programs and activities is an art” leaves aside any reference to in 2013 to 13th in 2014) in the ranking for the community. Votorantim itself and, instead, projects of Brazilian companies with the best the importance of industry to the reputation. This ranking, published in But today’s world is breaking away from country’s development. It is industry late 2014, was prepared by the Spanish important paradigms and discussing new that meets the diverse needs of society. Institute Merco and was based on a ways of doing business, in which the It is also the main driver for Brazil’s survey carried out in partnership with meaning of development is understood development and generates the highest the market research company Ibope. in a new context. As a result image and reputation gain more weight in investment decisions, in labor relations and in the way society interacts with business. Aware of these changes in society, in 2014, Votorantim launched the first corporate branding campaign in its A long-term asset that history, with the theme “To produce is an art.” This positioning was the result generates value of a thorough analysis carried out with the involvement of employees, market opinion leaders and representatives of external stakeholder groups with whom the company maintains close Brand management and the strengthening of relations with stakeholders are essential relations. This analysis, finalized in factors in promoting the value of Votorantim’s image and reputation in the future 2013, proposed a market positioning that synthesized not only the features THREE CROSS-CUTTING THEMES V common to the industrial sector, but especially the attributes that generate FOR VOTORANTIM otorantim’s image brand that has become one of its most Reputation can be understood as the pride among the employees that work People Sustainability Innovation and reputation important, yet intangible, company sum of all the perceptions about an in an organization like Votorantim. The Investment in Produce in an New alternatives as a solid and assets. In the 21st century, technologies organization held by society. A positive research also revealed that no other attracting and optimal way to yield that create value and respected company are developing at incredible speed and perception represents an important industrial company had so far adopted developing talented the needed products make a difference in are among its greatest legacies and they have already transformed the competitive advantage that can this type of positioning. people that will make and services, people’s lives. were constructed over nearly a nature of the relations between people contribute significantly to ensuring a difference today while meeting the century of business activities. As one and between them and business. an organization’s long-term business The campaign, which was promoted and in the future. legitimate demands of the leading and more legitimate Managing the company’s brand and continuity. Reputation also reflects in printed and digital media, reinforced of society. representatives of the Brazilian image has become mandatory to on the level of social endorsement attributes such as tradition, confidence industrial sector, Votorantim has built a ensure a company’s survival. of a company’s business activities, the and dynamism, and valued the practices 52 Votorantim’s Report 2014 Votorantim’s Report 2014 53 IMAGE & REPUTATION THE VOTORANTIM INSTITUTE Work that focuses on local Public management program development In partnership with the Brazilian National Development Bank (BNDES), the program works directly with local governments to modernize public administration in the 366 217 R$ 69.2 administrative and tax areas, promote regional planning and improve infrastructure in areas such as sanitation, housing and transportation. The program also offers training for public administrators and supports municipalities to draw up plans thousand people projects million invested and projects that are eligible for financial resources from benefited government agencies (federal and state), and which are made available through agreements and tenders. G4-SO1 19 municipalities were supported compared to 12 in 2013 Votorantim Institute works 13 municipal R$ 19 million in partnership with the plans prepared of financing already raised industrial companies to by local governments foster local development and contribute to business 11 teams competitiveness. of municipal employees trained V otorantim has a presence in more than 300 municipalities in Brazil. Many of them are located in regions with low levels of socio-economic development, and that promote their businesses”.This reflects the challenge of connecting local development to the company’s strategy. Community development generates This is the reason why Votorantim Institute, in partnership with the industrial companies, has directed its efforts to work together with local communities and public officials. The Social Investment In 2014, Votorantim’s external social investment totaled Inclusive business The ReDes Program is a partnership between Votorantim Institute and BNDES and is aimed at the development of inclusive business. It focuses on income generation in cities where where the provision of public services is many benefits and they are shared goal is to provide expertise in the R$ 69.2 million, an increase Votorantim has operations and which have poor and basic infrastructure is deficient. by all the parties involved. Higher social area and use the knowledge, of 12.5% ​​compared to the critical social indicators. In practical terms, the The realities of the local community quality education opens up new accumulated over time, to promote the previous year. Of this total, program works to identify and structure small directly affect the worker’s quality of life and better opportunities for the development of local communities and R$ 60.6 million were businesses, form cooperatives and train workers. and productivity, the level of municipal population, preparing people with a business competitiveness. funded by own resources In 2014, three new municipalities, Cantagalo (RJ), Vidal Ramos (SC) and Fercal (DF), were expenses and the performance of the higher potential for the labor market. and R$ 8.6 million by selected to participate in the program, taking the total to 28. Altogether, 48 projects are being industrial companies. G4-SO1 Fostering entrepreneurship develops A number of programs and initiatives fiscal incentives. Including supported. The year also marked the inauguration of a number of businesses in small-holder the economy, reduces the municipality’s have been developed by the Institute the financing provided by family farming, nut processing, fishing, baking, recycling, among others. G4-SO1 Changing this situation is a challenge dependence on Votorantim’s operations over its 13 years of experience, par tners. The total invested for all stakeholders involved, from and contributes to the improvement providing strategic advice on social in social projects last year public administration to private of socio-economic indicators. An issues to the Votorantim industrial was R$ 76.1 million, which 1,620 R$ 15 48 43% enterprise, mainly because it requires a long-term vision backed-up by improved level of infrastructure contributes to increasing operational companies. Its innovative methods have made it a benchmark in the sector supported 293 initiatives in families million projects of the projects already generate 91 locations, benefiting more benefited invested contracted integrated and structured actions.This stability for the industrial companies and have contributed to transforming than 400 thousand people. increased is Votorantim Institute’s mission.The and faster service for customers and the lives of thousands of people. The OCDE income for the Institutes new positioning is to “be employees. Our businesses become following results go far beyond the gains beneficiaries closer to the industrial companies and more competitive. Employees and in image and reputation for Votorantim. to support them with social actions suppliers also benefit. G4-24 G4-26 Social and Relationship Capital 54 Votorantim’s Report 2014 Votorantim’s Report 2014 55 IMAGE & REPUTATION THE VOTORANTIM INSTITUTE INSTITUTIONAL RELATIONS Stakeholder engagement in Partnership for education Defending day-to-day operations The stakeholder engagement methodology developed by the The Votorantim Partnership for Education (VPE) contributes to improving the education indicators in the municipalities where Votorantim operates through initiatives in social the industry Votorantim Institute provides Votorantim’s industrial companies mobilization and in the strengthening of public sector and The Advocacy Work Group addresses with management tools to improve their relations with their school administration. The strategy adopted is to work the themes relevant to the sectors where stakeholders, including the community, suppliers, partners and to engage the community and encourage its demands for Votorantim operates V employees.The methodology involves identifying issues and key quality education. The project also contributes to improving stakeholder groups, developing engagement plans with targets, the level of education being offered by training the school otorantim Industrial has an area indicators and a budget, and monitoring the implementation system administrators and promoting the implementation of responsible for Institutional ​​ and Government of these plans. In 2014, the methodology was implemented in the national policies and guidelines for education G4-SO1 Relations that acts in partnership with the 15 units, including the Bragado plant (Votorantim Siderurgia) in trade associations that represent the sectors Argentina. G4-SO1 G4-25 in which its industrial companies operate. One of the objectives is to present development proposals to public entities related 15 units Implementation of the program to the competitiveness and legislation relevant to these industry participated sectors. Furthermore, the area contributes to the proposals and in Argentina programs that aim to improve public administration, principally 24 stakeholder in the municipalities where Votorantim operates, under the coordination of the Votorantim Institute. engagement plans are in To enable it to carry out this role the Advocacy Work progress ESCOLA Group was set up, composed of representatives from the 17 municipalities holding company and from the legal departments of the industrial subsidiaries.This forum discusses the issues for Community groups participating Evaluation of each sector and defines the strategies for raising these issues with the trade associations, and contributes with technical A methodology that supports and encourages the community improvements at and operational arguments to provide a basis for discussion to identify opportunities, form networks and carry out schools carried out in initiatives. At the end of 2014 there were 35 groups formed 264 public between these sectors and other agents of society. with over 400 participants in 13 states and the Federal schools involved 100% of the municipal schools in The governance of the Advocacy Work Group includes District in Brazil. G4-SO1 the cities served regular meetings in the industrial companies on specific topics related to their operations and the public policies applicable to their sectors. Plenary meetings with the More progress by Votorantim Institute in 2014 industrial companies cover cross-cutting topics, which are of interest to industry in general and not only to those More than 4,800 places in technical training Extension of the partnership with the Entered into a formal partnership with sectors where Votorantim operates. courses, in partnership with Pronatec, to BNDES resulted in the provision of the Ministry for Cities to train public provide candidates for the job opportunities R$ 40 million for investment in projects officials in the municipalities where Once the Advocacy Work Group has defined the priority in Votorantim’s industrial companies. A to generate income and support public Votorantim is present. topics, they are forwarded through trade associations that total of approximately R$ 8.9 million was administration. More than 60 Votorantim executives legitimately represent the relevant industry sectors to the invested. were consulted in a study to identify needs, applicable public bodies, at the municipal, state and federal improvements and the development of levels. Such proposals include suggestions on the country’s new products by the Institute. industrial policy, with the objective of increasing the competitiveness of the Brazilian productive sector. G4-24 G4-26 GC-10 OCDE For further information: http://www.institutovotorantim.org.br/en/ 56 Votorantim’s Report 2014 Votorantim’s Report 2014 57 IMAGE & REPUTATION INSTITUTIONAL RELATIONS Our Transparency regarding specific legislation and the regulations With the objective of ensuring the Portfolio electoral donations of the Anti-Corruption Law. These transparency of the organization’s In 2014 the area for Institutional and documents define the principles and practices by committing to them Governmental Relations revised the recommendations, which regulate the publicly, in 2014, the Corporate Policy Handbook for Electoral Processes and donations by all Votorantim’s industrial for Election Donations was registered the Corporate Policy for Electoral subsidiaries to political parties or at the 6º Public Document Registry Donations, due to the changes in the candidates for public office. Office in São Paulo. G4-SO6 GC-10 THE ANTI-CORRUPTION PROGRAM As part of its ongoing program As a result, a work plan for 2015 ++Code of Conduct, adopted from to combat corruption, in 2014, was prepared with the aim of 2005 Votorantim Industrial carried improving the company’s control ++Anti-corruption Policy, published out a survey to identify all of systems and its anti-corruption in 2013, and based on national the organization’s transactions initiatives. In 2014, all Votorantim and international laws, including with government bodies and Industrial employees in management the United States Foreign public officials. The analysis of this positions, above the level of Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) information resulted in a map that technician, analyst and supervisor, and the United Kingdom Bribery identified the frequency of these received training on fighting Act (2010) transactions, how critical they were, corruption through on-line distance how they were performed, the learning courses. In 2015, this type ++Compliance Program degree of exposure, the internal of training will be extended to all implemented in 2014 G4‑SO5 GC-10 control environment and the the holding company’s employees. OCDE adequacy of Votorantim’s Code of The main practices adopted by Conduct and internal policies. Votorantim are: DEFENDING COMPETITION In May 2014, the Administrative sanctions and fines.Votorantim of 2014, this appeal had not been Council for Economic Defense Cimentos, which was one of the judged by Cade, and so the penalty (Cade) condemned companies companies cited, considered the imposed by the Council has not yet in the cement sector for alleged penalty to be improper and without gone into effect. G4-SO7 OCDE anti-competitive practices and the legal basis, and appealed against the formation of a cartel, imposing Council’s decision. Up until the end 58 Votorantim’s Report 2014 OUR PORTFOLIO VOTORANTIM CIMENTOS on ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL INVESTMENT ation 4 MANAGEMENT G4-EN31 o re inform ance in 201 For m ’s perform site at: R$ 67.80 MM R$ 8.92 MM b mpany its we the co se refer to Capex Investment by the company plea m.b r/ . vc i m e ntos.co ww http://w htms-enu/ 109.43 16.38 million million Reais Reais + R$ 41.62 MM R$ 7.46 MM Opex Investment by Votorantim Institute 6 HIGHLIGHTS OF VOTORANTIM Sector leader XEPO XEPO otutitsnI otutitsnI CIMENTOS IN 2014 xepaC xepaC soirpo rP 1. Expansion of the total cement production capacity 12.3% 87.7% Votorantim Cimentos’ performance in 2014 reflected the value of its extensive to 54.5 million metric tons/year; the expansion of distribution capacity in Brazil, vertical integration of products and brand recognition the Xambioá (TO) plant alone added 600 thousand metric tons/year to its capacity, increasing the total 15,779 employees to 1.1 million metric tons/year. G4-10 V 2. The Product Quality Index (PQI) rose to 95%, an otorantim Cimentos market. In 2014, Votorantim Cimentos of operations resulted in an increase of increase of 3% over the previous year. is present in all of concentrated 74% of its total 0.9% in the Ebitda margin. the regions in Brazil investment in expanding its business, 3. Ongoing investments in the expansions of the and has operations both domestically, in organic growth The year 2014 was also a period plants in Edealina (GO), where the capacity will R$ 13 R$ 3.5 60 thousand 525 in13 countries overseas, located in in the North, Northeast and Centerof great change for Votorantim increase to 2 million metric tons/year, and in billion billion customers in the Mulheres: Mulheres: portfolio, of which operating units markets which are mature or which West Regions of Brazil, and in the Cimentos, with major advances in of net revenues of Ebitda Primavera (PA), where the capacity is 1.2 million G4-EC1 G4-EC1 45 thousand are Homens: Homens:active have high growth potential. In 2014, expansion of its international presence. its management and governance metric tons/year. Both are scheduled to start up the company accounted for the largest Overseas, the company signed structure. An internal engagement operations in the second half of 2015. G4-6 share of the organization’s consolidated agreements for the construction process, focusing on the adoption result and maintained an Ebitda margin of new plants in Bolivia and Turkey. of best practices for employees, 4. Maintained our investment grade ratings, on CANADA of 27.3%, despite the downturn in the Furthermore, it approved expansion customers and suppliers was a global scale, with the three main risk rating USA SPAIN TURKEY CHINA civil construction sector in Brazil. The plans for North America, mainly in implemented. The company agencies: Standard & Poor’s (Rating BBB, Stable MARROCCO TUNISIA INDIA company’s good financial performance the United States, which has shown reorganized its commercial Outlook) Moody’s (Baa3, Stable Outlook) and reflected the value of the company’s consistent signs of an economic structure to reflect the segments Fitch Ratings (BBB, Negative Outlook). PERU BRAZIL distribution capacity, vertical integration recovery in 2014, favorably impacting where its customers operate: selfBOLIVIA of products and brand recognition. the civil construction sector. Despite construction, real estate, industrial 5. Implementation of the global strategic plan and CHILE URUGUAY ARGENTINA a severe winter, the North American and infrastructure. The objective was the development of a Strategic Sustainability Plan, The company’s total cement operations increased sales volume and to make the business strategy bolder, including the publication of a formal document production capacity at year-end revenues, stimulated by the recovery of customer-focused and able to serve all entitled “Our Sustainability Commitments 2020”. 37. 8 11.2 1.8 28.3 was 54.5 million metric tons/year, the Unites States economy. In Europe, the stages of small, medium and large million million million million metric tons of cubic meters of metric tons of metric tons of 6. Expansion of the Global Health and Safety Policy cement sales concrete sales mortar sales aggregates sales of which 59% is in Brazil, its main Asia and Africa, the increased efficiency construction projects. 60 Votorantim’s Report 2014 Votorantim’s Report 2014 61 OUR PORTFOLIO VOTORANTIM METAIS ation on For more inform ance in 2014 LEADERSHIP IN the compa ny ’s pe rf or m its website at: PRODUCTION please refer to ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL INVESTMENT ++ Votorantim Metals is the global leader for the MANAGEMENT G4-EN31 is.com.br/ Between challenges http://www.vmeta production of zinc oxide and the second largest R$ 72.52 MM R$ 4.48 MM ult.aspx Capex Investment by the company en-US/Pages/defa for zinc powder. It has a production capacity of and opportunities 739 thousand metric tons per year. ++ In primary aluminum, it is the leading producer in the Brazilian market, with a capacity of 225.91 10.26 million million 475 thousand metric tons. Reais Reais Votorantim Metais succeeds in compensating the on the production of finished ++ With a total capacity of 404 thousand metric tons adverse market situation in Brazil with the results of its products, which have a higher per year, it is leading player in Latin America for international operations added-value, for the Brazilian market. electrolytic nickel production. R$ 153.39 MM Opex R$ 5.78 MM Investment by Votorantim Institute ++ Through its subsidiary Metalex, it is the leading V + In the zinc market, the deficit of global Brazilian company in the recycling of aluminum scrap production compared to demand, and sourced from industrial processes and customers, otorantim Metals is markets, while the Aluminum Division the reduction of inventories, led to with a capacity of 50 thousand metric tons per year. the largest non-ferrous (through the Companhia Brasileira de a recovery of prices on the London XEPO XEPO otutitsnI otutitsnI metals company in Alumínio (CBA) prioritizes the Brazilian Metal Exchange (LME), with a positive xepaC soirpo rP xepaC soirpo rP Brazil. In 2014, the market. This balance ensures greater impact on the company’s results for company reorganized its organizational overall competitiveness in the face of the year. In the nickel business, prices 6 HIGHLIGHTS OF 8.1% 91.9% structure into two business divisions: challenges in regional macroeconomic also remained at levels above those VOTORANTIM METAIS 11,933 Aluminum and Polymetallics (focused environments, such as in 2014, when the for 2013 due to a lower global supply. on the production of zinc and nickel). downturn in the Brazilian market was The company’s volume of nickel sales IN 2014 The company’s operations in Brazil offset by the results of the international fell by 41% compared to the employees G4-10 consist of seven mining and processing operations. previous year, due to the 1. The safety performance has improved year on complexes, three metallurgy plants, temporary suspension year. The accident frequency rate in 2014 was a recycling plant, and administrative In the aluminum sector, supply and of operations at the 2.74, a 5% improvement compared to 2013 offices in São Paulo and Belo Horizonte. demand were approximately the same Fortaleza de Minas (MG) plant, Overseas the company operates a zinc in 2014, however, inventories remained which occurred in 2013. Detailed 2. Increases in prices, productivity and efficiency at refinery in Peru (Cajamarquilla) and five high compared to previous years. The information on this situation was Milpo resulted in R$ 1.8 billion of net revenues zinc metallurgical facilities (USZINC), US Dollar price of aluminum rose reported on page 120 of our Integrated for the year Manufactured Capital R$ 9.2 R$ 2.2 Largest 21 billion billion of non-ferrous Mulheres: metals company Mulheres: operating units four of which are located in the United by 2% in the year, driven by demand Report 2013. of net revenues consolidated in Brazil Homens: States and one in China.Votorantim from the United States market, due 3. The new governance structure was implemented G4-EC1 Ebitda G4-EC1 Homens: Metais, with 50.06% of the shares, is to decreased production, increased One of the positive highlights for with the establishment of a Board of Directors G4-6 the controlling shareholder of the imports and a reinvigorated demand 2014 was the result of the Milpo and two Advisory Committees – Audit and Milpo mining company, a publicly-listed from the automotive industry which mining operations in Peru. Milpo’s net Remuneration and People CANADA company in Peru. used a higher percentage of aluminum revenues increased by 15% and Ebitda USA 4. The Alumina Rondon Project was granted a CHINA products in its production. by 13% compared to 2013. In 2014, for provisional operating license by Coema The company’s organizational structure Votorantim Metais as a whole, Ebitda was designed to strengthen its strategy In Brazil, demand fell due to rose by 125% and the Ebitda margin 5. Changes in management processes resulted in PERU BRAZIL to grow in an increasingly complex the economic slowdown, which increased to 24%. This improvement an increase of 20% in the level of operational and competitive business context. impacted the civil construction and was due to the increase in the LME stability at 16 operating units The structure contributes to driving transportation sectors. Competition price in US Dollars, the devaluation growth by the capture of synergies from producers in China and Middle of the R$/US$ exchange rate and the 6. Votorantim Metals, in partnership with the and the dissemination of best practices Eastern countries reduced the improved level of operational stability, Votorantim Institute, invested in 45 social 942 366 20 157 among its various businesses. The commercial attractiveness of exporting which ensured that costs were kept thousand thousand thousand thousand projects in the localities where it operates, with a metric tons of metric tons metric tons of metric tons of Polymetallics Division focuses on global from Brazil. The company concentrated under control. zinc produced of aluminum nickel produced copper produced total investment of R$ 10.2 million. produced 62 Votorantim’s Report 2014 Votorantim’s Report 2014 63 OUR PORTFOLIO VOTORANTIM SIDERURGIA 8 HIGHLIGHTS OF VOTORANTIM ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT G4-EN31 SOCIAL INVESTMENT SIDERURGIA IN 2014 R$ 17.66 MM Capex R$ 2.76 MM Investment by the company 1. Initiatives to improve operational efficiency generated a reduction in costs of around 5% in the Brazilian operations 52.50 5.85 million million Reais Reais 2. In Colombia, the economic context, and the particularities of the local market for long R$ 34.82 MM R$ 3.09 MM steel, enabled our operations to increase their Opex Investment by Votorantim Institute ation on For more inform ance in 2014 Ebitda by 491% + pa ny ’s pe rfo rm the com its website at: please refer to rgia.com.br/ 3. The sale of excess energy, in a joint http://www.vsideru operation with Votorantim Energia, helped XEPO XEPO otutitsnI otutitsnI compensate the reduced revenues from the xepaC xepaC soirpo rP soirpo rP Efficiency gains lower production volumes, in an amount of the order of R$ 40 million 11.9% 88.1% 4. The total investment in environmental initiatives exceeded R$ 50 million. Highlights 5,595 Votorantim Siderurgia focused on cost control and operational excellence to respond to employees G4-10 the downturn in the long steel market in Brazil were projects related to air emissions in Colombia, waste management in Brazil and V fire fighting in Argentina 5. The plant in Resende (RJ) reached its highest rate of production since its start-up due to R$ 4 R$ 428 22% 39 otorantim Siderurgia downturns in the real estate and civil The adverse business scenario in 2014 the success of the P80 project initiatives, billion of net million of reduction Mulheres: Mulheres: operating units produces and markets long steel construction sectors. In Argentina, the led to the implementation of a widewhich focused on operational stability revenues G4-EC1 Ebitda G4-EC1 in the total numberHomens: of accidents Homens: products for the civil construction reduction in long steel consumption ranging operational efficiency program and structural steel segments and has was even more pronounced, recording to optimize the use of resources and G4-6 operations in Brazil, Argentina and a decrease of 19% compared to reduce costs. A new management 6. 82% of Vacant leadership positions during Colombia. It is a privately-held, 100% the previous year, as a result of the model was implemented and key the year were filled by existing employees CANADA Brazilian-owned organization and the country’s economic difficulties. In business processes reviewed. Important Human Capital third largest producer of long steel in Colombia, sales volume increased, with changes were made in strategic areas Brazil. It also holds a controlling stake a positive impact on the company’s and also in operations. The new 7. In partnership with the Votorantim Institute COLOMBIA in Paz del Río, the only integrated steel consolidated results. Although the management model, called VS+ (please we implemented the Institute’s stakeholder BRAZIL company in Colombia, and AcerBrag, total sales volume decreased by 1% see page 42 for more information), also engagement methodology in our operations in the second largest producer of long compared to 2013, net revenues included the establishment of internal Argentina. This was the first application of the ARGENTINA steel in Argentina. increased by 5% to R$ 4 billion. committees and weekly goals and methodology in units outside Brazil This was due to price increases in all inspections. In 2014, the total production of crude our operations and an improved Over 28 10 1.8 steel in Brazil fell by 0.7% and the local performance by our operations 95% thousand thousand million 8. More than 735 thousand metric tons of byrecirculation of people benefited by tons of charcoal metric tons market demand also dropped due to in Colombia. water at the Barra social investment produced per of long steel products destined for reuse or recycling Mansa e Resende projects month produced units 64 Votorantim’s Report 2014 Votorantim’s Report 2014 65 OUR PORTFOLIO VOTORANTIM ENERGIA Beyond power 9 HIGHLIGHTS OF VOTORANTIM ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT G4-EN31 SOCIAL INVESTMENT ENERGIA IN 2014 generation R$ 0.57 MM R$ 1.23 MM Capex Investment by the company ation on For more inform ance in 2014 pe rf or m 1. Power generation in company-owned the company’s its website at: please refer to hydroelectric plants, including SHPs, totaled ia.com.br/ 12,071 thousand MWh, 10% higher than 10.95 1.85 Votorantim Energia has established a position http://www.venerg the previous year million million as a fast-growing, power generation and Reais Reais marketing company. 2. Ended the year with 94 customers compared to 24 at year-end 2013, a growth of 391%. R$ 10.38 MM R$ 0.62 MM T Opex Investment by 3. The availability of the power plants Votorantim Institute was maintained at high levels: 93.7% for + he company, which is present in seven Brazilian states, is responsible for operating 20 companythose plants connected to the National owned hydroelectric plants and a further nine Interconnected System (SIN) and 95.9% for plants, through participations in consortia*. It has the remaining plants XEPO XEPO otutitsnI otutitsnI also developed an organizational structure to provide services xepaC soirpo rP 4. 327 MW were sold in the 13 Auction of th xepaC soirpo rP throughout the energy sector value chain, from generation to end-user sales. In 2013, the company initiated a process for Existing Energy, organized in April by ANEEL, in supply contracts with terms of up to 5 years 15.6% 84.4% providing services to external clients. This included establishing the 455 necessary structure to enable it to offer customers its expertise, 5. Advanced one position in the ranking for which had been accumulated over many years of providing services energy traders, to 5th position, following to Votorantim’s industrial companies, with regard to energy employees sales at the auction G4-10 management and energy efficiency projects. In 2014, the company became the sixth largest private sector generator of electric power 6. Invested R$ 40 million in the operation and in Brazil, and one of the five largest energy traders. maintenance of the generating plants, which is equivalent to 0.3% of the total value of Currently, the transactions in the free segment of the energy the company’s assets market amount to about 23% of the total energy consumption in Brazil and there are good growth prospects for the coming years. 7. Established a Board of Directors and R$ 2.4 Presence 20 company9 restructured the risk management area, billion in 7 Brazilian owned* Mulheres: hydroelectric Mulheres: hydroelectric In 2014, the company took advantage of a market opportunity to of net revenues states G4-6 plants Homens: plants in consortia* sell energy which was surplus to internal requirements. In April to take on certain corporate functions G4-EC1 Homens: 2014, the company participated in the Auction for Existing Energy that had been formerly centralized in the G4-6 A-0 organized by the National Electrical Energy Agency (ANEEL) holding company,Votorantim Industrial (please see page 34 for more information). CANADA 8. Restructured the technology ​​ area in By the end of the year,Votorantim Energia had doubled its customer order to improve the energy efficiency of base and accounted for 6% of Votorantim’s Ebitda.The selfVotorantim’s industrial companies. Invested generation of energy in hydroelectric plants, including small hydro in research and development projects and BRAZIL plants (SHPs), totaled 12,071 thousand MWh, 10% higher than the carried out engineering studies for new previous year.Thus,Votorantim’s level of energy self-sufficiency in energy projects that were at an early stage. Brazil increased from 77% to 87% during the year. Also in 2014, the 9. R$ 9.8 million invested in environmental company administered energy purchase and sale contracts in the compliance and 100% conformity with the 87% Over 93% Average of 2,841 amount 1,722 MW, for Votorantim industrial companies and external conditions required by law in 18 major energy in the level of plant 1,722 MW GWh of customers, and also contracts for 508.66 million cubic meters of availability administered in self-sufficiency electrical energy licensing processes. energy contracts sales natural gas for Votorantim’s manufacturing operations. * In addition to the 29 hydroelectric plants administered by Votorantim Energia,Votorantim Cimentos has four small hydroelectric plants supplying its plants directly. 66 Votorantim’s Report 2014 Votorantim’s Report 2014 67 OUR PORTFOLIO FIBRIA ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT G4-EN31 Leading player in the R$ 68.55 MM R$ 17.75 MM Capex Investment by the company pulp industry 152.00 million 32.30 million Reais Reais + Favorable market conditions in the pulp market and operational excellence contributed to Fibria’s positive ation on For more inform ance in 2014 results in 2014 enabling the company to reduce its the company’s pe rfo rm R$ 83.45 MM R$ 14.55 MM its website at: Investment by financial leverage please refer to Opex Votorantim Institute com.br/en/ http://www.fibria. 6 HIGHLIGHTS OF F FIBRIA IN 2014 ibria is the world’s largely due to an increase in its XEPO otutitsnI largest producer of production capacity for toilet XEPO otutitsnI 1. Net revenues, Ebitda and Ebitda margin reached xepaC soirpo rP short fiber pulp from paper and cardboard, the high xepaC soirpo rP eucalyptus trees and price differential between long record highs in the fourth quarter 2014 14.3% 85.7% has a strong presence in the and short fiber pulp and the 2. Over R$ 1.5 billion was invested in the research 4,086 international markets, exporting closure of a significant number of and development area, the purchase of trucks for to more than 40 countries.The obsolete pulp and paper plants. timber transport and a feasibility study related to company has four pulp plants This situation allowed the year’s increase of 1.3% in the production employees Três Lagoas G4-10 in Brazil located in Jacarei (SP), production to be absorbed by cash costs in 2014 compared to Aracruz (ES),Três Lagoas (MS) the market, thus maintaining the previous year.This increase 3. Fibria produced 117% of its energy requirements and Eunápolis (BA), where it owns producers’ stocks in line with the was well below the inflation of for pulp production in 2014. Because it is self50% of Veracel, a joint venture historical average. 6.41%, as measured by the official sufficient in energy, it is well prepared for a with Stora Enso. In total these government index (IPCA), and the potential adverse situation for the supply of plants have a pulp production In 2014, Fibria’s pulp production devaluation of 12% in the average electricity in Brazil in 2015 R$ 7.1 R$ 2.8 more than 15 capacity of 5.3 million metric tons of 5.3 million metric tons was R$/US$ exchange rate, for the billion billion 240 Mulheres: Mulheres: operating per year. In Brazil, the company similar to that of 2013, and period. 4. The minimum dividend for the year ended municipalities in units of net revenues of Ebitda Brazil Homens: is present in more than 240 total sales revenues registered a December 31, 2014 at R$ 37 million. G4-EC1 G4-EC1 Homens: municipalities distributed in seven small increase of 2%.The results The company’s strategy for the 5. The company obtained an investment grade G4-6 States and four Regions. G4-9 for net revenues and Ebitda management of its financial rating of BBBfrom Fitch Ratings and the outlook were significant and substantial liabilities reduced leverage and for its BB + rating from Standard & Poor’s was CANADA AUSTRIA In 2014, the demand in the pulp increases in the efficiency of over US$ 2 billion of gross debt raised to positive USA CHINA industry was higher than expected operational processes were was prepaid. As a result, its net and increased by 11% compared achieved.The sale of the surplus debt at year-end 2014 was US$ 2.8 6. Fibria also received an award for the most to the previous year.This increase energy produced and the billion, the lowest level (2.7 times) Sustainable Company of the Year conceded by BRAZIL in demand came mainly from high level of plant operating since the establishment of the the magazine “Guia Exame de Sustentabilidade”, China in the second semester, performance resulted in an company in 2009. and was again included in the portfolio of select companies that make up the DJSI World Index, the DJSI Emerging Markets Index of the New York Stock Exchange and the Corporate Exports to more than Net Debt/ Ebitda of 29.34% 5.3 million shareholding metric tons of Sustainability Index (ISE) of the BM&FBovespa 40 countries 2.7 times in Fibria held pulp produced G4-8 by Votorantim Stock Exchange in São Paulo, Brazil. Industrial 68 Votorantim’s Report 2014 Votorantim’s Report 2014 69 OUR PORTFOLIO CITROSUCO ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT G4-EN31 R$ 1.99 MM R$ 0.92 MM Capex Investment by the company ation on For more inform ance in 2014 perfor m the company’s its website at: please refer to p://w w w .citro su co .com.br/en/ 9.47 0.92 h tt million million Reais Reais R$ 7.48 MM Opex Innovation in orange groves Citrosuco is one of the world’s largest producers of orange juice and stands out in the industry for its control of pests in the orange groves 5 HIGHLIGHTS OF CITROSUCO IN 2014 + XEPO xepaC 27.1% XEPO xepaC 5,625 employees* G4-10 otutitsnI soirpo rP otutitsnI soirpo rP 72.9% * this number does not include temporary C farm workers nor overseas employees. itrosuco was adverse impact of greening, a disease by 26% compared to the previous 1. The capture of synergies and the established in 2012 that that attacked orange groves harvest. Thus, for the harvest, orange optimization of internal structures from the merger of worldwide, especially in the State juice production declined by 20% and processes resulted in savings of R$ 305 million US$ 1.3 US$ 116 457 temporary 35 Citrosuco, of the of Florida (USA), and unfavorable and the industry recorded the worst billion million farm Mulheres: workers Mulheres: employed, Homens: operating units Fischer Group, and Citrovita, of trading conditions. The market demand productivity in its history (284 boxes of net revenues of Ebitda including 224 Homens: Votorantim. The company began its for orange juice has been stable, per metric ton of juice, compared to 2. The ratio of net debt to Ebitda fell from G4-EC1 G4-EC1 overseas operations as one of the world’s government regulations have become the historical average of 250 boxes). 3 times to 0.7 times in the harvest 13/14, G4-6 largest producers of orange juice with more stringent, production costs in compared to the previous harvest an installed capacity corresponding Brazil have increased and the Real and In this situation, Citrosuco continued CANADA BELGIUM to about 40% of total Brazilian many international currencies have to work on improving its management 3. Our methods to control greening helped AUSTRIA USA JAPAN production – or 20% of global devalued against the US Dollar. and production processes, improving contain the level of infestation in our CHINA demand. It operates along the entire the use of the whole fruit and orange groves to below 1% Intellectual Capital production chain, from the cultivation According to CitrusBr, the Brazilian mitigating its exposure to factors that BRAZIL of orange groves to distribution to orange juice trade association that reduce productivity and juice quality. 4. 39% of our industrial electricity demand, AUSTRALIA customers. It serves customers in represents the exporters, the volume To address this adverse situation the met by co-generation, and 60% of more than 100 countries. of production in the main areas for company exercised great financial our total energy mix, were based on citrus cultivation in Brazil, comprising discipline, decreasing inventories renewable energy sources. 60% 28% 170 Capacity to meet The 2013/2014 harvest, which ended the northwestern region of the State and reducing foreign currency debt. 5. The percentage of waste sent to landfills of energy mix of industrial water million 20% in June 2014, was marked by a global of São Paulo and southern region of Between June 2012 and June 2014, from renewable consumption of global demand sources reused boxes processed decline in productivity, due to the the State of Minas Gerais, dropped fixed costs were reduced by 5%. was less than 5%. (approximately) 70 Votorantim’s Report 2014 Votorantim’s Report 2014 71 About the report REPORT COVERAGE Direct to the point and the recommendations of the organization’s practices and processes, number of years, to revise internal Votorantim Industrial’s subsidiaries began to publish their own reports in 2015, which International Integrated Report Council regulated its governance principles and processes and involved many different allows Votorantim Industrial to give more emphasis to strategic information (IIRC) for reporting financial and nonestablished five management pillars areas of the holding company and the financial information. The principles of for the industrial subsidiaries. These industrial subsidiaries. The content of T the United Nations Global Compact pillars address Votorantim’s strategic the Votorantim DNA document and (UNGC) and the Organization themes and define macro-guidelines the management pillars also served he Votorantim Votorantim Cimentos, Votorantim where it refers to the harvest for Economic Cooperation and for conducting business activities, as a reference for the preparation of Report 2014 contains Metais, Votorantim Siderurgia, 2013/2014, ending in June 2014. Development (OECD) were also taken considering the material financial, social this report, so that it would reflect the information on the Votorantim Energia, Citrosuco and into consideration. and environmental issues. company’s actual situation. holding company Fibria. The information presented in The report was prepared based on Votorantim Industrial (VID) and the report is for the period between the guidelines of the G4 version of The report’s content was defined The completion of this document, The construction of the Votorantim the six industrial subsidiaries the 1st of January and the 31st of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), based on the Votorantim DNA in 2014, was the culmination of an DNA document represented a period that comprise the conglomerate: December 2014, except for Citrosuco, for the core “in accordance” option, document, which systematized the extensive work program, over a of considerable learning and reflection, M A N A G E M E N T P I L L A R S n Sustainability rganizatio Practices Material Issues GRI-G4 Indicators Peop le & O celle nce > Occupational health and safety, including third parties G4-10, G4-11, G4-LA6, G4-LA9, G4-SO1, ational Ex > Employee development G4-HR3, G4-HR5, G4-HR9 Oper People e Cre ation G4-EN5, G4-EN13, G4-EN18 Valu ent > Eco-efficiency and the responsible use of resources > Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from industrial activities agem Financial Man Resources > Biodiversity and ecosystem services puta çtãioon > Responsible growth (M&A, greenfield and brownfield, maintenance and G4-4, G4-6 a G4-9, G4-13, G4-EC1, G4-EN29, eman&d Re operational stability G4-EN31, G4-EN32, G4-EN33, G4-LA1, G4-LA12, Imag Assets > Identification of material issues > Management of environmental risks, licenses and obligations G4-LA14, G4-LA15, G4-SO7, G4-SO8, G4-HR5, G4-HR6, G4-HR10, G4-HR11, G4-SO5, G4-SO9, G4-S10 > Products and services G4-4, G4-6, G4-8, G4-9 Customers > Supply chain G4-12, G4-15, G4-16, G4-SO1, G4-SO5, G4-SO6, G4-SO9, > Relationship with and development of the communities where we operate G4-SO10, G4-EN32, G4-EN33, G4-HR5, G4-HR6, G4-HR10, G4-HR11, G4-LA14, G4-LA15 Relationship > Open dialogue and engagement with investors, government, media and other stakeholders 72 Votorantim’s Report 2014 Votorantim’s Report 2014 73 About the report REPORT COVERAGE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS by involving all levels of management of a number of stakeholder groups the industrial subsidiaries are preparing INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ LIMITED ASSURANCE REPORT ON INFORMATION in discussions on the organization’s including, institutional investors, their own reports for 2014. For this RELATED TO SUSTAINABILITY INCLUDED IN THE VOTORANTIM REPORT FOR 2014 risks and opportunities. The document financial markets, experts, media, reason, more detailed information on (A FREE TRANSLATION OF THE ORIGINAL IN PORTUGUESE) reaffirmed Votorantim’s commitment NGOs, and public sector entities. their activities and performance has not to sustainability and established the In 2014,Votorantim Industrial’s been published in this report. To the Board of Directors the Brazilian standard NBC TO 3000, Votorantim Report for 2014, other principles that guide the organization’s sustainability area carried out a study Votorantim Industrial S.A. “Assurance Engagements Other than circumstances of the engagement initiatives, as well as the internal to correlate these material issues with In relation to the GRI indicators, any São PauloSP Audit and Review”, also issued by and our analysis of the areas in which governance of the theme. In this the management practices defined limitations on a specific indicator’s the CFC, which is equivalent to the significant misstatements might exist. process five management practices in the Votorantim DNA document, scope or boundary are mentioned in Introduction international standard ISAE 3000, The following procedures were adopted: for sustainability were defined, based in order to ensure that the issues the Table of GRI Indicators, in the form We have been engaged by Votorantim “Assurance engagements other than on the macro issues identified as important to our strategic stakeholders of comments. The financial information Industrial S.A. (“Company”) to present audits or reviews of historical financial (a) planning the work, taking into being common to all the companies were addressed in our management in the report has been audited by PwC, our limited assurance report on information”, issued by the International consideration the materiality and having Votorantim DNA (shown in approach. In the near future,Votorantim the independent auditors. PwC also the compilation of the information Auditing and Assurance Standards Board the volume of quantitative and the diagram). Industrial intends to undertake a new provided Limited Assurance for the related to sustainability included in (IAASB). Those standards require that qualitative information and the materiality process that takes into non-financial information. the Votorantim Report for 2014 of we comply with ethical requirements, operating and internal control The information in the report also account the new governance structure. the Company for the year ended including independence requirements, systems that were used to reflects the material issues that were The Votorantim Report 2014 is December 31, 2014. and perform our engagement to prepare the information related identified in the most recent materiality The report has also sought to be published in Portuguese, English obtain limited assurance that the to sustainability included in the process, carried out in 2012, through concise and objective in the selection and Spanish. G4-18 G4-19 G4-20 G4-21 G4-22 Responsibilities of the information related to sustainability Votorantim Report for 2014 of the consultations with representatives and presentation of information since all G4-23 G4-24 G4-25 G4-26 G4-27 management of the included in the Votorantim Report for Company; Company 2014, taken as a whole, is free from (b) understanding the calculation The management of the Company is material misstatement. methodology and the procedures responsible for the preparation and adopted for the compilation of fair presentation of the information A limited assurance engagement indicators through interviews with related to sustainability included in conducted in accordance with the the managers responsible for the the Votorantim Report for 2014, in Brazilian standard NBC TO 3000 and preparation of the information; accordance with the guidelines of the ISAE 3000 mainly consists of making (c) interviewing the members of Global Reporting Initiative (GRI-G4) inquiries of management and other management responsible for and for such internal control as it professionals of the entity involved in the information of the following determines is necessary to enable the the preparation of the information, as entities: preparation of information free from well as applying analytical procedures •• Matão (indicators referring to material misstatement, whether due to to obtain evidence that allows us to Citrosuco); fraud or error. issue a limited assurance conclusion •• Corporativo Fibria São Paulo on the information, taken as a whole. (indicators referring to Fibria); Independent auditors’ A limited assurance engagement also •• Corporativo Votorantim Energia responsibility requires the performance of additional São Paulo (indicators referring to Our responsibility is to express a procedures when the independent Votorantim Energia); conclusion on the information related auditor becomes aware of matters that •• Companhia Brasileira de to sustainability included in the lead him to believe that the information Alumínio, Corporativo Votorantim Report for 2014, based taken as a whole might present Votorantim Metais São Paulo and on our limited assurance engagement significant misstatements. São Miguel Paulista (indicators carried out in accordance with the referring to Votorantim Metais); Technical Communication CTO 01, The procedures selected are based •• Barra Mansa and Resende “Issuance of an Assurance Report on our understanding of the aspects (indicators referring to related to Sustainability and Social related to the compilation and Votorantim Siderurgia); Responsibility”, issued by the Federal presentation of the information •• Corporativo Votorantim Accounting Council (CFC), based on related to sustainability included in the Cimentos São Paulo and 74 Votorantim’s Report 2014 Votorantim’s Report 2014 75 About the report INDEPENDENT AUDITORS Curitiba, Çorum (Turkey) and might be identified in a reasonable ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS Rio Branco (indicators referring assurance engagement, the objective Overall Report Coordination to Votorantim Cimentos); and of which is the issuance of an opinion. and Preparation •• Corporativo Votorantim If we had performed an engagement Sustainability General Management Industrial São Paulo (indicators with the objective of issuing an opinion, MANAGER: David Canassa referring to Votorantim Industrial). we might have identified other matters COORDINATION: Frineia Rezende e Bianca (d) applying analytical procedures and possible misstatements in the Conde to quantitative information and information related to sustainability TEAM: Angelino Maneskul e Marcia Feitosa Heil Paes making inquiries regarding the included in the Votorantim Report for SUPPORT: Renato Delmanto e Juliana Jardini qualitative information and its 2014. Accordingly, we do not express da Cunha correlation with the indicators an opinion on this information. Contributors disclosed in the information related We would like to thank all the contributors from the Votorantim Industrial corporate areas, to sustainability included in the Non-financial data are subject to more the Votorantim Institute and the technical and Votorantim Report for 2014; inherent limitations than financial data, business areas of the industrial subsidiaries for their support and cooperation in the (e) obtaining evidence about the due to the nature and diversity of the preparation and analysis of the information presented the Votorantim Report 2014. most significant GRI-G4 indicators methods used to determine, calculate EDITORIAL CONSULTING, REPORT WRITING AND included in the Votorantim Report and estimate these data. Qualitative EDITING: Beto Gomes (Miolo Editorial) for 2014 and presented in the “GRI interpretations of the relevance, GRI CONSULTNG, CONTENT AND DATA: Melissa Rizzo Battistella Index”; and materiality and accuracy of the data are Detailed information on the GRI Indicators (f) comparing the financial indicators subject to individual assumptions and is available in the PDF Version of the report, with the financial statements and/or judgments. Furthermore, we did not which can be accessed on the Votorantim website. accounting records. consider in our engagement the data COVER: Daniel Caballero e Patricia Malizia The limited assurance engagement also reported for prior years, nor future GRAPHIC DESIGN: Patrícia Malizia included tests to assess compliance projections and goals. LAYOUT AND INFOGRAPHICS: Pierre-Louis A. Ferrandis with the guidelines and criteria of the AUDITING OF FINANCIAL INFORMATION AND GRI structure of preparation applied in Conclusion INDICATORS: PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) the preparation of the information Based on the procedures performed, Translation related to sustainability included in the described herein, no matter has come ENGLISH: Richard Wightwick Votorantim Report for 2014. to our attention that causes us to SPANISH: Sylvia Gómez y Artigas Belhot believe that the information related to Illustration We believe that the evidence we have sustainability included in the Votorantim Daniel Caballero obtained is sufficient and appropriate Report for 2014 of Votorantim Photographs Votorantim Image Bank, Memória to provide a basis for our limited Industrial S.A. has not been compiled, Votorantim, Ricardo Jayme, Luciano assurance conclusion. in all material respects, in accordance Candisani, Paulo Barbaglia, João Athaide, with the guidelines of the Global Adriano Gambarini, Target Multimídia. Scope and limitations Reporting Initiative (GRI-G4). Typography The procedures applied in a limited Frutiger, Adrian Frutiger, 1975; Gillsans, Eric assurance engagement are substantially São Paulo, April 30, 2015 Gill, 1932; and The Sans; Luc (as) de Groot; 2000 less detailed than those applied in a reasonable assurance engagement, the PricewaterhouseCoopers Publication Date April/2015 objective of which is the issuance of an Contadores Públicos Ltda. www.votorantim.com/report opinion on the information related to CRC 2SP000160/O-5 sustainability included in the Votorantim Contact: Votorantim Industrial Report for 2014. Consequently, we André Pannunzio Candido Oliveira Rua Amauri, 255 are not able to obtain reasonable Contador CRC 1SP-196603/O-1 Itaim Bibi – São Paulo – SP assurance that we would become CEP 01448-000 C/O: Sustainability General Management aware of all significant matters that Email: contato@vpar.com.br 76 Votorantim’s Report 2014 Sobre o relatório INDICADORES GRI GRI INDICATORS External Assurance GRI Description Page (s) (P. 75) 1. Strategy and Analysis G4-1 Management Statement 6-9 2. Organizational Profile G4-3 Name of organization Votorantim Industrial G4-4 Principal brands, products and services Votorantim Cimentos,Votorantim Metais,Votorantim Siderurgia, Fibria,Votorantim Energia and Citrosuco. G4-5 Location of organization’s headquarters São Paulo, SP, Brazil G4-6 Geographical coverage 15, 23 G4-7 Legal nature 15;Votorantim Industrial is a privately-held, 100% Brazilian-owned organization. It is the holding company for the Votorantim Group’s industrial companies and is one of the largest business conglomerates in Brazil. G4-8 Markets served 13 G4-9 Size of the organization 15, 22 G4-10 Total number of employees 14,15 G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 81% of our own employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. G4-12 Organization’s supply chain 26 G4-13 S ignificant changes in the organizational structure 13-14, 18-19 3. External Initiatives G4-14 Precautionary principle We have a structured platform for risk management, which encompasses the risks of processes, compliance and products. In all cases the objective is to mitigate the environmental impacts caused by our activities. All operations follow internal protocols and the applicable legislation for environmental controls, and the controls of the licensing of our operations are held in a centralized system (GLM). New production processes or completely new operations undergo a strict protocol of risk assessment. This includes not only the evaluation of impacts and their mitigation, but also the assessment of available technologies with their levels of resource consumption and the emissions per metric ton produced. Moreover, we always carry out surveys and consultations with the communities surrounding our operations, to evaluate the risks and the effectiveness of the measures implemented. Regarding products, they are all in accordance with the established legal standards and consider best market practices. Product specifications are available on our industrial subsidiaries’ websites. G4-15 S ocial and environmental charters and Signatory of the UN Global Compact, since 2011. A United Nation’s initiative other initiatives which aims is to mobilize the business community to adopt fundamental values and ​​ internationally accepted practices in human rights, labor relations, the environment and the fight against corruption. In 2011 we initiated the Internal Controls Project, and at the end of that year, Votorantim Industrial was certified under Sarbanes-Oxley (SOX) by our independent auditors. This project lasted 10 months, and involved the participation of about 600 employees from many different areas of the organization and about 4 thousand hours of training. Votorantim’s Report 2014 77 About the report GRI INDICATORS External ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE Assurance GRI Description Page (s) (P. 75) DMA – ASPECT: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE Votorantim Industrial is a privately-held company that adopts the accounting and governance practices of listed companies.The company has a Board that G4-16 Membership of associations RAUL CALFAT – Member of the Board of IBÁ (Brazilian Tree Industry) JOSÉ ROBERTO ERMÍRIO DE MORAES – Vice-president of the São Paulo Federation establishes the company’s long-term direction and preserves the company’s values ​​and management beliefs.The company has corporate policies for investments of Industries (Fiesp) and a member of its Strategic Development Committee. and debt that aim to maintain the company’s investment grade rating. The company’s long-term plans are based on macro economic scenarios, demand and JOSÉ ERMÍRIO DE MORAES NETO – Chairman of the Board of the Antônio Prudente Foundation (Hospital AC Camargo); Member of the Governing Board of the availability of raw materials and energy. The strategic planning cycle encompasses all material aspects of sustainability as guiding parameters. Getulio Vargas Foundation; Member of the Board and the Executive Committee of Budgets are made based on the “year 1” of the strategic plan and short and medium-term targets are set for all the company’s executives. The other Childhood Brazil; Member of the Board of Comunitas; Member of the Board of the Cancer Foundation. employees also have goals which are cascaded down in each operating unit. The monitoring of the budget execution process follows the IFRS accounting rules, DAVID Canassa – President of the Thematic Sub-committee for Energy and Climate which includes the preparation of a statement of the value added distributed (DVA). The DVA demonstrates the government taxes paid and the amounts Change of CEBDS (Brazilian Business Council for Sustainable Development); Member of the Environmental Committee (Cosema) of São Paulo Federation of Industries distributed to the company’s various stakeholder groups. (Fiesp). The strategic plan includes a risk analysis of all the material aspects, including those related to climate change. The company’s management approach LUCELIO MORAES – Member of the Committee for Labor Relations of the São Paulo Federation of Commerce (Fecomercio SP); Director of the Department for includes the use of insurance policies, mainly for issues directly related to the manufacturing operation and the supply of raw materials. Economic Research (Depecon) of the São Paulo Federation of Industries (Fiesp); Board Member of ICZ – Institute for Non-Ferrous Metals; Chairman of the Government Relations Committee of the Brazilian Advertisers Association (ABA). Aspect Indicators Page (Supplementary Data and/or DMA) External Assurance FRINEIA REZENDE DA SILVA – Chairwoman of the Thematic Sub-committee for (page 75) Biodiversity of CEBDS (Brazilian Business Council for Sustainable Development). EC1 – Direct economic value generated and distributed. 4, 29-32 4. Material Aspects and Boundaries G4-17 B  oundaries in relation to financial Composition of Value Added (R$ million) 2011 2012 2013 2014 statements 72-73 DIRECT ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED G4-18 Content and boundaries of the report 72-73 1) Revenues G4-19 Material aspects 72-73 1.1) Sales of products and services 28.100 26.943 30.927 33.192 G4-20 M  aterial aspect boundaries – within the organization 72-73 4 1.2) Other net operational revenues (expenses) -1.183 506 -140 950 G4-21 M  aterial aspect boundaries – outside the 1.3) Reduction (increase) in the reserve for doubtful credits 15 -14 -62 -56 organization 72-73 4 1.4) Total revenues 26.932 27.435 30.725 34.086 G4-22 Major restatements of information 72-73; External Assurance (p. 75) 4 2) Inputs acquired from third parties G4-23 S ignificant changes in Scope and Material 72-73; Significant changes in Scope and Aspect Boundaries are indicated in the 2.1) Cost of goods sold and services provided -14.834 -15.093 -16.800 -17.832 Aspect Boundaries comments in the list of contents relating to the indicators associated with each Aspect. 4 2.2) Impairment -558 -928 -621 5. Stakeholder Engagement 3) Gross value added 12.098 11.784 12.997 15.633 G4-24 Stakeholder groups 36-39; 54; 57-58; 72-73 4 3.1) Depreciation, amortization and depletion -2.128 -2.005 -2.226 -2.291 G4-25 B  asis for identification and selection of 4) Net value added produced 9.970 9.779 10.771 13.342 stakeholders 56; 72-73 4 5) Value added received in transfers G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement 36-39; 54; 57-58; 72-73 4 5.1) Equity Pick-up 356 -148 -74 258 G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have been 5.2) Realization of other impacts when investment is written-down -91 raised through stakeholder engagement 26-27; 72-73 4 5.3) Financial revenues 672 874 4.275 3.385 6. Report profile Total value added received in transfers 1.028 635 4.201 3.643 G4-28 Reporting period This report contains information for 2014, with the exception of Citrosuco where the information refers to the 2013/2014 harvest ended June 30th, 2014. 6) Total value added to be distributed 10.998 10.414 14.972 16.985 G4-29 Date of most recent report Year of 2013 7) Distribution of value added G4-30 Reporting cycle Annual 7.1) Salaries and social charges/benefits 1.894 3.045 3.604 3.770 G4-31 Contact 76 7.1.1) Salaries 1.574 1.834 2.202 2.337 G4-32 Selected “in accordance” option “Core” option and Limited Assurance Report. (Page 75) 7.1.2) Benefits 320 352 421 454 G4-33 External assurance policy Since 2008, when Votorantim Industrial’s Board approved the adoption of the GRI 7.1.3) Social charges 859 981 979 guidelines, one of the conditions set by the Board was that all externally published reports should undergo external audits, and that figures should only be reported if a 7.2) Taxes, tariffs and contributions 4.997 4.732 5.032 5.597 management control process is in place. 7.2.1) Federal 2.976 2.326 2.878 2.632 7. Governance 7.2.2) State 2.632 2.709 2.924 3.085 G4-34 Governance structure 17, 20 7.2.3) Municipal 32 34 37 32 8. Ethics and Integrity 7.2.4) Deferred taxes -643 -337 -807 -152 G4-56 Values, principles, standards of behavior 16-17, 19 78 Votorantim’s Report 2014 Votorantim’s Report 2014 79 About the report GRI INDICATORS Aspect Indicators Page (Supplementary Data and/or DMA) External Assurance ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE (page 75) EC1 – Direct economic value generated and distributed. 4, 29-32 DMA – ASPECT: ENERGY The energy demand for each industrial subsidiary is defined in the strategic plan. Action plans are prepared to meet this demand with medium and Composition of Value Added (R$ million) 2011 2012 2013 2014 long-term supply contracts. For day-to-day energy management, the units have energy efficiency programs to optimize the use of inputs, and the technology 7.3) Remuneration of third-party capital 2.825 2.620 6.098 5.937 and development areas research the possibilities for new processes and energy sources. The energy data (in GJ) reported in the EN5 indicator is consolidated through a corporate tool called the Energy Balance. 7.3.1) Financial expenses 2.680 2.392 5.887 5.714 7.3.2) Rents 145 228 211 223 Aspect Indicators Page (Supplementary Data and/or DMA) External Assurance (page 75) 7.4) Remuneration of own equity 1.282 17 238 1.681 EN5 – Energy intensity 27 4 7.4.1) Dividends 291 -35 102 448 7.4.2) Payments to non-controlling shareholders 57 -62 -195 87 Company Main Product Rate Metric Types of Energy Scope 7.4.3) Retained earnings 66 114 380 1.130 Fibria Pulp 20,67 GJ/metric ton Renewable/Non-Renewable Inside/Outside the Organization 7.4.4) Net income from discontinued operations. 868 16 Cement 2,660 GJ/metric ton Renewable/Non-Renewable Inside/Outside the Organization 7.4.5) Net loss from discontinued operations -49 Aggregates 0,0301 GJ/metric ton Renewable/Non-Renewable Inside/Outside the Organization 8) Added Value Distributed 10.998 10.414 14.972 16.985 Votorantim Cimentos Concrete 0,00003 GJ/metric ton Renewable/Non-Renewable Inside/Outside the Organization Retained economic value 15.934 17.021 15.753 17.101 Aluminum 16,63 GJ/metric ton Renewable/Non-Renewable Inside/Outside the Organization Operating costs -37.930 -37.849 -45.697 -51.071 Zinc 5,56 GJ/metric ton Renewable/Non-Renewable Inside/Outside the Organization Information omitted Votorantim Metais Nickel 93,30 GJ/metric ton Renewable/Non-Renewable Inside/Outside the Organization Indicator not reported by Citrosuco Steel (billet) 8,901 GJ/metric ton Renewable/Non-Renewable Inside/Outside the Organization Reasons for omission Votorantim Siderurgia Steel (laminated billet) 9,657 GJ/metric ton Renewable/Non-Renewable Inside/Outside the Organization Confidential information. Explanation for omission COMMENTS: Confidential information. 1. Citrosuco does not report this indicator because the intensity of the company’s GHG emissions are significantly influenced by the climatic conditions COMMENTS: in its orange groves. Thus, even in a situation of stability for the consumption of raw materials the GHG emissions may vary depending on how the 1. VID’s information systems do not allow us to discriminate investments in each community separately, since they are included in operating costs. climatic conditions impact the productivity of the farms, and the size and brix degree of the fruit. Thus, the observed intensity of GHG emissions does 2. The 2013 data has been restated due to changes in accounting policies and disclosures, including: not reflect the measures taken to manage them. (a) Adoption of new criteria in 2014 for the presentation of some group operations; 2. Indicator not applicable to Votorantim Energia. (b) Adoption of a new criterion in 2014 to improve information on impacts of exchange rate variations; 3. To calculate Votorantim Industrial’s energy intensity we considered the sales of its subsidiaries’ main products in 2014, including: long steel, aluminum, (c) Changes in 2014 in the methodology for calculating the impairments for the group; zinc, nickel, pulp, cement, concrete and aggregates (d) Change in the dividend presentation format. Description of the main products produced Period 2014 Unit Votorantim Metais (aluminum, nickel, zinc) 0,9 Million metric tons Votorantim Siderurgia (long steel) 1,8 Million metric tons Votorantim Cimentos (cement, mortar, aggregates) 68,0 Million metric tons Fibria (pulp) 5,27 Million metric tons Votorantim Energia (electrical energy) 2.840.941 MWh Information omitted Indicator not reported by Citrosuco Reasons for omission Confidential information Explanation for omission Confidential information 80 Votorantim’s Report 2014 Votorantim’s Report 2014 81 About the report GRI INDICATORS DMA – ASPECT: BIODIVERSITY DMA – ASPECT: COMPLIANCE All of the legal requirements for biodiversity issues in the licensing of our operations are managed in a centralized system. In addition, the industrial Votorantim Industrial has a centralized management system for operating licenses, which controls the deadlines and the budget for legal issues and companies, due to their mining and forestry activities prepare reports on their impacts and dependence on biodiversity and ecosystem services. Some of the licensing operations. industrial companies (VM, VE, VS and Fibria) conducted pilot projects to evaluate their impacts and dependence on ecosystem services (using the Ecosystem In the event of fines, a technical analysis is undertaken, and, when appropriate, an appeal to the appropriate judicial bodies is made. In addition, the Service Review methodology), as well as carrying out analysis and studies of their impacts on biodiversity. company’s internal policies dictate that fines and other legal processes must be quantified and the respective amounts allocated in the balance sheet, following the IFRS accounting rules, and in accordance with the criteria for establishing whether a loss is possible/probable or remote in the case of legal action. Aspect Indicators Page (Supplementary Data and/or DMA) External Assurance (page 75) 4, 38-39 4 Aspect Indicators Page (Supplementary Data and/or DMA) External EN13 – Habitats protected or restored Assurance (page 75) 2014 EN29 – Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions 4 for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations Company Total size of the area (Km²) Votorantim Siderurgia 1825 Monetary value of provision (R$ millions) 2011 2012 2013 2014 Fibria 29 Environmental 675 381 404 Citrosuco 92 COMMENTS: Votorantim Metais 419 1. The monetary value of reported cases is in line with the consolidated financial statements as of December 31st of each year, and corresponds to the Votorantim Industrial 310 value of the legal actions where the probability of a loss was assessed as possible, in which Votorantim Industrial and its subsidiaries are involved. TOTAL 2674 COMMENTS: 1. The protected or restored habitats are located in Brazil, in the states of ES, GO, MG, MS, RJ, and SP, and in Colombia, in the Boyacá province. DMA – ASPECT: EMISSIONS All the legal parameters regarding authorizations for gaseous emissions and particulate matter comply strictly with the legal aspects and numerical values​​ specified in their licensing processes. Our corporate guideline is to seek to maintain or reduce emissions per metric ton of product produced. Based on this guideline, each industrial company sets specific targets, especially in relation to greenhouse gases. Aspect Indicators Page (Supplementary Data and/or DMA) External Assurance (page 75) EN18 – Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity 27.45 4 Company Main Product Rate Metric Types of Energy Gases included Fibria Pulp 0,240 ton CO2 eq/t Renewable/Non-Renewable Inside/Outside the Organization Cement 0,653 ton CO2 eq/t Renewable/Non-Renewable Inside/Outside the Organization Aggregates 0,0020 ton CO2 eq/t Renewable/Non-Renewable Inside/Outside the Organization Votorantim Cimentos Concrete 0,00000217 ton CO2 eq/t Renewable/Non-Renewable Inside/Outside the Organization Aluminum 1,16 ton CO2 eq/t Renewable/Non-Renewable Inside/Outside the Organization Zinc 0,34 ton CO2 eq/t Renewable/Non-Renewable Inside/Outside the Organization Votorantim Metais Nickel 7,31 ton CO2 eq/t Renewable/Non-Renewable Inside/Outside the Organization Billet (laminated) 0,970 ton CO eq/t Renewable/Non-Renewable Inside/Outside the Organization Votorantim Siderurgia Finished Products 1,017 ton CO2 eq/t Renewable/Non-Renewable Inside/Outside the Organization COMMENTS: 1. Citrosuco does not report this indicator because the intensity of the company’s GHG emissions are significantly influenced by the climatic conditions in its orange groves. Thus, even in a situation of stability for the consumption of raw materials the GHG emissions may vary depending on how the climatic conditions impact the productivity of the farms, and the size and brix degree of the fruit. Thus, the observed intensity of GHG emissions does not reflect the measures taken to manage them. 2. Indicator not applicable to Votorantim Energia. 82 Votorantim’s Report 2014 Votorantim’s Report 2014 83 About the report GRI INDICATORS DMA – ASPECT: OVERALL DMA – ASPECT: SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT The budgets for environmental issues, and the related CAPEX projects, are decided during the strategic planning process of each industrial company, The evaluation of suppliers regarding environmental criteria occurs in different ways in each of the industrial companies, although some procedures are which defines the allocation of resources for the next five years. The next step of the management process is the preparation of the annual budget, where the standardized for all of them. In the phase of eligibility and registration, the new suppliers undergo a process to verify their certificates attesting to conformity investments are detailed and approved for implementation. The monitoring of the budget is performed monthly using data available in the SAP system and with their obligations for federal taxes and social security payments (INSS and FGTS). The approval process includes a second phase of verification, where the is discussed in internal meetings at each unit. The CAPEX projects are monitored monthly, at the Engineering department meetings, in accordance with the applicable environmental criteria are applied. The approval process is only applied to the main suppliers or for certain categories of inputs (defined by each CAPEX Manual. industrial company). Aspect Indicators Page (Supplementary Data and/or DMA) External Aspect Indicators Page (Supplementary Data External Assurance (page 75) Assurance and/or DMA) (page 75) EN32 – Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria 26 4 EN31 – Total environmental protection expenditures and investments, by type. 4, 27, 39 4 Number of new suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria 2013 2014 Environmental investments and expenditures (R$) 2011 2012 2013 2014 Total number of new suppliers 3.131 3.222 CAPEX (Investments) 306.699.892 255.406.314 296.511.430 231.767.260 Environmental education. 0,00 170.000,00 454.961,82 0,00 Total number of new suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria 994 1043 Environmental management 16.837.030,00 16.161.771,65 13.843.246,30 13.435.748,06 Percentage of suppliers screened using environmental criteria 31.75% 32.37% Conservation, reforestation and biodiversity 877.073,00 10.538.577,24 6.907.553,30 21.378.616,01 Environmental protection 4.812.082,00 28.396.299,25 52.719.100,39 57.882.614,93 Aspect Indicators Page (Supplementary Data External Assurance (page 75) and/or DMA) Treatment of air emissions 71.971.047,00 61.224.655,76 42.023.177,92 45.916.880,03 Waste treatment 121.510.762,00 112.440.905,36 107.315.897,27 15.863.873,63 EN33 – Significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts in the supply 26 4 Effluent treatment 24.345.156,00 17.409.834,44 47.245.779,62 35.564.307,08 chain and actions taken HOD – Environmental Area 5.097.391,25 880.425,16 447.384,00 Description Total Decommissioning/remediation of contaminated areas (soil and water) 231.149,00 4.445.883,12 7.009.872,36 Environmental insurance 280.870,00 0,00 0,00 Total number of suppliers 83.184 Other environmental expenses 66.346.742,00 3.454.860,08 20.675.405,39 34.267.963,69 Number of suppliers submitted to environmental impact assessments 1.164 OPEX (Expenses) 165.884.073 269.490.362 330.124.657 331.217.067 Percentage of suppliers submitted to environmental impact assessments 1.4% Environmental education. 4.284.237,00 2.835.017,57 1.818.623,54 1.966.038,88 COMMENTS: Environmental management 31.587.516,00 27.704.162,79 44.867.098,50 39.600.924,48 1. First year of reporting this indicator. Conservation, reforestation and biodiversity 1.015.312,00 33.639.231,08 30.359.849,57 18.203.368,04 Environmental protection 30.021.602,00 13.659.700,75 33.452.085,87 4.224.341,54 Treatment of air emissions 42.878.894,00 19.387.585,06 36.643.914,08 84.877.528,83 Waste treatment 33.782.699,00 95.077.731,52 114.665.096,05 70.937.859,76 Effluent treatment 3.016.477,00 44.579.639,24 35.282.090,88 75.265.168,43 HOD – Environmental Area 18.238.286,26 12.902.500,02 13.428.302,97 Decommissioning/remediation of contaminated areas (soil and water) 7.859.308,45 7.544.406,53 9.516.287,49 Environmental insurance 48.351,16 173.763,02 61.007,00 Other environmental expenses 19.297.336,00 6.461.347,66 12.415.228,79 13.136.239,40 Total 472.583.965 524.896.676 626.636.087 562.984.327 Environmental education. 4.284.237,00 3.005.017,57 2.273.585,36 1.966.038,88 Environmental management 48.424.546,00 43.865.934,44 58.710.344,81 53.036.672,54 Conservation, reforestation and biodiversity 1.892.385,00 44.177.808,32 37.267.402,87 39.581.984,05 Environmental protection 34.833.684,00 42.056.000,00 86.171.186,26 62.106.956,47 Treatment of air emissions 114.849.941,00 80.612.240,82 78.667.092,00 130.794.408,86 Waste treatment 155.293.461,00 207.518.636,88 221.980.993,32 86.801.733,39 Effluent treatment 27.361.633,00 61.989.473,68 82.527.870,49 110.829.475,51 HOD – Environmental Area 23.335.677,51 13.782.925,19 13.875.686,97 Decommissioning/remediation of contaminated areas (soil and water) 8.090.457,45 11.990.289,65 16.526.159,85 Environmental insurance 329.221,16 173.763,02 61.007,00 Other environmental expenses 85.644.078,00 9.916.207,74 33.090.634,18 47.404.203,09 COMMENTS: 1. The total amounts of CAPEX and OPEX in this report differ from the values published in the Management Report (Relatório da Administração – RA) due to the updating of values after ​​ the completion of the External Assurance process. 84 Votorantim’s Report 2014 Votorantim’s Report 2014 85 About the report GRI INDICATORS SUB-CATEGORY: LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK DMA – ASPECT: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY In line with Votorantim’s sustainability principles, the health and safety of employees, customers and partners is of fundamental importance for all our DMA – ASPECT: EMPLOYMENT industrial companies.This concern is expressed in our corporate Handbook for Health and Safety, which contains the approach and guidelines for the prevention We believe that a positive working environment is a competitive advantage and helps Votorantim to retain and attract talent. In this spirit, we seek to of risks in our operations. understand the needs of our employees in order, together, to build a motivating work environment, which attributes responsibilities and empowers people to All of our companies have established an Internal Commission for Accident Prevention (Cipa) in each of their operating units, including those overseas, make decisions, thereby enabling them to develop and grow in the company. We seek to develop leaders who foster teamwork, encourage everyone in the and which were constituted in accordance with the applicable legislation. The Cipas are composed of the employees in the operating units who are responsible search for innovative solutions and are seen as models, not only for their knowledge and experience, but above all by their behavior and attitudes. Our goal for health and safety in the workplace.We promote a culture of prevention and safety in all our businesses, above and beyond the requirements of the legislation. for 2020 is to have 80% of the leadership positions filled by internal promotions, which demonstrates that we practice our management beliefs of valuing ​​the Aspect Indicators Page (Supplementary Data and/or DMA) External development of talented people and the promotion of meritocracy. Assurance (page 75) The online platform called “Producing Futures relationship (http://www.produzindofuturos.com/ ) provides the company with a channel for interaction and communication with potential candidates for positions in the Votorantim organization. In 2014, we launched the “Indicate” program whereby employees can LA6 – Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, absenteeism and 4 total number of work-related fatalities, by region and gender refer their contacts in their social networks to find candidates for vacancies that were not filled internally. Own employees and permanent third-party workers Aspect Indicators Page (Supplementary Data and/or DMA) External Assurance (page 75) 2012 2013 2014 LA1 – Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age Occupational Health and Safety Indicators Brazil Overseas Brazil Overseas Brazil group, gender and region Fatalities 12 5 3 4 10 Gender Age Group Man-Hours Worked (Own and Third Party) 151.014.737 163.156.670 38.798.927 150.588.175 40.359.327 Between 30 Total No. of Injuries (Level 1) 1.303 1.131 313 864 179 Less than 30 and More than 50 Total No. of Injuries (Levels 2 and 3) 833 458 182 488 352 2014 Men Women years old 50 years old years old Total No. of Injuries with lost days (Levels 4 to 6) 284 145 71 211 59 Employees hired 5.958 1.423 3.519 3.357 347 Frequency rate of accidents with and without lost days 7,22 3,5246 6,5208 4,6418 10,1587 Employees 38.085 6.237 5.445 34.422 2.893 Frequency rate of accidents with lost days 1,77 0,9418 1,8299 1,4012 1,4371 Terminations 7.320 1.500 3.139 4.377 1.036 Injury rate (TL) 1,46 0,705 1,304 0,928 2,032 Rate of new hires 15.6% 24.1% 62.4% 9.5% 11.5% Occupational disease rate (TDO) 0,04 0,127 0,570 0,298 0,337 Turnover 19.2% 25.4% 55.7% 12.4% 34.4% Lost days rate (TDP) 32,55 8,046 26,180 9,693 18,330 COMMENTS: Absenteeism rate (TA) (work-related accidents) 258,80 121,22 439,17 0,00030 0,00137 1. The figures do not include apprentices and interns. Absenteeism rate (TA) (occupational disease) 0,00 12,85 76,03 0,00006 0,00015 2. We do not have information on age groups in the VS Curvelo Unit and the Forestry Units (Bom Sucesso, Riacho, Santa Cecilia and Santa Rita) Absenteeism rate (non-occupational disease) 247,44 3.878,02 4.616,44 0,00177 0,00530 Absenteeism rate (TA) (accidents outside work) 32,43 157,16 744,65 0,00011 0,00062 TOTAL Absenteeism rate (TA) 538,49 3.259,26 5.822,63 0,00222 0,00744 Information omitted Breakdown by employee category Information on non-permanent third parties (including freelancers) Reasons for omission Not available Explanation for omission The industrial companies do not manage this information in Votorantim Industrial’s reporting format. COMMENTS: 1. Citrosuco: There is no management of information on permanent third-party employees. 2. Fibria: Does not include its offices outside Brazil. 3. Votorantim Industrial: Includes information for VID Curitiba only. 4. Votorantim Metais: Not managed. There is no information on the number of hours lost due to absenteeism by fixed third-party employees in the categories of occupational disease, non-occupational disease and accidents outside work. 5. Votorantim Siderurgia: Not managed. There is no information on absenteeism by fixed third-party employees in the category of occupational disease. 86 Votorantim’s Report 2014 Votorantim’s Report 2014 87 About the report GRI INDICATORS DMA – ASPECT: TRAINING AND EDUCATION DMA – ASPECT: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY In line with our values ​​and management beliefs, we believe that the performance of our talented employees is fundamental to the evolution of our We believe that people are the driving force for growth and good performance. In our people management approach we seek a promote a climate of business. Therefore we have invested in the development and deployment of our talented people in an organized way. Our processes and policies for managing mutual respect, strengthening the foundations necessary to create value, achieve results, operate efficiently, innovate and establish partnerships. and developing people have been fully implemented and are part of the organization’s daily life. All new Votorantim hires are based on criteria for competence and there is no distinction between genders, age groups, minorities, ethnic groups, or other The employee’s Individual Development Plan (IDP), which is prepared based on the results of the evaluation process, contains actions to enable high forms of discrimination. Some of the industrial companies have established specific committees to address diversity seeking to broaden their understanding of performance and prepare him/her for the next level of challenges. the topic and expand opportunities. Each industrial company develops training plans based on the specific technical and management needs of its operations. For management positions Votorantim has a corporate university (Academy of Excellence), where courses are given on leadership development and the preservation of the organization’s Aspect Indicators Page (Supplementary Data and/or DMA) External Assurance values ​​and management beliefs. (page 75) The “Potenciar” program is in its third edition and has established itself as a platform for training and rapid development of talented people. The program LA12 – Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee 27 is designed for a mix of trainees and other young professionals who have been identified, in the assessment processes, as having great potential. Over the course category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity of 14 months, young people work on important projects for our business in multidisciplinary groups. They also receive training and interact with executives from Votorantim and the market. Composition of minority groups in the organization 2011 2012 2013 2014 In the Performance Evaluation process in 2014, our employees were evaluated in relation to their observance of the organization’s management beliefs Employees over 50 years old 3.856 6.198 5.141 2.890 and expected behaviors. We value not only knowledge and experience, but also how they are applied. Women 4.005 6.012 5.914 6.200 Composition of governance body – gender 2011 2012 2013 2014 Aspect Indicators Page (Supplementary Data and/or DMA) External Assurance Men 106 66 89 (page 75) Women 8 3 5 LA9 – Average hours of training per year per employee, and by employee category. 4, 39, 49 4 Composition of governance body – age group 2011 2012 2013 2014 Period 2011 2012 2013 2014 Under 30 years old 0 0 0 Employee category Gender Average hours of training Between 30 and 50 years old 51 33 73 Women 3,7 26,9 Over 50 years old 63 36 21 President/Director Men 21,1 9,45 10,9 21,0 Breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender and age group Men Women Women 52,0 34,5 Age group (%) Manager Men 37,9 68,57 37,1 44,7 Women 19,3 47,5 between 30 Length of Coordinator/Consultant Men 65,1 29,09 31,3 42,7 below 30 and 50 years over 50 service Employee categories years old old years old (years) % % Women 43,5 60,0 President/Director 0,0 77,7 22,3 2,9 94,7 5,3 Technician/Analyst/Supervisor Men 36,3 31,61 43,7 46,0 Manager 0,0 89,5 10,5 7,4 85,3 14,7 Women 200,7 90,5 Coordinator/Consultant 8,8 83 8,2 6,3 77,6 22,4 Trainee Men 295,6 362,85 189,0 189,0 Technician/Analyst/Supervisor 10,7 83,1 6,1 6,3 77,1 22,9 Women 40,1 21,1 Trainee 42,1 57,9 0,0 0,2 68,4 31,6 Operator Men 25,7 72,43 14,6 14,7 Operator 14 79,4 6,6 5,7 90,4 9,6 Women 14,5 32,1 Intern 40,9 59,1 0,0 0,3 47,2 52,8 Intern Men 5,8 11,13 89,5 89,5 Apprentice 54,6 45,4 0,0 0,3 63,2 36,8 Women 26,6 120,2 TOTAL 14,0 79,5 6,5 85,9 14,1 Apprentice Men 7,0 23,53 37,2 37,2 COMMENTS: Average hours of training without segregation by category 2011 2012 2013 2014 1. Does not include employees of Citrosuco’s overseas units. VCNA Total 13,9 – 2. Does not include Citrosuco’s temporary workers (harvest workers). Citrosuco Total 10,4 17,5 TOTAL Total 55,3 62,3 24,2 63,7 COMMENTS: 1. Citrosuco: There is no discrimination of training rates by gender. 2. This indicator comprises training conducted by both the Academy of Excellence and the industrial companies. 3. Votorantim Siderurgia: Total hours spent in training personnel by employee category does not include the Cajamarquilla unit. 4. In 2014 VCNA introduced the management of training information by employee category. 88 Votorantim’s Report 2014 Votorantim’s Report 2014 89 About the report GRI INDICATORS DMA – ASPECT: SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT FOR LABOR PRACTICES The evaluation of suppliers regarding labor practices criteria occurs in different ways in each of the industrial companies, although some procedures are SUB-CATEGORY: HUMAN RIGHTS standardized for all of them. In the phase of eligibility and registration, the new suppliers undergo a process to verify their certificates attesting to conformity DMA – ASPECT: NON-DISCRIMINATION with their obligations for federal taxes and social security payments (INSS and FGTS). The approval process includes a second phase of verification, where the Votorantim has an Ombudsman channel that is prepared to receive, analyze and resolve issues related to its Code of Conduct. This channel can be applicable labor practices criteria are applied. The approval process is only applied to the main suppliers or for certain categories of inputs (defined by each accessed by internal and external stakeholders. The Ombudsman area guarantees the confidentiality of all information, preserving the identity of those involved industrial company). and working to promote a better workplace climate for everyone. Anyone can contact the Ombudsman, either to ask questions concerning the interpretation of the Code of Conduct or to report an incident that violates the Code, such as corruption or any other conduct or unethical procedure. Aspect Indicators Page (Supplementary Data External Assurance (page 75) and/or DMA) All complaints received by Votorantim will be treated confidentially. No retaliation will be allowed against any person who makes a report in good faith. The questions referred through the Ombudsman channel are analyzed by Conduct Committees, composed of members of Votorantim’s administration. These LA14 – P  ercentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor practices criteria 26 4 Committees, with integrity and objectivity, seek to find solutions to the situations presented to them. They reply to the complainants, anonymous or not, be Number of new suppliers that were screened using labor practices criteria 2013 2014 means of a password generated at the time the complaint is reported. Total number of new suppliers 3.131 3.222 Aspect Indicators Page (Supplementary Data and/or DMA) External Total number of new suppliers that were screened using labor practices criteria 1.158 2.233 Assurance (page 75) Percentage of new suppliers screened using labor practices criteria 36.98% 69.30% HR3 – Total number of incidents of discrimination and the corrective actions taken. 16, 27 4 Aspect Indicators Page (Supplementary Data External Assurance (page 75) Discrimination incidents reported 2013 2014 and/or DMA) Harassment and abuse of power 525 34 LA15 – Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor practices in the supply 16, 26 chain and measures taken Other incidents (discrimination) 29 14 Other incidents (discrimination and retaliation) 2 45 Description Total Total number of discrimination incidents. 556 93 Total number of suppliers 83.184 Total discrimination incidents 2011 2012 2013 2014 Number of suppliers subjected to impact assessments regarding labor practices 1.205 Complaints received by the Ombudsman 382 572 556 93 Percentage of suppliers subjected to labor practices impact assessments 1.4% Incidents considered justified * 112 194 178 59 COMMENTS: 1. First year of reporting this indicator. COMMENTS: 1. The incidents of discrimination considered valid were resolved by taking appropriate measures, including guidance, warnings, transfers, relocation and dismissal. 90 Votorantim’s Report 2014 Votorantim’s Report 2014 91 About the report GRI INDICATORS DMA – ASPECT: CHILD LABOR DMA – ASPECT: ASSESSMENT Child labor is not permitted by the organization.The issues related to these topics are addressed in the Code of Conduct and also by operational control In Votorantim Industrial, the results of the Internal Audit are submitted in a timely manner to the Audit Committee, considering the status of of the work, audits. Complaints involving such incidents should be sent to the Ombudsman. according to the annual internal audit plan, the main points identified and the status of the action plans prepared by the audited areas. At these meetings a presentation is made regarding the cases received through the complaints channel, with information on its classification and its status of response/termination Aspect Indicators Page (Supplementary Data and/or DMA) External The deadline for responding to the complaints received is one of the targets for the audit and ombudsman areas. Assurance (page 75) HR5 – Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child 16, 26 4 Aspect Indicators Page (Supplementary External Assurance (page 75) Data and/or DMA) labor, and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor HR9 – Total number and percentage of operations that were subjected to human rights 26 Number of operations and suppliers with a risk of having child labor and/ reviews or impact assessments or young workers exposed to hazardous work 2011 2012 2013 2014 VID (VC,VM,VS,VE, Citrosuco and Fibria) 0 0 0 0 Total number of operations that were subjected to human rights evaluations. COMMENTS: Country 2013 2014 1. Citrosuco has obtained the ABRINQ Certification as a “Child Friendly Company”, which recognizes its good performance regarding the elimination Brazil 36 19 of child labor. COMMENTS: 1. In addition to the audit work, the company has a Code of Conduct and channels to receive complaints. Any of the parties involved can make a complaint. The incidents are investigated and responses are sent to the complainants. DMA – ASPECT: FORCED OR COMPULSORY LABOR 2. We do not manage this indicator in our overseas operations. Forced or compulsory labor are not permitted by the organization. The issues related to this topic are addressed in the Code of Conduct and also in operational control audits. Complaints involving such incidents should be sent to the Ombudsman. Aspect Indicators Page (Supplementary Data and/or DMA) External Assurance DMA – ASPECT: SUPPLIER HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT (page 75) The evaluation of suppliers regarding human rights criteria occurs in different ways in each of the industrial companies, although some procedures are HR6 – Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced 16, 26 4 standardized for all of them. In the phase of eligibility and registration, the new suppliers undergo a process to verify their certificates attesting to conformity or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of with their obligations for federal taxes and social security payments (INSS and FGTS). The approval process includes a second phase of verification, where forced or compulsory labor the applicable human rights criteria are applied. The approval process is only applied to the main suppliers or for certain categories of inputs (defined by each Number of suppliers with the risk of occurrence of forced or industrial company). In Brazil, suppliers listed on the Ministry of Labor’s blacklist are automatically blocked in our system. compulsory labor 2011 2012 2013 2014 VID (VC,VM,VS,VE, Citrosuco and Fibria) 0 0 0 0 Aspect Indicators Page (Supplementary External Assurance (page 75) Data and/or DMA) COMMENTS: 26 HR10 – Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights criteria 1. Annual audit plans are prepared, which include suppliers, in order to evaluate the main risks for each business unit. These plans are discussed and approved by the business unit’s senior management such that there is a reasonable level of coverage considering the number of units in each business Number of new suppliers that were screened using human rights criteria 2013 2014 area and also the rotation of emphasis. Additionally the existence of an Ombudsman area, supported by a proven complaints system, facilitates access Total number of new suppliers 3.120 3.222 by employees and other stakeholders if they observe violations of the Code. Total number of new suppliers that were screened using human rights criteria 411 1.172 Percentage of new suppliers screened using human rights criteria 14.00% 36.37% COMMENTS: 1. First year of reporting this indicator. 92 Votorantim’s Report 2014 Votorantim’s Report 2014 93 About the report GRI INDICATORS SUB-CATEGORY: SOCIETY DMA – ASPECT: PUBLIC POLICY Votorantim has an area responsible for ​​Institutional and Government Relations. One of their responsibilities is to present development proposals to DMA – ASPECT: LOCAL COMMUNITIES public officials related to the companies’ issues and to their respective value chains. These relations are strictly technical and involve strategic and business Votorantim is part of the communities in which it operates.Therefore, the social aspects are also part of the company’s management system.We regularly questions that involve the three levels of government (federal, state and municipal), as well as the public agencies and authorities that are directly or indirectly prepare and update our strategic plan for social initiatives. The process includes: prioritization, characterization, development of strategic objectives and the related to the company’s operating sectors. investment plan. The investment plan aims to achieve the desired positive social outcomes. Prioritization is a set of criteria that channel investments to areas Another important action in 2014 was the revision of the Handbook for Electoral Processes and the Corporate Policy for Electoral Donations, due to the with higher levels of social vulnerability and impact, thereby adding more value to the locality and the organization. The development program requires a changes in the specific legislation and the regulations of the Anti-Corruption Law. These documents define the principles and recommendations which regulate significant level of investment, strengthened institutions and cross-sector partnerships, to mobilize the local community to work together with Votorantim the donations by all Votorantim’s industrial subsidiaries to political parties or candidates for public office. With the objective of ensuring the transparency of towards achieving social and economic progress. The program to promote relations with the community emphasizes the connections between the company the organization’s practices by committing to them publicly, in 2014, the Corporate Policy for Election Donations was registered at the 6th Public Document and its stakeholders. Based on the company’s belief in open dialogue, the objective is to achieve positive impacts for specific stakeholder groups. Registry Office in São Paulo The criteria adopted for the prioritization stage are divided into four groups: 1) Importance of the unit for the business, 2) The level of impacts/ Aspect Indicators Page (Supplementary Data External Assurance (page 75) dependency of the unit on the locality 3) The level of impacts/dependency of the locality on the unit 4) The level of institutional and administrative capacity and/or DMA) of the locality. All Votorantim companies are concerned about their relations with the local communities. They promote dialogue with communities, aimed at mitigating negative impacts and generating positive impacts. The classification of the programs is only an internal form of guidance to ensure that the situations SO6 – Total amount of political contributions by country and recipient/beneficiary. 58 4 that require more resources and effort are met according to the specific situation. Total monetary value of direct and indirect political Year contributions Aspect Indicators Page (Supplementary Data External Assurance (page 75) and/or DMA) 2012 R$ 5,827,500* 2013 None* SO1 – P  ercentage of operations with implemented community engagement, impact 36-37,39, 54-56 4 assessments and development programs 2014 R$ 20,080,445* Operations/Units that have implemented community engagement COMMENTS: programs and impact and development evaluations in the whole * Information on these contributions is available on the TSE website: http://inter01.tse.jus.br/spceweb.consulta.receitasdespesas2014 organization 2013 2014 Total number of operations 512 650 Total number of operations with local community engagement 70 72 Percentage of operations with local community engagement 13.7% 11.1% DMA – ASPECT: ANTI-CORRUPTION The company’s governance structure for fighting corruption includes: the Ombudsman; Anti-corruption Policy; Policy for Transactions with Stakeholders; internal audit; internal controls; and compliance. Training sessions on these policies are held annually for managers. All other stakeholders are informed about them through Votorantim’s Code of Conduct. Aspect Indicators Page (Supplementary Data External Assurance (page 75) and/or DMA) SO5 – Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken. 16, 58 Total number of confirmed cases of Employees who were Termination or non-renewal Year corruption punished or dismissed of contracts with partners 2013 175 49 23 2014 5 5 4 COMMENTS: 1. In 2014 the processes and procedures that make up the Anti-Corruption Program produced significant results for the organization. We intensified our communication and awareness initiatives with all employees, as well as suppliers and customers, regarding the use of Ombudsman channel to make complaints. Votorantim Industrial, in 2014, carried out a study to identify all transactions involving government entities and public bodies. In addition, all employees above the level of technicians, analysts and supervisors underwent specific training on the issue of corruption. Even so, we registered confirmed cases, and the remedial measures taken in previous years continued to apply, in a firm manner: dismissal of employees and termination of contracts with the third-parties involved, whenever there was overwhelming evidence of their involvement, and legal action at all appropriate levels (labor, civil and criminal) against those involved. 94 Votorantim’s Report 2014 Votorantim’s Report 2014 95 About the report GRI INDICATORS DMA – ASPECT: ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR DMA – ASPECT: COMPLIANCE As part of its ongoing program to combat corruption, in 2014,Votorantim Industrial carried out a survey to identify all of the organization’s transactions The management of legal compliance is accomplished through internal processes and systems involving the consent of, and analysis by, the Legal with government bodies and public officials. The analysis of this information resulted in a map that identified the frequency of these transactions, how critical Department. Also, we have intensified the creation of specific policies and procedures for the areas most exposed to corruption, with the implementation of they were, how they were performed, the degree of exposure, the internal control environment and the adequacy of Votorantim’s Code of Conduct and internal ongoing training, courses, especially regarding anti-corruption and anti-trust initiatives. policies. As a result, a work plan for 2015 was prepared with the aim of improving the company’s control systems and its anti-corruption initiatives. In 2014, all employees above the level of technician, analyst and supervisor received training on fighting corruption through the completion of on-line distance learning Aspect Indicators Page (Supplementary Data and/or DMA) External Assurance (page 75) courses. In 2015, this type of training will be extended to all Votorantim Industrial’s employees. SO8 – Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions 4 for noncompliance with laws and regulations Aspect Indicators Page (Supplementary Data External Assurance (page 75) and/or DMA) Monetary value of provision (R$ millions) 2012 2013 2014 SO7 – Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust and 16, 58 4 monopoly practices and their outcomes Fiscal legal actions 3.245 3.564 4.130 Labor and social security legal actions 237 278 243 Period 2014 Civil legal actions 4.187 4.736 6.066 Total number of legal actions for unfair competition, trust and monopolistic practices and their outcomes. 0 COMMENTS: Legal actions which are “Ongoing” for unfair competition, and trust and monopoly practices, up to 2014. 1. The monetary value of reported cases is in line with the consolidated financial statements as of December 31 of each year, and corresponds to the Citrosuco 0 value of the legal actions where the probability of a loss was assessed as possible, and in which Votorantim Industrial and its subsidiaries are involved. Votorantim Energia 0 Votorantim Cimentos 0 Votorantim Metais 0 Votorantim Siderurgia 0 Fíbria 0 COMMENTS: 1. In May 2014, the Administrative Council for Economic Defense (Cade) condemned companies in the cement sector for alleged anti-competitive practices and the formation of a cartel, imposing sanctions and fines. Votorantim Cimentos, which was one of the companies cited, considered the penalty to be improper and without legal basis, and appealed against the Council’s decision. Up until the end of 2014, this appeal had not been judged by Cade, and so the penalty imposed by the Council has not yet gone into effect. 96 Votorantim’s Report 2014 Votorantim’s Report 2014 97 About the report About the report GRI INDICATORS OTHER COMMITMENTS DMA – ASPECT: SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT FOR IMPACTS ON SOCIETY We carry out a more rigorous evaluation of suppliers that are considered strategic to the business, to avoid risks in raw material supplies, inputs and OTHER COMMITMENTS services that could compromise the final product or harm the company’s image. In this process, we analyze whether the suppliers are in compliance with local legislation and international standards such as ISO 9001, ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001, NOSA and the ILO Convention. The results of the analysis will determine the approval or not of supplier. Correlations with the UN Global Compact Principles The Global Compact consists of ten universal principles, derived from: the Universal Declaration of Human Rights; the Declaration of the International Labor Organization on the Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work; the Rio de Janeiro Declaration on the Environment and Development and the United Aspect Indicators Page (Supplementary Data External Assurance (page 75) and/or DMA) Nations Convention Against Corruption. 26 4 The following table shows the correlations between our activities and initiatives and the UN Global Compact Principles. SO9 – P  ercentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for impacts on society It is important to stress that our commitment to the Global Compact is in line with our beliefs and our sustainability practices. As such the UN Global Compact principles for human rights, the environment, labour relations, anti-corruption, and other questions also serve as guidelines for our business activities Number of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for impacts on society 2013 2014 and behavior. Total number of new suppliers 3.131 3.222 Principle Page Total number of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for impacts on society 1.158 693 Human Rights Percentage of new suppliers screened using criteria for impacts on society 36.98% 21.51% Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and 16 make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 16, 27 Aspect Indicators Page (Supplementary Data External Assurance (page 75) and/or DMA) Labour SO10 – Significant actual and potential negative impacts on society in the supply chain 10, 26 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 77 and actions taken the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor; 16 Description Total the effective abolition of child labor; and 16 Total number of suppliers 83,184 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 16, 27 Number of suppliers that were screened using criteria for impacts on society 164 Environment Percentage of suppliers that were screened using criteria for impacts on society 0.2% Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 27, 45 COMMENTS: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 27, 44 1. First year of reporting this indicator. encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 27, 44 Anti-Corruption Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 16, 27, 57, 58, CORRELATIONS WITH THE IIRC METHODOLOGY In the preparation of this report we have followed the guidelines issued by the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) for integrated reporting. We have aimed to present a concise document that contains information on Votorantim Industrial’s strategy, governance, performance and its prospects, in the context of its external environment, to create value in the short, medium and long terms. We have analyzed how the various forms of capital (financial, manufacturing, intellectual, human, social and relationship, and natural) relate to the pillars of our management approach. IIRC Capitals Page Financial 29-32 Manufactured 26-27, 35, 44 Intellectual 23, 25-27, 41-45 Human 27, 47-50 Social and Relationship 36-39, 54-56 Natural 38-39 98 Votorantim’s Report 2014 Votorantim’s Report 2014 99 THERE ARE PEOPLE THAT MAKE ART THAT PORTRAYS THE PAST. WE MAKE ART THAT IMPROVES THE PRESENT. Innovation is one of Votorantim’s strategic pillars. Proof of this is how it searches for simpler and more sustainable alternatives that make a difference to people’s lives. Initiatives such as: producing permeable concrete that facilitates the drainage of rainwater, pioneer in Brazil, the generation of energy from bio-mass, the use of drones to monitor the growth of forests; and the conversion of industrial waste into new products. VOTORANTIM. TO PRODUCE IS AN ART. WWW.VOTORANTIM.COM
