Onward The Next 130 Years Annual Report 2015 Year ended March 31, 2015 The Next 130 Years In fiscal 2014, MOL marked its 130th anniversary and initiated its midterm management plan “STEER FOR 2020,” under which the Company is making great strides toward the next 130 years by innovating its business portfolio, business model and business domain. MOL GROUP CORPORATE PRINCIPLES As a multi-modal transport We will strive to maximize We will promote and group, we will actively corporate value by always protect our environment by seize opportunities that being creative, continually maintaining strict, safe contribute to global pursuing higher operating operation and navigation economic growth and efficiency and promoting standards. development by meeting an open and visible and responding to our cusmanagement style that is tomers’ needs and to this guided by the highest new era. ethical and social standards. Layout and Contents of Annual Report 2015 M MOL at a Glance Past FFeature: ea M Manufactured Capital and Market Position 130 years The Role of the A corporate culture fostered over the course of 130 years Marine Transport Industry and MOL’s P.34 Challenge and Value Creation Overview of Innovation P.3 Operations P.40 Me Message from the Chairman Inter w Interview Feature: Feat Onward and the CEO with the CFO Training LNG Carrier Seafarers Toward the Future Strategy and Direction Human Capital P.16 P.32 P.52 The Management Foundation n Fin Financial Section Next Underpinning the Next 130 Financial Capital Years of Growth 130 years Intellectual, Social, Environmental Capital P.57 P.75 Value Creation Contents Value Creation Intellectual, Social, Environmental Capital Feature: The Role of the Marine The Management Foundation Management Strategy Transport Industry and MOL’s Value Underpinning MOL ....................... 57 Creation ......................................... 3 Board of Directors, Corporate Auditors and Management Strategy Executive Officers ...................................... 58 Outside Director and Corporate Auditor Message from the Chairman ......... 16 Roundtable Discussion .............................. 60 Message from the CEO .................. 22 Corporate Governance............................... 64 Manufactured Capital Financial Highlights ................................... 28 Risk Management ...................................... 68 Key Indicators ............................................ 30 Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) ....... 70 Interview with the CFO ................. 32 Glossary ..................................................... 74 Manufactured Capital Financial Capital MOL at a Glance ............................ 34 Market Position in the Industry .... 38 Financial Section ........................... 75 Human Capital The MOL Group ........................................ 112 Overview of Operations ................ 40 Worldwide Offices ................................... 114 Human Capital Shareholder Information ......................... 115 Feature: Training LNG Carrier Intellectual, Social, Environmental Capital Seafarers ......................................... 52 Safe Operation ........................................... 55 Editorial Policy In this annual report, we have included a main feature explaining the characteristics and social significance of the marine transport industry as well as how MOL aims to create value. We have also included an additional feature about training LNG carrier seafarers, one of the issues related to successfully implementing the midterm management plan “STEER FOR 2020.” In addition, we strove to ensure readers fully understand MOL’s strategies as the Financial Capital Company sails ahead toward the next 130 years, using the international integrated reporting framework as a reference to explain long-term value creation. MOL’s Communication Tools MOL produces the following publications as a means of promoting communication with stakeholders: The latest versions of all reports can be found on our website. http://www.mol.co.jp/ir-e/ Annual Report Investor Guidebook Market Data http://www.mol.co.jp/csr-e/ Safety, Environmental and Social Report Forward-Looking Statements This annual report contains forward-looking statements concerning MOL’s future plans, strategies and performance. These statements represent assumptions and beliefs based on information currently (*) available and are not historical facts. Furthermore, forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that include, but are not limited to, economic conditions, worldwide competition in the shipping industry, customer demand, foreign currency exchange rates, price of bunker, tax laws and other regulations. MOL therefore cautions readers that actual results may differ materially from these predictions. (*)As of June 23, 2015 unless otherwise specified. Annual Report 2015 1 MOL’s 130 years: Challenge and Innovation 1964 AMERICA MARU 1989 2004 Mitsui O.S.K. Lines (MOL) is (700TEU) Navix Line is Established the MOL founded by a merger of OSK established by the Group Long-Term Vision. Line and Mitsui Steamship. merger of Japan Line and OSK Line’s former headYamashita-Shinquarters building (Osaka) nihon Steamship. 1995 2012 The first double hull very large The world’s first hybrid 1968 crude carrier (VLCC), the car carrier, the Full containership ATLANTIC LIBERTY, is launched. EMERALD ACE, is service commenced. 2007 launched. 1999 The World’s largest New Mitsui O.S.K. Lines iron ore carrier, the 1884 is established by the BRASIL MARU, is Osaka Shosen Kaisha merger of MOL and launched. (OSK Line) is founded. Navix Line. 2009 2015 Next-generation Established the 2001 vessel concept, MOL CHART. Established the MOL Senpaku ISHIN Group Corporate project Principles. announced. 1961 1965 1983 1984 World’s first Japan’s first Japan’s first LNG carrier, the automated ship, the specialized car specialized SENSHU MARU is KINKASAN MARU, is carrier, the methanol tanker, launched. 2014 launched. OPPAMA MARU, the KOHZAN MARU, MOL celebrated its is launched. is launched. 130th anniversary. MOL has been navigating the oceans for over 130 years. During this time, MOL has grown into the world’s largest full-line marine transport group by anticipating the needs of its customers and the demands of the future, while overcoming various challenges along the way. What has supported us has been our “spirit of challenge and innovation.” What we have gained is the trust of our customers and other stakeholders. Making use of these irreplaceable assets, we will achieve “solid growth through innovative changes” as outlined in the midterm management plan and maintain course into the next 130 years. Long-Term Vision To make the MOL Group an excellent and resilient organization that leads the world shipping industry What is MOL CHART? MOL CHART represents the values that are to be shared by all C hallenge Innovate through insight members of the MOL Group worldwide. These values shall be common guidelines to pursue the best course of action for the highest quality of output for our stakeholders and to achieve MOL’s corporate goal and long term vision. H onesty Do the right thing A ccountability Commit to acting with a sense of ownership R eliability Gain the trust of customers T eamwork Build a strong team 2 Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Value Value Creation Creation Management Strategy What you should Manufactured Capital know about Shipping & MOL Human Capital Feature: The Role of the Marine Transport Industry and MOL’s Value Creation Intellectual, Social, Environmental Capital This year’s special feature is dedicated to explaining the marine transport industry. Globally, seaborne trade exceeded 1.4 tons per person in 2013. Despite the indispensable role it plays in everyday life, many people don’t understand marine shipping that well. We hope the five questions and answers in this section will prove helpful, providing shareholders, investors and all our other stakeholders with a deeper understanding of the significance of the marine transport industry in society and how MOL creates value. Q1. What is marine transport? Financial Capital Q2. What are the important types of ships? Q3. Is marine transport a cyclical industry? Q4. Is bigger always better? Q5. Besides overall market conditions, what other risks confront the industry? Annual Report 2015 3 Question What is marine transport ? The social significance of the marine transport and wood chips in bulk volumes at low cost. industry and MOL Modern container shipping was introduced in the 1950s to facilitate the trade of food, electric A nswer 1 appliances and other consumer goods. Loading cargo into standardized metal boxes for shipping Look around. A surprising amount of what you see— proved revolutionary. Container shipping mechafrom the food and clothes inside the store where nized the loading and unloading of cargo, which you’re standing to the cars outside in the parking lot, had previously relied heavily on manual labor, and the oil that fuels them, and the coal and natural gas enabled a streamlined transport system spanning sea that provide the electricity to keep the lights on overand land. As a result, shipping was able to reliably head—was transported by ship. Marine transport has connect production sites with consumers separated long been recognized as essential to bulk transport by vast distances at lower cost. Beginning in 1970, over great distances. Compared with the alternatives, container shipping began expanding at a rate greatshipping is especially cost effective for bulk, long-disly in excess of global economic growth, accelerating tance cargo. Indeed, most natural resources and enerthe development of global supply chains. gy sources are transported by ship as producers need Though largely invisible—ships don’t need tracks to transport items like petroleum, coal, LPG, iron ore or roads—marine transport serves as indispensable 4 Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Value Value Creation Creation Management Strategy Manufactured Capital World Population & Global Seaborne Traffic 18 Seaborne traffic (bn t) 16 World Population (bn) 14 12 Human Capital 10 The amount of gas a large LNG carrier can transport in one trip 8 1 Year’s Worth* for 6 Intellectual, Social, Environmental Capital 4 270,000 2 estimate (2015–) 0 Households 1950 1960 1970 1980 1990 2000 2010 2020 2030 2040 2050 *Calculated using the average amount of gas used by an ordinary family in Japan. Source: World population=UN, Seaborne traffic=Fearnley/ Clarkson (–2014), MOL estimation based on assumption that the trend of traffic per capita in the past continues in the future (2015–) infrastructure supporting the global economy. The MOL’s more than 130 years of history is the histoFinancial Capital world’s manufacturing base has shifted from the ry of modern marine transport. We transport cargo United States and Japan, to Southeast Asia, China in step with expanding seaborne trade to contribute and Latin America. This is expanding and diversifyto the development of the global economy and suping the trade flows of materials, components and port people’s lives. While advancing by adapting our finished products. More and more countries, and the businesses to the changing business environment, people living in them, have begun participating in MOL fulfills the social responsibility of marine transthe rich bounty of global trade. Fifty years ago in port. As we continue to do this, we will further 1965, the global population was 3.3 billion and globenhance the tangible and intangible assets MOL has al seaborne trade was 1.7 billion tons, which means accumulated, including our diverse fleet of vessels, there was around half a ton of cargo per person. the human resources supporting safe operations, our Seaborne trade has since outpaced population ability to anticipate transport demand and customer growth. In 2000, the population increased to 6.1 bilneeds, the trust placed in us by stakeholders, our lion, but seaborne trade grew even faster to 6.3 bilsolid financial foundation and earnings power. This lion tons, surpassing one ton per person. In 2013, is MOL’s value creation model. We will continue to seaborne trade exceeded 1.4 tons per person, and create new value by continuing to transport cargo the gap is only continuing to widen. globally for the next 130 years. Annual Report 2015 5 Types of commercial vessels and MOL’s portfolio course, there are also ships that transport passengers and MOL’s fleet includes ferries that can simultaneA nswer 2 ously transport automobiles and trucks, as well as a cruise ship featuring an array of facilities, from a Ships have evolved to transport a wide variety of pool to a movie theater, to make voyages more cargo efficiently. Through innovation, conventional enjoyable. designs for multipurpose cargo ships have been As a full-line marine transport group, MOL curadapted with structures optimized to transport sperently operates a wide range of ships. This is an cific types of cargo. Adaptation has resulted in crude upshot of the strong link between our business and oil tankers; bulk carriers for iron ore, coal, wood the growth of the Japanese economy. Shipping was chips and other dry bulk cargoes; container ships to vital for resource-poor Japan to become a major transport clothes, household goods, appliances and trading country, importing resources from overseas other manufactured goods; and car carriers for comand manufacturing value added products for export. pleted vehicles. LNG carriers, which transport natural MOL drew upon the growth of the Japanese econogas that has been cooled to minus 162 degrees my and grew in tandem by supporting imports and Celsius to liquefy it, are a relatively recent arrival. Of exports. For example, we readied dry bulkers to Question What are the important types of ships ? 6 Mitsui O.S.K. Lines import iron ore and coal, and expanded our tanker world. In addition, as a full-line marine transport Value Value Creation fleet to transport crude oil in the economic boom group active around the globe, MOL is able to diverCreation period following WWII. When the Japanese auto sify its risk. Should the trade volume of one type of industry expanded exports, we readied car carriers cargo temporarily drop due to economic conditions and supported the industry’s bulk transport. or global events, we are better able to mitigate the Since then, with the overseas shift of our client impact on the Company’s overall earnings and financompanies and the rise of emerging countries, the cial strength. global level of trade to and from Japan has been in MOL has a diverse portfolio comprising 411 dry relative decline. Simultaneously, we have allocated bulkers, the world’s largest dry bulker fleet; 176 more vessels to countries and regions outside of tankers to transport crude oil and petroleum prodManagement Strategy Japan. The knowhow and fleet composition attained ucts; 67 LNG carriers; 127 car carriers; 118 containerthrough trade with Japanese companies over many ships; and 48 other vessels, such as ferries, domestic years is also perfectly suited to the transport transport vessels and a cruise ship. This constitutes demands of emerging countries. At present, as trade the world’s largest fleet for a full-line marine transstructures diversify, we provide a broad spectrum of port group. services to meet marine transport needs around the Manufactured Capital MOL’s Fleet Portfolio MOL’s fleet 947 Vessels ターミナル Terminal Ground transport Human Capital As of March 31, 2015 Products/ Ferries passengers Cruise ship Automobiles Everyday goods Electrical Intellectual, Social, Environmental Capital appliances Car carriers Containerships Wood chips Grain, Iron ore, Lumber Raw Woodchip carriers materials Oil products Financial Capital Dry bulkers Product tankers LNG carriers Natural gas Crude oil Coal Energy Crude oil tankers Dry bulkers Offshore businesses FPSO Annual Report 2015 7 Question Is marine transport a cyclical industry ? Characteristics of the marine transport industry sels, freight and charter rates soar; but when cargo and MOL’s business model flows decline or fail to keep pace with vessel supply, freight and charter rates fall. This is why the marine transport industry is considered a cyclical industry. It A nswer 3 is governed by economic principles and strongly influenced by the various factors that cause the One noteworthy characteristic of the international global economy to fluctuate. To generate profits in marine transport industry is that it conducts business this kind of industry, companies need to possess the on a single global market. Unlike real estate or foresight to procure vessels one step ahead of marother fixed assets, vessels can move freely across ket surges as well as the ability to improve profitoceans. They’re globally mobile and fairly liquid. In ability under the complete range of market addition, due to the principle of freedom of the conditions. MOL makes full use of the business intelseas, there are virtually no barriers to entry in terms ligence base it cultivates as a full-line marine transof national regulations. Accordingly, the industry is port group, optimizes the duration of vessel market driven toward reestablishing equilibrium. procurement and service, and has the knowhow to When global cargo flows outpace the supply of vesrealize efficient operations. 8 Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Value Value Creation Creation Highly Stable Profits ¥55 Billion* On the other hand, it is because marine transport is a cyclical industry that both customers and marine *Outlook for Fiscal 2015 (as of April 30, 2015) Outlook for Ordinary Income in Fiscal 2015: ¥60 billion transport companies want to limit the risks from Management Strategy (Highly Stable Profits of ¥55 billion + Other Income of ¥5 billion) market volatility associated with freight and charter rates. Customers want to conclude long-term transport contracts at steady prices with reliable marine transport companies. Marine transport companies can expect, with certainty, to recover their expensive asset investments in vessels by concluding contracts that generate stable profits over the long-term. Connecting both these aims, MOL’s strength lies in its ability to offer services and optimally sized vessels Manufactured Capital aligned with customer needs, its solid financial standing, and its track record of safe operations. Globally, it is actually rare for a marine transport company to have as many long-term contracts as MOL has secured. In the mid 2000s, thanks to the vessels it had ordered in advance, MOL was able to take advantage of bullish market conditions as China rapidly expanded its imports of natural resources. Human Capital Subsequently, however, a sudden turn in the supplydemand environment left us exposed to spot market conditions and restrained by an oversupply of vessels in operation. We are currently correcting this by further shifting investments to accumulate stable profits through mediumto long-term contracts and Intellectual, Social, Environmental Capital reducing MOL’s market exposure. Over its more-than-130-year history, MOL has frequently experienced the undulations of the market. In marine transport, which is both a cyclical industry and a growth industry, we continue to aim for sustainable growth while mitigating the impact of market fluctuations by securing an appropriate contract portfolio. Underlined words are explained in the Glossary on page 74. Financial Capital A portfolio to achieve long-term, stable growth Optimal Cargo (Contract) Portfolio Optimal Vessel Procurement Portfolio Low Long-term, stable growth Stable Earnings Dry bulkers and tankers Owned and LNG carriers (under long-term contracts) mediumand long-term chartered Volatility vessels Market-linked Earnings Short-term Containerships Dry bulkers and tankers chartered (on spot operations) vessels High Annual Report 2015 9 Question Is bigger always better ? The pursuit of economies of scale in bulk transroutes like the Panama and Suez canals, which restrict port and MOL’s strategy the maximum length and draft of a ship, have increased to the very limit in size. Most other ships A nswer 4 have gotten even larger. MOL has decided to launch six of the world’s largThe history of marine transport is also the history of est containerships, which are each capable of carrying bigger and bigger ships. This is understandable. The 20,000 containers of twenty-foot equivalent units lower operating costs per weight unit and distance (TEU), on the Asia-Europe route in 2017. Our aim is unit achieved by large-volume shipping are beneficial clear: to lower transport costs per container by for both marine transport companies and their cusincreasing the size of the ship. Although many ultratomers. In terms of economic efficiency, bigger ships large containerships of 18,000 TEU or more have are better in many respects. Marine transport is the recently been launched on the same route, MOL’s new most economical and environmentally friendly mode containerships will be highly competitive with expandof transport, considering CO2 emissions and fuel coned carrying capacity and more efficient engines. As for sumption in terms of weight of cargo transported and further increasing the size of containerships, it seems distance traveled. Larger ships further enhance this that we have reached the upper limit with these vesadvantage. Nearly every type of cargo ship has gotten sels due to the transit restrictions of the Suez Canal. larger over time. Ships traveling through transport On the other hand, larger vessels are not always 10 Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Value Value Creation Creation 20,000 Containers* 120 km** *Capacity of the world’s largest containerships, which MOL is Management Strategy currently building, in twenty-foot equivalent unit (TEU) containers. **The total length of a ship’s containers when aligned in a row Manufactured Capital The transit restriction of the Panama Canal (after expansion) Human Capital 55m Intellectual, Social, Environmental Capital 427m 18.3m The maximum size vessel that can transit the Panama Canal: Length: 360 m Breadth: 49 m Financial Capital the most logical choice. Crude oil tankers were at the Yet, we decided to construct new vessels with roughly forefront of the trend toward larger vessels and some the same external dimensions as our existing standard decades ago saw the appearance of what were size vessels that hold 6,400 vehicles, though we found known as ultra-large crude carriers (ULCCs) capable of ways to increase actual capacity to 6,800 vehicles on the transporting 400,000 to 500,000 deadweight tons new vessels. In light of how automakers are trying to (DWT). However, ULCCs have since faded away. optimally site production around the world, we prioriCurrently the largest vessel size is the 300,000-DWT tized the flexibility provided by a standard-size fleet. class very large crude carrier (VLCC). The reason lies in Customer convenience can also be a factor in the versatility. Companies need to decide on vessel size by decision not to choose larger vessels. We develop iron carefully weighing the benefits afforded by larger ore carriers customized for each customer’s port, with size against greater compatibility in various sea lanes the intention of providing optimal solutions that baland ports across the globe. The size of potential ports ance carrying capacity and convenience. and the ability to transit straits must always be taken The MOL Group Corporate Principles reflect this into account, something which applies to other vessel need to optimize flexibility, convenience and the ecotypes as well. nomic efficiency of larger vessels as the Company There are also other considerations. In car carriers, strives to meet and respond to customers’ needs and the overall trend in increasing size is continuing with to this new era. the planned expansion of the Panama Canal in 2016. Annual Report 2015 11 Question Besides overall market conditions, what other risks confront the industry ? Other risks and MOL’s safe operation system transport crude oil in a VLCC from the Middle East to Japan or another Asian country. Depending on the A nswer 5 loading port, the VLCC departs from the Persian Gulf and transits the Strait of Hormuz, or departs from the Other market risks facing the marine transport indusRed Sea and passes through the Gulf of Aden. After try include fluctuations in exchange rates, interest traversing the Indian Ocean, she then must transit the rates and bunker prices. These market risks directly Strait of Malacca between the Malay Peninsula and impact profitability, but other risks related to vessel the island of Sumatra. The Middle East is fraught with operations can affect not only profitability but also political instability, and the Gulf of Aden, Indian the trust gained from customers and society. OceanOcean and Strait of Malacca are treacherous areas faring vessels must always be on guard against the plagued with pirates. Moreover, there are also risk of a marine incident, which might lead to ocean encounters with adverse weather, super typhoons and pollution, arising from adverse weather or other other abnormal weather phenomena that seem to be unforeseen circumstances. Ships may also be exposed increasing in intensity each year. Amid this challengto geopolitical risks, such as encountering war zones, ing environment, to safely transport cargo and live up terrorists, and pirates among other threats. to the trust placed in us by customers and the rest of For example, it takes roughly three weeks to society, we need to be more vigilant than ever. 12 Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Value Value Creation Creation Management Strategy View a video introducing MOL's measures to enhance safe operation. FOUR ZEROES This is MOL’s unwavering goal of achieving the world’s safest operations. Manufactured Capital Human Capital Intellectual, Social, Environmental Capital The number of tropical storm alerts sent out to ships (Results in 2014) 17,349 Alerts MOL is committed to ensuring thoroughly safe ocean conditions (including abnormal weather and Financial Capital operations through various initiatives, beginning with tsunamis) and security threats (including piracy and the recruitment and training of excellent seafarers. terrorism) to the relevant personnel. As onboard (See the special feature on p. 52.) But what makes equipment becomes increasingly sophisticated, engiMOL stand out in its response to the hazards of neers may during operations encounter situations not marine transport, including the aforementioned risks, described in the manuals. Captains and navigators is its Safety Operation Supporting Center (SOSC). The may encounter unexpected weather phenomena. In center monitors the position and movement of MOLthese instances, the knowledge and judgment of an operated vessels as well as weather and ocean condiexperienced MOL captain is invaluable. Recently, as tions in real time, supplying invaluable information to political instability, abnormal weather conditions and relevant personnel onboard and on land. The SOSC is other uncertainties intensify, transport technology staffed at all times by two marine technical specialists, continues to increase in sophistication, with LNG carriincluding an experienced MOL captain, and supports ers being the most representative example. The slogan the safe navigation of about 900 MOL Groupof the SOSC is: “The captain must never feel alone” affiliated vessels around the clock 365 days a year. The center provides robust support for seafarers workThey provide assistance from the captain’s perspective, ing on the open ocean and underpins the safe operasupplying information gathered on weather and tions of MOL-operated vessels day and night. Annual Report 2015 13 Strategy 14 Mitsui O.S.K. Lines and Contents Value Creation Message from 16 the Chairman 22 Management Strategy Message from the CEO Management Strategy 28 Financial Highlights 30 Key Indicators 32 Interview with the CFO Manufactured Capital Human Capital Intellectual, Social, Environmental Capital Financial Capital Direction Annual Report 2015 15 Message from the Chairman Koichi Muto Chairman Maintain course, Full speed ahead “We have concluded the first year of the midterm management plan ‘STEER FOR 2020,’ which was crafted with the intention of adjusting the Company’s rudder to head for our desired course in 2020. I’ve been at the helm of MOL for the past five years as president but have now decided to hand over management duties to the new president, Junichiro Ikeda. In my new role as Chairman of the Board of Directors, I am in a position where I can strengthen governance and support management. I will support President Ikeda’s leadership as he continues uniting the Company’s comprehensive strengths to solve the issues that face us and to reinforce sustainable growth.” 16 Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Value Creation Management Strategy Management Strategy Progress Made in the First Year of the Midterm Management Plan and Subsequent Evaluation of Results Fiscal 2014 was the first year of “STEER FOR 2020,” Manufactured Capital which centered on solid growth through innovative changes. Please tell us about the progress of the overall strategies and your evaluation of the results. Although we did not achieve the targets bulkers and tankers as we transform our fleet for for our financial results, I’d say we got higher market tolerability and competitiveness while off to a good start in line with the genalso continuing to focus efforts on transport fields, Human Capital eral direction of the strategies. where we provide added value in response to cusSolid growth through innovative change, the main tomer needs. Market exposure is being reduced theme of “STEER FOR 2020,” refers to moving away mostly according to the plan. With small and medifrom business dependent on strong markets and um-sized dry bulkers, we are beginning to establish instead accumulating long-term and stable profits to a business model where we don’t own a large numcontribute to solid growth. To achieve these aims, ber of ships and try to slot in cargo, but instead first secure cargo and then ready the necessary vessels, Intellectual, Social, Environmental Capital our main strategies are the Three Innovations: Innovation of Business Portfolio, Innovation of including short-term chartered ships. We are also Business Model and Innovation of Business Domain. making solid progress in strengthening our cost The core of these strategies is Innovation of competitiveness, including the disposal of unprofitBusiness Portfolio. The aim of this strategy is to alloable vessels. cate management resources to fields where we Turning to Innovation of Business Domain, in expect to secure strong growth and long-term, stawhich we outlined expanding our business domain ble profits, especially to LNG carriers and offshore to both the upstream and downstream of marine businesses. In fiscal 2014, we made great strides transport, we secured a long-term contract for one toward achieving our goals, especially in LNG carriFPSO and entered the shuttle tanker business by ers, where we secured new long-term contracts for establishing a joint venture with Viken Shipping. Financial Capital 10 vessels. Under the plan, we aimed to increase the And as for the container terminal business, the autosize of MOL’s LNG carrier fleet from 67 vessels at the mated terminal at the Port of Los Angeles began end of fiscal 2013 to 120 by the end of fiscal 2019. operations in November 2014. Another accomplishIncluding those under construction, our fleet has ment was launching a joint venture with the Synergy grown to 92 vessels as of the end of fiscal 2014. Group in India to begin external sales of our ship Another major accomplishment was securing a longmanagement knowhow. term contract for six very large ethane carriers, a Although we were able to rack up solid accomnew field. plishments in line with the general direction of the With the second strategy—Innovation of overall strategies in this way, we unfortunately fell Business Model—we aim to rein in effects from mar27% short of our originally planned target of ¥70.0 ket volatility and build a corporate structure that can billion in consolidated ordinary income for fiscal record solid profits regardless of market conditions. 2014, instead recording ¥51.3 billion. To do this, we are reducing market exposure in dry Underlined words are explained in the Glossary on page 74. Annual Report 2015 17 Message from the Chairman What were the factors that kept the Company from attaining the financial targets? The biggest factor was the inability of Port congestion on the U.S. West Coast and containerships to turn a profit within Asia hurt revenues across the industry, but the In bulkships, while the dry bulker market stagnated, following detrimental factors were unique to MOL. tankers saw a lot of activity beginning in autumn last As Brazil’s economy stalled due to lower natural year due to the low price of oil. Supported by hefty, resource prices, cargo flows stagnated on the Asiastable profits, the segment as a whole posted profits South America route, in which MOL had been leverat about the level originally forecast. The primary aging its historically superior presence. This pushed reason we did not meet the target despite strong down freight revenues from the route. The comtailwinds from the weak yen and lower bunker pricmencement of operations of the automated terminal es was containerships. Containerships not only failed at the Port of Los Angeles was delayed about half a to turn a profit, it actually widened its losses from year from schedule. In addition, we incurred wide the previous fiscal year and even performed more losses on bunker price hedges placed at the beginpoorly than some other containership companies. ning of the fiscal year. Effects from the Changing Business Environment and the Falling Prices of Crude Oil and Natural Resources Considering the assumptions about the business environment at the time “STEER FOR 2020” was formulated, do you think revisions are necessary due to subsequent changes in the business environment? I believe that, regardless of the shortdirection, without losing sight of the big picture due term market conditions, we must to short-term changes in the environment. respond by calmly assessing the situation The drop in crude oil prices led to lower fuel without losing sight of the big picture. prices and simultaneously lifted the tanker market Our understanding of the business environment produe to increased trade, including demand for vided the basis for the formulation of the midterm reserves, of crude oil and refined petroleum prodmanagement plan. These assumptions can be dividucts. The additional trade provided strong tailwinds ed into the short-term environment and the medifor the Company’s operating results. Despite conumto long-term environment. The short-term cerns over slowing projects in the LNG carrier busibusiness environment (essentially foreign exchange ness, the projects MOL incorporated into its plan rates, bunker prices, and marine transport markets have been largely unaffected and are proceeding for each vessel type) did not progress quite as mostly as expected. On the other hand, lower natuexpected. However, the mediumto long-term enviral resource prices contributed to economic stagnaronment, which formed the basis for focusing on tion in natural resource exporting countries, solid growth through innovative changes, proceeded especially Brazil, and this did in fact have a negative just as we expected. There was a surplus of shipimpact on containerships. So while there were pluses building facilities, and demand rose for transporting and minuses, it appears that on the whole the posinew energy sources. I think we need to calmly tive effects outweighed the negative ones. observe major trends and respond with resolute Underlined words are explained in the Glossary on page 74. 18 Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Value Creation Management Strategy Management Strategy Main theme: Solid growth through innovative changes Overall Strategies Three Innovations Ⅰ Ⅱ Ⅲ Manufactured Capital Innovation of Business Portfolio Innovation of Business Model Innovation of Business Domain Allocate management resources earlier Transform our fleet for higher market tolerability and more competitiveness Create value chains by expanding and significantly to businesses where business domain to both upstream and we expect high growth and stable Focus on businesses that offer added downstream of ocean shipping transport long-term profits value and meet customer needs Profit Targets/Financial Targets (Billions of yen) Human Capital FY2015 FY2013 FY2014 FY2016 (Plan) FY2019 (Target) (Forecast)*3 Revenue 1,729.4 1,817 1,820 1,900 2,100 Ordinary income 54.9 51.3 60 100 140 (Highly stable profits) (55) (55) (75) Intellectual, Social, Environmental Capital Net income 57.3 42.3 43 80 110 ROA *1 2.4% 2.1% 2.3% 4-5% ROE*2 9.5% 5.8% 5.4% above 10% Equity ratio 29% 30% 31% (around FY2019) 35-40% Net gearing ratio 135% 135% 127% (around FY2019) 100% Exchange rate JPY/US$ 99.79 108.34 118.00 100 100 Bunker price US$/MT 610 529 380 620 620 *1 ROA =Ordinary income/ Average total assets at the beginning and the end of the fiscal year *2 ROE =Net income/ Average shareholders’ equity at the beginning and the end of the fiscal year *3 As of April 30, 2015 Financial Capital Expansion of LNG carrier and Offshore business (Innovation of Business Portfolio / Innovation of Business Domain) March 31, 2015 March 31,2020 March 31, 2014 (Including on order) (Target) LNG carriers 67 92 120 Offshore Businesses 1 7 15 March 31, 2014 March 31, 2015 (Including on order) Downsize Market Exposure in Dry Bulkers and Tankers (Innovation of Business Model) 0 20 40 60 80 100% FY2013 (Result) 52% FY2014 (Result) 48% FY2016 (Plan) 45% FY2019 (Target) 35%  Owned or midand long-term chartered vessels with midand long-term contracts  Owned or midand long-term chartered vessels with short-term contracts (=Market exposure)  Short-term chartered vessels with short-term contracts Annual Report 2015 19 Message from the Chairman Unfinished Business With the first year of “STEER FOR 2020” wrapped up, what business remains to be finished? The first thing is rebuilding the containwith Maersk and MSC for the Asia-South America ership business. East Coast route in July. We can expect sizable ratioOf course we must continue to steadily implement nalization effects by reshuffling the ports of call and concrete measures related to the Three Innovations, decreasing the number of vessels deployed while but the most pressing priority for MOL is rebuilding maintaining capacity. Along with this rationalization the containership business. Previously mentioned of unprofitable routes, we are accelerating disposal temporary factors like port congestion, delayed start of relatively expensive small and medium-sized vesof automated operations at the Port of Los Angeles sels. In addition, we recently ordered six large or losses on bunker hedges in fiscal 2014, will most20,000 TEU containerships as we look to the future. ly disappear by fiscal 2015, but we need to address We plan to launch these ships on the Asia-Europe the structural factors. As part of these efforts, we route in 2017, and expect improved fuel efficiency have already decided to launch new joint service and decreased unit costs. Interest-bearing debt is increasing, so what are your thoughts on strengthening the financial foundation? Behind the increase in interest-bearing an investment opportunity that can assuredly condebt are businesses that generate longtribute to stable profit—the foundation of future term and stable profits. growth—management should pursue it without hesBecause of large initial investments centering on itation. Behind the temporary increase in interestLNG carriers and offshore businesses in line with bearing debt are remarkably stable businesses, “STEER FOR 2020,” interest-bearing debt will be which will certainly help strengthen MOL’s financial hard to suppress until fiscal 2016. What I’d like to foundation in the long-term. emphasize here, though, is that these investments Meanwhile, we have been continuing to move are being made in order to generate long-term and assets off the balance sheet. By accumulating solid stable profits in the future. Although strengthening profits, we plan to improve the net gearing ratio to the financial foundation is important, it isn’t neces100% and the equity ratio to 35–40% by around sarily management’s overriding goal. When there is fiscal 2019. Building up Highly Stable Profits (Billions of yen) Highly Stable Profits 160 (Ordinary Income = Stable Profits + Other Profits) 140 1) Profits that are fixed, or expected to be 140 fixed during this midterm management 120 100 plan, from contracts of two years 100 or more. (Ordinary Income) 80 2) Projected profits from highly stable 60 60 businesses. 75 (The included segments: Drybulkers, 40 55 55 Tankers, LNG Carriers, Offshore businesses, 20 Associated businesses and Others) 0 FY2015(Forecast) FY2016(Plan) FY2019(Target) *As of April 30,2015 *As of April 30,2014 *As of April 30,2014  Stable profits  Other profits 20 Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Value Creation Initiatives as Chairman Management Strategy Management Strategy Following your appointment as chairman, what do plan to pursue going forward? As Chairman of the Board of Directors, I governance in response to the needs of the times. will do all I can to make corporate govI’m currently advancing discussion on pertinent ernance more transparent. topics at the Board of Directors’ meetings, such as what kind of system is needed to amply fulfill the Manufactured Capital Working with the president, I’d like to improve corporate value, especially by improving corporate govoversight function expected of the board and how ernance and supervising Group companies. As for we can ensure the level of transparency that needs to corporate governance, I’m proud of the fact that be achieved for our shareholders and other external MOL led Japan in carrying out management reforms stakeholders. With Japan’s Corporate Governance from the shareholders’ perspective, including having Code, which has now come into effect, I will continhad external directors since 2000, but I think we now ue working hard as the Chairman of the Board of need to consider further improvements to corporate Directors to reinforce our management foundation. Summation of Five Years as President Human Capital Intellectual, Social, Environmental Capital What are your thoughts as you reflect on the turbulent time during your term as president? I did what had to be boldly done for investments to raise the cost-competitiveness of conMOL’s future. tainerships, car carriers, chemical tankers, ferries and Some people say the five years since I became presiother vessels. There were almost no orders for free dent in June 2010 have been turbulent. In MOL’s hisvessels with speculation on strong market conditory of over 130-years, however, I believe there were tions. If stable profits could be expected, I approved Financial Capital harsher times. I think I can safely say that I consisthe investment, even for projects that presented a tently kept the long-term in mind, focusing on what high degree of technical difficulty, including the needed to be done for the future and decisively carRussian Yamal project to transport LNG across the rying it out. Of course, I feel genuine regret for our Northern Sea route by ice class vessels. shareholders that we posted the largest loss in the I concentrated MOL’s business intelligence, Company’s history in fiscal 2012. However, this was thought about what needed to be done at that paralso due to our focus on the future, having executed ticular point in time while looking ahead to the next the Business Structural Reforms for dry bulkers. ten to twenty years, and implemented those initiaWe seized business opportunities that generate tives. That direction is clearly reflected in “STEER FOR long-term, stable profits (such as those presented by 2020.” Essentially, I issued a rudder command to the shale revolution) and accumulated contracts. In effect a great corporate change in direction. my five years as president, I approved investments Although there is still unfinished business, including for 120 new vessels. Over 70% of these are for LNG securing and training seafarers and rebuilding the carriers, offshore businesses, dry bulkers, tankers containership business, I’d like the new president and other vessels that will generate stable profits for Junichiro Ikeda to maintain course, accelerate and about 20 years. The remaining 30% or so were for proceed full steam ahead. Underlined words are explained in the Glossary on page 74. Annual Report 2015 21 Message from the CEO Junichiro Ikeda President & CEO What we are doing now for 2020 and beyond “I, Junichiro Ikeda, assumed the position of president on June 23rd. As president, my main duty is to safeguard the strategies of the midterm management plan “STEER FOR 2020,” launched under the direction of the previous president Koichi Muto, ensuring the strategies are carried out effectively and elevating MOL as a truly global corporation.” 22 Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Value Creation Management Strategy Management Strategy Issues and Resolutions for the Second Year of “STEER FOR 2020” Manufactured Capital Please tell us about the issues and strategies heading into the second year of “STEER FOR 2020.” A major mediumto long-term issue is es, which aim to expand overseas going forward, we the advancement of globalization. An need to recruit experts like those that have worked immediate, pressing issue is rebuilding for global resource majors in Europe or the United the containership business. States. While we are already conducting this type of As for “STEER FOR 2020,” solid progress was made hiring in some fields, we need to reinforce our Human Capital in the first year of the plan under the leadership of efforts. Related human resource measures will be the previous president Koichi Muto. We’ve already another major issue. For example, how should we attained substantial accomplishments in Innovation compensate and motivate our hires based on their of Business Portfolio and Innovation of Business experience and accomplishments? Model, and I will continue to steer this course. In Simultaneously we will devote attention to eleInnovation of Business Domain, however, we need vating MOL’s brand around the world as the third Intellectual, Social, Environmental Capital to further ramp up our efforts, and I’d like to fulfill phase of globalization. Even if each business receives my role as president by motivating or, when neceshigh praise from customers, that doesn’t necessarily sary, even directing the sales division. mean MOL receives global recognition for being the I believe the globalization of MOL is the key to world’s largest full-line marine transport group, further support the Three Innovations. You might which operates a wide array of vessels and is able to find it surprising that the Company, which has a netmeet comprehensive transport needs. By raising work of trade routes spanning the globe, would aim MOL’s profile as a full-line marine transport group, for globalization, but there are various facets of gloit’s my aim to have our clients around the world balization. In what might be called a first phase, glothink first and foremost of consulting MOL for their balization of our customer base has already transport needs. progressed considerably and it’s probably safe to say As for pressing issues, it goes without saying Financial Capital that each department has finished establishing overthat we need to rebuild the containership business. seas bases to facilitate this. We are already taking measures to resolve MOL’s What we need to strengthen going forward, unique structural problems, including measures to however, is the second phase: recruiting globally rationalize North-South trade. I will give my all to see competitive personnel. For example, in such energythis is implemented without fail and that the busirelated fields as LNG carriers and offshore businessness becomes profitable. Annual Report 2015 23 Message from the CEO Please tell us about the mediumto long-term strategies for containerships. I aim to get the Company in the top and Inter-Asian routes, where the market environone-third in terms of cost competitivement is expected to remain unstable. On these ness and seek synergies with the conroutes, we need to streamline our core fleet and tainer terminal business. switch over to a trade route operation structure that The key to rebuilding the containership business is takes advantage of short-term chartered vessels. In strengthening cost competitiveness and securing this respect, MOL has been slow to dispose of small efficient revenue streams. If we can enter the top and medium-sized vessels but is now accelerating tertile of major containership companies in terms of these efforts. cost competitiveness, we could weather the ups and As for securing efficient revenue streams, we are downs of the market. We’ve already been working working to pursue comprehensive yield managetowards this goal. Although we slipped in ranking ment and strengthen our sales capabilities. between fiscal 2013 and fiscal 2014, we maintained These measures will maintain MOL’s presence in a similar position before then, so we have both container shipping, but our target business model is latent abilities and executable abilities. We will swiftcombining this business with the container terminal ly recover our leading position in the top third by business—a part of Innovation of Business Domain. successfully implementing measures to resolve strucThe container terminal business is expected to gentural problems once we have quickly eliminated temerate relatively stable profit and, typical of the capiporary negative factors. tal-intensive industry, profit margins rise rapidly after Let’s examine the trade routes separately. On exceeding certain volume thresholds. We are able to East-West routes, operating through the G6 Alliance secure a high level of stable income by operating and lowering unit costs by launching large vessels highly competitive terminals like the automated one remain effective strategies. Currently, we have charat the Port of Los Angeles and attracting vessels tered 14,000 TEU vessels from another company to operated by alliances of which MOL is a member. tide us over. But using this time, we determined the Aiming to expand this business model beyond North optimal vessel size and were able to order 20,000 America, we are currently pursuing new investment TEU vessels, which are the largest ships able to tranopportunities with Brookfield, a major Canadian sit the Suez Canal, at a competitive price. On the fund with which we agreed to a strategic alliance in other hand, medium-sized vessels continue to casJanuary 2014. cade from East-West routes to North-South routes 24 Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Value Creation Profit Opportunities and Risk Controls The marine transport market for dry bulkers and Management Strategy containerships was worse than expected under Management Strategy “STEER FOR 2020.” How do you plan to control the impact of this kind of market volatility? We will continue to strengthen total risk and that are worth taking. MOL calls this total risk control. control. “STEER FOR 2020” is based on this idea, The foundation of management at a marine transand we are continuing to reduce market exposure. However, the risk positions are, once taken, not easiManufactured Capital port company lies in working to correctly perceive the balance of supply and demand and the market ly lifted. In formulating “STEER FOR 2020,” there conditions while keeping the big picture in mind. But were indications from outside officers that the what is more important is recognizing as a company Company’s quantitative risk analysis was insufficient. the total volume of risk, namely the size of the In light of such reflections, we are currently working impact that would be incurred if you misread the to reinforce total risk control. business environment. Based on this, you should take only risks that the company is capable of taking Human Capital In LNG carriers and offshore businesses, some are voicing concerns about the impact of the decrease in crude oil prices and geopolitical risks. What do you Intellectual, Social, Environmental Capital think the impact will be on MOL? We devote considerable effort to evalutrol for related risk by making use of the Company’s ating opportunities and risks. While insight and technical capabilities as a marine transthere may be some delays in new projport company, we will pursue even challenging iniects, I don’t think there will be a large tiatives and earnings opportunities. The Russian impact on achieving the plan’s goals. Yamal project mentioned by the chairman is an The drop in crude oil prices is certainly worsening example of this. While some people are also conthe profitability of some shale gas fields, and I think cerned about the geopolitical risks associated with some of the new developments are being put on the project, we can effectively control them through Financial Capital hold at the moment. However, MOL is not particithe contract. pating in any upstream shale gas projects. We Projects aiming to secure future contracts are placed orders with a shipyard after concluding a mostly competitive ones incorporated into the plan. contract with a highly reliable customer to charter Some of those are even government projects. LNG carriers over the long term, only for projects Accordingly, I believe these projects will proceed that had received final investment decisions. In this steadily even if they are somewhat delayed. way, we are strategically selecting the risks we take as a marine transport company. The same goes for other projects in LNG carriers and offshore businesses. Conversely, when we determine that we can conUnderlined words are explained in the Glossary on page 74. Annual Report 2015 25 Message from the CEO The Social Significance of the Marine Transport Industry and How MOL Creates Value What do you think is the significance of the marine transport industry in society? It is the duty of a marine transport comEnriching the lives of people all around the world by pany to move things across the ocean to moving things across the ocean is the duty of a enrich the lives of people around the marine transport company. world. What’s more, per unit CO2 emissions from transI believe the social significance of the marine transport are smallest in the marine transport industry, port industry, especially the international marine and we can reinforce this advantage by increasing transport industry, is to make people happy by transthe size of vessels or developing even more energyporting things. Of course there is spiritual enrichefficient technology. That is why we can say the ment, but I think the physical sense of fulfillment marine transport industry provides a mode of transand economic improvement makes it easier to really port that enriches people all over the world while feel happy. This means supporting economic growth also being gentle on the environment. It is an indisby transporting oil and iron from resource rich counpensable industry for society. In their work, I’d also tries to resource poor ones, or delivering a region’s like our employees to be proud of this important role. special delicacy to people all over the world. Q. What strengths and competitive elements underpin the sustainable growth of MOL? Definitely credibility. MOL has been our credibility and creating a virtuous cycle. Thanks backed by credibility for over 130 years. to this, MOL has amassed the intangible asset of Beginning with MOL, Japan’s marine transport comcredibility, in addition to its more tangible asset: the panies have mirrored the progress of Japan’s econoworld’s largest fleet with a wide range of vessel my. MOL has also grown by developing ships and types. Our credibility has long since been accepted services to meet customer needs across the archipelby customers outside Japan as well and is even ago of Japan, which developed by importing today helping us secure overseas projects. resources and exporting products. I think you can For example, in January 2015, we safely delivered say that MOL’s strength lies in its credibility, which the first LNG carrier made in a shipyard in China by a has been cultivated over the years as we worked to non-Chinese shipping company. I think one of the gain the trust of Japan’s customers, who have high reasons we were chosen as a shipping company partstandards, including seeking improvements in transner for this challenging project was, without a doubt, port efficiency and thoroughly safe transport. our credibility. Thanks to our participation in this projAlthough credibility cannot be seen with the eyes, it ect, we gained the trust of China Shipping, who coattracts customers and business partners. Credibility owns the vessels, and secured a separate opportunity could be the ability to uncover customer needs and to participate in a project for China. offer appropriate solutions, the approach of the Capitalizing on our strengths comprising both Company to work hard with an indomitable fighting tangible and intangible assets accumulated over our spirit to make that solution a reality, the track record more than 130 years of history, we continue to fulfill of safe transport, or the technical capabilities underthe social duty of marine transport. This then helps pinning everything. All of these comprise the us accumulate more tangible and intangible assets Company’s credibility. Through all those things we and, through this process, we improve corporate gain new transport opportunities, further polishing value in a broad sense. 26 Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Value Creation Improving Shareholder Value Management Strategy Management Strategy Please describe your thoughts on improving shareholder value and providing shareholder returns. I will continue to improve mediumto financial standing, it would be illogical to raise ROE long-term shareholder value and in the short term by such a measure as stock buystrengthen shareholder returns by seizback. On the other hand, the funding necessary for ing prime business opportunities and capital investment is mostly backed by long-term Manufactured Capital accumulating stable profits. contracts, and if cash flows from operating activities To improve mediumto long-term shareholder value, prove insufficient, we could easily cover the rest with I will continue to decide on investments aimed at bank loans. There is neither need nor plan to cover accumulating stable profits and strengthening cost capital investment by raising capital. competitiveness in line with “STEER FOR 2020.” There is no change in MOL’s policy on shareholdI think it’s helpful to realize that there is a baton er returns to maintain a dividend payout ratio of in management that is carried by one person and 20% and raise this to around 30% as our financial handed off to the next. Just like a long-distance relay standing improves over the medium to long term. By race, each person gives their all to get closer to the Human Capital first carrying out investment aimed at securing goal. It goes without saying that each year’s operatfuture stable profits, MOL expects to achieve its ing results are important. But if you only focus on financial targets, equity ratio of 35% to 40% and that amid changing business environments, you lose net gearing ratio of 100%, no earlier than around sight of the goal you should be aiming for, namely fiscal 2019. However, we have determined that now meeting shareholders’ expectations by improving is the best time to seize business opportunities and mediumto long-term corporate value. Intellectual, Social, Environmental Capital actively invest in sources of stable profits. Sound I have been entrusted with the baton from the financial standing is also important for securing previous president Koichi Muto. Over its more than long-term contracts. Business opportunities will not 130 years of history, there have been times when wait for us. Prioritizing capital investment and MOL has encountered great swells, but I think our improvement in financial standing will, I believe, lead forebears succeeded in opening many navigable to improved shareholder value over the mediumto channels through their ingenuity and drive. When I long-term. This is the time frame, and I would like to reflect on this, I am once again moved deeply by the request the understanding of our shareholders. meaning of “excellent and resilient” in the Of course, when deciding on investments, we Company’s long-term vision “To make the MOL use ROI and other standards to facilitate the selecGroup an excellent and resilient organization that tion. Aiming to improve our ability to generate cash, leads the world shipping industry.” To ensure that I Financial Capital we are encouraging all business divisions to strive to carry the baton forward in a way that contributes to strengthen cost competitiveness and improve operthe next 130 years, I, too, will boldly face change ating efficiency. Through this, ROA will be lifted to and advance full steam ahead. between 4% and 5% within the term of “STEER FOR 2020,” and ROE should reach 10% early on in the plan, a level we seek to maintain or improve. I intend to increase ROE by consistently raising profits. Looking at our present capital requirements and Annual Report 2015 27 Financial Highlights MOL STEP 2005/3 2006/3 2007/3 2008/3 For the year: Shipping and other revenues ¥1,173,332 ¥1,366,725 ¥1,568,435 ¥1,945,697 Shipping and other expenses 917,149 1,101,459 1,300,038 1,544,109 Selling, general and administrative expenses 84,388 92,273 100,324 110,303 Operating income (loss) 171,795 172,993 168,073 291,285 Ordinary income (loss) 174,979 176,502 182,488 302,219 Income (loss) before income taxes and minority interests 155,057 188,290 197,854 318,202 Net income (loss) 98,261 113,732 120,940 190,321 Free cash flows [(a) + (b)] 80,230 8,838 20,369 23,291 Cash flows from operating activities (a) 167,897 163,914 156,418 283,359 Cash flows from investing activities (b) (87,667) (155,076) (136,049) (260,068) Depreciation and amortization 52,969 65,700 68,581 74,481 At year-end: Total assets 1,232,252 1,470,824 1,639,940 1,900,551 Net vessels, property and equipment 665,320 769,902 847,660 1,047,825 Interest-bearing debt 514,131 571,429 569,417 601,174 Net assets 298,258 424,461 620,989 751,652 Shareholders’ equity 298,258 424,461 550,764 679,315 Amounts per share of common stock: Net income (loss) ¥81.99 ¥94.98 ¥101.20 ¥159.14 Net assets 248.40 354.01 459.55 567.74 Cash dividends applicable to the year 16.00 18.00 20.00 31.00 Management indicators: Gearing ratio (%) 173 135 104 88 Net gearing ratio (%) 157 120 94 79 Equity ratio (%) 24.2 28.9 33.6 35.8 ROA (%)(*) 15.7 13.1 11.7 17.1 ROE (%) 37.8 31.5 24.8 30.9 Dividend payout ratio (%) 19.5 19.0 19.8 19.5 Number of MOL Group employees: 7,385 8,351 8,621 9,626 (the parent company and consolidated subsidiaries) (*) Ordinary income (loss) /Average total assets at the beginning and the end of the fiscal year. 28 Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Value Creation STEER FOR 2020 RISE 2013 GEAR UP! MOL MOL ADVANCE Management Strategy Management Strategy Millions of yen 2009/3 2010/3 2011/3 2012/3 2013/3 2014/3 2015/3 ¥1,865,802 ¥1,347,965 ¥1,543,661 ¥1,435,221 ¥1,509,194 ¥1,729,452 ¥1,817,070 1,564,486 1,228,479 1,328,960 1,368,795 1,432,014 1,587,902 1,683,795 104,105 98,547 91,300 90,886 92,946 100,458 116,025 Manufactured Capital 197,211 20,939 123,401 (24,460) (15,766) 41,092 17,250 204,511 24,235 121,622 (24,320) (28,568) 54,986 51,330 197,732 27,776 95,367 (33,516) (137,939) 71,710 58,332 126,988 12,722 58,277 (26,009) (178,847) 57,394 42,356 (71,038) (40,055) 46,970 (129,298) (25,285) (25,615) (66,656) 118,984 93,428 181,755 5,014 78,956 94,256 92,495 (190,022) (133,484) (134,785) (134,313) (104,241) (119,871) (159,151) Human Capital 78,156 88,366 77,446 85,624 94,685 83,984 87,804 1,807,080 1,861,312 1,868,741 1,946,162 2,164,611 2,364,695 2,624,050 1,106,746 1,209,176 1,257,823 1,293,803 1,303,967 1,379,245 1,498,028 Intellectual, Social, Environmental Capital 702,617 775,114 724,259 869,619 1,046,865 1,094,081 1,183,401 695,022 735,702 740,247 717,909 619,493 783,549 892,435 623,714 659,507 660,795 637,422 535,423 679,160 782,557 Yen ¥106.13 ¥10.63 ¥48.75 (¥21.76) (¥149.57) ¥47.99 ¥ 35.42 521.23 551.70 552.83 533.27 447.76 567.90 654.26 31.00 3.00 10.00 5.00 − 5.00 7.00 Financial Capital 113 118 110 136 196 161 151 99 105 100 123 158 135 135 34.5 35.4 35.4 32.8 24.7 28.7 29.8 11.0 1.3 6.5 (1.3) (1.4) 2.4 2.1 19.5 2.0 8.8 (4.0) (30.5) 9.5 5.8 29.2 28.2 20.5 − − 10.4 19.8 10,012 9,707 9,438 9,431 9,465 10,289 10,508 Annual Report 2015 29 Key Indicators Shipping and Other Revenues/ Ordinary Income (Loss) by Total Assets/Net Assets Ordinary Income (Loss) Consolidated Segment (¥ billions) (¥ billions) (¥ billions) 2,000 400 3,000 1,000 180 1,500 300 2,400 800 120 1,000 200 1,800 600 60 500 100 1,200 400 0 0 0 600 200 –500 –100 0 0 -60 10/3 11/3 12/3 13/3 14/3 15/3 10/3 11/3 12/3 13/3 14/3 15/3 10/3 11/3 12/3 13/3 14/3 15/3  Shipping and other revenues (left scale)  Total assets (left scale)  Bulkships  Other segments, etc.  Ordinary income (loss) (right scale)  Net assets (right scale)  Containerships FY2014 FY2014 FY2014 Shipping and Other Revenues ¥1,817.0 billion Total Assets ¥2,624.0 billion Bulkships ¥54.1 billion Ordinary Income ¥51.3 billion Net Assets ¥892.4 billion Containerships ¥(24.1) billion Other segments, etc. ¥21.3 billion Ordinary income decreased ¥3.6 billion year on year Total assets as of March 31, 2015 were ¥259.3 billion In the bulkships segment, while the tanker division due mainly to a drop in freight rates for containerhigher than at March 31, 2014 due to increases in greatly increased profits, dry bulkers, car carriers and ships, offshoring in car carriers and stagnant market vessels and long-term loans receivable attributable to other divisions recorded lower profits. The containerships conditions for dry bulkers despite tailwinds from the investment for fleet enhancement. Net assets segment posted a larger ordinary loss than fiscal 2013 weaker yen, lower bunker prices and improving marincreased ¥108.8 billion year on year due mainly to due mainly to a decrease in freight rates and lower ket conditions for tankers. increases in retained earnings and unrealized gains utilization rates. on hedging derivatives. Net Income (Loss) per Share/Cash Dividend Payout Ratio Cash Flows Dividends Applicable to the Year (¥) (%) (¥ billions) 150 30 200 150 100 100 50 20 50 0 0 –50 –50 10 –100 –100 –150 –150 0 –200 10/3 11/3 12/3 13/3 14/3 15/3 10/3 11/3 12/3 13/3 14/3 15/3 10/3 11/3 12/3 13/3 14/3 15/3  Cash flows from operating activities  Net income (Loss) per share  Cash flows from investing activities  Cash dividends applicable to the year Free cash flows FY2014 FY2014 FY2014 Net Income per Share ¥35.42 Dividend Payout Ratio 19.8% Cash Flows from Operating ¥92.4 billion Cash Dividends Applicable Activities to the Year ¥7 Cash Flows from Investing Activities ¥(159.1) billion In contrast with the previous year, which had large Due to the ¥2 increase in the dividends paid for the Operating activities provided net cash of ¥92.4 billion, extraordinary gains due mainly to sales of affiliates’ year, the dividend payout ratio increased from 10% in down ¥1.7 billion year on year. Investing activities stocks, net income declined ¥15.0 billion. MOL paid the previous fiscal year to 20%, reaching our present used net cash of ¥159.1 billion, ¥39.2 billion more ¥7 per share in dividends for the fiscal year, including guideline. We aim to raise this to 30% as a mediumthan a year prior, due to continued active capital a ¥3 interim dividend, a year-on-year increase of ¥2 to long-term issue. investments. This resulted in continuous negative free per share. cash flows. 30 Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Value Creation Interest-bearing Debt / Net InterestGearing Ratio / Net Gearing Ratio ROA/ROE bearing Debt / Shareholders’ Equity / Equity Ratio (%) (¥ billions) (%) Management Strategy 20 1,200 200 40 Management Strategy 10 1,000 150 30 0 800 –10 600 100 20 –20 400 50 10 –30 200 Manufactured Capital –40 0 0 0 10/3 11/3 12/3 13/3 14/3 15/3 10/3 11/3 12/3 13/3 14/3 15/3 10/3 11/3 12/3 13/3 14/3 15/3  Interest-bearing Debt Gearing Ratio (left scale) ROA  Net Interest-bearing Debt Net Gearing Ratio (left scale) ROE  Shareholders’ Equity Equity Ratio (right scale) FY2014 FY2014 FY2014 ROA 2.1% Interest-bearing Debt ¥1,183.4 billion Gearing Ratio 151% Net Interest-bearing ROE 5.8% Debt * ¥1,054.6 billion Net Gearing Ratio 135% Shareholders’ Equity ** ¥782.5 billion Equity Ratio 29.8% * Interest-bearing debt – cash & cash equivalents Human Capital ROA and ROE were both lower as ordinary income ** “Shareholders’ equity” in this section comprises the total of The gearing ratio improved 10 points and the equity owners’ equity and accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). and net income both fell due to the lower marketratio improved 1 point, reflecting the ¥103.3 billion linked profits and a decrease in extraordinary gains, Interest-bearing debt increased ¥89.3 billion to increase in shareholders’ equity, the ¥89.3 billion rise while total assets increased due to prior investments ¥1,183.4 billion, as the Company procured funds by in interest-bearing debt, and the ¥259.3 billion for future stable profits. bank loans to cover negative free cash flows. increase in total assets. Intellectual, Social, Environmental Capital Enhancement of Cost Credit Ratings (As of June 2015) Capital Expenditure Competitiveness (¥ billions) Type of Rating Rating (¥ billions) 40 250 Short-term debt J-1 rating (CP) 200 30 Long-term preferred JCR debt (issuer) rating A 150 Long-term debt 20 A rating 100 Financial Capital Issuer rating BBB+ 10 Short-term debt 50 a-2 R&I rating (CP) 0 Long-term individual 0 Target Result A– 10/3 11/3 12/3 13/3 14/3 15/3 debt rating  Target  Result Corporate family Moody’s rating Ba1 FY2014 FY2014 Target ¥30.0 billion JCR A Capital Expenditure ¥164.2 billion Result ¥30.0 billion R&I BBB+ Moody’s Ba1 In fiscal 2014, MOL achieved its target of ¥30.0 bilMOL provides explanations to the credit rating agenCapital expenditure represented here is the net lion total cost reductions. This was accomplished by cies about how its increased capital investments amount calculated by deducting proceeds from the further reducing bunker expenses through fuller promise to generate future cash flows and are backed sale of vessels when delivered from “Tangible/intangiimplementation of slow steaming, improving vessel by solid, long-term contracts, and seeks to improve its ble fixed assets increased” contained in the annual allocation efficiency, delivering large containerships credit ratings. securities report. and taking other actions. Annual Report 2015 31 Interview with the CFO Masahiro Tanabe Senior Managing Executive Officer Q.1 What is your assessment of the fiscal 2014 financial results? term stable profits, especially LNG carriers and offshore businesses. While we place orders for the vessels after securing long-term transport contracts, there is a gap of around three years between Especially in the second half of the year, bunker prices continued order and delivery, when the vessels begin contributing to profto fall, and while it did provide a significant tailwind, we could its. Therefore, it will be 2017, before cash flows from operating not fully take advantage of the lower prices for the full year, activities increase considerably as a return on the investment. resulting in a 7% year-on-year decrease in consolidated ordinary Accordingly, total cash flows used in investing activities between income to ¥51.3 billion. the period between fiscal 2014 and 2016 are expected to exceed In bulkships, the market remained weak due to stagnation of total cash flows provided by operating activities for the same Brazilian iron exports and a decrease in the volume of coal period. Interest-bearing debt, which had been ¥1,094.0 billion at imported into China. The market for tankers, however, was weak the end of fiscal 2013, increased ¥89.3 billion to ¥1,183.4 billion until autumn but then remained at a firm level due in part to fallat the end of fiscal 2014. ing bunker prices and the subsequent demand for oil reserves on Fiscal 2015 is a transition year for payments to shipyards durtop of winter demand. Underpinned by stable profits from mediing the construction of vessels, so cash flows from operation will umto long-term contracts for dry bulkers, tankers and LNG carcover the cash used for investment. However, we will continue riers, we secured ¥54.1 billion in ordinary income overall in this with additional investments mainly in LNG carriers and offshore segment, a bit of a decrease from the previous fiscal year. businesses. To suppress the increase in interest-bearing debt, we Containerships aimed to regain profitability, but ended up intend to utilize off-balance sheet structures, such as chartering performing below original expectations, posting an ordinary loss (instead of owning vessels) and inviting partners on suitable projof ¥24.1 billion, which was even worse than the results of many ects. However, as mentioned before, these are upfront investcompetitors. This was due to both temporary and structural facments to secure future stable profits and will lead to tors. The temporary factors are rapidly disappearing, and we are improvements in shareholder value in the mediumto long-term, simultaneously implementing measures to eliminate the structurso we ask for your understanding. al factors. Q.2 Due to prior investments in LNG carriers and offshore businesses, interest-bearQ.3 What are your thoughts about credit ratings? ing debt is increasing… We are exchanging information more closely with the credit ratIn line with Innovation of Business Portfolio, one of the Three ing agencies, which have raised concerns over the increase in Innovations outlined in “STEER FOR 2020,” we are actively interest-bearing debt. I think we first need to show we are on investing in new shipbuilding in fields that will generate longcourse to implement our growth strategies and the accompany32 Mitsui O.S.K. Lines ing improvement in financial standing by firmly achieving the Turning to bunker prices, the yearly average price was Value Creation profit targets. But I’d also like to emphasize that behind this assumed to be US$380 per metric ton, and we calculated at the increase in interest-bearing debt are sound long-term transport beginning of the fiscal year that every dollar deviation would contracts with highly credible customers. We are carefully have an impact of ¥190 million. (If the price falls, it will improve explaining that these investments promise to generate future profitability.) But this impact could be smaller due to the status of Management Strategy cash flows and greatly differ in essence from investments in spot bunker price hedges. Some hedges were placed at the beginning Management Strategy operations, which are exposed to the waves of the market. of fiscal 2014, and bunker prices fell significantly afterward, resulting in a hedge loss of ¥13.0 billion. A large portion of these hedges were related to the containership business, and this was Q.4 What kind of policy do you have towards procuring funds? one of the factors that caused the business to fare worse than other containership companies. Although the bunker price hedges produced a loss in fiscal 2014, we will continue to strategically For the time being, investments exceed cash flows provided by utilize hedging in order to control the effect of fluctuating bunoperating activities, but this can easily be covered by funding, ker prices going forward. With the progress made in placing mainly by bank loans. The funding will be used for investments hedges, the degree of impact from fluctuating bunker prices will Manufactured Capital in LNG carriers and offshore businesses, a field backed by longbecome smaller. term contracts. The Company will also utilize project finance according to each contract’s characteristics. Through these and other measures, MOL is also focusing on maintaining its corporate credibility. Q.6 What is the outlook for operating results in fiscal 2015? We are expecting consolidated ordinary income to increase 17% What is the impact of exchange rate and year on year to ¥60.0 billion and net income to rise 2% to ¥43.0 Q.5 bunker price fluctuations on financial billion, on the assumption that the exchange rate will be ¥118 to Human Capital results? the U.S. dollar and bunker prices will be US$380, as mentioned previously. As for exchange rates, our financial results are primarily impacted In bulkships, the stagnant market for dry bulkers will contribby the Japanese yen-U.S. dollar exchange rate. This is because ute to a decline in profit from the previous fiscal year. In containfreight revenues are primarily denominated in U.S. dollars while a erships, however, we aim for a return to profitability with a yearcertain portion of costs are in yen. In fiscal 2015, we project that on-year improvement of ¥29.1 billion. The temporary factors in Intellectual, Social, Environmental Capital each ¥1-per-dollar change against the assumed ¥118-to-U.S. fiscal 2014, including bunker price hedge losses, will be gone, dollar yearly average exchange rate will have an impact of and by effectively implementing measures to resolve the structurapproximately ¥1.8 billion in ordinary profit. (If the yen weakens, al factors unique to MOL, we believe this is an achievable target. it will improve profitability.) Financial Capital Impact of Exchange Rate Impact of Bunker Consolidated Ordinary Income Fluctuations (Model) Prices Fluctuations (Loss) by Segment (Billions of yen) Impact=1+2 (Model) FY2014 FY2015 Impact Revenues Expenses Exposure Result Outlook* Profit 2 Bulk ships 54.1 38.0 U.S. Dollar Revenue Containerships (24.1) 5.0 Total Consumption Ferry/Domestic 4.4 6.0 transport U.S. Dollar Expense Hedged portion Associated business 10.9 10.0 Other 4.1 3.0 Corporate/Eliminate 1.8 (2.0) Total 51.3 60.0 Customer’s share 1 Imbalance Japanese Yen Expense Exchange rate ¥108.34/$ ¥118.00/$ Japanese Yen Revenue Bunker price $529/MT $380/MT *As of April 30, 2015 Annual Report 2015 33 MOL at a Glance Business Activities Revenues Breakdown by Segment Bulkships Dry Bulkers With the world’s largest fleet, MOL (Fiscal 2014 results) reliably transports such dry bulk cargo as iron ore, ASSOCIATED OTHERS coal, grains, wood, wood chips, cement, fertilizer and BUSINESSES salt. Our fleet includes highly versatile bulk carriers 6% 1% and specialized vessels for specific cargo types. (Dry Bulkers, Tankers, LNG Carriers/Offshore Businesses BULKSHIPS Tankers With the world’s largest fleet, MOL is expanding activities globally. Our fleet includes crude 47% oil tankers; product tankers that carry naphtha, gasoline and other refined petroleum products; chemical Dry Bulkers tankers that carry liquid chemical products; and LPG tankers that carry liquefied petroleum gas. 23% LNG Carriers/Offshore Businesses With the Tankers world’s largest LNG carrier fleet, MOL safely transports 8% liquefied natural gas (LNG), which is experiencing growing global demand. In addition, we are active in and Car Carriers) LNG Carriers/Offshore Businesses offshore businesses, including FSPOs and FSRUs, which are poised for continued growth. 2% Car Carriers Car Carriers MOL is stably expanding transport services to meet the changing needs of automakers as 14% they move production to optimal sites around the FERRY & DOMESTIC CONTAINERSHIPS world. We operate globally with specialized car carriTRANSPORT 3% 43% ers that can effectively transport any type of vehicle from passenger cars to construction machinery. Containerships Through MOL’s global network of sea routes, we transport containers loaded with electric products, Fleet Table As of March 31, 2015 As of March 31, 2014 automotive parts, clothes, furniture, food products Number of Thousand Number of Thousand vessels dwt vessels dwt and many other products to deliver them around the world. Dry Bulkers 411 36,217 403 35,760 We are expanding our network with wider port coverage and increased service frequency, not only on Tankers 176 16,644 180 16,874 our self-operated routes but also in joint operations with partners, e.g. by forming the G6 Alliance with five other major shipping companies. LNG Carriers 67 5,233 67 5,182 In addition, we are actively developing the terminal business—part of the container shipping value Offshore 2 − 1 − chain—for use as a tool to differentiate ourselves Businesses (FPSO) from peers. Car Carriers 127 2,105 125 2,033 Ferry & Domestic MOL develops the ferry business, which transports Containerships 118 7,401 119 7,091 both passengers and vehicles (automobiles, trucks, etc.) and simultaneously raises our profile as the leader of an Ferry & Domestic eco-friendly modal shift in domestic logistics. We also Transport 43 171 40 160 Transport promote the domestic transport business, connecting important domestic sites and transporting large Cruise Ships 1 5 1 5 amounts of raw materials and energy for industry. Others 2 13 2 13 Associated Leveraging the knowhow accumulated over more than 130 years in the marine transport business, we Total 947 67,789 938 67,117 are promoting various businesses in related activities (Note) Including spot-chartered ships and those owned by joint ventures Businesses including real estate, tugboats, cruise ships (the NIPPON MARU), and trading. Underlined words are explained in the Glossary on page 74. 34 Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Value Creation Strengths and Strategies Dry Bulkers Dry Bulkers Strengths: A diverse fleet suited to customer needs and a rich transport track record Strategies: Expanding stable profits from large vessels and specialized vessels, while reducing market expoManagement Strategy sure in small and medium-sized vessels. Tankers [Dry Bulker] Capesize Bulker: MIDNIGHT DREAM [Dry Bulker] Wood Chip Carrier: DALIA Strengths: A long track record of safe operations and customer trust Tankers Strategies: Strengthening our presence mainly by setting up pools with other operators in various fields, including crude oil tankers, petroleum product tankers and chemical tankers. Manufactured Capital Manufactured Capital LNG Carriers/Offshore Businesses Strengths: An outstanding track record, knowhow related [Tanker]VLCC: AZUMASAN [Tanker] Product tanker: OPAL EXPRESS to safe operations and a global customer base Strategies: We take on technologically challenging projects LNG Carriers/Offshore Businesses Car Carriers by encompassing technology, ship management and specialized business divisions. Car Carriers Strengths: Worldwide service to meet and surpass the high transport quality standards of our customers Strategies: Flexibly responding to diversifying cargo flows Human Capital with our highly versatile fleet that features a [LNG Carrier] ENERGY NAVIGATOR [Car Carrier] EMERALD ACE uniform vessel size. Strengths: A global network of sea lanes and high quality service, beginning with high on-time performance percentages Intellectual, Social, Environmental Capital Strategies: Raising our cost competitiveness while maintaining an expansive network of sea routes through the leading G6 Alliance, launching large vessels [Containership] MOL MAJESTY and ceaselessly rationalizing costs. We also built [Terminal] Los Angeles Container Terminal up a foundation for stable profits by expanding terminal and other businesses. Financial Capital Strengths: The largest ferry network in Japan and the MOL Group’s solid customer base Strategies: Capturing domestic transport demand, which is expanding thanks to the rebounding Japanese economy and the modal shift, while raising the competitiveness of our fleet. [Ferry] SUNFLOWER SAPPORO Shin -Daibiru Strengths: A customer base and business knowhow cultiBuilding vated in the marine transport industry Strategies: Leveraging the MOL Group’s network to expand business globally, beginning in Southeast Asia, where demand is growing. [Cruise ship] NIPPON MARU Annual Report 2015 35 MOL at a Glance Year in Review Performance (¥ billions) Bulkships Dry Bulkers This division maintained a high level of earn900 75 FY2014 ings by securing stable profits from long-term contracts for Revenues iron ore, steaming coal, and wood chip carriers. However, the market stagnated due to sluggish Brazilian exports of 600 50 ¥857.2 billion iron ore and a lower volume of coal imports to China. As a 2% Increase YoY (Dry Bulkers, Tankers, LNG Carriers/ result, profits declined year on year. 300 25 Ordinary income Tankers Market conditions remained firm overall for crude oil tankers, product tankers and LPG tankers. The division 0 0 ¥54.1billion sustained efforts to improve operational efficiency by setting up 5% Decrease YoY pools. As a result, the division greatly improved profitability from the previous fiscal year and succeeded in turning a profit. 13/3 14/3 15/3 -25 Offshore Businesses and Car Carriers) LNG Carriers/Offshore Businesses Although the division ■ Revenues (left scale) ■ Ordinary income (loss) (right scale) accumulated profits from long-term contracts, profits declined year on year due to a worsening in the operating rates from scheduled dry-dockings and the incurrence of seafarer training and other expenses. In offshore businesses, the 2nd FPSOs commenced operations. Car Carriers Despite the yen remaining weak, there was no major change in the trend of automakers moving production overseas, and exports of vehicles from Japan declined. Although the division strengthened the volume of cross trades and import cargo by launching new services, profits declined year on year. Containerships The rate increase on Asia to Europe /East Coast of South 800 100 FY2014 America did not take root, and the Company was unable to 600 75 Revenues fully enjoy a rate increase for North America bound cargo due to a high proportion of year-long freight rate contracts 400 50 ¥787.0 billion already in effect. In addition, cargo volume from Europe/ 10% Increase YoY North America to Asia stalled, and our lifting in Intra-Asia 200 25 trade also declined due to port congestion. MOL strove to Ordinary loss bolster its cost competitiveness mainly through the expansion of the G6 Alliance, the delivery of large vessels, the disposal 0 0 ¥(24.1) billion of medium-sized vessels, and the rationalization in some — 13/3 14/3 15/3 -25 North-South trades. However, due in part to losses on bunker ■ Revenues (left scale) price hedges, the loss widened year on year. ■ Ordinary income (loss) (right scale) 60 6 FY2014 Ferry & Domestic As the modal shift accelerated, primarily driven by the shortRevenues age of truck drivers, cargo movements increased. The segment also enhanced its fleet amid steady volumes of 40 4 ¥56.0 billion 1% Increase YoY mainstay cargo such as steel. As a result, profits expanded Transport 20 2 year on year. Ordinary income 0 13/3 14/3 15/3 0 ¥4.4 billion ■ Revenues (left scale) 100% Increase YoY ■ Ordinary income (loss) (right scale) 120 12 FY2014 Associated Daibiru Corporation, which is the core of the real estate 90 9 Revenues business, sustained stable profits. Operating results also remained firm for cruise ships, tugboats and trading. The ¥108.3 billion Businesses 60 6 7% Decrease YoY segment recorded stable profits roughly level with the previ30 3 Ordinary income ous fiscal year. 0 13/3 14/3 15/3 0 ¥10.9 billion ■ Revenues (left scale) 2% Decrease YoY ■ Ordinary income (loss) (right scale) 36 Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Value Creation Business Environment Highlights of the Year Dry Bulker Market (Spot Charter Rate/Capesize, TC Average) Dry Bulkers Delivered three coal carriers with long-term (Unit: US $/Day) contracts for domestic electric companies 40,000 Tankers Management Strategy Established a joint venture with Viken Shipping 30,000 (Norway) and embarked on a shuttle tanker business Launched ship management and seafarer training business in partnership with Synergy 20,000 Group (India) Started pool operation in MR product tankers and large LPG tankers 10,000 Manufactured Capital LNG Carriers/Offshore Businesses Manufactured Capital Signed new long-term contracts for 10 LNG carriers and one FPSO. 0 14/1 14/4 14/7 14/10 15/1 15/4 Delivered the first vessel from the LNG carrier construction project in China Source: MOL internal calculation based on TDS and others Concluded a long-term contract for shipping liquefied ethane to India using six very large ethane carriers—the first of their kind in the world VLCC Market (World Scale) (AG Japan) Car Carriers (WS) Began transport service from Mexico to other Human Capital 90 NAFTA regions 60 Expanded service for the G6 Alliance, AsiaNorth America West Coast and Transatlantic routes Intellectual, Social, Environmental Capital Began operations of the automated terminal 30 on the North America West Coast Ordered six 20,000 TEU containerships 0 14/1 14/4 14/7 14/10 15/1 15/4 WS for 2014 has been translated by the Flat Rate of 2015. Source: Researched by MOL Financial Capital Containership Market (CCFI) MOL Ferry Co., Ltd. decided to launch two (Jan 1, 1998=1,000) Europe Trade U.S. West Coast Trade U.S. East Coast Trade energy efficient, high-speed ferries on the 1,800 Hokkaido route Delivered three new domestic transport vessels 1,200 Daibiru acquired an office building in Hanoi, 600 its second in Vietnam Orders for Propeller Boss Cap Fins (PBCFs), which are devices to improve energy efficiency, reached 3,000 vessels 0 14/1 14/4 14/7 14/10 15/1 15/4 Source: SSE Underlined words are explained in the Glossary on page 74. Annual Report 2015 37 Market Position in the Industry MOL operates a large and balanced oceangoing fleet. In terms of its total fleet size and presence in individual market categories, MOL ranks among the world’s largest shipping companies. World Major Carriers’ Fleets (All Vessel Types) (Number of vessels) 0 200 400 600 800 1,000 1,200 MOL (Japan) 68 947 NYK (Japan) COSCO (China) K Line (Japan) China Shipping (China) APM-Maersk (Denmark) Oldendorff (Germany) MSC (Switzerland) Swiss Marine (Switzerland) CMA-CGM (France) Fredriksen (Norway) Teekay (Canada) 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 (Million deadweight tons (DWT)) ■■ Number of vessels ■■ Million deadweight tons (DWT) Source: MOL internal estimation based on each companies’ published data, Clarkson and Alphaliner (March 2015) World Major Carriers’ Revenue Portfolio by Segment (%) 0 20 40 60 80 100 MOL 47 43 10 NYK K Line APM-Maersk COSCO NOL OOIL MISC Frontline Teekay Pacific Basin Golar LNG ■ Bulkships ■ Containerships and related business ■ Other businesses Source: MOL calculations based on each company’s financial statements and/or news. MOL’s containerships and related business includes revenue from Containerships, Terminals and Logistics. NYK’s containerships and related business includes revenue from Containerships, Air freighters and Logistics. APM-Maersk’s containerships and related business includes revenue from Terminal business. COSCO’s containerships and related business includes revenue from Terminal business. 38 Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Dry Bulkers Value Creation (Thousand deadweight tons) 0 10,000 20,000 30,000 40,000 50,000 NYK MOL 36,217 Oldendorff K Line Management Strategy Swiss Marine Source: Companies’ published COSCO data and Clarkson (March 2015) Tankers (Thousand deadweight tons) 0 5,000 10,000 15,000 20,000 MOL 16,664 SCF Manufactured Capital NYK Manufactured Capital MISC Fredriksen Source: Companies’ published Teekay data and Clarkson (March 2015) LNG Carriers (Number of vessels) 0 25 50 75 100 67 25 MOL 92 ■■ In operation ■■ On Order NYK *Qatar Gas Transport Company Ltd. Nakilat(*) Human Capital Source: MOL (March 2015) (Note) The numbers include the vessels which K Line are owned by each company (wholly or parShell tially) and the vessels for which vessel operaMISC tion is entrusted to each company. Car Carriers 0 40 80 120 160 (Number of vessels) Intellectual, Social, Environmental Capital NYK MOL 116 K Line EUKOR GLOVIS Source: MOL (March 2015) HOEGH Note: Excluding spot-chartered vessels Containerships (Thousand TEU) 0 600 1,200 1,800 2,400 3,000 Maersk Financial Capital MSC CMA-CGM Evergreen Hapag-Lloyd COSCO CSCL Hanjin MOL 577 Hamburg-Sud NOL OOCL NYK Yang Ming K Line UASC Source: MDS (April 2015) Hyundai Annual Report 2015 39 Overview of Operations long-term contracts. On the other hand, small and medium-sized vessels of Panamax size or under, which have a relatively low percentage of mediumto long-term contracts, posted a loss stemming from the stagnant market. Even for MOL’s highly cost-competitive fleet, which resulted from the Business Structural Reforms carried out in fiscal 2012, the effects of the dormant market were formidable. As fiscal 2014 began, the general consensus was that the dry bulker market would improve during the year as vessel supply tightened. The initial results were good, but shortly thereafter the market took a sharp dive. Even the boost at the beginning of autumn was short-lived. Chinese imports of iron ore remained firm and its Australian exports reached a record high, but there Kenichi Nagata, Executive Vice President were also negative factors such as sluggish Brazilian iron ore Fiscal 2014 in Review— exports, which involve long transport distances, and decreased The First Year of “STEER FOR 2020” coal imports to China. In addition, freight derivatives, which curThe division experienced a year-on-year decline in profits due to rently have a large impact on the physical market, weighed on stagnation in the dry bulker market. Looking at the bigger picthe market, amplifying the pessimistic sentiment in contrast with ture, however, even amid this difficult business environment we early expectations of a market recovery. were able to sustain margins, which were underpinned by longterm, stable profits. As for large iron ore and coking coal carriers, Outlook for Fiscal 2015 and Beyond profits exceeded those of the previous fiscal year owing to a The Baltic Dry Index recorded an all-time low in February 2015 weaker yen, lower bunker prices and such operating techniques and remains at historic lows. Even with a certain degree of maras slow steaming, all of which offset a deterioration in profitabiliket recovery expected as more vessels are scrapped, profits in fisty due to the weak market. Steaming coal and wood chip carrical 2015 will be under more pressure than in fiscal 2014. Despite ers maintained consistent profitability on the back of mediumto this, the division as a whole is expected to remain in the black, Bulkships Dry Bulkers Consolidated Revenues Breakdown (FY2014) General Cargo Carrier/ Heavy Lifter 7% Steaming Coal Carrier 10% Iron Ore and Coking Coal Carrier Wood Chip Carrier 10% 46% General Bulk Carrier 28% Dry Bulker Fleet Table (Number of vessels) Standard At the At the Vessel Type end of end of Use DWT Mar.2014 Mar.2015 Steel raw materials Capesize 180,000 107 104 (iron ore, coking coal) Iron ore, coking coal, Panamax 72,000 38 37 steaming coal, grains, etc. Steaming coal, grains, Handymax 55,000 67 72 salt, cement, steel products, etc. Steel products, cement, Small handy 28,000 56 56 grains, ores, etc. Steaming coal carriers 93,000 40 44 Steaming coal Wood chips, Wood chip carriers 50,000 42 43 soybean meal, etc. Others (Heavy Steel products, lifter, General 12,000 53 55 plants, etc. cargo carriers) [Steaming Coal Carrier] HAKUTAKA Total 403 411 40 Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Value Creation buoyed by stable profits. advanced vessels that surpass current environmental regulations, Beyond fiscal 2015, we will continue to expand long-term spurring demand for new and replacement vessels. and stable profits and reduce market exposure as outlined in We are also working to reduce market exposure. We will “STEER FOR 2020.” accelerate the reduction of vessels without mediumto longTo achieve an expansion in long-term and stable profits term contracts, especially those of small and medium-sized vesamidst a harshly competitive environment, we will need to serve sels of Panamax size or under. Small and medium-sized dry bulk an indispensable role in our customers’ supply chain. The first carrier transport is a very fluid business field catering to a wide Management Strategy key is maintaining an organizational structure that guarantees range of cargo where it is easy to charter vessels on the spot safe and dependable transportation. The second key is accurately market. We strive to improve profitability by combining various perceiving customer needs to make the best proposal. While types of cargo and optimizing operations, while carefully matchsome shipping companies are outsourcing vessel operations and ing terms of procurement and freight contracts so that stable marine technical specialists, MOL’s organizational system provides profits are not negatively impacted under any market environfully integrated services encompassing sales and customer serment. If MOL leverages the operational knowhow cultivated over vice, vessel operation, ship management and technical divisions. its 130-year history, this will be possible. Our scale as a full-line marine transport group makes such an At their heart, ships are just tools. Our goal should not be to Manufactured Capital organization possible, and the finance division, which procures simply increase the number of ships, but rather to ensure we Manufactured Capital funding for shipbuilding, provides yet another competitive have the right number and types of ships to meet the needs of advantage. our customers. We will balance flexible transport via small and MOL’s integrated organization also enables new buildings of medium-sized vessels with long-term stable transport centering vessels perfectly sized to match customer needs and proposals to mainly on large vessels that play an integral role in the supply make loading and unloading more efficient. For example, we chain. We will do this while ratcheting up operational efficiency, recently developed a vessel size capable of efficiently transportincluding the use of slow steaming. In these ways, the dry bulker ing iron ore to shallow unloading ports, securing a long-term division will continue to make a sustainable contribution to the contract. In addition, a growing number of customers now conresults of the entire MOL Group. sider low environmental burden an integral aspect of transport Human Capital service quality. In response, we are developing newer, more Underlined words are explained in the Glossary on page 74. Intellectual, Social, Environmental Capital Vessels Supply (Capesize) (Number of vessels) China: Dependence on Imported Iron Ore (Million tons) 300 24% 1,600 80% 200 16% 1,200 60% 100 8% 800 40% 0 0% 400 20% Financial Capital -100 -8% 0 0% 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014  Deliveries  Demolitions YOY %  Crude steel production  Imported iron ore  Domestic production Import dependency (%)* Source: MOL internal calculation based on IHS-Fairplay Source: MOL estimation *MOL internal calculation based on the premises of Fe content of 96% in pig iron and 62% in imported iron one Iron Ore: Global Seaborne Trade by Country/Area Steaming Coal: Global Seaborne Trade (Million tons) by Country/Area (Million tons) 1,400 1,000 1,200 800 1,000  Others  North 600 800 America  Others  Europe  Others  Others 600  India  Taiwan  FSU 400  Europe  Sweden  Korea  U.S.  Taiwan 400  Canada  Japan  Columbia  Korea  South Africa  India 200  South Africa  Japan 200  Brazil  China/  Australia  China  Australia Hong Kong  Indonesia 0 0 09 10 11 12 13 14 13 14 09 10 11 12 13 14 14 Import Export Import Export Source: MOL internal calculation based on Tex Report, Clarkson, Trade Statistics Source: SSY Annual Report 2015 41 Overview of Operations The market for very large crude carriers (VLCCs) and product tankers improved despite only a gradual increase in worldwide petroleum demand. This is because long-distance Indian and Chinese imports of West African crude oil grew faster than U.S. imports fell due to the shale revolution, as well as an underlying trend of improving supply and demand balance. As the price of crude fell, rising demand for oil reserves and increased operating rates at refineries also supported the market. In the LPG tanker market as well, favorable market conditions persisted as U.S. exports of LPG, a by-product of shale gas, increased throughout the year. The market for chemical tankers also remained firm. Amid this upswing in the external environment, we are still aggressively pursuing initiatives to improve efficiency, including through Akio Mitsuta, Managing Executive Officer the Clean Products Tankers Alliance, a new medium range (MR) Fiscal 2014 in Review— product tanker pool arrangement established in fiscal 2014. The First Year of “STEER FOR 2020” The division’s dual mission outlined in “STEER FOR 2020” is to Profitability improved greatly year on year. Not only did the tankreduce market exposure and accumulate long-term stable profits. er division successfully secure ordinary income for the first time in We made solid achievements toward both targets in fiscal 2014. six years, results surpassed targets for the first year of “STEER As for reducing market exposure, we carried out such strategic FOR 2020.” We operate a wide variety of vessel types: crude oil initiatives as taking advantage of favorable market conditions to tankers, product tankers, LPG tankers, methanol tankers and firm up earnings, in addition to selling and redelivering vessels to chemical tankers. We have endeavored to improve our operating reduce the size of our fleet. As a result, we reduced MOL’s marefficiency by setting up pools with other operators and worked ket exposure beyond the targets set at the beginning of the year. to reduce bunker costs by slow steaming. With market condiWe also made progress in terms of accumulating long-term tions remaining favorable overall, those efforts paid off. stable profits. The most notable example is our entry into the Bulkships Tankers Consolidated Revenues Breakdown (FY2014) Chemical Tanker 19% Crude Oil Tanker 35% LPG Tanker 11% Methanol Tanker Product Tanker 10% 25% Tanker Fleet Table (Number of vessels) At the At the Vessel type under pool end of end of management (at the Mar.2014 Mar.2015 end of March 2015) Crude oil tankers 38 42 LR1 (70,000 DWT) Product tankers*1 59 50 MR (50,000 DWT) Chemical tankers*2 Including Methanol 72 75 Chemical tanker tankers VLGC (very large gas LPG tankers 11 9 carrier, 80,000m3) Total 180 176 [Tanker] VLCC: MITAKE *1 Petroleum products: gasoline, naphtha, kerosene, jet fuel and gas oil, etc. *2 Chemical products: xylene, benzene, methanol and plant oil, etc. 42 Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Value Creation shuttle tanker business by establishing a joint venture to operate Amid this environment, there is no change in our policy of five vessels with Norway-based Viken Shipping. This joint venture aiming to reduce market exposure and accumulate long-term recorded a profit from the very first year. This is one of the stable profits. We aim to accumulate mediumto long-term conexpansions of our offshore businesses, which is integral to realiztracts while reducing market exposure at appropriate times. We ing the “innovation of our business domain” outlined in the will simultaneously expand the pool arrangement to various medium-term management plan. Taking advantage of this types of vessels. As for large LPG tankers, we began pool opportunity, we aim to accumulate stable profits by deepening arrangements in March 2015, preparing ourselves for a market Management Strategy alliances with Viken in other businesses. correction due to an increase in the number of new ships to be supplied in the second half. While we continue to reduce our Outlook for Fiscal 2015 and Beyond fleet, we make use of those pool arrangements to maintain our In fiscal 2015, we expect to record a similar level of profit as the broad market presence and expand benefits for our customers. previous year. Although we forecast market conditions will remain As pool managers, we dispatch personnel and take responsibility firm overall, we formulated our financial outlook based on relafor chartering and operations, further deepening our relationtively conservative assumptions regarding market conditions. ships with our customers. The volume of crude oil transported by sea is not expected to Leveraging the knowhow cultivated through our safe operaManufactured Capital increase greatly going forward, but ton-miles are likely to rise in tion initiatives, which is our core competence, we entered a new Manufactured Capital tandem with the growing transport volume of West African and business field in October 2014 by establishing a joint-venture South American crude oil to China and India. In the medium and with Synergy Group in India that provides ship management and long term, demand for product tankers will likely remain firm seafarer training. We decided to commercialize ship managedue to higher operational rates at refineries in oil-producing ment and seafarer training, an area where we really differentiate nations. We also expect rising demand for LPG and chemical ourselves from other companies, amid growing requirements for tankers owing to the shale revolution. On the supply side, we safe operations and better responses to environmental regulaforesee increased supply of new vessels in certain types of ships, tions. By providing our customers with value-added services, we which will in some ways increase downward pressure on market will contribute to the sustainable growth of the Company. conditions over the medium term. Human Capital Underlined words are explained in the Glossary on page 74. Intellectual, Social, Environmental Capital Vessels Supply (VLCC) (Number of vessels) Crude Oil: Global Seaborne Trade by Import Country/Area (Million tons) 75 15% 2,000 50 10% 1,500 25 5% 1,000 0 0% 500 Financial Capital -25 -5% 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (forecast)  Deliveries  Withdrawal YOY %  China  Japan  Other Asia/Pacific  Europe  North America  Others Source: MOL internal calculations based on IHS-Fairplay Source: Clarkson Global Seaborne Trade from Africa/Latin America to Asia(*) Petroleum Products: Global Seaborne Trade (Million tons) (*) Japan, China, Korea, India by Import Country/Area (Million tons) 200 1,200 150 900 100 600 50 300 0 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (forecast)  ex. Africa  ex. Latin America  Japan/China/Korea  Other Asia/Pacific  Europe  Latin America Source: MOL internal calculation based on Japan METI / China Customs /  North America  Africa  Others Korea Customs / India MCI Source: Clarkson Annual Report 2015 43 Overview of Operations for 10 LNG carriers. This increased the size of our fleet to more than 90 ships when including outstanding orders. Including contracts under negotiation, expansion of the fleet to 100 ships is now in sight. We made significant progress this year toward reaching a 120 LNG carrier fleet, the target set out in “STEER FOR 2020.” Another major accomplishment was the signing of a long-term contract with India’s Reliance Industries Limited to operate and manage six very large ethane carriers—the first vessels of their kind in the world. In offshore businesses, our second FPSO commenced operations, and we secured a new contract for another FPSO. The offshore businesses, which we embarked on in fiscal 2010, turned a profit in fiscal 2014, and stand poised to contribute solid profits Takeshi Hashimoto, Managing Executive Officer going forward. Fiscal 2014 in Review— The First Year of “STEER FOR 2020” Outlook for Fiscal 2015 and Beyond We made dynamic, forward-looking investments despite lower We believe profits will rise in fiscal 2015 based on the rollback profits year on year due to increased seafarer training expenses of temporary expenses incurred in fiscal 2014 and the accumuand scheduled dry-dockings, which led to reduced vessels’ operlation of highly stable profits with the delivery of new LNG carriating rates. In this sense, I think it’s safe to say this year was ers and FPSO. highly productive. Even seafarer training expenses can be Our mission in “STEER FOR 2020” is to accumulate long-term regarded as a prior investment which is indispensable for future and stable profits. While we do need to slightly reprioritize projfleet expansion. ects in light of the recent drop in oil prices, there is no significant In more concrete terms, we signed new long-term contracts change in the targeted fleet scale. Amid the considerations, the Bulkships LNG Carriers/Offshore Businesses [Offshore Business] FPSO: Cidade de Angra dos Reis MV22 (photo: MODEC, INC.) [Offshore Business] FSRU (CG image) [LNG Carrier] GDF SUEZ POINT FORTIN (photo: ENGIE) 44 Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Value Creation previously mentioned contract for very large ethane carriers is I feel it’s especially noteworthy that in January 2015 the first pivotal. Beyond contributing to long-term and stable profits, this of the LNG carriers we are building in China was delivered. This contract positions us to capture new flows of cargo arising from is MOL’s first project to build LNG carriers in China. We organized the shale revolution as the United States increases its exports of a shipbuilding supervision team to the shipyard. At its height, the ethane. We secured the ethane project by keeping our finger on team expanded to nearly 50 people. As a result, the first carrier the pulse of customer needs through our global business netwas delivered without a hitch, solidifying the trust placed in us work, while optimizing tangible and intangible assets to give by oil majors and our Chinese partner companies. The trust Management Strategy shape to solutions. When it comes to transporting ethane, the earned through this project, along with the knowledge and cusproperties of ethane resemble those of LNG, but it’s also necestomers gained, will surely play a significant role in future projects sary to have a thorough understanding of how to transport LPG. to transport LNG to the burgeoning market in China. Our wealth of experience in both fields and our renowned serWe have the fighting spirit to boldly take on challenging vice quality were deciding factors in securing the deal. Going forprojects and the technical capabilities to see them through sucward, we will leverage our first-mover advantage to secure cessfully, as evidenced by the Uruguayan FSRU project, and the future contracts capturing this great cargo growth potential. Russian Yamal project to operate ice class LNG carriers in the The negative impact of falling oil prices on the offshore busiNorthern Sea Route. As the division responsible for accumulatManufactured Capital nesses is a concern that has been raised. While FPSO projects ing long-term and stable profits—the core of “STEER FOR Manufactured Capital currently underway will proceed largely according to plan, we 2020”—we will achieve firm growth going forward. We will expect to delay or revise some new projects. On the other hand, accomplish this by offering our customers comprehensive full as the price of energy drops, demand for projects may accelerate line service encompassing technical, ship management and busiin countries reliant on energy imports. So we could see an ness divisions. increase in FSRU and similar projects that facilitate LNG import into emerging economies. Here, too, we should be able to leverage our competitive advantage of having intimate knowledge of both the FPSO and FSRU fields. Human Capital Underlined words are explained in the Glossary on page 74. Intellectual, Social, Environmental Capital FY2014: Signed Long-Term Contracts LNG: Seaborne Trade (Million tons) LNG Carriers 450 To start in Tokyo Gas ex.USA To Japan 2 vessels FY 2017 400 To start in Mitsui & Co. ex.USA To Japan 3 vessels FY 2017 To start in Yamal ex.Russia To China 3 vessels 350 FY 2017 To Europe To start in E.ON ex.USA 2 vessels and others FY 2018 300 Financial Capital Offshore Businesses To start in Petrobras Brazil FPSO 250 FY 2017 200 LNG: Demand Forecast by Area 150 6% 25% 7% 6% 37% 100 4% 8% 2020 2014 (forecast) 9% 50 19% 12% 13% 16% 5% 17% 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015* 2016* 2017* 2018* 2019* 2020* *forecast  Japan  Korea  Europe  America  China  Middle East  Australia  Other A/P  North America  Africa  India  Taiwan  Others  South America  Europe Source: MOL internal calculation based on Wood Mackenzie Source: MOL internal calculation based on Wood Mackenzie Annual Report 2015 45 Overview of Operations outside of Japan. However, due mainly to higher than expected costs associated with setting up new routes (cross trades involving Mexico), income fell from the previous fiscal year. Nevertheless, the new routes from Mexico got on track in the second half of the year. In addition, we kept up efforts to minimize ballast voyages by pursuing an appropriate mix of cargo amid diversifying trade patterns. As a result, operating results were better than originally forecast at the beginning of the year. I believe we put up a good fight for the first year of “STEER FOR 2020.” Mexico has grown remarkably in recent years as an export hub for global automakers with many Japanese, American and European automakers building and enlarging plants in the counNaotoshi Omoto, Managing Executive Officer try. MOL is ahead of the game in Mexican vehicle exports, estabFiscal 2014 in Review— lishing the industry’s first direct route to Europe in the second The First Year of “STEER FOR 2020” half of the fiscal year. We will further strengthen our sales bases Global auto sales reached 87 million units in 2014, a record high in each such region for cross trades and create a flexible service for the fourth straight year. The number of vehicles transported network able to meet customer needs. by sea worldwide, however, dipped below 15 million units. Despite a weakening yen, the number of vehicles exported from Outlook for Fiscal 2015 and Beyond Japan declined from 4.2 million to 4.0 million as Japanese autoIn fiscal 2015, we predict a similar level of earnings as the previmakers continued to shift manufacturing toward end markets, ous year, even though the number of vehicles exported from accelerating local production for local consumption. We flexibly Japan is expected to decline. We will maintain earnings by bolresponded to these offshoring trends while strengthening bonds stering the volume of cross trades and imported cargo, including with customers and increased the volume of cargo transported inter-Asian trade, Transatlantic trade, China-bound cargo from Bulkships Car Carriers Next-generation Car Carriers “FLEXIE” (Depiction) [Car Carrier] NEPTUNE ACE 46 Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Value Creation Europe, and cargo from Mexico. determining that we could flexibly meet customer needs by havGlobal auto sales are forecast to exceed 90 million units in ing a uniform size vessel fleet compatible with various sea lanes 2015, led by sales in emerging countries. The number of vehicles and ports around the world. This is another strength of MOL’s car transported by sea worldwide is expected rise along with global carrier fleet, and the new orders were placed based on this polisales. Simultaneously, the diversification of trade patterns will cy. MOL has named the new ships the FLEXIE series after the likely be accelerated, most notably in cross trades. word flexibility. This represents the flexibility of the ships to use To capitalize on these developments, MOL is expanding busispace effectively and load various types of vehicles with their six Management Strategy ness under the keyword flexibility. As part of this effort, in April liftable decks as well as the business style of the Company to we ordered four next-generation car carriers, each with capaciflexibly respond to diversifying customer needs. ty for 6,800 vehicles. The vessels are scheduled to be delivered We will continue working to improve profitability by minibeginning in 2017. The structure of the hold has been greatly mizing ballast voyages in response to changes in trade and purredesigned. The number of liftable decks with adjustable height suing synergies with the Group company Nissan Motor Car has increased from two to six, providing the advantage of being Carrier Co., Ltd. In July 2015, we united the MOL car carrier able to flexibly respond to various vehicle heights. Another network under the new brand MOL AUTO CARRIER EXPRESS advantage of these vessels is that while the carrying capacity (MOL ACE) to strengthen our business on a global scale. Manufactured Capital has increased to 6,800 vehicles, the size of the vessel is nearly Overseas bases are making better use of local talent and Manufactured Capital the same as the standard vessel size of the 6,400 vehicle car strengthening sales for export cargo. Under the new brand carrier, ensuring high usability in various sea lanes and ports MOL ACE, we will leverage our flexibility to respond to the across the globe. changing business environment while continuing to improve Eyeing the expansion of the Panama Canal, some car carrier profitability and customer satisfaction. operators have placed orders for vessels with carrying capacity for 7,500 to 8,000 vehicles. MOL has seen beyond this trend and has instead been focusing on 6,400 vehicle capacity vessels to enhance its fleet. We reached this decision after considering the shipping patterns of our customers and physical port restrictions, Human Capital Underlined words are explained in the Glossary on page 74. Intellectual, Social, Environmental Capital Main Routes Global Car Seaborne Trade (Thousand units) (excluding CKD) 16,000 12,000 8,000 4,000 Financial Capital 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014  Exports from Japan  Exports from Korea  Others Source: MOL internal calculation based on Trade Statistics of Japan (MOF), etc. Car Export from Japan by Destination Car Export from Emerging Countries (Thousand units) (excluding CKD) (Thousand units) 6,000 6,000 4,500 4,000 3,000 2,000 1,500 0 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014  North America  Europe  Middle East  Oceania  Asia  ex. Thailand  ex. China  ex. India  ex. Mexico  ex. South Africa  LatinAmerica  Africa Source: MOL internal estimation based on FOURIN data, etc. Source: MOL internal calculation based on Trade Statistics of Japan (MOF) Annual Report 2015 47 Overview of Operations What really knocked us off course was a downswing in gross margins due to falling freight rates and rising costs. With ongoing deliveries of large containerships for Asia-Europe and other East-West routes, we assumed at the beginning of the year there would be a decline in our average freight rates, but the actual decline was worse than predicted. Freight rate increases could not gain traction, especially for Asia-Europe trade and Asia-South America East Coast trade, the latter having suffered stagnant cargo volumes. Meanwhile the volume of inbound cargo to Asia from North America and Europe could not keep pace with the increase in outbound cargo from Asia, which weakened the market. The stagnant inbound cargo volumes also put pressure on profitability by lowering average slot utilization rates and increasAkihiko Ono, Managing Executive Officer ing costs due to the return of empty containers. This was exacerFiscal 2014 in Review— bated by port congestion amid strained labor negotiations at The First Year of “STEER FOR 2020” U.S. West Coast ports. These factors, along with the congestion At the beginning of fiscal 2014, the containership business in Manila and other Asian ports, lowered slot utilization rates sought to reverse the ¥14.5 billion loss of fiscal 2013 by posting and raised costs. a profit of ¥2.0 billion. Unfortunately, the loss widened to ¥24.1 Nevertheless, amid this harsh environment, some containerbillion despite successfully carrying out many of the measures to ship companies improved their profitability and achieved profits improve profitability outlined at the beginning of the year. as bunker prices plunged with lower crude oil prices from the For example, the delivery of large vessels, disposal of small and beginning of autumn. MOL, however, incurred a significant loss medium-sized vessels, the expansion of the G6 Alliance, and on bunker price hedges placed at the beginning of the year and slow steaming went largely according to plan. On the other could not fully benefit from the lower prices. Had it not been for hand, the automation of our container terminal in Los Angeles this loss, we would have turned a profit in the fourth quarter of was delayed from July to November. fiscal 2014. Compared with other companies, we were also negContainerships Revenue Breakdown by Trade (FY2014) Intra-Asia Trade 19% North North-South Trade America Trade 11% 40% Europe Trade 30% Main Routes  Container Terminal Business [Containership] MOL BRAVO  North America Trade  Europe Trade  North-South Trade  Intra-Asia Trade 48 Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Value Creation atively impacted by our large share of trade from Asia to South tural factors. First we will rationalize unprofitable routes, beginAmerica, especially Brazil, which stagnated due in part to falling ning by launching new joint service with Maersk and MSC for natural resource prices. Another factor was our fleet’s relatively the Asia-South America East Coast route in July. Second we will high number of small and medium-sized vessels, which are rathramp up the disposal of small and medium-sized vessels. This er expensive at current charter market rates. includes the redelivery of vessels to their shipowners before the expiry of charter contracts. In addition to the improvement in the Outlook for Fiscal 2015 and Beyond profitability of vessel operations, the automated terminal in Los Management Strategy The factors that prevented our anticipated return to profitability Angeles started full operations at the end of the previous year can be broadly categorized into temporary factors and structural after a temporary delay, and is now expected to contribute to factors. Together, these knocked us off course, both compared to profitability. All things considered, we are on course to achieve a our plan and our competitors. The conclusion of the temporary profit of ¥5.0 billion in fiscal 2015. factors and the abatement of the structural factors (especially To further improve profitability going forward, we ordered six those unique to MOL), will allow positive momentum, enabling containerships of 20,000 TEU in March 2015. These vessels will our return to profitability. This will be underpinned by the accusucceed the 14,000 TEU vessels that were chartered to buy us mulation of other positive factors. time until we could determine the optimum vessel size for Manufactured Capital The loss on bunker hedges is one such temporary factor desreplacements. Considering the limits of the Suez Canal, the Manufactured Capital tined to end. Coupled with the positive effects of lower average 20,000 TEU vessel is the largest and most efficient possible with bunker prices throughout the year, we should be able to improve current shipbuilding technology. With delivery of the vessels slatour performance by around ¥40.0 billion compared with the preed for 2017, we expect a large improvement in profitability. vious year. In addition, the congestion at U.S. West Coast ports Even in the container terminal business, we will accumulate disappeared at the end of May. stable profits by expanding the automated area of our terminal As for freight rates, we foresee a year-on-year decline for the in the U.S. and beginning the operation of new terminals in average of all routes as it will likely take more time for the strucRotterdam Port and Vietnam’s Hai Phong Port. We are detertural supply-demand balance of vessels to improve. To counteract mined to transform the containerships business into one that can this, we need to successfully carry out our unique cost cutting generate sustainable profits. Human Capital measures, including initiatives aimed at allaying negative strucIntellectual, Social, Environmental Capital Global Containership Capacity by TEU Share by Major Carrier Alliance Size Range (Thousand TEU) North America Routes Europe Routes 20,000 20% CKYHE Others Others 2M 2% 35% 2% 35% 15,000 15% O3 G6 10,000 10% 15% 18% 2M O3 5,000 5% 16% 22% Financial Capital 0 0% 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 G6 CKYHE  14,000TEU~  11,000-13,999TEU  8,000-10,999TEU  5,100-7,999TEU  4,300-5,099TEU  ~4,299TEU YOY % 32% 23% Source: MOL internal calculations based on Alphaliner / IHS-Fairplay Source: MDS Asia-North America Container Trade Cargo Asia-Europe Container Trade Cargo Movements Movements (Million TEU) (Excluding Canada cargo) (Million TEU) (Including Mediterranean cargo) 15 15 10 10 View a video introducing the automated 5 5 terminal in L.A.  Outbound  Inbound  Outbound 0 Source: 0  Inbound 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Piers/JoC etc 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Source: Drewry Annual Report 2015 49 Overview of Operations Ferry & Domestic Transport increase in transport demand. We also strove to unearth new demand in passenger transport. To this end, we worked to raise brand awareness by bolstering advertising efforts while offering products designed around the fun of marine travel such as a project, recognized with an award from the Japan Tourism Agency, to promote voyages among young people. In the domestic transport business, while cargo flows remain steady for steel products and other mainstay cargo, we seized the opportune time to launch three new vessels, increasing our loading volume. With declining bunker prices providing a tailwind, our sales efforts and continual cost reductions bore fruit. Outlook for Fiscal 2015 and Beyond Hirokazu Hatta, Managing Executive Officer In fiscal 2015, ordinary income is projected to rise to ¥6.0 billion Fiscal 2014 in Review— as cargo transport volumes increase and bunker prices decline. The First Year of “STEER FOR 2020” Looking toward the Tokyo 2020 Olympic and Paralympic The ferry & domestic transport segment comprises the ferry busiGames, demand for domestic transport, including the shipment ness, which transports passengers, automobiles and trucks, and of materials for renovating infrastructure, is likely to experience the domestic transport business, which transports cement, heavy firm growth. Amid an aging pool of truck drivers and enforceoil, steel, coal, salt and other cargoes. In fiscal 2014, we recorded ment of legitimate labor management, the shortage of truck ¥4.4 billion in ordinary income, double that of the previous year. drivers will only worsen. Considering this, we do not expect a In the ferry business, a shortage of truck drivers helped accelreversal of the modal shift to ferries, which are superior in terms erate a modal shift in long distance transport from inland transof cost, safety and environmental impact. port to ferries. Amid this shift, we have worked hard to meet the To seize this opportunity, we decided to launch two new vessels in the ferry business on the Eastern Japan route. The vessels are scheduled to be delivered in 2017. Both vessels are energyefficient ships with improved fuel efficiency, and are optimized to raise operational speed to provide more convenient schedules for customers. The passenger rooms are also being upgraded. We are trying to capture stable demand for manned truck transport, which can collect and deliver the small-lot cargoes of couriers and convenience stores, demand for which is expected to grow in the future. We are also working to shore up passenger demand by strengthening tie-ups with rail and bus companies. In the domestic transport business, we are pursuing synergistic effects with our overseas shipping business. In fiscal 2014, we launched two bulk carriers much larger in size than our other domestic bulk carriers. One major aim is to expand business by leveraging the total power of the MOL Group, namely its relationships of trust with customers fostered in the overseas shipping business. We aim to secure long-term contracts in the future and will help expand stable profits. [Ferry] SUNFLOWER GOLD 50 Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Value Creation Associated Businesses Hirokazu Hatta, Managing Executive Officer Outlook for Fiscal 2015 and Beyond In fiscal 2015, ordinary income is expected to decline to ¥10.0 Management Strategy Fiscal 2014 in Review— billion primarily because of increased depreciation expenses in The First Year of “STEER FOR 2020” the real estate business for newly constructed buildings. This segment comprises MOL’s real estate, tugboat, cruise ship, Nevertheless, we will aim to improve our bottom line by further trading and other businesses. Real estate, especially Daibiru reducing costs. Corporation, accounts for a large portion of profits and is a main Daibiru oversaw the completion of the Shin-Daibiru Building pillar supporting MOL’s stable profits. in Osaka in March 2015, and the number of tenant contracts has Ordinary income for fiscal 2014 was ¥10.9 billion, staying at surpassed initial expectations. Also in March, Daibiru acquired roughly the same level as the previous year. Daibiru has been the property neighboring the Akihabara Daibiru Building in front Manufactured Capital expanding the office leasing business, particularly in central of Akihabara Station. This is projected to further enhance the Manufactured Capital Tokyo and Osaka. The office rental market in the Tokyo area is value of Daibiru’s portfolio over the long term. Overseas, Daibiru showing signs of improvement, and Daibiru strove to differentiacquired its second building in Vietnam in December 2014—the ate itself from its peers through strong customer relations, CornerStone Building in Hanoi—following its entry into Ho Chi which is a core competence. As a result, Daibiru sustained Minh City. Daibiru embarked on a new medium-term managesteady revenues. ment plan entitled “Design 100” Project Phase-I in April 2013. The cruise ship business narrowed its loss thanks to higher This five-year plan, which continues through the end of fiscal numbers of passengers amid an active domestic market stimulat2017, aims to expand profits by approximately 20%, thus allowed by increased calls to Japanese ports by foreign luxury cruise ing the company to continue making steady contributions to ships. The trading business broke the sales record for Propeller MOL Group’s stable profits. Human Capital Boss Cap Fins (PBCFs), a device to improve energy-efficiency. The In the cruise ship business, large foreign cruise ships have tugboat business remained firm. been making inroads into the Japanese market, but they have also been raising awareness of cruises in Japan. Seizing this opportunity, we have worked to increase the number of passengers for the NIPPON MARU by differentiating our business through meticulous, high-class service with the aim of improving Intellectual, Social, Environmental Capital our profitability. The tugboat business, serving at the very front of shipping, will continue to support the reinforcement of the Group’s safe operating structure as outlined in the medium-term management plan. The tugboat business continues to leverage the MOL Group’s comprehensive strengths to capture growing demand not only in Japan but also Southeast Asia. It is also uncovering growth opportunities in related fields of offshore business in line with the medium-term management plan’s strategy of realizing innovation throughout our business domain. The trading business is relentlessly pursuing research to further enhance the performance of PBCFs. Going forward, the Financial Capital trading business will expand profits mainly by selling equipment to raise vessels’ environmental and safety performance. As a technology trading company, this business will also wield its product development capabilities to expand sales channels to include overseas shipping and ship-management companies. CornerStone Building (Vietnam) Annual Report 2015 51 Feature II: Training LNG Carrier Seafarers Global Demand Expands for Natural Gas support this demand, it is calculated that the numamid Shortage of LNG Carrier Seafarers ber of LNG carriers worldwide will need to increase Demand is rapidly expanding for natural gas as an from less than 400 vessels at present to around 550. important green energy source to support our 21st Although this is a major business opportunity for century lives. Development projects are currently marine transport companies, there are concerns underway all around the world. Natural gas can be about a severe shortage of LNG carrier seafarers in transported inland by pipelines or offshore by spethe near future for the marine transport industry as cialized vessels in the form of liquefied natural gas a whole given the rapid rise in transport demand. (LNG), the transport method for 30% of traded natLNG is transported at a constant minus 162 ural gas. By 2020, transport demand for LNG is degrees Celsius with a portion of it continuously expected to increase by 50% from current levels. To vaporizing. Seafarers need to possess a high degree Investing in Human Capital to Implement “STEER FOR 2020” 52 Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Value Creation of technical skill to maintain the correct temperature plan currently being carried out, MOL is devoting and pressure inside the tanks of LNG carriers. To attention to the LNG carrier business as a pillar of safely operate these LNG carriers, it is crucial to future growth strategies and is promoting concrete secure and train seafarers who possess specialized initiatives to train high-quality seafarers. knowledge and experience. An essential part of the stable energy supply MOL’s Initiatives Focus on LNG Carriers and chain depends on LNG carriers and the seafarers Training Seafarers Management Strategy who operate them. With the world’s largest fleet of In line with the strategies outlined in “STEER FOR LNG carriers, MOL is the company best positioned to 2020,” MOL is actively investing in building new LNG fulfill this social duty and respond to rising demand. carriers while stably acquiring long-term LNG transUnder “STEER FOR 2020,” the midterm management port contracts. Of the less than 400 LNG carriers currently in operation around the world, 67 are fully or partially owned or operated by MOL. Including ships under construction, MOL boasts 92 LNG carriers as of March 31, 2015. This fleet is already the world’s largManufactured Capital est and will expand to 120 vessels by March 31, 2020. Our plan is to solidify our dominant rank as a leading company. The recruitment and training of LNG carrier seafarers are indispensable to implementing this plan. Succeeding in this effort is the key for MOL to seize solving social challenges as an opportunity to grow. MOL has therefore been actively training LNG seafarers. We operate eight training centers in six Human Capital Human Capital countries worldwide. We also implement the Cadet Actual Deployment for Education with Tutorial (CADET) Training, wherein hands-on training is conducted aboard operated vessels. In addition to seafarers from Europe, a traditional source of LNG carrier seafarers, there are already 12 Indonesians Intellectual, Social, Environmental Capital aboard our LNG carriers as captains and chief engineers. MOL has a deep, long-lasting bond with Indonesia, which was the loading country when the Company entered the LNG carrier business in 1983. Another method of securing LNG carrier seafarers is to provide specialized training to seafarers who already possess a wealth of experience on tankers or other vessel types, remaking them into LNG carrier seafarers. This is a strategy that the MOL Group is specially placed to carry out, owing to its many skilled seafarers and the world’s largest Financial Capital diversified fleet. Long-term practical training aboard LNG carriers is indispensable in both cases. In order to deploy trainees to existing LNG carriers, MOL is investing around ¥2.0 billion each year on LNG carrier seafarer training expenses for the duration of “STEER FOR 2020.” We believe this is a necessary forwardlooking investment to ensure the sustainable growth of MOL. Annual Report 2015 53 Feature II: Training LNG Carrier Seafarers MOL operates MOL Training centers in eight locations spanning six countries and conducts a wide variety of training from lectures for learning theories to practical training using simulators and on operated vessels. The MOL Training Centers, where excellent seafarers around the world are trained MOLTC (Japan) MOLTC MOLTC (Montenegro) (MSU-Russia) MOLMC*(Japan) *MOL Marine MOLTC MOLTC MOLTC MOLTC (MANET-India) (MOL Mi-India) (STIP-Indonesia) (Philippines) Vessel Operation Simulator the conditions in the port, including currents, waves and water MOL employs an advanced onshore simulator, which perfectly recdepth. Before large bridges or other construction projects begin, reates the bridge of a large vessel in operation. The highly funcwe analyze the planned structure’s profile and the blind spots or tional vessel operation simulator is a cylinder 11 meters in diameter hazards that might result. This simulator features concentrated and provides a panoramic view of the ocean. The steering stand, real-life experiences of seafarers. Not only does this smart simulator control panel and radar used on the bridge are genuine articles. improve the skills of Group employees, it accumulates data while This system is run by about 50 high-speed computers, whose rapid providing a wide range of services, turning the skills and knowhow processing power is capable of recreating any marine environment, cultivated into effective intellectual assets. and the 15 projectors on the ceiling generate life-like video. The captain and numerous seafarers, including deck officers, participate in training, polishing their technical skills and improving teamwork. In addition, this simulator is not only used for seafarer training, it is also used in our consulting business with municipal governments and port authorities mainly to design ports. In planning ports, we evaluate the safety of operating vessels by adjusting Training Simulator MESSAGE Message for the Captain one of only a few shipping companies which have a Training I decided to become a seafarer when Center in Indonesia. I was in Elementary school. We call MOL’s education and training programs are very useful Indonesia “JAMRUD KATULISTIWA” because they always provide good materials such as training vid(“Equatorial Emerald”) because the eos, books and magazines relating to ship safety, personal safety, islands lie like a necklace near the the marine environment and crew orientation. equator. I thought it would be beauSince being promoted to Captain, I have been focusing on the tiful to connect all the islands with a safe behavior, health, knowledge and prosperity of my crew. A Captain Andy Dwi Putranto very long bridge, but my teacher said skilled crew is a big investment/asset of a shipping company. If that reaching other islands depended on using a “seaplane” or the crew are happy and comfortable working on board, I believe airplane. Since it could accommodate so many things and pasthat they will perform well, which is important for not only the sengers in one trip, I thought the seaplane was more effective. I safety of the ship but also the Company. Safe ship operations asked my teacher whether the seaplane could be “driven” by and the long life of the ship can only be maintained by a good me. She smiled and said, “Of course, you can, but you have to crew. For LNG vessels, expert and skillful seafarers are absolutely study hard & enter Maritime School.” needed considering the nature of the cargo. I was promoted to Captain in 2012, and my childhood dream Safe behavior on board is not only mandatory, it is our culture came true. It was an amazing coincidence that the vessel’s name during life at sea. If safety on board is not implemented properly, was “Dwiputra,” same as my name. it will negatively impact ship operation. On the other hand, fatal We have a good Training Center in STIP Jakarta, namely the accidents, property loss, and environmental pollution can be MOL Training Center (MTC). We’re proud of this because MOL is avoided if safety is carved into the heart of every seafarer. 54 Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Safe Operation Value Creation Safe operation is of the utmost importance and lies at the heart of MOL’s management. In the midterm management plan “STEER FOR 2020,” we set the reconstruction of our safe operating system as an integral initiative to strengthen our management foundation, which supports the successful execution of the plan. We will continue to restrengthen our safe operating system to ensure the thorough implementation of measures to prevent serious marine incidents as we strive to become the world leader in safe operation. Safe Operation Management operation of MOL ships, the center also functions as a help desk Management Strategy for urgent inquiries from ships regarding safe operation. Since its Safe Operation Management Structure establishment, the center has helped to steadily reduce the numMOL reorganized the division responsible for safe operation in ber of incidents involving adverse weather or emergency entry*1. February 2015. This move was aimed at integrating and horizontally disseminating information among different types of vessels For detailed SOSC information, see the while maintaining a structure that focuses on the front-line operaSafety, Environmental and Social Report. tion of every vessel type, reinforcing company-wide operational safety measures, and developing an organizational structure that Accident Response Drills focuses all the authority necessary to be responsible for the entire Manufactured Capital MOL regularly conGroup’s safe vessel operations into the Marine Safety Division. ducts accident Under the new structure, all land-based and ocean-going personresponse drills on nel are united to strive to maximize operating safety, with the vessels while at sea. goal of becoming the world leader in safe operation. These drills simulate Organizational Structure Supporting Safe Operation various situations such as an onExecutive Committee board fire or water Operational Safety Committee immersion, or act Human Capital Human Capital of piracy or terrorEvacuation drill on board Safety Assurance Ship Standard Manning ism, so that seafarSpecification Committee Committee Committee ers can respond swiftly and appropriately in an emergency. Head Office conducts serious marine incident emergency response drills Safety Operations Headquarters twice a year with the cooperation of the Regional Coast Guard • Marine Safety Division Headquarters. The drills involve MOL’s President, other corporate officers, representatives of relevant departments and ship manageIntellectual, Social, Environmental Capital • Ship management coordinating divisions ment companies, and vessels. In October 2014, we conducted an • Marine technical teams supporting vessel operations emergency response drill based on the premise of a collision of our for business divisions product tanker while underway in Galveston Bay. In May 2015, we • In-house ship management companies leading workconducted an emergency response drill based on the premise of ing-level ship management * our cruise ship colliding with a containership while under way on *MOL Ship Management Co., Ltd., and MOL LNG Transport Co., Ltd. the Kanmon passage. Furthermore, MOL Group companies that operate ferries and cruise ships conduct emergency response drills, Emergency Response System including evacuation guidance, on a regular basis, as they put the MOL continues to strengthen its systems so that it can provide an highest priority on ensuring customer safety in an emergency. accurate response in the unlikely event of an emergency. Safe Operation Measures Financial Capital Safety Operation Supporting Center (SOSC) Efforts to ensure safe operation will never end. Coupled with the The SOSC is staffed revision and continuation of policies already in place to strengthat all times by two en safe operation, MOL will thoroughly implement policies to marine technical prevent a recurrence of recent serious marine incidents. specialists, including an experienced Making Processes for Realizing Safe Operation Visible MOL captain, and MOL has introduced objective numerical indicators for measuring supports the safe safety levels, and also set the following numerical targets, includnavigation of MOLing the Four Zeroes. operated vessels around the clock Safety Operation Supporting Center (SOSC) 1. Four Zeroes (an unblemished record in terms of serious marine 365 days a year. incidents, oil pollution, fatal accidents and cargo damage) The center monitors the position and movement of more than 2. LTIF *2 (Lost Time Injury Frequency): 0.25 or below 900 MOL Group-affiliated vessels in real time, providing assis3. Operational stoppage time *3: 24 hours/ship or below tance from the captain’s perspective by supplying information on 4. Operational stoppage accident rate *4: 1.0/ship or below abnormal weather and tsunamis and on piracy and terrorism In fiscal 2014, MOL worked on three important targets: incidents to relevant personnel on the ship and land. At the same (1) eradicate work-related accidents causing death, and reduce time as serving as an information portal supporting the safe work-related accidents causing injury, Annual Report 2015 55 Safe Operation (2) eradicate collisions and groundings, and ship management companies to work toward achieving the (3) eradicate machinery trouble resulting in a dead ship condition world’s highest level of safe operation of all owned and char(a ship being unable to move under its own power). tered vessels by sharing safety-related information. The Company regularly broadcasts “Safety Alerts”— information pertaining to Preventing New or a Recurrence of Serious Incidents safe operation, including work-related incidents involving casualMOL is constantly, repeatedly implementing and raising awareties—to every vessel. MOL conducts “Safety Operation ness of fundamental matters while striving to thoroughly keep Meetings” and “Safety Campaigns” involving vessels, shipownfresh the memory of serious incidents we have experienced and ers, ship management companies and even the sales division to prevent a recurrence of serious incidents while giving due considdeepen understanding of its safety standards and to discuss safeeration to improving teamwork, safety awareness, awareness of ty improvements. MOL also inspects vessels to check whether its relevant parties and vessel management quality. We will continue safety standards are understood well and put into effect. If there to adapt our accident prevention system by making improveis a need to make improvements, MOL will take corrective ments related to both seafarer training and ship facilities to break actions, communicating with the vessel, shipowner and ship the chain of errors in which minor factors combine and ultimatemanagement company in the process. ly lead to major maritime accidents. For detailed safe operation, see the Safety, In terms of seafarer training, we are thoroughly implementing Environmental and Social Report. drills prior to boarding and supervising the instruction of less experienced seafarers. We are also enhancing land-based education and training curriculum and programs such as “Hazard experiThird party evaluations ence” training sessions and BRM drills*5. These measures are Safe Operation, Including Evaluations of Seafarer geared towards enhancing the ability of seafarers to perceive danEducational Programs ger and promoting teamwork. In addition, we are working to raise ■ LNG Carrier Standard Training Course safety awareness among seafarers by collecting information from acquired certification from DNV** each vessel in operation on examples of incidents and problems as The LNG Carrier Standard Training well as close calls*6 and by using videos, photos and illustrations to Course implemented globally by MOL appeal to the visual sense of seafarers. In terms of ship facilities, was certified by Norway’s Det Norske we are working to equip ships with error-resistant equipment and Veritas AS (DNV)** in 2007 for complipromoting the adoption of information technology. This involves ance with the LNG carrier crew ability promoting the fail-safe design concept by providing shipyards and standards advocated by SIGTTO.*** equipment manufacturers with feedback from vessels in operation ** Now DNV GL AS *** Society of International Gas Tanker & Terminal Operators Ltd. on areas of non-conformance and areas in need of improvement. It is the MOL Group’s ultimate goal to eradicate work-related accidents causing death. MOL analyzes the factors and causes ■ Management program for seafarer behind accidents from various angles and uses the results to education and training acquired make improvements in ship facilities. It also asks employees on certification from DNV** land and at sea to discuss and propose preventive measures for MOL’s management program for seafarer examples of serious incidents and problems as if they were each education and training was recognized to wholly responsible as part of efforts to prevent accidents. be effective and certified in its tanker and LNG carrier operations by DNV** in 2012 Cooperation for Safe Operation for compliance with the Competence Management System (CMS). The MOL Group works together with vessels, shipowners, and Operational Stoppage Glossary Accidents Average Time and *1 Emergency entry: Entering foreign territory due to Lost Time Injury Frequency (LTIF) Frequency severe weather on the sea, serious hull or engine distress, or the injury of a crew member. (Hour/ship) (Number of accidents/ship) *2 LTIF (Lost time injury frequency): Number 1.8 40 2.0 of work-related accidents per one million hours worked Average operational stoppage time target: that resulted in time lost from work of one day or 1.5 24 hours or below more. Average for all industries (2014) was 1.66; for 2014 average for all industries: (1.66) 28.45 shipping industry, 1.33; for transportation equipment 30 1.5 manufacturing industry, 0.51. (Source: 2014 Survey on 25.04 1.2 22.96 Industrial Accidents issued by the Ministry of Health, 19.82 19.04 Labour and Welfare) MOL target: *3 Operational stoppage time: Expresses the amount of 0.9 0.25 or below 20 1.0 ship operational stoppage time due to an accident per 0.64 0.66 ship per year. 0.44 0.52 *4 Operational stoppage accident rate: Expresses the 0.6 0.38 number of accidents that result in ship operational 0.31 0.30 10 0.5 0.24 0.51 stoppage per ship per year. 0.40 *5 Bridge resource management drill: Simulating an inci0.3 Operational stoppage dent on a vessel operation simulator to enable seafarers to accident rate target: 1.00 or below acquire response techniques. It includes MOL’s original 0 0 0 programs. 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 (Fiscal year) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 (Fiscal year) *6 Close calls: Risky incidents that came very close to Average operational stoppage time causing a more serious accident. (hour/ship) (left scale) Operational stoppage accident rate (accidents/ship) (right scale) 56 Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Value Creation Management Strategy Management Foundation Underpinning MOL: Corporate Governance and Corporate Social Responsibility Contents Manufactured Capital 58 Board Of Directors, Corporate Auditors and Executive Officers 60 Outside Director and Corporate Auditor Roundtable Discussion 64 Corporate Governance 68 Risk Management 70 Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Human Capital Intellectual, Social, Environmental Capital Environmental Capital Financial Capital Annual Report 2015 57 Board of Directors, Corporate Auditors and Executive Officers (As of June 23, 2015) Board of Directors Apr. 1976 Joined Mitsui O.S.K. Lines, Ltd. Apr. 1979 Joined Mitsui O.S.K. Lines, Ltd. Jun. 2002 General Manager of Bulk Carrier Division Jun. 2004 General Manager of Human Jan. 2003 General Manager of Corporate Resources Division Planning Division Jun. 2007 General Manager of Liner Jun. 2004 Executive Officer, General Manager Division of Corporate Planning Division Jun. 2008 Executive Officer Jun. 2006 Managing Executive Officer Jun. 2010 Managing Executive Officer Jun. 2007 Director, Managing Executive Officer Jun. 2013 Director, Senior Managing Jun. 2008 Director, Senior Managing Executive Officer Executive Officer Jun. 2015 Representative Director, Jun. 2010 Representative Director, President President, Chief Executive Executive Officer Officer (current) Koichi Muto Jun. 2015 Representative Director, Chairman Junichiro Ikeda Representative Director Born 1953 of the Board, Chairman Executive Representative Director Born 1956 Officer (current) Apr. 1979 Joined Mitsui O.S.K. Lines, Ltd Apr. 1979 Joined Mitsui O.S.K. Lines, Jun. 2005 General Manager of Coal and Iron Ltd. Ore Carrier Division Jun. 2003 General Manager of Jun. 2007 Executive Officer, General Logistics Business Division Manager of Coal and Iron Ore Jun. 2008 Executive Officer, Carrier Division Managing Director of Jun. 2009 Managing Executive Officer MOL Europe B.V. Jun. 2013 Senior Managing Executive Officer Jun. 2011 Managing Executive Officer Jun. 2015 Representative Director, Executive Jun. 2013 Director, Managing Vice President Executive Officer Executive Officer (current) Jun. 2015 Director, Senior Managing Executive Officer (current) Kenichi Nagata Masahiro Tanabe Representative Director Born 1956 Director Born 1957 Apr. 1981 Joined Mitsui O.S.K. Lines, Ltd. Apr. 1982 Joined Mitsui O.S.K. Lines, Jun. 2006 General Manager of Corporate Ltd Planning Division Jun. 2008 General Manager of LNG Jun. 2008 Executive Officer, General Carrier Division Manager of Corporate Planning Jun. 2009 Executive Officer, General Division Manager of LNG Carrier Jun. 2010 Executive Officer Division Jun. 2011 Managing Executive Officer Jun. 2011 Executive Officer Jun. 2014 Director, Managing Executive Jun. 2012 Managing Executive Officer Officer Jun. 2015 Director, Managing Jun. 2015 Director, Senior Managing Executive Officer (current) Executive Officer (current) Shizuo Takahashi Takeshi Hashimoto Director Born 1959 Director Born 1957 Independent Officers Jun. 2008 Director of Mitsui O.S.K. Lines, Jun. 2011 Director of Mitsui O.S.K. Lines, Ltd. (current) Ltd. (current) Jan. 2014 President of Capital Market Nov. 2012 Chairman of NWIC Co., Ltd. Promotion Foundation (current) (current) Sept. 2014 Senior Advisor of Integral Corporation (current) Takeshi Komura Masayuki Matsushima Outside Director Born 1939 Outside Director Born 1945 Jun. 2014 Director of Mitsui O.S.K. Lines, Ltd. (current) Jun. 2014 Advisor to the Board of Toshiba Corporation (current) Atsutoshi Nishida Outside Director Born 1943 58 Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Corporate Auditors Value Creation Takehiko Ota Takashi Nakashima Corporate Auditor Born 1960 Corporate Auditor Born 1959 Apr. 1984 Joined Mitsui O.S.K. Lines, Apr. 1982 Joined Mitsui O.S.K. Lines, Ltd. Ltd. Jun. 2008 General Manager of Jun. 2009 General Manager of Management Strategy Investor Relations Office Research Office Jun. 2013 Corporate Auditor of Jun. 2011 General Manager of Mitsui O.S.K. Lines, Ltd. General Affairs Division (current) Jun. 2015 Corporate Auditor of Mitsui O.S.K. Lines, Ltd. (current) Independent Officers Hideki Yamashita Hiroyuki Itami Outside Corporate Auditor Born 1954 Outside Corporate Auditor Born 1945 Manufactured Capital Apr. 1982 Attorney-at-Law Apr. 2008 Professor of Tokyo (current) University of Science, Apr. 1985 Established YAMASHITA & Graduate School of TOYAMA LAW AND Innovation Studies PATENT OFFICE (current) Mar. 1993 Patent Attorney (current) Jun. 2011 Corporate Auditor of Jun. 2014 Corporate Auditor of Mitsui O.S.K. Lines, Ltd. Mitsui O.S.K. Lines, Ltd. (current) (current) Human Capital Executive Officers Koichi Muto Hirokazu Hatta Akio Mitsuta Toshikazu Inaoka Chairman Managing Executive Officer Managing Executive Officer Executive Officer Intellectual, Social, Environmental Capital (General Affairs Division, Group (Tanker Division, Tanker Safety (Dry Bulk Carrier Supervising Office, Environmental Capital Junichiro Ikeda Business Division, Kansai Area) Management Office) Marine Safety Division, General President, Chief Executive Officer Manager of Dry Bulk Carrier Takeshi Hashimoto Naotoshi Omoto Supervising Office) Kenichi Nagata Managing Executive Officer Managing Executive Officer Executive Vice President (LNG Carrier Division, Offshore and (Car Carrier Division) Toshiaki Tanaka (Assistant to President, Bulk Carrier LNG Project Division, LNG Safety Executive Officer Office) Management Office) Toshiyuki Sonobe (Coal and Iron Ore Carrier Division) Executive Officer Masaaki Nemoto Tetsuro Nishio (Managing Director of Mitsui O.S.K. Nobuo Ishihara Senior Managing Executive Officer Managing Executive Officer Bulk Shipping (Asia Oceania) Pte. Executive Officer (Dry Bulk Carrier Supervising Office, (Dedicated Bulk Carrier Division) Ltd., Chief Executive Representative (Managing Director of Mitsui O.S.K. Tanker Safety Management Office, in Asia, Middle East & Oceania) Bulk Shipping (Europe) Ltd., Chief LNG Safety Management Office, Toshiya Konishi Executive Representative in Europe & Yoshikazu Kawagoe Africa) Financial Capital Human Resources Division, Marine Managing Executive Officer Safety Division, Safe Operation) (Port Projects & Logistics Business Executive Officer Division, Chief Executive (Technical Division) Kenta Matsuzaka Masahiro Tanabe Representative in Americas) Executive Officer Senior Managing Executive Officer Hideo Horiguchi (General Manager of LNG Carrier (Finance Division, Accounting Takaaki Inoue Executive Officer Division) Division, Investor Relations Office, Managing Executive Officer (Accounting Division) Liner Division, Port Projects & (Tanker Safety Management Office, Logistics Business Division, Research LNG Safety Management Office, Koichi Yashima Office) Marine Safety Division) Executive Officer (Human Resources Division) Shizuo Takahashi Takashi Maruyama Senior Managing Executive Officer Managing Executive Officer Mitsujiro Akasaka (Internal Audit Office, Secretaries (Finance Division, Investor Relations Executive Officer Office, Corporate Planning Division, Office) (Managing Director of MOL (ASIA) Public Relations Office, MOL LIMITED, Deputy Chief Executive Information Systems, Ltd., Akihiko Ono Representative in Asia, Middle East & Compliance) Managing Executive Officer Oceania) (Liner Division) Annual Report 2015 59 Outside Director and Corporate Auditor Roundtable Discussion We interview two outside officers (one director and one corporate auditor) on a range of topics from the insight they provide the Board of Directors to their impression of MOL's governance. Masayuki Matsushima Hiroyuki Itami Outside Director Outside Corporate Auditor “ To help the Company establish a sustainable growth model as a truly global “ I believe outside officers can make the most of their position and contribute to corporation, I’d like to fulfill my role as effective management by taking the an outside officer and trusted initiative to say the things people inside advisor. ” –Matsushima the Company are afraid to say. ” –Itami What are your thoughts on your respective roles ideas that lead to new creation. I think being able to provide as an outside director and an outside corporate an original point of view is one of the things expected of auditor? outside directors. Itami: While I wholly agree with what Mr. Matsushima just Matsushima: I’d like to first start off by saying that outside said, I’d like to add that outside officers can talk straight officers are not all powerful or all knowing. When it comes about things that are known within the Company but talked to business operations, officers from inside an organization about in hushed tones. Since outside officers don’t have can be more knowledgeable. So if you think about what conflicts of interest with the Company or its management, kind of expectations outside officers can fulfill, the answer is they’re in a good position to speak truth to management. I clear: things that internal officers are unable to do, namely believe outside officers can make the most of their position providing outside perspective. From the outside, it’s possible and contribute to effective management by taking the initiato view the Company’s management more objectively. tive to say the things people inside the Company are afraid Opinions rejected internally as nonsensical could be the very to say. 60 Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Value Creation What about the difference between a director M: I don’t believe there are problems with the Company’s and a corporate auditor? governance overall. The board rarely simply approves the agenda items. The Board of Directors is highly open, debating M: In terms of actual the issues from various angles, setting aside issues for further Management Strategy function, there does debate, and offering support for items but with provisions seem to be a lot of attached. What I’m concerned about, though, is that while, overlap. When somein terms of corporate culture, everyone has superb communithing comes up, if it’s cation skills and good character, nobody volunteers to play something the corpodevil’s advocate or say something unconventional when rate auditor’s responsisomething happens. Considering MOL has in the past posted ble for, that doesn’t wide losses and once violated Japan’s Antimonopoly Act, durmean we as directors can avoid our responsibility. ing trying times such as these, it would be much better if Manufactured Capital I: Speaking from the position of an outside corporate auditor, someone is brave enough to voice a contrary viewpoint. there are functions set by law as specifically the responsibility I: That could also be because there’s not enough time for of corporate auditors, like accounting audits and internal that during the meeting. controls, and these must of course be fulfilled. However, on M: Yeah, that’s true. It would be even better if they could top of that, the auditor is in the position to attend Board of use technology or something during meetings to shorten Directors’ meetings and speak about management decisions. speakers’ explanations and set aside time to explain how the How should the auditor take on this involvement? The reacitem relates to the strategies of the Company as a whole and tion could be completely different depending on the corpohow it connects with the corporate vision. Human Capital rate auditor’s own mindset or the corporate culture at the company. There are actually companies where corporate Do you feel there are times when outside auditors attend board meetings but hardly ever say anything. directors and corporate auditors should take on a Corporate auditors, myself included, don’t have voting rights, leading role for the management team? What but given our participation in board meetings, I feel we kind of situation do you think would merit such should voice our opinions about business management frankaction at MOL? Intellectual, Social, Environmental Capital ly. Corporate auditors have an obligation to audit manageEnvironmental Capital ment. Midterm management plans and management I: I think taking on a strategies are subject to auditing. And that’s why while there leading role for the is a difference in what is required of directors and corporate management team auditors by law, there is very little difference when it comes means speaking frankly to participating in deliberations during board meetings. with them. In general terms, the greatest What would you commend about MOL’s responsibility of an outgovernance and what do you think should be side officer is reining in improved? management when they begin to get out of control. How Financial Capital you design a system or a control for that purpose is imporI: I admire the system MOL has set up to reserve time for the tant. To be clear, I’m not implying or aware that any members Deliberation on Corporate Strategy and Vision(*), and encourof MOL’s management team are out of control at present. age thorough discourse when outside directors and outside But, as someone who thinks a lot about governance, it’s corporate auditors are in attendance. This is really good. As important to have a system that can function during emerfor what should be improved, there are times when the gencies. Governance systems are like air: normally it’s better agenda is not implemented in a way that takes advantage of not to be aware of its presence. But, if you fall to the bottom that system. Meaning: sometimes there are a large number of a hole and begin running out of oxygen, that’s when you of agenda items, explanations are too long, and insufficient first realize how much you need it. So I feel it’s a really sound time is left for discussion, albeit the company provides ample idea to ensure it is ready before something urgent happens. time for board meetings. Basically, I think the way the meetM: Moreover, in terms of organizational change, people outings are conducted needs to be improved. side the company may be more likely to provide insight since * Deliberation on Corporate Strategy and Vision— A major feature of MOL’s Board of Directors. At each meeting, the board focuses on a particular topic concerning management strategies, MOL’s long-term vision or other subjects involving management. These discussions provide an opportunity for lively debates that include the outside directors and corporate auditors. Annual Report 2015 61 Outside Director and Corporate Auditor Roundtable Discussion internal officers and employees are prone to following in the become quite lively and things begin to pick up steam. I have same old tracks. This includes reforming the organization and a positive impression of that. cutting losses. I think there are times when outside officers assess the situation from a long-term perspective and give “STEER FOR 2020” was, in a sense, crafted in management a bit of a push when they are hesitant to cut response to the result of a previous investment losses. In addition, speaking from my experience, I feel that that led to excessive market exposure. Could you outside directors can especially contribute to pointing out tell me what kind of opinions you gave as an and preventing compliance issues. outside director and outside corporate auditor? As an outside director and outside corporate M: I stressed three points. The first was that, for manageauditor, looking back on major proposals and ment to really do its job, it would have to consider better agendas for past board meetings and the insulating the Company from market forces, since shipping Deliberation on Corporate Strategy and Vision, market conditions, exchange rates, bunker prices and other was there anything that left a particularly such factors are directly connected to corporate profits. I said strong impression? that structural reform seemed necessary. Since it is the marine transport industry, I do think that it’s impossible to be I: As for the matters in which people outside the Company completely free from market forces and it’s necessary to learn played an important role, what most sticks in my memory are to live with them, but I added that I believe the Company those times when a wide range of opinions arose, such as should get out of the situation where it’s easily shaken by the the time when we discussed moving part of the dry bulkers markets. The second point was truly global management. division to Singapore. This move would lead to an extraordiUntil now, Japan has been the Company’s major location. But nary loss over ¥100.0 billion but improve the Company’s with the changing demographics and geopolitics, Japan’s standing. Another debate that stands out is when we disproportion of global production and consumption are declincussed what to do about a struggling affiliate requesting ing over the long term. To respond to these changes, I said financial support. I feel those were times I could really fulfill the Company needs to pivot from its current business model my function. to become a truly global corporation and establish a model M: I recall one quite heated debate. Many opinions conflictfor sustainable growth. This could be done by employing ed, causing the decision to be postponed to the next meetnew technology or reorganizing trade routes from a global ing. Ultimately an agreement was reached, but with perspective while making use of alliances and local subsidiarprovisions attached. I felt I was really able to contribute to the ies. Actually, I think management is aware of this as localizadiscussion as an outside director. And what impressed me tion progresses at bases in Singapore and Hong Kong. The when holding the Deliberations on Corporate Strategy and third was controlling risks for the Company as a whole. This Vision at the Board of Directors meetings was the frequent also includes responses to environmental changes, not just discussion of the containership business. The debates market conditions. I told them that they should have a better “ I do think that it’s… necessary to learn to live with market forces, but I added that I believe the Company should get out of the situation where it’s easily shaken by the markets. ” –Matsushima Underlined words are explained in the Glossary on page 74. 62 Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Value Creation “ I asked if they’d done proper scientific Management Strategy calculations on how much risk the fleet portfolio was harboring. ” –Itami Manufactured Capital sense of how much risk they are operating under. do that, the Company needs to pour money and human I: “STEER FOR 2020” was supposed to be formulated based resources into the expanding areas of their portfolio. Training on reflections of the past, and that’s just what happened. At personnel is especially important. I’d like to see the Company that time, I asked if they’d done proper scientific calculations soundly carry out its plans for securing and training the seaon how much risk the fleet portfolio was harboring. farers and captains it will need as the focus begins shifting to M: You said that at a board meeting, right? That left a lastLNG carriers. Because companies are people. What I can do ing impression. to help achieve this is, I think, to just speak frankly with manI: If you measure the total risk exposure of the fleet portfolio, agement. Human Capital you could say, “this is too much risk to bear” or “in that case, let’s try decreasing this or increasing that,” and at least Deliberation on corporate strategy and vision: have somewhere to start a discussion about reorganizing the Agenda Topics portfolio. But if you have no idea about the amount of risk, FY2012 Agenda even if you’re told that there are risks, you won’t know if they’re big risks or small risks, right? Actually, when we May Strategies for securing and training seafarers Intellectual, Social, Environmental Capital began trying to quantify the risks, albeit imperfectly, the ratio Environmental Capital Oct. Policy on formulating management plan of free vessels became a subject of debate. So I think it was Dec. Structural reforms meaningful that someone outside the Company said something should be done because it should be possible to express Feb. The shale revolution and energy transport the risks quantitatively. In the meantime, while I do think it’s wonderful that the Company has recently been focusing on FY2013 Agenda securing stable profits under “STEER FOR 2020,” there is the May Prospects for offshore businesses and MOL's initiatives danger that the Company may go too far to minimize risks in divisions naturally exposed to market conditions, such as conOct. Apprehending the business environment prior to formulation of the next midterm plan tainerships and tankers. They really have to train people who Financial Capital can confront risks, but if the employees get immersed into Nov. Technological revolution in marine transport “risk-free” tasks, the number of people who can grapple Feb. Outline of the next midterm management plan with risks will decrease. I asked them to consider that as well. FY2014 – Agenda Please tell us what your expectations are for MOL going forward, or share any last thoughts Aug. Benchmarking against the competition in container shipping on your role. Sep. “STEER FOR 2020” management issues of the M: As I said before, I’d like the Company to establish a susContainership Business tainable growth model as a truly global corporation. And, to Nov. Introduction of investment risk control indicators help accomplish that, I’d like to fulfill my role as an outside Dec. Impact of hydrogen-based society on the marine officer and trusted advisor. transport industry I: I’d like MOL, as a world-leading shipping company with the Apr. Corporate governance world’s largest fleet, to continue to grow going forward. To Annual Report 2015 63 Corporate Governance Governance at a Glance Corporate Governance that Supports Growth Dynamics System of governance Company with a board of Effective corporate governance has two sides. The defensive side corporate auditors focuses on eliminating risks and ensuring business is conducted Total directors 9 in line with social norms and corporate ethics. The other side is Outside directors (ratio) offensive, striving to maximize corporate value by accurately 3 (1/3) evaluating latent risks in the process of pursing business opporTotal corporate auditors 4 tunities, then actively taking those risks deemed reasonable. A Outside corporate auditors (ratio) 2 (1/2) company needs both wheels of governance. One brings order, Independent officers the other provides growth dynamics. With both wheels firmly in 5 (directors and corporate auditors) place, a company can gain the trust of its customers, stockholdBoard of Directors’ meetings ers, business partners, employees, local communities and other 11 held in fiscal 2014 stakeholders to sustainably conduct business. Term of directors 1 year MOL greatly shored up its management structure between Stock option system Yes 1997 and 2002. Taking a lead position among Japanese companies, MOL established an advanced, highly transparent corporate Retirement benefit system No governance structure by, for example, inviting outside directors Anti-takeover measures No and introducing an executive officer system. We are reaping the Compliance rules Yes benefits of those efforts, yet MOL has only arrived at its current External compliance advisory position through a process of continuous improvement and evoYes service desk lution. We work hard to enhance corporate value. History Corporate Governance Organization MOL has established a corporate governance system that maxi1997 mizes shareholder profits through the most appropriate allocaOutside auditors increased from one to two out of a total of four auditors tion of management resources, with higher transparency of 1998 corporate management as shown in the chart on the next page. George Hayashi (former APL chairman) invited to join the Board of Directors (became The Board of Directors (with the participation of independent Director and Vice President in 1999, following revision of the Shipping Act) outside directors, who are indispensable to corporate governance) 2000 supervises and encourages business operations, which are carried Management organization reform out by the President as chief executive officer. In addition, as a 1. Introduced a system of executive officers company with a board of corporate auditors, four corporate 2. Abolished the Managing Directors Committee and established an Executive Committee (reduced the membership from 21 to 10) auditors, including two outside auditors, conduct business and 3. Reformed the Board of Directors (redefined its duties as the highest-ranking decision-making body and the supervision of business activities) and reduced memberaccounting audits. ship from 28 to 12 At MOL, we believe that the essence of corporate governance 4. Elected two outside directors 5. Established the Corporate Visionary Meeting lies not in its structure or organization, but in whether or not it Established the IR Office functions effectively. The framework described in the preceding Started holding the Annual General Shareholders’ Meeting on a day relatively free of other shareholders’ meetings paragraph is operated in the manner outlined in the following sections. 2001 Established the MOL Group Corporate Principles Added one more outside director, increasing the number of outside directors to three The Board of Directors Established Compliance Policy and a Compliance Committee The Board of Directors, as the Company’s highest-ranking deci2002 sion-making body, discusses and decides on basic policy and the Second stage of management reforms most important matters connected with MOL Group manageReforms reinforced roles of the Board of Directors concerning determination of basic ment. It consists of nine directors, including three outside direcstrategies and monitoring risk management while providing for faster decision-making at the business execution level tors. In principle, the Board of Directors convenes around 10 1. Board of Directors was reorganized to carry out three important functions: (1) times a year, and as necessary. deliberation on issues requiring approval by the directors; (2) receipt of reports on business operations; and (3) deliberation on corporate strategy and vision Major investment projects, such as the construction of new 2. Reviewed and consolidated issues submitted to the Board of Directors 3. Expanded jurisdiction of the Executive Committee regarding execution of business vessels, are submitted to the Board of Directors at the basic poliactivities cy formulation stage. The directors thoroughly evaluate and dis2006 cuss the pros and cons of the projects and make decisions on Decided basic policy on the establishment of internal control systems in response to their feasibility from many perspectives. Transferring the authorienforcement of the new Japanese Companies Act ty to implement projects within the scope of the basic policy to In response to the enforcement of the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act, the Internal Control Planning Office was established in the Corporate Planning Division executive officers supervised by the President speeds decisionmaking on individual projects. 2011 And the Board of Directors holds Deliberation on Corporate Revised the MOL’s Compliance Policy and Rules of Conduct Strategy and Vision. At each meeting, the board focuses on a 2014 particular topic concerning management strategies, MOL’s longRevised the Compliance Policy, establishing a chief compliance officer (COO) term vision or other subjects involving management. These discussions provide an opportunity for lively debates that include the outside directors and corporate auditors, thus helping to 64 Mitsui O.S.K. Lines ensure that the perspective of shareholders is reflected in how express valuable opinions about management as a whole. In Value Creation MOL is managed. The fruit of this comprehensive deliberation these ways, the outside directors play a major role in enhancing was reflected in “STEER FOR 2020.” the operation of the Board of Directors. Executive Committee and Committees Reasons for Appointment of Outside Directors MOL established the Executive Committee in 2000 as part of Name Position Reason for Appointment Management Strategy reforms to its management organization. As the second step of Takeshi President of Capital MOL adjudged that he has a those reforms, in 2002 the Company expanded the jurisdiction Komura Market Promotion neutral position with no conflicts of the Executive Committee regarding execution of business Foundation of interest with the company, and that he has wide-ranging activities, and also transferred the authority to implement projexperience and knowledge for ects within the scope of the basic policy approved by the Board checking the appropriateness of of Directors to executive officers supervised by the President to management decisions and supervising the execution of speed up decision-making on individual projects. business operations from the MOL has also established the following committees to study shareholders’ perspective based and discuss important matters that will be submitted to the on his longtime experience in and Manufactured Capital knowledge of economic Executive Committee for discussion and projects straddling divimanagement and policy finance sions, as sub-committees of the Executive Committee. of Japan. (See the chart below) Masayuki Chairman of NWIC Co., Ltd. MOL adjudged that he has a Matsushima Senior Advisor of Integral neutral position with no conflicts Functions of Outside Directors and Reasons for Corporation of interest with the company, and Appointment that he has wide-ranging experience and knowledge for Although the revised Companies Act came into effect in May checking the appropriateness of 2015, as part of efforts to strengthen corporate governance, management decisions and MOL has been appointing outside directors since 2000, with the supervising the execution of Human Capital business operations from the aim of bolstering oversight of the execution of business operashareholders’ perspective based tions by bringing an outside perspective to management. on his long-time experience in and MOL has appointed three outside directors whose experience knowledge of the financial sector. encompasses macroeconomic management, finance, and busiAtsutoshi Advisor to the Board of MOL adjudged that he can offer nesses in Japan. MOL has adjudged that all three individuals are Nishida Toshiba Corporation advice from the shareholders’ perspective, with an objective independent and have neutral positions with no conflicts of view independent from that of Intellectual, Social, Environmental Capital interest with the Company. The outside directors draw on their internal executive management, Environmental Capital individual experience and insight to check the appropriateness of based on his abundant experience and extensive knowledge as a management and the status of execution of business operations corporate executive. from the shareholders’ standpoint. At the same time, they (As of June 23, 2015) Corporate Governance Organization (as of June 23, 2015) General Shareholders’ Meeting Elect and appoint/dismiss Elect and Financial Capital Business audit appoint/dismiss Accounting audit Elect and appoint/dismiss Corporate Auditors Outside auditors: 2 Internal auditors: 2 Total: 4 Board of Directors [11] Outside directors: 3 Internal directors: 6 Corporate Auditor Office Total: 9 Accounting audit Accounting Auditors Elect and appoint/supervise Submit basic management policies and other issues for discussion Executive Committee [48] Internal directors and Executive officers: 8 Submit to Executive Committee after preliminary deliberations Committees Under the Executive Committee STEER Committee [10], Budget Committee [2], Investment and Finance Committee [38], Provide Audit plan, Provide direction on direction Audit report Operational Safety Committee [2], CSR and Environment Committee [3], important business issues Compliance Committee [9], Business Reconstruction Committee [12], Global Strategy Committee [New] Communicate and coordinate with corporate auditors and independent public accountant Submit report on important business and other issues Executive Officers Director/Executive officers: 6 Internal Audit Office Executive officers: 18 Total: 24 Business audit Divisions / Offices / Branches / Vessels / Group companies Accounting audit Numbers in brackets show the number of meetings of the Board of Directors, Executive Committee and their sub-committees during fiscal 2014. The number of meetings of the compliance committee includes review committee of recurrence prevention measures for anti competitive practices. (6 meetings) Annual Report 2015 65 Corporate Governance Functions of Outside Corporate Auditors and Compensation for Independent Public Accountants Reasons for Appointment Compensation Compensation for audit for non-audit Total (Thousands MOL has appointed four corporate auditors, who are responsible operations operations (¥ millions) of U.S.$) (¥ millions) (¥ millions) for performing statutory auditing functions, including two outside corporate auditors who are completely independent and have no Parent ¥109 ¥17 ¥127 $1,060 company conflicts of interest with MOL. At a time when the auditing sysConsolidated tems of corporations are taking on added importance, it goes 111 1 113 944 subsidiaries without saying that the independence of auditors from manageTotal ¥221 ¥19 ¥240 $2,005 ment and policy execution is assured. Our corporate auditors work closely with the Internal Audit Office and independent public accountants to assure effective corporate governance. They also Independent Officers work on strengthening corporate governance and compliance Due to partial amendments to the Securities Listing Regulations that throughout the group. came into force in December 2009, publicly listed companies are required to secure independent officer(s) from the standpoint of Reasons for Appointment of Outside Corporate Auditors protecting general investors. An independent officer means an Name Position Reason for Appointment outside director or outside corporate auditor who is unlikely to have a conflict of interest with general investors. Independent Hiroyuki Professor of Tokyo MOL adjudged that he has a Itami University of Science, neutral position with no conflicts officers are expected to act to protect the interests of general Graduate School of of interest with the company, and investors. For instance, they are expected to state necessary opinInnovation Studies that he has wide-ranging ions to ensure the interests of general shareholders are taken experience and knowledge for checking the appropriateness of into consideration in a situation where a decision is made conmanagement decisions and cerning business operations in the Board of Directors or other supervising the execution of decision-making body of a publicly listed company. business operations from the shareholders’ perspective based MOL has designated its three outside directors and two outside on his specialist knowledge as a corporate auditors as independent officers, respectively, because scholar of business administration. there is no concern about a conflict of interest with general invesHideki Attorney-at-Law & Patent MOL adjudged that he has a neutral tors in conformity with the criteria for independent officers of listed Yamashita Attorney, YAMASHITA & position with no conflicts of interest securities exchanges. Each of these individuals plays a major role in TOYAMA LAW AND with the Company, and that he has PATENT OFFICE wide-ranging experience and corporate governance by checking the appropriateness of manageknowledge for checking the ment decisions and supervising the execution of business operations appropriateness of management from the shareholders’ perspective based on their experience and decisions and supervising the execution of business operations insight. from the shareholders’ perspective based on his specialist knowledge Internal Control System as an attorney at law. Since the fiscal year ended March 2009, the Financial Instruments and (As of June 23, 2015) Exchange Act has obligated publicly listed companies to prepare a report evaluating their internal controls over financial reporting by manageCompensation for Directors, Corporate Auditors ment (Internal Control Reporting System) and to have this evaluation and Independent Public Accountants audited by auditors outside the Company. This internal control reporting The Board of Directors, including the outside directors, detersystem involves management themselves confirming the effectiveness of mines compensation for the directors and corporate auditors. the framework for disclosing information such as appropriate and propCompensation paid to directors and corporate auditors in fiscal er financial reporting through methods that visualize and evaluate oper2014 is shown in the following table. ations, and an audit by auditors from outside the Company. The Company has granted stock options to all directors, execUsing the occasion of this system reform, MOL went beyond the utive officers, general managers of divisions and branch offices scope required of it by law, and is promoting activities to further and managers in similar positions, as well as to presidents of enhance MOL Group management effectiveness, efficiency and transconsolidated subsidiaries, to motivate them to carry out operaparency, namely ensuring the appropriateness of business operations tions for the benefit of shareholders. and the trustworthiness of financial reporting. In fiscal 2014, MOL again assessed the status of the internal conCompensation for Directors and Corporate Auditors trols over financial reporting and the operation thereof, confirming No. of people Total remu(Thousands that there were no major flaws in the MOL Group’s internal controls neration remunerated (¥ millions) of U.S.$) over financial reporting. Going forward, the MOL Group will continDirectors ue working to enhance its internal control system. 7 ¥306 $3,001 (Excluding outside directors) Corporate auditors (Excluding Compliance 2 66 550 outside corporate auditors) The Company is aware of the crucial role that compliance plays Outside directors and in living up to its broad corporate social responsibilities, and that 7 57 479 outside corporate auditors compliance with the letter of the law is at the core of this role. 66 Mitsui O.S.K. Lines We have established a Compliance Committee, which is investors. The Company is also aware of the need for full and fair Value Creation headed by the Chief Compliance Officer, and formulated the disclosure to all investors, whether in Japan or overseas. At the same Compliance Policy to assure strict adherence to rules and regulatime its quarterly financial results in Japanese are released over the tions. General managers of divisions and offices are appointed as Tokyo Stock Exchange’s TDnet, the Company posts them to its webCompliance Officers. They are responsible for enforcing complisite with an accompanying English translation. The Japanese and ance regulations and are also required to report to the Compliance English drafts of presentation materials are also posted on the webManagement Strategy Committee in the event of a compliance breach. The Internal site. This information is e-mailed on the same day to foreign invesAudit Office, a body that operates independently of the tors registered with the Company. MOL actively disseminates Company’s divisions and offices, provides a counseling service. information about management strategy, investment plans, market The Internal Audit Office undertakes investigations of breaches conditions and other information through its website. and reports the results to the Compliance Committee. In addition Japan’s Stewardship Code was enacted in February 2014 and to the existing counseling service, we established an external comthe Corporate Governance Code entered into force in June 2015. pliance advisory service desk, which we entrusted an outside attorMOL has already been proactively holding constructive dialogues ney to run. The desk provides anonymous counseling services. with institutional investors and there will be no change to that policy. Feedback is regularly provided to management with regard to Manufactured Capital Measures Ensuring Compliance with the content of discussions held with investors and analysts. Going the Antimonopoly Act forward, MOL will further bolster the quality and quantity of comOn March 18, 2014, the Japan Fair Trade Commission (JFTC) found MOL had munication while being mindfully aware of fair disclosure. violated Article 3 of the Antimonopoly Act regarding certain car carrier shipThe responsibility to provide information is not limited to manping trades. Considering this legal violation to be a very serious matter, we agement and financial issues. MOL’s basic stance is to quickly disclose established the Review Committee of Recurrence Prevention Measures for Anti-competitive Practices, which is headed by the President, in April 2014. information, even if it is negative such as information on accidents, The committee has examined and executed various concrete policies to preto all stakeholders. Furthermore, we hold regular drills for respondvent a recurrence of cartel activities, including revising the compliance system ing to the media in emergencies and are working to strengthen our and reforming the corporate culture. The measures resolved by the Review ability to be able to quickly and properly disclose information. Human Capital Committee of Recurrence Prevention Measures for Anti-competitive Practices MOL will continue working to raise confidence in its business policies have been taken up by the Compliance Committee since October 2014. and management through close communication with various stakeholders. For more detailed compliance information, IR Activities in Fiscal 2014 (April 2014–March 2015) see the Safety, Environmental and Social Report. Activity Frequency Details For securities Business 4 times Quarterly results/forecasts analysts and performance Intellectual, Social, Environmental Capital Environmental Capital institutional presentations Annual General Shareholders’ Meeting investors President’s small 2 times Held for analysts in Japan meetings MOL aims to hold open General Shareholders’ Meetings. In addiOperations 1 time LNG carriers and offshore tion to sending the notice of the general meeting of shareholdpresentations businesses ers out about three weeks before the meeting, MOL avoids dates For overseas Overseas 4 times Once in North America, when many Japanese companies hold their annual meetings so institutional investor road twice in Europe, once in investors shows Asia (Hong Kong and that as many shareholders as possible can attend. Singapore) MOL has also enabled shareholders to exercise their voting Conferences 6 times Attended conferences in rights by mobile phone and the Internet since the June 2006 held by securities Japan and held individual companies meetings annual meeting, in addition to postal voting, so that shareholders For individual Corporate 3 times Attended seminars for who cannot attend the annual meeting can vote on proposals. investors presentations for individual investors in Tokyo, Financial Capital Furthermore, since the June 2006 annual meeting, MOL has used individual Osaka and Nagoya: once in investors each city. the electronic voting platform for institutional investors so that proxy voting rights holders can exercise voting rights. Moreover, a summary of questions received about matters reported and proIR Materials (available on MOL’s website) posed at the annual meeting is posted on MOL’s website after the Material Japanese English conclusion of the meeting in the interest of fair disclosure. Financial reports Yes Yes Stock exchange filings (financial highlights, etc.) Yes Yes Accountability Business performance presentation materials Yes Yes (including summaries of Q&A sessions) MOL believes that timely, full and fair disclosure of corporate and Annual reports Yes Yes financial information is an important aspect of corporate goverSecurities reports Yes No nance. In addition to being accountable to shareholders and Quarterly reports Yes No investors by providing information, the Company makes every Business reports for shareholders Yes Yes effort possible to reflect their opinions in management. Safety, Environmental and Social reports Yes Yes The distinguishing feature of our investor relations activities is Investor guidebooks Yes Yes that the President takes the lead in their implementation. In fiscal Market data Yes Yes 2014, the President participated in the Company’s presentations of quarterly results and attended meetings with domestic and foreign Annual Report 2015 67 Risk Management The Company identifies the risks surrounding the MOL Group, and sustain profit growth. In accordance with our internal marsuch as fluctuations of freight rates, with the aim of managing ket risk management regulations, we appropriately reduce risks and reducing these risks. In the midterm management plan related to fluctuation, especially those arising from freight rates, “STEER FOR 2020,” MOL has designated the reinforcement of bunker prices, exchange rates, and interest rates. The Investment total risk control as one measure to strengthen its management and Finance Committee also identifies, analyzes and evaluates foundation and support the successful execution of the plan. To risks related to such material issues as investment in ships. fully exercise sustainable risk management, the Company transparently quantifies its comprehensive risk. Diversifying Operations to Reduce Risk MOL operates a “full-line marine transport group.” As of the Fluctuations of Cargo Volume, Fleet Supply and end of March 2015, we operated around 950 vessels, ranging Freight Rates from dry bulkers, tankers, and LNG carriers to car carriers and The global shipping business, like many other industries, is greatcontainerships, capable of transporting a diverse range of raw ly affected by trends in the global economic cycle, and is thus materials and finished goods. Each type of ship and each type of subject to both macroeconomic risk, as well as business risk assocargo have particular supply and demand trends, and create parciated with trends in specific industries. There are a multitude of ticular markets. While some of these markets are highly correlatfactors that are subject to change, such as fluctuations in the ed with each other, others are negatively correlated depending economies of individual countries, changes in trade structures, mainly on the economic environment, so the impact in one secvessel supply-demand balance, market conditions and cargo voltor offsets the impact in another. By assessing the suitability of a umes. Achieving the best performance hinges on objectively anaparticular vessel type for mediumto long-term contracts and lyzing information so as to continually increase the probability of market exposure the Company expects, MOL constructs an optigenerating higher earnings. With this in mind, MOL has adopted mum business portfolio, which allows the Company to pursue a strategy of “diversifying operations to reduce risk” and “raising higher profits while mitigating risks. highly stable profits” by aligning its fleet to match international marine transport demand in the transport of both raw materials Building up Highly Stable Profits Through the Use of Mediumand Long-Term Contracts and Other Means and finished goods. In this way, we strive to maximize returns The Company pursues mediumand long-term contracts won based on long-standing relationships of trust with customers. Fleet Composition (As of March 31, 2015) These contracts ensure a stable future cash flow that will help reduce the risk that market fluctuations could have on its results. Others Dry Bulkers International marine transportation is expanding, but consid46 411 ering the ongoing glut of shipbuilding capacity, more time will 5% 43% likely need to elapse before a structural turnaround is realized in Containerships the market environment. The Company aims to conclude con118 tracts that are not largely affected by changes in the external 12% Number of business environment and constitute a stable source of profit. By Car Carriers Vessels 127 expanding these contracts from a long-term perspective, MOL 13% will create an even steadier earnings structure. To achieve this LNG Carriers objective, one of the options we will look closely at as a matter Tankers 67 176 of priority is M&A deals in growing sectors which enjoy a rela7% 19% tively stable cash flow. Exchange Rate Fluctuations Others Dry Bulkers 178 35,760 Although MOL has concluded transport contracts on a yen0% 53% denominated basis with some Japanese clients, most transactions Containerships in the international marine transport business are concluded on a 7,091 U.S. dollar-denominated basis. Despite our best efforts to incur 11% Deadweight expenses in U.S. dollars, U.S. dollar-denominated revenue curCar Carriers (1,000 DWT) 2,033 rently exceeds U.S. dollar-denominated expenses, so when the 3% yen strengthens against the U.S. dollar this can have a negative LNG Carriers Tankers impact on Group earnings. In fiscal 2015, we project that each 5,182 16,874 ¥1-per-dollar change in the yen-U.S. dollar exchange rate will 8% 25% have an impact of approximately ¥1.8 billion on consolidated ordinary income. Underlined words are explained in the Glossary on page 74. 68 Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Interest Rate Fluctuations Stricter restrictions to reduce sulfur oxide emissions generated Value Creation by ships could be introduced as soon as 2020. These restrictions MOL depends mainly on the issuance of corporate bonds and would require the use of low-sulfur fuel oil containing less than funds borrowed from banks and other financial institutions to 0.5% sulfur across all ocean regions, which could have an impact meet working capital and capital expenditure requirements. on fuel costs. In the event fuel costs rise, the Company intends Loans are denominated in either yen or U.S. dollars, with funds to pass on these higher costs by raising freight rates and other procured at variable interest rates affected by interest rate fluctuManagement Strategy fees. ations. As of March 31, 2015, interest-bearing debt totaled ¥1,183.4 billion, and around 60% of that loan principal is locked Vessel Operations in at a fixed interest rate. As a result, an increase of 1 percentage point in market interest rates on both yen-denominated and U.S. MOL operates a fleet of approximately 950 vessels and it is theredollar-denominated interest-bearing liabilities would impact fore impossible to ignore the risks related to various incidents annual consolidated ordinary income by no larger than approxithat may occur on the high seas. In order to prevent accidents, mately ¥4.0 billion. Although MOL has benefited from ultra-low the Company has introduced a variety of measures such as safety interest rates in the aftermath of the financial crisis, the standards, a safety management system, comprehensive crew Manufactured Capital Company is taking steps to mitigate the risk of a future interest education and training, and establishment of organizations to rate rise. It plans to flexibly adjust the ratio of variable-rate and support safe operations. fixed-rate loans through interest rate swaps and other means Furthermore, MOL has arranged sufficient insurance coverage according to changes in financial conditions, taking into considso that its financial results will not be materially impacted, should eration the balance between variableand fixed-rate interest. the Company or a third party suffer damages in the unlikely event of an MOL-operated vessel being involved in a collision, Bunker Price Fluctuations sinking, fire or other marine incident. The market price of bunker is generally linked to the price of Group Company Operational Management crude oil, and any increase in bunker prices has a negative Human Capital impact on earnings for the MOL Group. The Group operates a The MOL Group Corporate Principles serve as the basis for setfleet of approximately 950 vessels, whose annual fuel consumpting regulations at MOL Group companies. Each Group company tion amounts to around 6 million tons of bunker. The Company submits required reports to MOL in a timely manner in accoris able to pass on about 40% of the risk to customers. Therefore, dance with Group Company Management Regulations. After an increase of US$1 per metric ton in the average annual price of properly ascertaining the financial conditions and business risks, bunker would lower earnings by approximately ¥0.19 billion (net the Company, as a shareholder, requests Group companies of hedging) at the maximum. obtain permission prior to executing important management Intellectual, Social, Environmental Capital Environmental Capital matters. Sensitivity of Earnings to Exchange Rate/Interest Rate/ Natural Disaster or Similar Event Bunker Price Fluctuations An earthquake, other natural disaster or an outbreak of an infecExchange Rate A ¥1 appreciation reduces ordinary income by tious disease (hereinafter “disaster or similar event”) could affect (¥/US$) approximately ¥1.8 billion MOL-operated vessels, offices and facilities, as well as employA 1 point rise in both yenand U.S. dollar-denominated Interest Rate ees, hampering business operations. interest-bearing debt reduces ordinary income by (%) MOL puts the highest priority on ensuring the safety of its approximately ¥4.0 billion Bunker Price A US$1/MT increase reduces ordinary income by vessels and personnel in the event of a disaster or similar event. (US$/MT) approximately ¥0.19 billion The Company has formulated a business continuity plan docuFinancial Capital menting procedures to enable it to continue providing core Average Bunker Price (US$/MT) ocean transport services and quickly restore operations in the unlikely event that they are suspended. This business continuity 800 plan establishes organizations and delegates authority for duties relating to maintaining the safe operation of vessels, execution of transportation contracts and charter agreements, financial 600 preparation, securing required personnel, and other matters. Furthermore, for some years MOL has been conducting regular disaster-preparedness drills on and off premise at Head Office, 400 aboard ships and throughout the Group’s other facilities, as well as taking other measures to ensure preparedness. By addressing 200 issues arising from these drills, MOL believes that it maintains a high state of readiness. Nevertheless, in the event of a disaster or similar event in which MOL cannot completely avoid damage, 0 the Company’s business performance may be affected. (FY) 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 Annual Report 2015 69 Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) MOL’s Approach to CSR forth in the MOL Group Corporate Principles. In order to contribute to an international framework for realizing these goals, MOL In our view, CSR means conducting business management that became the first Japanese shipping company to participate in the adequately takes into account laws and regulations, social United Nations (UN) Global Compact in 2005. Since then, MOL norms, safety and environmental issues, human rights and other has worked to support and practice the 10 principles in 4 areas of considerations, and developing together with society sustainably the UN Global Compact, which shares the same values as MOL’s and harmoniously while earning the support and trust of stakeRules of Conduct, which were established as a set of guidelines for holders, including shareholders, customers, business partners, executives and employees. employees and local communities. 10 Principles of the Global Compact CSR Overview Human Rights Raise corporate value, contribute to stakeholders, help solve Principle 1. Business should support and respect the protection of internationally social issues and contribute to society’s sustainable growth proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2. Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Trust of Stakeholders Support of Stakeholders Labour Business Activities Principle 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4. The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; CSR Activities Principle 5. The effective abolition of child labour; and Safe operation; environmental measures; compliance; corporate governance; Principle 6. The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. risk management; accountability; fair trading; respect for human rights; employment, labor, occupational health and safety, Environment health management and employee satisfaction; social contribution activities Principle 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Midterm Management Plan Principle 9. Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. MOL CHART Anti-Corruption Principle 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Long-term Vision MOL Group Corporate Principles The MOL Group Basic Procurement Policy In order to fulfill these responsibilities, MOL deliberates on We formulated the MOL Group Basic Procurement Policy in CSR-related policies and measures, primarily through the three 2012. This clearly documents our CSR activity policy regarding committees under the Executive Committee. the Group’s procurement activities. To embed this policy in the The MOL Group’s initiatives and policies regarding overall CSR MOL Group, we work throughout our supply chain to observe are deliberated on by the CSR and Environment Committee, laws and regulations and social norms, incorporate consideration which then sets single-year, mediumand long-term targets and for environmental protection in our activities, pursue safety, conducts regular reviews. engage in fair trading and build trust, with the understanding The Operational Safety Committee discusses basic policies and cooperation of business partners. In this way, we aim to conand measures for ensuring safe operation of MOL Grouptribute towards the realization of sustainable societies together. operated vessels through rigorous attention to every detail. The Compliance Committee discusses basic policies and measures for The MOL Group Basic Procurement Policy enhancing the compliance system, dealing with compliance vioThe MOL Group procures goods and/or services in accordance with lations, and establishing a structure for protecting and managing the following basic policy: personal information. 1. We comply with applicable laws, regulations and social norms, and pay due consideration to the protection of the environment. Organizational Framework 2. We procure goods and/or services, including the delivery or execufor CSR Initiatives CSR and Environment tion of such goods and/or services, that meet high safety standards. Committee 3. We conduct fair trade, and endeavor to establish trusting relationChief Executive Executive Operational Safety ships with contractors. Officer Committee Committee (President) We work to make sure that our contractors understand our Basic Compliance Committee Procurement Policy, with the aim of contributing towards the realization of sustainable societies together. Participating in the UN Global Compact CSR Objective of Midterm Management Plan CSR activities are broad and, from time to time, the strength and priority of those activities change depending on the operating 1. Thoroughly implement safe operation and provide safe, secure, environment, global circumstances and region where business is stable, high-quality services. being developed. With business activities spread across the globe, 2. Deepen initiatives to ensure thorough compliance. MOL believes that building good relationships with various stakeholders worldwide and contributing to the realization of sustainable growth of society are vital as it seeks to realize the ideas set 70 Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Environmental Management System Value Creation 3. Strengthen initiatives on corporate governance. To precisely grasp and manage the environmental risks and 4. Promote personnel training and diversity to strengthen compreopportunities in our businesses, we established the environmenhensive Group capabilities. tal management system MOL EMS21 in April 2001, and since 5. Make further progress on solving social issues and promoting environment initiatives as an environmentally advanced company. then we have made ongoing efforts to improve it. Every year, the 6. Actively disclose sustainability data. CSR and Environment Office conducts an internal audit based on Management Strategy 7. Promote social contribution activities related to MOL’s businesses. MOL EMS21.The chairman, who is responsible for environmental management, receives the results of the internal audit and conFor more detailed CSR For more detailed firms whether the system is functioning effectively. information, see the diversity information, see We also have a third-party audit by DNV GL Business Safety, Environmental the Safety, Environmental and Social Report. and Social Report. Assurance Japan KK every year, and a renewal audit every three years, and have earned ISO14001 certification for our environmental management system. The results of our FY2014 audit Initiatives on the Environment showed no non-conformity. Manufactured Capital Key Environmental Issues The MOL Group Environmental Target System In March 2014, we identified the highest-priority environmental We have implemented the Group Environmental Target System, issues and set about addressing those issues in a proactive mantargeting major group companies in Japan and overseas. Every ner. To identify these priorities, we analyzed issues from internayear, each company sets environmental targets to reduce the tional conditions regarding environmental issues; the opinions of environmental impact of our business activities based on specific stakeholders including customers, investors, and so on; as well as guidelines that are in line with midterm management plan, and our own internal viewpoints. Finally, through discussions in the establishes action plans to achieve those targets. Along with CSR and Environment Committee, we identified the following those targets, we collect each company’s data on its own envifive issues. ronmental impact (fuel consumption, electric power consumpHuman Capital 1 Comply with environmental regulations tion, paper usage, waste, and so on). 2 Utilize technologies to reduce environmental impact 3 Disclose environmental data 4 Ensure safe operation Ocean Shipping’s Impact on the Environment 5 Contribute to conservation of biodiversity Compared to other modes of transport, ocean shipping can transport larger volumes of cargo at once and is an Organizational Structure for Environmental Initiatives environmentally friendly mode, with lower emissions per Intellectual, Social, Environmental Capital Environmental Capital To effectively promote environmental initiatives based on the ton-mile of CO2 and other air pollutants. MOL Environmental Policy, the CSR and Environment Committee, However, with growth of the world economy spurred a sub-committee of the Executive Committee, oversees planning by the development of emerging markets, overall ocean and promotion of environment-related measures under the direccargo traffic continues to increase. Seaborne trade has tion of the president. The CSR and Environment Committee exceeded 10 billion tons, and we anticipate further assesses environment-related risks and opportunities involving increases. As seaborne trade increases, CO2 emissions will MOL, identifies the highest-priority issues in the group’s environrise in step with growing energy consumption. This can mental management, and sets environmental targets, striving to exacerbate pressing environmental issues. CO2 emissions achieve environment-friendly business activities. In March 2014, from merchant vessels account for about 2% of global we set new environmental targets in the midterm management emissions, and the shipping industry must do more to protect the environment. Financial Capital plan “STEER FOR 2020” for three years starting from FY2014. Comparison of CO2 Emissions from Aircraft, Trucks, Organizational Structure to Promote the Environmental and Ocean Vessels (Unit: grams/ton-km) Executive Committee Director responsible for environmental management (Chairman of CSR and Environment Committee) More than 8,000 dwt 15 CSR and Environment Executive Officer of CSR and 2,000-8,000 dwt 21 Committee Environment Committee (Vice-Chairman of CSR and Environment Committee) 50 (Secretariat office: Corporate Planning Division, CSR and Environment Office) 540 Divisions/Offices Divisions/Offices General Manager (Personnel Source: ICS & NTM, Sweden responsible for environmental management) For more detailed environmental initiatives information, see the Safety, Environmental and Social Report. Annual Report 2015 71 Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Schedule of Environmental Regulations by IMO, etc Regulations 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2025 Tackling Global GHG EEDI*1 Phase 0 Phase 1 Phase 2 Phase 3 Warming emissions SEEMP* 2 Mandatory *Introduction of MRV (Monitoring, Reporting and Verification of actual fuel consumption) and MBM (Market-Based Measures) is under study toward further reduction of GHG emissions. Preventing Air General Sea Areas Tier Ⅱ NoX Pollution emissions*3 ECA* 4 Tier Ⅱ Tier Ⅲ General Sea Areas Sulfur limit 3.5% Sulfur limit 0.5%*6 SoX emissions*5 ECA Sulfur limit 1.0% Sulfur limit 0.1% Marine Ballast Water General Sea Areas (Adopted in 2004: not ratified) Expected to be mandatory Environment Management Convention*7 Regulation by USGC * 8 (Enforced in 2012) Mandatory Protection Minimizing the transfer of invasive (Guideline adopted in 2011) aquatic species by shipping*9 Ship Recycling Convention*10 (Adopted in 2009: not ratified) (*1) EEDI (Energy Efficiency Design Index) is a measure of ships energy efficiency new ships and, after certain grace periods, to existing ships) (g/ton-mile). The required EEDI of each Phase is as follows:Phase 0=0%, Conditions: Ratification by not less than 30 countries representing a combined Phase 1=10%, Phase 2=20% (Applied to new ships) total G/T of more than 35% of the world’s merchant fleet. (As of March 2015, (*2) SEEMP (Ship Energy Efficiency Management Plan) is required to be drawn up to 44 countries representing a combined total G/T of 32.86% have ratified.) show optimal measures of operation that should be adjusted to the characteris(*8) Regional regulation by U.S. Coast Guard. tics of individual ships, and to be kept on board a ship. (Applied to both new and (*9) The guideline aimed at minimizing transfer of invasive aquatic species attaching existing ships) to the bottom of ships, recommending installation of the systems on vessels to (*3) The regulation for reduction of NOx in exhaust gases: TierⅠis applied to ships keep the bottom clean without marine organisms and other measures. (It laid down in 2000-2010, Tier Ⅱ to ships laid down in/after 2011, and Tier Ⅲ to remains as a voluntary guideline during the review period.) ships laid down in/after 2016. (*10) The convention prohibits and restricts the fitting and use of treaty-specified (*4) The existing ECAs (Emission Control Areas) are: 1.Within 200 miles off the coast hazardous materials, and requires vessels to prepare, record and update inventoof USA and Canada (NOx/SOx) 2.The USA Caribbean Sea area (NOx/SOx) 3.The ry lists showing the quantity and location of hazardous materials on ships over a Baltic Sea and the North Sea areas (SOx) ship's lifetime. The convention shall enter into force 24 months after the follow(*5) The regulations for reduction of SOx contained in fuel oil (Applied to both new ing conditions are met: and existing ships) Conditions: Ratification by not less than 15 countries representing a combined (*6) A review in 2018 on the availability of the required fuel oil may conclude to total G/T of more than 40% of the world’s merchant fleet and an annual ship postpone the application to 2025. recycling volume not less than 3% of the combined tonnage of the ratifying (*7) The convention shall enter in force 12 months after the following conditions are countries .(As of March 2015, 3 countries have ratified.) met, and it is increasingly likely that it enters into force in 2016. (Applied to both Environmental Investments and CO2 Reductions Environmental Investments CO2 and Cost Reductions from Environmental Measures (Billions of yen) Fiscal 2014 Plan for FY2014–2016 (FY) 2012 2013 2014 Environment-related R&D activities ¥0.7 CO2 emissions reductions (1,000t) 302 279 348 Utilization and expansion of existing Cost Reductions (¥ billions) ¥5.3 ¥5.5 ¥5.5 2.1 environmental technologies Responses to environmental regulations 0.5 Initiatives to save bunker fuel 0.9 Initiatives of Group companies 0.2 Total ¥4.3 ¥20.0 Third-Party Evaluations Environment Related MOL Ship Management (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. (2014), MOL Ship ■ ISO 14001 Certification Management (Hong Kong) Company Ltd. (2014) and Magsaysay MOL has used its own environmental manMOL Ship Management, Inc. (2015) agement system MOL EMS21 since April 2001, and also holds ISO 14001 certification, ■ Recognized by CDP as Leader in Climate Change an international standard for environmental Transparency and in Corporate Action on Climate Change management. (Since 2003) MOL was recognized as a leader for the depth and quality of the climate change data it has disclosed for independent assessment ■ ISO 50001 Certification through CDP, an international non-profit organization. At the MOL acquired ISO 50001 certification for its energy management same time, MOL earned a spot on the CDP Climate Performance system and ISO 14001 certification for its environmental manageLeadership Index (CPLI) for its actions to reduce carbon emissions ment system. (2014) and mitigate the business risks Certified companies: MOL Ship Management Co., Ltd. (2014), of climate change. (2014) 72 Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Three Principles of MOL’s Social Contribution Activities Value Creation Social Contribution Activities MOL aims to be a company that grows susI. Contribute to the UN II. Contribute to protecting III. Contribute to local tainably and harmoniously with society. We Millennium Development biodiversity and communities therefore carefully consider social issues to Goals* preserving nature. tackle, and work to help solve them based on three principles. Guided by these princi* One of the common frameworks that integrates the Millennium Declaration adopted at the United Nations Management Strategy ples, we proactively undertake social contriMillennium Summit held in September 2000, and the International Development Goals that were adopted at major international conference and summits in the 1990’s. The Millennium Development Goals consist of specific bution activities that only a shipping numerical targets to be achieved by 2015 in eight fields, including “achieve universal primary education” and company with a global network can. “reduce child mortality.” Global Social Contribution Activities Liberia Cambodia and Japan Pledging emerMyanmar Educational support in communities affected gency support to Transport of medical by the Great East Japan Earthquake combat spread of equipment by sea • Donation of books and book coupons to Manufactured Capital Ebola junior high schools in affected areas • Marine officers present career education lecture at junior high school in affected areas Somalia MOL and six other companies* provided US$1 million in funding to the Somalia Support Project, run by the Hong Kong, United Nations Development Malaysia and Japan Programme (UNDP). Coastal cleanup Human Capital * Shell, BP, Maersk, Stena, NYK, Provided Somalia’s K Line and MOL Philippines youth with vocational Supporting afflicted skills training people of typhoon Tanzania Vietnam Transport of Transport of children’s wheelchairs by sea clothes by sea Intellectual, Social, Environmental Capital Environmental Capital Ghana In-house blood drive South Africa Transport of mobile libraries Paraguay by sea • Transport of children’s wheelchairs by sea Kenya • Transport of fire engines by sea Zambia India Transport of children’s Supporting an orphanage shoes by sea Financial Capital Third-Party Evaluations Overall CSR, including evaluation of socially responsible ■ The Morningstar Socially Responsible Investment Index (MS-SRI) investment (SRI) Since 2003, MOL has been selected by ■ CSR Rating by the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices (DJSI) Morningstar Japan K.K. for superior social Since 2003, MOL has been included in the DJSI Asia Pacific, a desresponsibility and included in the MS-SRI. ignation reserved for companies capable of sustaining growth over the long term while maintaining ■ The Global 100 Top Sustainable Companies excellence in environmental, social, and In 2011, MOL was selected for inclusion in the Global 100 Index pubinvestor relations programs. lished every year by the Canadian company Corporate Knights Inc. ■ CSR Rating by the FTSE4Good Global Index ■ SMBC Sustainability Assessment Loan FTSE is a global index company owned by In 2013, MOL became the first company to receive an SMBC the London Stock Exchange. Since 2003, Sustainability Assessment Loan from Sumitomo FTSE has included MOL in one of its major Mitsui Banking Corporation (SMBC), winning indices, the FTSE4Good Global Index, specific praise for timely and accurate disclosure which is a socially responsible investment of environmental, social, and governance (ESG) index. issues and for its initiatives on sustainability. Annual Report 2015 73 Glossary (In alphabetical order)  Ballast voyage  Yamal LNG Project Sailing to the next port of call without any cargo loaded. This project will use the world’s first ice class LNG carriers to transport LNG from the Yamal LNG Terminal located in the Arctic  Baltic Dry Index Circle on the Yamal Peninsula of Russia. The plan is to export Baltic Dry Index (BDI) is calculated by The Baltic Exchange as an 16.5 million tons of LNG every year—the highest volume of LNG arithmetic average of the drybulker markets of the four different exports from Russia. Operations are slated to begin in 2018. It is vessel types.(1/4/1985=1,000) forecasted that about 15 ice class LNG carriers will be necessary, three of which are contracted with MOL.  FPSO (Floating Production, Storage and Offloading system) The Kara Sea, which adjoins the Yamal LNG Terminal, comA floating facility for producing oil offshore. The oil is stored in pletely freezes over in winter as the average temperature drops tanks in the facility and directly offloaded to tankers for direct to around minus 30 degrees Celsius. This has proved a challenge transport to the destination. for transporting LNG and long prevented development of the area. With this project, however, the introduction of ice class  FSRU (Floating Storage and Re-gasification Unit) LNG carriers has resolved the persistent transportation issues, A floating facility for storing and regasification of LNG offshore, allowing development to finally begin. which is then pressurized and piped ashore. Plans to introduce FSRUs in regions around the world are making steady progress as View a video introducing Yamal LNG Project they can be set up in less time and less cost than conventional onshore receiving terminals.  Ice class LNG carrier The world’s first LNG carrier capable of breaking through sea ice. Winter Route Arctic Ocean Normally on the Northern Sea Route, an escort ship breaks up Summer Route the ice to open a channel. But the ice class LNG carriers to be deployed for the Yamal LNG Project will possess the same iceRussia breaking capabilities as the Antarctic research vessel Shirase, enabling it to break through sea ice of up to 2.1 meters thick on Sea of Okhotsk its own.  Market exposure Vessels operating under contracts of less than two years, which are owned or mid-and long-term chartered vessels. (Includes vessels that combine multiple customers’ cargoes.)  Pool arrangement  Yield management Ship operators and owners pool certain ships to conduct joint In the containership business, this refers to a management techoperations. nique to maximize profitability for the round-trip voyage of each container. Freight rates are set and sales activities conducted to  Shuttle tanker maximize net proceeds (gross profits calculated by deducting A specialized tanker that shuttles from offshore oil plants to direct costs from freight revenues) rather than freight rates onshore terminals to transport crude oil, which has been extractthemselves. Direct costs include loading and unloading costs, ed from offshore oil wells. feeder costs, and the costs of returning empty containers (calculated to reflect the aspect of surplus and shortage of containers  Ton-mile at each point). Transporting one ton of cargo one mile. Expressing the volume of cargo calculated by multiplying transported weight and transported mile together. As opposed to just reporting cargo weight without reference to distance, ton-mile provides a complete picture of total transport activity, reflecting the demand fulfilled by vessels or other transport modes.  Unit cost The fixed cost of transporting one TEU on a containership. Fixed costs include vessel costs (depreciation and interest, or charter rates) and ship operation expenses (bunker costs, port costs and so on). 74 Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Value Creation Management Strategy Financial Section Contents 76 Consolidated Balance Sheets 78 Consolidated Statements of Income and Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income Manufactured Capital 79 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Net Assets 80 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 81 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 111 Independent Auditor’s Report Human Capital Intellectual, Social, Environmental Capital Financial Capital Annual Report 2015 75 Consolidated Balance Sheets Mitsui O.S.K. Lines, Ltd. March 31, 2015 and 2014 Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars (Note 1) ASSETS 2015 2014 2015 Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents (Note 3) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ¥128,802 ¥180,126 $1,071,832 Trade receivables (Note 3) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 178,845 146,787 1,488,267 Allowance for doubtful accounts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (1,538) (697) (12,799) Inventories (Note 5) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49,026 59,349 407,972 Deferred and prepaid expenses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75,937 73,285 631,913 Deferred tax assets (Note 15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2,107 1,629 17,533 Other current assets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78,617 73,161 654,215 Total current assets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 511,796 533,640 4,258,933 Vessels, property and equipment (Notes 7 and 13): Vessels . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,527,590 1,434,505 12,711,908 Buildings and structures . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 319,171 281,720 2,655,996 Equipment and others . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 94,157 76,228 783,532 Land . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 221,993 215,610 1,847,324 Vessels and other property under construction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 173,279 148,972 1,441,949 2,336,190 2,157,035 19,440,709 Accumulated depreciation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (838,162) (777,790) (6,974,802) Net vessels, property and equipment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,498,028 1,379,245 12,465,907 Investments and other assets: Investment securities (Notes 3, 4 and 7) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 128,416 111,061 1,068,619 Investments in and advances to unconsolidated subsidiaries and affiliated companies. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 141,304 124,303 1,175,868 Long-term loans receivable (Note 3) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 74,959 37,519 623,775 Intangible fixed assets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37,068 29,385 308,463 Deferred tax assets (Note 15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3,954 3,769 32,903 Net defined benefit assets (Note 16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24,063 21,200 200,241 Derivative financial assets (Notes 3 and 6) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 182,523 89,641 1,518,873 Other assets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21,939 34,932 182,567 Total investments and other assets. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 614,226 451,810 5,111,309 Total assets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ¥2,624,050 ¥2,364,695 $21,836,149 See accompanying notes. 76 Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Value Creation Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars (Note 1) LIABILITIES AND NET ASSETS 2015 2014 2015 Current liabilities: Short-term loans . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ¥74,203 ¥14,697 $617,484 Management Strategy Commercial paper . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5,500 — 45,768 Total short-term debt (Notes 3 and 7) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 79,703 14,697 663,252 Long-term bank loans due within one year . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 105,186 90,492 875,310 Bonds due within one year . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15,000 45,000 124,823 Total long-term debt due within one year (Notes 3 and 7) . . . . . . . . . . . 120,186 135,492 1,000,133 Trade payables (Note 3) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 167,002 143,196 1,389,715 Advances received . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36,280 37,696 301,906 Accrued income taxes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7,639 6,909 63,568 Manufactured Capital Deferred tax liabilities (Note 15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 593 1,716 4,935 Other current liabilities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 93,944 90,339 781,759 Total current liabilities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 505,347 430,045 4,205,268 Non-current liabilities: Long-term bank loans due after one year . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 688,332 740,038 5,727,985 Bonds due after one year . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 270,185 180,500 2,248,357 Total long-term debt due after one year (Notes 3 and 7) . . . . . . . . . . . . 958,517 920,538 7,976,342 Human Capital Directors’ and corporate auditors’ retirement benefits . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,803 1,852 15,004 Reserve for periodic drydocking . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15,803 14,191 131,505 Deferred tax liabilities (Note 15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 109,043 81,130 907,406 Net defined benefit liabilities (Note 16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13,660 12,936 113,672 Other non-current liabilities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 127,442 120,454 1,060,514 Total non-current liabilities. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,226,268 1,151,101 10,204,443 Intellectual, Social, Environmental Capital Total liabilities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,731,615 1,581,146 14,409,711 Commitments and contingent liabilities (Note 8) Net assets (Note 9): Owners’ equity Common stock; Authorized — 3,154,000,000 shares Financial Capital Issued — 1,206,286,115 shares . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 65,400 65,400 544,229 Capital surplus . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44,469 44,517 370,051 Retained earnings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 533,485 502,833 4,439,419 Treasury stock, at cost . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (6,823) (6,982) (56,778) Total owners’ equity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 636,531 605,768 5,296,921 Accumulated other comprehensive income Unrealized holding gains on available-for-sale securities, net of tax . . . . 44,261 32,810 368,320 Unrealized gains on hedging derivatives, net of tax . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 68,770 39,711 572,273 Foreign currency translation adjustments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27,673 (315) 230,282 Remeasurements of defined benefit plans, net of tax . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5,322 1,186 44,287 Total accumulated other comprehensive income . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 146,026 73,392 1,215,162 Share subscription rights. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2,553 2,391 21,245 Minority interests . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 107,325 101,998 893,110 Total net assets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 892,435 783,549 7,426,438 Total liabilities and net assets. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ¥2,624,050 ¥2,364,695 $21,836,149 Annual Report 2015 77 Consolidated Statements of Income and Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income Mitsui O.S.K. Lines, Ltd. Years ended March 31, 2015 and 2014 (Consolidated Statements of Income) Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars (Note 1) 2015 2014 2015 Shipping and other revenues (Note 14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ¥1,817,070 ¥1,729,452 $15,120,829 Shipping and other expenses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,683,795 1,587,902 14,011,775 Gross operating income . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 133,275 141,550 1,109,054 Selling, general and administrative expenses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 116,025 100,458 965,507 Operating income . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17,250 41,092 143,547 Other income (expenses): Interest and dividend income. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9,625 9,341 80,095 Interest expense . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (12,556) (12,583) (104,485) Equity in earnings (losses) of affiliated companies, net . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4,930 (1,234) 41,025 Others, net (Notes 10 and 11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39,083 35,094 325,230 41,082 30,618 341,865 Income before income taxes and minority interests . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58,332 71,710 485,412 Income taxes (Note 15): Current . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (12,440) (13,796) (103,520) Deferred . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2,577 4,526 21,445 Income before minority interests . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48,469 62,440 403,337 Minority interests . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (6,113) (5,046) (50,870) Net income . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ¥ 42,356 ¥ 57,394 $ 352,467 (Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income) Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars (Note 1) 2015 2014 2015 Income before minority interests . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ¥ 48,469 ¥ 62,440 $ 403,337 Other comprehensive income (Note 18): Unrealized holding gains on available-for-sale securities, net of tax. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12,892 8,847 107,281 Unrealized gains on hedging derivatives, net of tax . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46,674 32,725 388,400 Foreign currency translation adjustments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20,802 31,158 173,105 Remeasurements of defined benefit plans, net of tax . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4,134 — 34,401 Share of other comprehensive income (loss) of associates accounted for using equity method . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (9,981) 19,285 (83,057) 74,521 92,015 620,130 Comprehensive income . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ¥122,990 ¥154,455 $1,023,467 Comprehensive income Comprehensive income attributable to owners of the parent . . . . . . . . . . . ¥114,990 ¥144,892 $ 956,894 Comprehensive income attributable to minority interests . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8,000 9,563 66,573 (Amounts per share of common stock) Yen U.S. dollars (Note 1) Net income . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ¥35.42 ¥47.99 $0.295 Diluted net income (Note 2) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32.98 47.97 0.274 Cash dividends applicable to the year . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7.00 5.00 0.058 See accompanying notes. 78 Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Consolidated Statements of Changes in Net Assets Mitsui O.S.K. Lines, Ltd. Years ended March 31, 2015 and 2014 Value Creation Millions of yen Unrealized Remeasureholding gains Unrealized ments on availablegains (losses) Foreign of defined Treasury for-sale on hedging currency benefit Share Common Capital Retained stock, securities, derivatives, translation plans, subscription Minority Total stock surplus earnings at cost net of tax net of tax adjustments net of tax rights interests net assets Management Strategy Balance at April 1, 2013 . . . . . . . ¥65,400 ¥44,483 ¥447,830 ¥(6,998) ¥24,753 ¥ (196) ¥(39,849) ¥ — ¥2,115 ¥ 81,955 ¥619,493 Due to change in consolidated subsidiaries . . . . . . — — 1 — — — — — — — 1 Net income . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . — — 57,394 — — — — — — — 57,394 Purchases of treasury stock . . . . — — — (62) — — — — — — (62) Disposal of treasury stock. . . . . . — 34 — 78 — — — — — — 112 Dividends paid . . . . . . . . . . . . . . — — (2,392) — — — — — — — (2,392) Net changes of items other than Manufactured Capital owner’s equity during the year . . — — — — 8,057 39,907 39,534 1,186 276 20,043 109,003 Balance at March 31 and April 1, 2014 . . . ¥65,400 ¥44,517 ¥502,833 ¥(6,982) ¥32,810 ¥39,711 ¥ (315) ¥1,186 ¥2,391 ¥101,998 ¥783,549 Cumulative effects of changes in accounting policies . . . . . . . . . . — — (4,567) — — — — — — — (4,567) Restated balance . . . . . . . . . . . . ¥65,400 ¥44,517 ¥498,266 ¥(6,982) ¥32,810 ¥39,711 ¥(315) ¥1,186 ¥2,391 ¥101,998 ¥778,982 Issuance of new shares exercise of subscription rights to shares . — — — 19 — — — — (19) — — Due to change in consolidated Human Capital subsidiaries . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . — — 205 — — — — — — — 205 Due to change in affiliated companies accounted for by the equity method — — (121) — — — — — — — (121) Net income . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . — — 42,356 — — — — — — — 42,356 Purchases of treasury stock . . . . — — — (56) — — — — — — (56) Disposal of treasury stock. . . . . . — (48) (49) 196 — — — — — — 99 Intellectual, Social, Environmental Capital Dividends paid . . . . . . . . . . . . . . — — (7,172) — — — — — — — (7,172) Net changes of items other than owner's equity during the year . — — — — 11,451 29,059 27,988 4,136 181 5,327 78,142 Balance at March 31, 2015 . . . . ¥65,400 ¥44,469 ¥533,485 ¥(6,823) ¥44,261 ¥68,770 ¥27,673 ¥5,322 ¥2,553 ¥107,325 ¥892,435 Thousands of U.S. dollars (Note 1) Unrealized Remeasureholding gains Unrealized ments on availablegains (losses) Foreign of defined Treasury for-sale on hedging currency benefit Share Common Capital Retained stock, securities, derivatives, translation plans, subscription Minority Total Financial Capital stock surplus earnings at cost net of tax net of tax adjustments net of tax rights interests net assets Balance at April 1, 2014 . . . . . . $544,229 $370,450 $4,184,347 $(58,101) $273,030 $330,457 $(2,621) $9,869 $19,897 $848,781 $6,520,338 Cumulative effects of changes in accounting policies . . . . . . . . . . — — (38,004) — — — — — — — (38,004) Restated balance . . . . . . . . . . . . $544,229 $370,450 $4,146,343 $(58,101) $273,030 $330,457 $(2,621) $9,869 $19,897 $848,781 $6,482,334 Issuance of new shares exercise of subscription rights to shares . — — — 158 — — — — (158) — — Due to change in consolidated subsidiaries . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . — — 1,706 — — — — — — — 1,706 Due to change in affiliated companies accounted for by the equity method — — (1,007) — — — — — — — (1,007) Net income . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . — — 352,467 — — — — — — — 352,467 Purchases of treasury stock . . . . — — — (466) — — — — — — (466) Disposal of treasury stock. . . . . . — (399) (408) 1,631 — — — — — — 824 Dividends paid . . . . . . . . . . . . . . — — (59,682) — — — — — — — (59,682) Net changes of items other than owner's equity during the year . — — — — 95,290 241,816 232,903 34,418 1,506 44,329 650,262 Balance at March 31, 2015 . . . . $544,229 $370,051 $4,439,419 $(56,778) $368,320 $572,273 $230,282 $44,287 $21,245 $893,110 $7,426,438 See accompanying notes. Annual Report 2015 79 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Mitsui O.S.K. Lines, Ltd. Years ended March 31, 2015 and 2014 Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars (Note 1) 2015 2014 2015 Cash flows from operating activities: Income before income taxes and minority interests . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ¥ 58,332 ¥ 71,710 $ 485,412 Adjustments to reconcile income before income taxes and minority interests to net cash provided by operating activities Depreciation and amortization . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 87,804 83,984 730,665 Impairment loss . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10,198 6,448 84,863 Equity in losses (earnings) of affiliated companies, net . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (4,930) 1,234 (41,025) Various provisions (reversals) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2,356 (13,899) 19,606 Decrease (Increase) in net defined benefit assets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (1,560) (19,536) (12,982) Increase (Decrease) in net defined benefit liabilities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 377 13,035 3,137 Interest and dividend income. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (9,625) (9,341) (80,095) Interest expense . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12,556 12,583 104,485 Gain on sale and disposal of vessels, property and equipment . . . . . . . . (13,380) (391) (111,342) Exchange loss (gain), net . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (24,801) (15,671) (206,383) Changes in operating assets and liabilities: Trade receivables . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (28,223) 5,042 (234,859) Inventories . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11,750 1,046 97,778 Trade payables . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19,756 (3,875) 164,400 Others, net . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (11,878) (27,584) (98,842) Sub total . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 108,732 104,785 904,818 Cash received for interest and dividends . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12,411 13,346 103,279 Cash paid for interest . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (13,107) (13,167) (109,071) Cash paid for corporate income tax, resident tax and enterprise tax . . . . . . . (15,541) (10,708) (129,325) Net cash provided by operating activities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 92,495 94,256 769,701 Cash flows from investing activities: Purchase of investment securities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (14,594) (22,888) (121,445) Proceeds from sale of investment securities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,770 7,318 14,729 Payments for purchase of vessels and other tangible and intangible fixed assets . . . (186,317) (183,888) (1,550,445) Proceeds from sale of vessels and other tangible and intangible fixed assets . . . 74,184 78,267 617,325 Proceeds from sale of investments in subsidiaries . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8,706 9,676 72,447 Net decrease (increase) in short-term loans receivables . . . . . . . . . . . . . (4,526) 359 (37,663) Disbursements for long-term loans receivables . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (59,942) (13,939) (498,810) Collections of long-term loans receivables . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27,957 4,585 232,645 Purchase of shares of subsidiaries resulting in change in scope of consolidation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (6,258) (52,076) Others, net . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (131) 639 (1,089) Net cash used in investing activities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (159,151) (119,871) (1,324,382) Cash flows from financing activities: Net increase (decrease) in short-term loans . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59,030 (31,725) 491,221 Net increase (decrease) in commercial paper . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5,500 (2,000) 45,768 Proceeds from long-term bank loans . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 107,951 159,602 898,319 Repayments of long-term bank loans . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (203,117) (117,237) (1,690,247) Proceeds from issuance of bonds . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 95,280 15,000 792,877 Redemption of bonds . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (45,000) (25,000) (374,470) Purchase of treasury stock . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (57) (62) (474) Sale of treasury stock . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 68 13 566 Cash dividends paid by the Company . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (7,177) (2,408) (59,724) Cash dividends paid to minority interests . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (3,959) (1,321) (32,945) Others, net . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (2,008) (1,956) (16,709) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6,511 (7,094) 54,182 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and equivalents . . . . . . . . . 8,006 10,582 66,622 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents . . . . . . . . . . . . . (52,139) (22,127) (433,877) Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 180,126 200,636 1,498,927 Net cash increase from new consolidation/de-consolidation of subsidiaries . . 815 1,617 6,782 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ¥ 128,802 ¥ 180,126 $ 1,071,832 See accompanying notes. 80 Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Mitsui O.S.K. Lines, Ltd. Years ended March 31, 2015 and 2014 Value Creation 1. BASIS OF PRESENTING CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The accompanying consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the provisions set forth in the Japanese Financial Instruments and Exchange Act and its related accounting regulations, and in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in Japan (together “Japanese GAAP”), which are different in certain respects as to application and disclosure requirements of International Financial Reporting Standards. Management Strategy The accounts of overseas subsidiaries are adjusted according to ASBJ PITF No. 18. The accompanying consolidated financial statements have been restructured and translated into English (with some expanded descriptions) from the consolidated financial statements of Mitsui O.S.K. Lines, Ltd. (the “Company”) prepared in accordance with Japanese GAAP and filed with the appropriate Local Finance Bureau of the Ministry of Finance as required by the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act. Some supplementary information included in the statutory Japanese language consolidated financial statements, but not required for fair presentation, is not presented in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. The translations of the Japanese yen amounts into U.S. dollars are included solely for the convenience of readers outside Japan, using the prevailing exchange rate at March 31, 2015, which was ¥120.17 to U.S. $1.00. The convenience translations should not Manufactured Capital be construed as representations that the Japanese yen amounts have been, could have been, or could in the future be, converted into U.S. dollars at this or any other rate of exchange. 2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (1) PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and 371 subsidiaries for the year ended March 31, 2015 (357 subsidiaries for the year ended March 31, 2014). All significant inter-company balances, transactions and all material Human Capital unrealized profit within the consolidated group have been eliminated in consolidation. Investments in unconsolidated subsidiaries and affiliated companies are accounted for by the equity method. Companies accounted for using the equity method include 70 affiliated companies for the year ended March 31, 2015, and 73 affiliated companies for the year ended March 31, 2014. Investments in other subsidiaries and affiliated companies were stated at cost since total revenues, total assets, the Company’s equity in net income and retained earnings and others in such companies were not material. In the elimination of investments in subsidiaries, the assets and liabilities of the subsidiaries, including the portion attributable to Intellectual, Social, Environmental Capital minority shareholders, are recorded based on the fair value at the time the Company acquired control of the respective subsidiaries. The difference between acquisition cost and net assets acquired is treated as goodwill and negative goodwill and is amortized principally over 5 years on a straight-line basis. Net amortized amount is included in “Selling, general and administrative expenses” or “Other income” of the consolidated statements of income. Meanwhile, the negative goodwill incurred after April 1, 2010 is recognized as “Other income” at the time of occurrence in accordance with the revised Japanese GAAP. (2) TRANSLATION OF FOREIGN CURRENCY Revenues earned and expenses incurred in currencies other than Japanese yen of the Company and its subsidiaries keeping their Financial Capital books in Japanese yen are translated into Japanese yen either at a monthly exchange rate or at the rate prevailing on the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than Japanese yen are translated into yen at the exchange rate prevailing at the balance sheet date. Subsidiaries keeping their books in a currency other than Japanese yen translate the revenues and expenses and assets and liabilities in foreign currencies into the currency used for financial reporting in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in their respective countries. All the items in financial statements of subsidiaries, which are stated in currencies other than Japanese yen, were translated into Japanese yen at the year-end exchange rate, except for owners’ equity which is translated at historical rates. Translation differences arising from the application of more than one exchange rate are presented as foreign currency translation adjustments in the net assets section of the consolidated balance sheets. (3) CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS In preparing the consolidated statements of cash flows, cash on hand, readily-available deposits and short-term highly liquid investments with maturities not exceeding three months at the time of purchase are considered to be cash and cash equivalents. Annual Report 2015 81 (4) FREIGHT REVENUES AND RELATED EXPENSES 1. Containerships Freight revenues and the related voyage expenses are recognized by the multiple transportation progress method. 2. Vessels other than containerships Freight revenues and the related voyage expenses are recognized mainly by the completed-voyage method. (5) SECURITIES Securities are classified into (a) securities held for trading purposes (hereafter, “trading securities”), (b) debt securities intended to be held to maturity (hereafter, “held-to-maturity debt securities”), (c) equity securities issued by subsidiaries and affiliated companies, or (d) for all other securities that are not classified in any of the above categories (hereafter, “available-for-sale securities”). Trading securities are stated at fair market value. Unrealized gains and losses from market value fluctuations are recognized as gains or losses in the period of the change. Held-to-maturity debt securities are stated at amortized cost, net of the amount considered not collectible. Equity securities issued by subsidiaries and affiliated companies which are not consolidated or accounted for using the equity method are stated at moving-average cost. Available-for-sale securities with fair market values are stated at fair market values, and the corresponding unrealized holding gains or losses, net of applicable income taxes, are reported as separate component of net assets. Other securities with no available fair market value are stated at moving-average cost. If the market value of held-to-maturity debt securities, equity securities issued by unconsolidated subsidiaries and affiliated companies not on the equity method, and available-for-sale securities, declines significantly, such securities are stated at fair market value and the difference between fair market value and the carrying amount is recognized as loss in the period of the decline. If the fair market value of held-to-maturity debt securities, equity securities issued by unconsolidated subsidiaries and affiliated companies not on the equity method, and available-for-sale securities is not readily available, such securities should be written down to net assets value with a corresponding charge in the statements of income in the event net assets value declines significantly. In these cases, such fair market value or the net assets value will be the carrying amount of the securities at the beginning of the next year. (6) INVENTORIES Inventories are stated principally at cost determined by the moving-average method (with regard to the book value of inventories on the balance sheet, by writing the inventories down based on their decrease in profitability of assets). (7) DEPRECIATION AND AMORTIZATION Depreciation of vessels and buildings is computed mainly by the straight-line method. Depreciation of other property and equipment is computed mainly by the declining-balance method. Amortization of intangible assets is computed by the straight-line method. Computer software is amortized by the straight-line method based principally on the length of period it can be used internally (five years). Depreciation of finance lease that transfer ownership to lessees is computed mainly by the identical to depreciation method applied to self-owned non-current assets. Depreciation of finance lease that do not transfer ownership to lessees is computed mainly by straight-line method on the assumption that the lease term is the useful life and an estimated residual is zero. With regard to finance lease that do not transfer ownership for which the starting date for the lease transaction is prior to March 31, 2008, they are continuously accounted for by a method corresponding to that used for ordinary operating lease contracts. (8) AMORTIZATION OF BOND ISSUE EXPENSE AND STOCK ISSUE EXPENSE Bond issue expense and stock issue expense are charged to income as incurred. (9) INTEREST CAPITALIZATION In cases where a vessel’s construction period is long and the amount of interest accruing during this period is significant, such interest expenses are capitalized as a part of the acquisition cost which amounted to ¥5,139 million ($42,764 thousand) for the year ended March 31, 2015 and ¥2,802 million for the year ended March 31, 2014. (10) ALLOWANCE FOR DOUBTFUL ACCOUNTS Allowance for doubtful accounts is provided in an amount sufficient to cover probable losses on collection. It consists of the estimated uncollectible amount with respect to certain identified doubtful receivables and an amount calculated using the actual percentage of the Company’s collection losses. (11) DIRECTORS’ AND CORPORATE AUDITORS’ RETIREMENT BENEFITS The domestic subsidiaries of the company recognize liabilities for retirement benefits for directors and corporate auditors at an amount required in accordance with the internal regulations. 82 Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Value Creation (12) EMPLOYEES’ SEVERANCE AND RETIREMENT BENEFITS The Company and its consolidated subsidiaries (the “Group”) recognized net defined benefit assets and net defined benefit liabilities for employees’ severance and retirement benefits and retirement benefits based on the estimated amounts of projected benefit obligation and the fair value of the plan assets at end of the year. Projected benefit obligations are attributed to each period by the straight-line method. Management Strategy Actuarial gains and losses are recognized in the statements of income using the straight-line method over the average of the estimated remaining service lives of mainly 10 years commencing with the following period. Past service costs are chiefly accounted for as expenses in lump-sum at the time of occurrence. (13) RESERVE FOR PERIODIC DRYDOCKING Reserve for periodic drydocking is based on the estimated amount of expenditures for periodic drydocking in the future. (14) INCOME TAXES The Group recognizes tax effects of temporary differences between the financial statement basis and the tax basis of assets and liabilities. The provision for income taxes is computed based on the pretax income included in the consolidated statements of income. Manufactured Capital The asset and liability approach is used to recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of temporary differences. (15) AMOUNTS PER SHARE OF COMMON STOCK Net income per share of common stock is computed based upon the weighted-average number of shares outstanding during the year. Fully diluted net income per share of common stock assumes exercise of the outstanding stock options at the beginning of the year or at the date of issuance. Cash dividends per share have been presented on an accrual basis and include dividends to be approved after the balance sheet Human Capital date, but applicable to the year then ended. (16) DERIVATIVES AND HEDGE ACCOUNTING Companies are required to state derivative financial instruments at fair value and to recognize changes in the fair value as gains or losses unless derivative financial instruments are used for hedging purposes. If derivative financial instruments are used as hedging instruments and meet certain hedging criteria, the Group defers recognition of gains or losses resulting from changes in fair value of derivative financial instruments until the related losses or gains on the Intellectual, Social, Environmental Capital hedged items are recognized. If interest rate swap contracts are used as hedging instruments and meet certain hedging criteria, the net amount to be paid or received under the interest rate swap contract is added to or deducted from the interest on the assets or liabilities for which the swap contract was executed (“special treatment”). If foreign exchange forward contracts are used as hedging instruments and meet certain hedging criteria, hedged foreign currency assets and liabilities are translated at the rate of these contracts (“allocation method”). The following summarizes hedging derivative financial instruments used by the Group and items hedged: Hedging instruments: Hedged items: Loans payable in foreign currencies Foreign currency future transactions Financial Capital Forward foreign exchange contracts Foreign currency future transactions Currency option contracts Foreign currency future transactions Currency swap contracts Foreign currency loans payable Interest rate swap contracts Interest on loans and bonds payable Crude oil swap contracts Fuel oil Commodities futures Fuel oil Freight futures Freight The derivative transactions are executed and managed by the Company in accordance with the established policies in order to hedge the Group’s exposure to interest rate increases, fuel oil increases, freight decreases, and foreign currency exchange rate risk. The Company evaluates hedge effectiveness by comparing the cumulative changes in cash flows from or the changes in fair value of hedged items and the cumulative changes in cash flows from or the changes in fair value of hedging instruments. Annual Report 2015 83 (17) RECLASSIFICATIONS Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the 2015 presentation. (18)CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING POLICIES Application of accounting standards for retirement benefits The Group adopted article 35 of the Accounting Standard for Retirement Benefits (ASBJ Statement No.26, May 17, 2012 (“Statement No.26”) and article 67 of the Guidance on Accounting Standard for Retirement Benefits (ASBJ Guidance No.25, March 26, 2015 (“Guidance No.25”) from the year ended March 31, 2015, and have changed the determination of retirement benefit obligations and current service costs. In accordance with article 37 of Statement No.26, the effect of changing the determination of retirement benefit obligations and current service costs has been recognized in retained earnings at the beginning of the year. As a result of the application, net defined benefit assets decreased by ¥4,570 million ($38,029 thousand), net defined benefit liabilities decreased by ¥5 million ($42 thousand), and retained earnings decreased by ¥4,567 million ($38,004 thousand) at the beginning of the year ended March 31, 2015. The effect of this change on the consolidated statement of income is immaterial. (19)ACCOUNTING STANDARDS ISSUED BUT NOT YET APPLIED Revised Accounting Standard for Business Combinations (ASBJ Statement No.21, September 13, 2013), Revised Accounting Standard for Consolidated Financial Statements (ASBJ Statement No.22, September 13, 2013), Revised Accounting Standard for Business Divestitures (ASBJ Statement No.7, September 13, 2013), Revised Accounting Standard for Earnings Per Share (ASBJ Statement No.2, September 13, 2013), Revised Guidance on Accounting Standard for Business Combinations and Accounting Standard for Business Divestitures (ASBJ Guidance No.10, September 13, 2013) and Revised Guidance on Accounting Standard for Earnings Per Share (ASBJ Guidance No.4, September 13, 2013). 1. Summary The above standards and guidance have been revised primarily to account for: I. How the changes of the shares in subsidiaries, over which the Company continues to maintain control, should be treated by the Company when additional stock of a subsidiary is acquired. II. Treatment of acquisition related costs. III. Presentation of current net income and the change of shareholder’s equity from minority interests to non-controlling interests. IV. Provisional application of accounting treatments. 2. Effective dates These standards will be effective from the beginning of the year ending March 31, 2016. Provisional application of the accounting standards is scheduled to begin for business combinations effective after the beginning of the fiscal year ending March 31, 2016. 3. Effect of application of the standard The Group is currently assessing the effects of these new standards on the consolidated financial statements. 84 Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Value Creation 3. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (1) Qualitative information on financial instruments I. Policies for using financial instruments We raise capital investment funds to acquire vessels and other fixed assets primarily through bank loans and corporate bonds. In addition, we secure short-term operating funds primarily through bank loans. Furthermore, we have established commitment line Management Strategy with Japanese banks to maintain a sufficient amount of working capital and prepare supplementary liquidity for emergency situations. Derivatives are utilized to hedge risks as discussed below and are executed within the scope of real requirements. Our policy is not to use derivatives for speculative purposes. II. Details of financial instruments / Risk and its management Trade receivables are exposed to the credit risks of customers. We strive to mitigate such risks in accordance with internal regulations. Besides, trade receivables denominated in foreign currencies are exposed to the foreign currency exchange rate risk. We avoid the risk mainly by, in principle, utilizing forward exchange contracts which cover the net position (The difference between trade Manufactured Capital receivables and trade payables dominated in foreign currencies). Investment securities are mainly stocks of companies with which we have business relationships. These investment securities are exposed to the price fluctuation risk. We identify the market value of listed stocks on a quarterly basis. Trade payables are due within a year. Short-term loans and commercial papers are primarily used for raising short-term operating funds, while long-term bank loans and bonds are mainly for capital investments. Although several items with variable interest rates are exposed to the interest rate risk, a certain portion of such variable interest rates is fixed with the use of interest rate swaps. Long-term bank loans and bonds denominated in foreign currencies are exposed to the foreign currency exchange rate risk, a Human Capital part of which is avoided by using currency swaps. Our major derivative transactions and hedged risks are as follows. * Forward foreign exchange contracts / Currency swap contracts: To cover exchange volatility of foreign-currency-denominated trade receivables, trade payables, long-term loans, and corporate bonds. * Interest rate swap contracts: Intellectual, Social, Environmental Capital To avoid interest rate risk arising out of interest payment of long-term loans and corporate bonds. * Crude oil swap contracts / Commodities futures: To hedge fluctuation of fuel oil price. With regard to the detail of hedge accounting (hedging instruments, hedged items, the way of evaluating hedge effectiveness), see Note 2 (16) to the consolidated financial statements. Derivative transactions are executed and managed in accordance with our internal regulations and dealt only with highly rated financial institutions to mitigate credit risks. On the other hand, as trade payables, loan payables, bonds, and commercial papers are exposed to the risk of financing for repayment, we manage the risk by planning cash management program monthly, having established commitment lines with several financial institutions, and adjusting the funding period (balancing short-term/long-term combination), in consideration of market Financial Capital circumstances. III. Supplemental information on fair value Fair value of financial instruments that are actively traded in organized financial markets is determined by market value. For those where there are no active markets, it is determined by reasonable estimation. Reasonably estimated value might vary depending on condition of calculation as several variation factors are included in the calculation. On the other hand, derivative transactions mentioned in following (2) do not indicate the market risk of such derivatives. Annual Report 2015 85 (2) Fair Values of financial instruments Book values and fair values of the financial instruments on the consolidated balance sheet at March 31, 2015 were the following; Millions of yen Book Value Fair Value Difference Assets Cash and cash equivalents . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ¥ 128,802 ¥ 128,802 ¥ — Time deposits with a maturity of more than three months . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2,821 2,821 — Trade receivables . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 178,845 178,845 — Short-term loans receivable . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5,556 5,556 — Investment securities Available-for-sale securities. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 120,583 120,583 — Long-term loans receivable (*1) ...................................... 76,265 82,282 6,017 Total ¥ 512,872 ¥ 518,889 ¥ 6,017 Liabilities Trade payables . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ¥ 167,002 ¥ 167,002 ¥ — Short-term loans . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 74,203 74,203 — Commercial paper . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5,500 5,500 — Bonds (*2) ...................................................... 285,185 288,298 3,113 Long-term bank loans(*3) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 793,518 807,099 13,581 Total . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ¥1,325,408 ¥1,342,102 ¥16,694 Derivative financial instruments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (*4) ¥ 153,519 ¥ 153,082 ¥ (437) Thousands of U.S. dollars (Note 1) Book Value Fair Value Difference Assets Cash and cash equivalents . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $ 1,071,832 $ 1,071,832 $ — Time deposits with a maturity of more than three months . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23,475 23,475 — Trade receivables . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,488,267 1,488,267 — Short-term loans receivable . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46,235 46,235 — Investment securities Available-for-sale securities. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,003,437 1,003,437 — Long-term loans receivable(*1) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 634,643 684,713 50,070 Total $ 4,267,889 $ 4,317,959 $ 50,070 Liabilities Trade payables . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $ 1,389,715 $ 1,389,715 $ — Short-term loans . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 617,484 617,484 — Commercial paper . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45,768 45,768 — Bonds(*2) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2,373,180 2,399,085 25,905 Long-term bank loans(*3) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6,603,295 6,716,310 113,015 Total . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $11,029,442 $11,168,362 $138,920 Derivative financial instruments(*4) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $ 1,277,515 $ 1,273,879 $ (3,636) *1 The book value of long-term loans receivable includes current portion amounting to ¥1,306 million ($10,868 thousand). *2 The book value of bonds includes current portion amounting to ¥15,000 million ($124,823 thousand). *3 The book value of long-term bank loans includes current portion amounting to ¥105,186 million ($875,310 thousand). *4 Amounts of derivative financial instruments are net of asset and liability. Negative amount stated with ( ) means that the net amount is liability. 86 Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Value Creation Book values and fair values of the financial instruments on the consolidated balance sheet at March 31, 2014 were the following; Millions of yen Book Value Fair Value Difference Assets Management Strategy Cash and cash equivalents . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ¥ 180,126 ¥ 180,126 ¥ — Time deposits with a maturity of more than three months . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,023 1,023 — Trade receivables . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 146,787 146,787 — Short-term loans receivable . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,445 1,445 — Investment securities Available-for-sale securities. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 103,417 103,417 — Long-term loans receivable(*1) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41,015 46,748 5,733 Total ¥ 473,813 ¥ 479,546 ¥5,733 Manufactured Capital Liabilities Trade payables . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ¥ 143,196 ¥ 143,196 ¥ — Short-term loans . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14,697 14,697 — Bonds(*2) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 225,500 230,953 5,453 Long-term bank loans(*3) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 830,530 833,094 2,564 Total . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ¥1,213,923 ¥1,221,940 ¥8,017 Derivative financial instruments(*4) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ¥ 83,295 ¥ 82,895 ¥ (400) *1 The book value of long-term loans receivable includes current portion amounting to ¥3,496 million. *2 The book value of bonds includes current portion amounting to ¥45,000 million. Human Capital *3 The book value of long-term bank loans includes current portion amounting to ¥90,492 million. *4 Amounts of derivative financial instruments are net of asset and liability. Negative amount stated with ( ) means that the net amount is liability. The following is a description of the valuation methodologies used for the assets and liabilities measured at the fair value. Cash and cash equivalents, Time deposits with a maturity of more than three months, Trade receivables and Short-term loans Intellectual, Social, Environmental Capital receivable Since these assets are settled in a short term and their fair value is almost equal to the book value, the fair value is evaluated at the book value. Investment securities The fair value of stocks is evaluated at market prices at stock exchange as of the end of the year and the fair value of bonds is evaluated at market prices at stock exchange or provided by financial institutions as of the end of the years. Long-term loans receivable The fair value of long-term loans receivable with variable interests rate is evaluated at book value because the interest rate reflects Financial Capital the market rate in the short term and their fair value is almost equal to the book value, unless the creditworthiness of the borrower has changed significantly since the loan origination. The fair value of long-term loans receivable with fixed interest rates, for each category of loans based on types of loans and maturity length, is evaluated by discounting the total amount of principal and interest using the rate which would apply if similar loans were newly made. Trade payables, Short-term loans and Commercial paper Since these liabilities are settled in a short term and their fair value is almost equal to the book value, the fair value is evaluated at the book value. Bonds The fair value of corporate bonds with market price is evaluated based on their market price. The fair value of variable interest rate corporate bonds without market price is evaluated at the book value because the interest rate reflects the market rate in the short term and there has been no significant change in the Company’s creditworthiness before and after the issue. Annual Report 2015 87 Long-term bank loans The fair value of long-term bank loans with variable interest rates is evaluated at book value because the interest rate reflects the market rate in the short term and there has been no significant change in the Company’s creditworthiness before and after such bank loans were made. The fair value of long-term bank loans with fixed interest rates, for each category of bank loans based on types of bank loans and maturity length, is evaluated by discounting the total amount of principal and interest using the rate which would apply if similar bank loans were newly made. The fair value of long-term bank loans qualifying for allocation method of currency swap is evaluated at the book value because such bank loans were deemed as the variable interest rate bank loans and the interest rate reflects the market rate in the short term. Derivative financial instruments Please refer to Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements. The following table summarizes financial instruments whose fair value is extremely difficult to estimate. Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars (Note 1) Book Value Book Value Book Value 2015 2014 2015 Unlisted stocks. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ¥7,821 ¥7,627 $65,083 Others . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11 17 92 Total . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ¥7,832 ¥7,644 $65,175 The above items are not included in the amount presented under the line “Investments securities” in the table summarizing fair value of financial instruments, because the fair value is extremely difficult to estimate as they have no quoted market price and the future cash flow cannot be estimated. At March 31, 2015, the aggregate annual maturity of monetary claims and securities was as follows; Millions of yen After one year After five years through five through ten Within a year years years After ten years Cash and cash equivalents . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ¥128,802 ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — Time deposits with a maturity of more than three months . . . 2,821 — — — Trade receivables . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 178,845 — — — Short-term loans receivable . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5,556 — — — Marketable securities and investments securities Available-for-sale securities (Governmental/municipal bonds) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . — 10 — — Available-for-sale securities (Corporate bonds) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . — 200 — — Long-term loans receivable . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,306 44,390 2,805 27,764 Total . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ¥317,330 ¥44,600 ¥2,805 ¥27,764 Thousands of U.S. dollars (Note 1) After one year After five years through five through ten Within a year years years After ten years Cash and cash equivalents . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $1,071,832 $ — $ — $ — Time deposits with a maturity of more than three months . . . 23,475 — — — Trade receivables . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,488,267 — — — Short-term loans receivable . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46,235 — — — Marketable securities and investments securities Available-for-sale securities (Governmental/municipal bonds) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . — 83 — — Available-for-sale securities (Corporate bonds) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . — 1,664 — — Long-term loans receivable . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10,868 369,393 23,342 231,040 Total . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $2,640,677 $371,140 $23,342 $231,040 88 Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Value Creation At March 31, 2014, the aggregate annual maturity of monetary claims and securities was as follows; Millions of yen After one year After five years through five through ten Within a year years years After ten years Management Strategy Cash and cash equivalents . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ¥180,126 ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — Time deposits with a maturity of more than three months . . . 1,023 — — — Trade receivables . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 146,787 — — — Short-term loans receivable . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,445 — — — Marketable securities and investments securities Available-for-sale securities (Governmental/municipal bonds) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10 — — — Available-for-sale securities (Corporate bonds) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . — — 200 — Manufactured Capital Long-term loans receivable . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3,496 23,134 6,745 7,640 Total . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ¥332,887 ¥23,134 ¥6,945 ¥7,640 4. SECURITIES A. The following tables summarize acquisition costs, book values and fair values of securities with available fair values at March 31, 2015 and 2014. Available-for-sale securities: Human Capital Securities with book values exceeding acquisition costs at March 31, 2015 Millions of yen Type Acquisition cost Book Value Difference Equity securities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ¥48,766 ¥115,824 ¥67,058 Bonds . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 200 215 15 Intellectual, Social, Environmental Capital Total . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ¥48,966 ¥116,039 ¥67,073 Thousands of U.S. dollars (Note 1) Type Acquisition cost Book Value Difference Equity securities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $405,809 $963,835 $558,026 Bonds . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,664 1,789 125 Total . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $407,473 $965,624 $558,151 Securities with book values exceeding acquisition costs at March 31, 2014 Financial Capital Millions of yen Type Acquisition cost Book Value Difference Equity securities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ¥41,698 ¥93,782 ¥52,084 Bonds . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 210 226 16 Total . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ¥41,908 ¥94,008 ¥52,100 Annual Report 2015 89 Securities with book values not exceeding acquisition costs at March 31, 2015 Millions of yen Type Acquisition cost Book Value Difference Equity securities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ¥5,456 ¥4,534 ¥(922) Bonds . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10 10 0 Total . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ¥5,466 ¥4,544 ¥(922) Thousands of U.S. dollars (Note 1) Type Acquisition cost Book Value Difference Equity securities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $45,402 $37,730 $(7,672) Bonds . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83 83 0 Total . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $45,485 $37,813 $(7,672) Securities with book values not exceeding acquisition costs at March 31, 2014 Millions of yen Type Acquisition cost Book Value Difference Equity securities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ¥11,545 ¥9,409 ¥(2,136) Bonds . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . — — — Total . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ¥11,545 ¥9,409 ¥(2,136) B. Total sales of available-for-sale securities sold in the years ended March 31, 2015 and 2014 and the related gains and losses were as follows: Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars (Note 1) 2015 2014 2015 Proceeds from sales . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ¥290 ¥3,880 $2,413 Gross realized gains . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 134 1,200 1,115 Gross realized losses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . — 214 — C. Impairment losses of securities No impairment loss on the securities was recognized for the year ended March 31, 2015. For the year ended March 31, 2014, the Company reduced the book value on the securities and booked the reductions as impairment losses of ¥106 million. With regard to the impairment losses, the Company principally reduces the book value on the securities to the amount which is considered the recoverability etc. in the event the fair market value declines more than 50% in comparison with the acquisition cost. 5. INVENTORIES Inventories as of March 31, 2015 and 2014 consisted of the following: Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars (Note 1) 2015 2014 2015 Fuel and supplies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ¥48,030 ¥58,211 $399,684 Others . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 996 1,138 8,288 Total . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ¥49,026 ¥59,349 $407,972 90 Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Value Creation 6. DERIVATIVE TRANSACTIONS The Group enters into derivative transactions to hedge the Group’s exposure to interest rate increases, fuel oil increases, freight decreases, and currency exchange fluctuations, in accordance with the guidance determined by the management of the Company. Management Strategy I. Hedge accounting not applied The following tables summarize the outstanding contract amounts and fair values of financial derivatives of the Group at March 31, 2015 and 2014, for which hedge accounting has not been applied. Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars (Note 1) 2015 2014 2015 (1) Currency related: Forward currency exchange contracts Manufactured Capital Sell (U.S. dollar): Contracts outstanding . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ¥ — ¥15,438 $ — Fair values. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . — (1) — Buy (U.S. dollar): Contracts outstanding . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ¥467 ¥ 25 $3,886 Fair values. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 0 8 Buy (Others): Contracts outstanding . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ¥ 24 ¥ 22 $ 200 Fair values. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 1 0 Human Capital Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars (Note 1) 2015 2014 2015 (2) Interest related Interest rate swaps Intellectual, Social, Environmental Capital Receive floating, pay fixed Contracts outstanding . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ¥40,183 ¥39,046 $334,385 Fair values. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (1,213) (1,966) (10,094) Note: Fair values are measured based on forward exchange rates prevailing at the end of the year and information provided by financial institutions, etc. Financial Capital Annual Report 2015 91 II. Hedge accounting applied The following tables summarize the outstanding contract amounts and fair values of financial derivatives of the Group at March 31, 2015 and 2014, for which hedge accounting has been applied. Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars (Note 1) 2015 2014 2015 (1) Deferral hedge accounting a. Forward currency exchange contracts to hedge the risk for the foreign currency transactions Sell (U.S. dollar): Contracts outstanding . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ¥ — ¥ 16,386 $ — Fair values. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . — (415) — Buy (U.S. dollar): Contracts outstanding . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ¥ — ¥ 18,661 $ — Fair values. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . — 4,460 — b. Currency swaps contracts to hedge the risk for charterages Sell (U.S. dollar): Contracts outstanding . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ¥ 7,669 ¥ 8,022 $ 63,818 Fair values. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (1,664) (435) (13,847) Buy (U.S. dollar): Contracts outstanding . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ¥453,024 ¥507,607 $3,769,859 Fair values. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 182,171 88,264 1,515,944 c. Interest rate swaps to hedge the risk for the long-term bank loans and charterages Receive floating, pay fixed Contracts outstanding . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ¥290,387 ¥228,282 $2,416,468 Fair values. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (21,451) (7,133) (178,505) Receive fixed, pay floating Contracts outstanding . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ¥ — ¥ 5,810 $ — Fair values. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . — 136 — d. Commodities futures to hedge the risk for the fuel oil Contracts outstanding . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ¥ 11,907 ¥ 23,486 $ 99,085 Fair values. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (4,324) 461 (35,982) e. Freight futures to hedge the risk for the freight Contracts outstanding . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ¥ — ¥ 649 $ — Fair values. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . — (77) — Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars (Note 1) 2015 2014 2015 (2) Special treatment Interest rate swaps to hedge the risk for the long-term bank loans Receive floating, pay fixed Contracts outstanding . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ¥20,550 ¥18,687 $171,008 Fair values. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (437) (400) (3,637) Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars (Note 1) 2015 2014 2015 (3) Allocation method Currency swaps to hedge the risk for the foreign bonds and long-term bank loans Contracts outstanding . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ¥31,781 ¥31,788 $264,467 Fair values. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . — — — Notes: 1. Fair values are measured based on forward exchange rates prevailing at the end of the year and information provided by financial institutions, etc. 2. Currency swaps which allocation method are applied to are recorded as the combined amount of such currency swaps and their hedge items. Therefore, their fair values are included in fair values of such hedge items. 92 Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Value Creation 7. SHORT-TERM DEBT AND LONG-TERM DEBT (1) SHORT-TERM DEBT Short-term debt amounting to ¥79,703 million ($663,252 thousand) and ¥14,697 million at March 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively, were principally unsecured. The average interest rates on short-term debt were 0.52% and 0.56%, respectively. Management Strategy (2) LONG-TERM DEBT Long-term debt at March 31, 2015 and 2014 consisted of the following: Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars (Note 1) 2015 2014 2015 Bonds: 1.278% yen bonds due 2014. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ¥ — ¥ 30,000 $ — 1.590% yen bonds due 2015. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . — 15,000 — Manufactured Capital 0.296% yen bonds due 2015. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15,000 15,000 124,823 0.573% yen bonds due 2016. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10,000 10,000 83,215 2.070% yen bonds due 2016. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15,000 15,000 124,823 1.106% yen bonds due 2016. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20,000 20,000 166,431 0.461% yen bonds due 2017. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20,000 20,000 166,431 0.000% U.S. dollars bonds due 2018* . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36,051 — 300,000 1.999% yen bonds due 2019. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18,500 18,500 153,949 1.670% yen bonds due 2019. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10,000 10,000 83,215 Human Capital 1.400% yen bonds due 2020. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15,000 15,000 124,823 0.000% U.S. dollars bonds due 2020* . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24,034 — 200,000 1.361% yen bonds due 2021. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17,800 17,800 148,124 1.650% yen bonds due 2022. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5,000 5,000 41,608 1.139% yen bonds due 2022. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9,200 9,200 76,558 1.070% yen bonds due 2023. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10,000 10,000 83,215 Intellectual, Social, Environmental Capital 0.850% yen bonds due 2024. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15,000 15,000 124,823 0.970% yen bonds due 2024. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29,600 — 246,319 0.803% yen bonds due 2025. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15,000 — 124,823 Long-term bank loans due within one year: Long-term bank loans due within one year at average interest rate of 0.64% and 0.70% at March 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 105,186 90,492 875,310 Long-term bank loans due after one year: Long-term bank loans due through 2034 at average interest rate of 1.20% and 0.98% at March 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 688,332 740,038 5,727,985 1,078,703 1,056,030 8,976,475 Financial Capital Amount due within one year . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 120,186 135,492 1,000,133 ¥ 958,517 ¥ 920,538 $7,976,342 *Zero coupon convertible bonds, details are as follows. The 2018 Bonds The 2020 Bonds (1) Exercise period From May 8,2014 to April 10, 2018 From May 8, 2014 to April 9, 2020 (2) Conversion price U.S.$ 5.34 per share U.S.$ 4.80 per share At March 31, 2015, the aggregate annual maturity of long-term debt was as follows: Thousands of Year ending March 31 Millions of yen U.S. dollars (Note 1) 2016 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ¥ 120,186 $1,000,133 2017 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 136,850 1,138,803 2018 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 115,864 964,167 2019 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 148,095 1,232,379 2020 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 80,220 667,555 2021 and thereafter. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 477,488 3,973,438 ¥1,078,703 $8,976,475 Annual Report 2015 93 (3) ASSETS PLEDGED AND SECURED DEBT At March 31, 2015, the following assets were pledged as collateral for short-term debt and long-term debt. Thousands of Assets pledged Millions of yen U.S. dollars (Note 1) 2015 2014 2015 Vessels . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ¥202,454 ¥177,092 $1,684,729 Buildings and structures . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . — 136 — Vessels and other property under construction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 90,908 72,953 756,495 Investment securities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 73,811 60,148 614,222 ¥367,173 ¥310,329 $3,055,446 Thousands of Secured debt Millions of yen U.S. dollars (Note 1) 2015 2014 2015 Short-term debt . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ¥ 10 ¥ 50 $ 83 Long-term debt due within one year . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13,759 11,906 114,496 Long-term debt due after one year . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 156,237 132,540 1,300,133 ¥170,006 ¥144,496 $1,414,712 8. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES (A) COMMITMENT At March 31, 2015 and 2014, the Company had loan commitment agreements with certain affiliated companies. The nonexercised portion of loan commitments was as follows: Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars (Note 1) 2015 2014 2015 Total loan limits . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ¥15,622 ¥14,409 $130,000 Loan executions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . — — — The nonexercised portion of loan commitments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ¥15,622 ¥14,409 $130,000 (B) CONTINGENT LIABILITIES At March 31, 2015 and 2014, the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries were contingently liable mainly as guarantors or coguarantors of indebtedness of related and other companies in the aggregate amount of ¥112,360 million ($935,009 thousand) and ¥78,169 million, respectively. 94 Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Value Creation 9. NET ASSETS Net assets comprises four sections, which are the owners’ equity, accumulated other comprehensive income, share subscription rights and minority interests. Under the Japanese Companies Act (“the Act”) and regulations, the entire amount paid for new shares is required to be designated as common stock. However, a company may, by a resolution of the board of directors, designate an amount not exceeding Management Strategy one-half of the price of the new shares as additional paid-in-capital, which is included in capital surplus. Under the Act, in cases where a dividend distribution of surplus is made, the smaller of an amount equal to 10% of the dividend or the excess, if any, of 25% of common stock over the total of additional paid-in-capital and legal earnings reserve must be set aside as additional paid-in-capital or legal earnings reserve. Legal earnings reserve is included in retained earnings in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. Under the Act, appropriations (legal earnings reserve and additional paid-in-capital could be used to eliminate or reduce a deficit or could be capitalized ) generally require a resolution of the shareholders’ meeting. Manufactured Capital (A) SHARES ISSUED AND OUTSTANDING Changes in number of shares issued and outstanding during the years ended March 31, 2015 and 2014 were as follows: Shares of common Shares of treasury stock (Thousands) stock (Thousands) Balance at April 1, 2013. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,206,286 10,502 Increase during the year . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . — 145 Decrease during the year . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . — (274) Balance at March 31 and April 1, 2014 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,206,286 10,373 Human Capital Increase during the year . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . — 150 Decrease during the year . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . — (337) Balance at March 31, 2015 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,206,286 10,186 (B) SHARE SUBSCRIPTION RIGHTS Share subscription rights at March 31, 2015 and 2014 consisted of the following: Intellectual, Social, Environmental Capital Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars (Note 1) 2015 2014 2015 Stock options. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ¥2,553 ¥2,391 $21,245 Total . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ¥2,553 ¥2,391 $21,245 (C) DIVIDENDS (1) Dividends paid for the year ended March 31, 2015 were as follows: Financial Capital Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars (Note 1) Approved at the shareholders’ meeting held on June 24, 2014 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ¥3,588 $29,858 Approved at the board of directors held on October 31, 2014 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ¥3,588 $29,858 Total . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ¥7,176 $59,716 (2) Dividends included in the retained earnings at March 31, 2015 and to be paid in subsequent periods were as follows: Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars (Note 1) Approved at the shareholders’ meeting held on June 23, 2015 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ¥4,784 $39,810 Total . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ¥4,784 $39,810 Annual Report 2015 95 10. IMPAIRMENT LOSS For the year ended March 31, 2015, the Group recorded an impairment loss on the following asset group. Thousands of Application Type Millions of yen U.S. dollars (Note 1) Assets to be disposed of by sale Vessels and Other ¥10,198 $84,863 For the year ended March 31, 2014, the Group recorded an impairment loss on the following asset group. Application Type Millions of yen Assets to be disposed of by sale Vessels and Other ¥ 498 Assets for operations Vessels 5,950 The Group grouped operating assets based on management accounting categories, and also grouped assets to be disposed of by sale and idle assets by structure. For the years ended March 31, 2015 and 2014, with regard to the target price of assets to be disposed of by sale which fell below book value, the Group reduced the book value on these assets to recoverable amounts and booked the reductions as impairment losses. The recoverable amount for this asset group is evaluated based on the asset’s net selling price. And the asset’s net selling price is appraised based on the target price of assets to be disposed of by sale. For the year ended March 31, 2014, since profitability of the overseas consolidated subsidiary’s assets for operations significantly deteriorated, the Group reduced the book value on these assets to recoverable amounts and booked the reductions as impairment losses. The recoverable amount for this asset group is evaluated based on the value in use. The value in use is calculated from the projected future cash flows discounted at a rate of 7%. 11. OTHER INCOME (EXPENSES): OTHERS, NET—BREAKDOWN Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars (Note 1) 2015 2014 2015 Others, net: Exchange gain, net . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ¥ 25,523 ¥11,392 $212,391 Gain on sale of vessels, property, equipment and others. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16,225 7,095 135,017 Loss on sale and disposal of vessels, property, equipment and others . . . . . . . (2,853) (6,702) (23,741) Loss arising from marine accident . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . — (2,397) — Impairment loss . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (10,198) (6,448) (84,863) Gain on change in equity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3,867 164 32,179 Sundries, net . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6,519 31,990 54,247 Total . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ¥ 39,083 ¥35,094 $325,230 96 Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Value Creation 12. LEASES AS LESSEE: (A) INFORMATION ON FINANCE LEASES ACCOUNTED FOR AS OPERATING LEASES: (1) A summary of assumed amounts of acquisition cost, accumulated depreciation and net book value at March 31, 2015 of finance leases that do not transfer ownership to the lessee was as follows: Management Strategy Millions of yen Equipment, mainly containers Others Total Acquisition cost . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ¥2,425 ¥190 ¥2,615 Accumulated depreciation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2,401 162 2,563 Net book value . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ¥ 24 ¥ 28 ¥ 52 Manufactured Capital Thousands of U.S. dollars (Note 1) Equipment, mainly containers Others Total Acquisition cost . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $20,180 $1,581 $21,761 Accumulated depreciation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19,980 1,348 21,328 Net book value . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $ 200 $ 233 $ 433 Human Capital Intellectual, Social, Environmental Capital Financial Capital Annual Report 2015 97 A summary of assumed amounts of acquisition cost, accumulated depreciation and net book value at March 31, 2014 of finance leases that do not transfer ownership to the lessee was as follows: Millions of yen Equipment, mainly containers Others Total Acquisition cost . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ¥16,243 ¥190 ¥16,433 Accumulated depreciation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15,855 144 15,999 Net book value . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ¥ 388 ¥ 46 ¥ 434 (2) Future lease payments at March 31, 2015 and 2014 Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars (Note 1) 2015 2014 2015 Amount due within one year . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ¥123 ¥1,221 $1,024 Amount due after one year . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13 122 108 Total . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ¥136 ¥1,343 $1,132 (3) Lease payments, depreciation equivalent and interest equivalent Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars (Note 1) 2015 2014 2015 Lease payments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ¥1,340 ¥2,234 $11,151 Depreciation equivalent . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 385 796 3,204 Interest equivalent . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41 49 341 (4) Calculation of depreciation equivalent Assumed depreciation amounts are computed using the declining-balance method or the straight-line method over the lease terms assuming no residual value. (5) Calculation of interest equivalent The excess of total lease payments over acquisition cost equivalents is regarded as amounts representing interest payable equivalents and is allocated to each period using the interest method. (6) Impairment loss There was no impairment loss on finance lease accounted for as operating leases. (B) FUTURE LEASE PAYMENTS UNDER OPERATING LEASES FOR ONLY NON-CANCELABLE CONTRACTS AT MARCH 31, 2015 AND 2014: Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars (Note 1) 2015 2014 2015 Amount due within one year . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ¥ 54,586 ¥ 48,825 $ 454,240 Amount due after one year . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 264,331 256,912 2,199,642 Total . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ¥318,917 ¥305,737 $2,653,882 98 Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Value Creation AS LESSOR: (A) FUTURE LEASE INCOME UNDER OPERATING LEASES FOR ONLY NON-CANCELABLE CONTRACTS AT MARCH 31, 2015 AND 2014: Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars (Note 1) Management Strategy 2015 2014 2015 Amount due within one year . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ¥13,212 ¥13,021 $109,944 Amount due after one year . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46,912 40,325 390,381 Total . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ¥60,124 ¥53,346 $500,325 13. RENTAL PROPERTIES The Company and some of its consolidated subsidiaries own real estate for office lease (including lands) in Tokyo, Osaka and other Manufactured Capital areas. Information about the book value and the fair value of such rental properties was as follows: Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars (Note 1) For the year ended March 31 2015 2014 2015 Book value Balance at beginning of the year . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ¥280,120 ¥279,130 $2,331,031 Changes during the year . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36,898 990 307,048 Human Capital Balance at end of the year . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 317,018 280,120 2,638,079 Fair value at end of the year . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 432,440 381,024 3,598,569 Notes: 1. Book value is calculated as the amount equivalent to the cost for acquisition deducting accumulated depreciation. 2. Fair value is mainly based on the amount appraised by outside independent real estate appraisers. 3. Of changes during the year ended March 31, 2015,the primary increase was mainly due to completion of the Shin-Daibiru Building (¥20,822 million ($173,271 thousand)), acquisition of the CornerStone Building (¥11,135 million ($92,660 thouIntellectual, Social, Environmental Capital sand)), and the acquisition of land near Akihabara Station from the Tokyo Metropolitan Government (¥7,151 million ($59,507 thousand)), while the primary decrease was mainly due to the depreciation of existing properties (¥6,176 million ($51,394 thousand)). In addition, information for rental revenue and expense from rental properties was as follows: Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars (Note 1) 2015 2014 2015 Rental revenue . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ¥27,058 ¥26,992 $225,164 Rental expense. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16,041 15,447 133,486 Financial Capital Difference . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ¥11,017 ¥11,545 $ 91,678 Note: Rental revenue is mainly recorded as “shipping and other revenues” and rental expense (depreciation expense, repairs and maintenance fee, utilities, personnel cost, tax and public charge, etc.) is mainly recorded as “shipping and other expenses”. Annual Report 2015 99 14. SEGMENT AND RELATED INFORMATION (A) SEGMENT INFORMATION: Millions of yen Reportable segment Ferry & ContainerDomestic Associated For the year ended March 31, 2015: Bulkships ships transport business Sub Total Others Total Adjustment Consolidated 1. Revenues: (1) Revenues from customers, unconsolidated subsidiaries and affiliated companies . . . . . . . . . . ¥ 857,290 ¥787,068 ¥56,032 ¥108,389 ¥1,808,779 ¥ 8,291 ¥1,817,070 ¥ — ¥1,817,070 (2) Inter-segment revenues . . . . . . . . 526 2,063 272 39,775 42,636 5,920 48,556 (48,556) — Total revenues . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ¥ 857,816 ¥789,131 ¥56,304 ¥148,164 ¥1,851,415 ¥ 14,211 ¥1,865,626 ¥ (48,556) ¥1,817,070 Segment income (loss) . . . . . . . . ¥ 54,105 ¥ (24,147) ¥ 4,462 ¥ 10,925 ¥ 45,345 ¥ 4,183 ¥ 49,528 ¥ 1,802 ¥ 51,330 Segment assets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ¥1,719,714 ¥496,487 ¥40,535 ¥426,130 ¥2,682,866 ¥346,183 ¥3,029,049 ¥(404,999) ¥2,624,050 2. Others (1) Depreciation and amortization . . ¥ 59,234 ¥ 16,109 ¥ 2,279 ¥ 8,511 ¥ 86,133 ¥ 283 ¥ 86,416 ¥ 1,388 ¥ 87,804 (2) Amortization of goodwill, net . . . (307) 17 45 130 (115) (9) (124) — (124) (3) Interest income . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2,019 261 3 62 2,345 1,390 3,735 (1,030) 2,705 (4) Interest expenses. . . . . . . . . . . . . 10,632 2,314 170 1,780 14,896 723 15,619 (3,063) 12,556 (5) Equity in earnings of affiliated companies, net . . . . . . . 3,286 1,096 225 269 4,876 54 4,930 — 4,930 (6) Investment in affiliates . . . . . . . . 110,452 4,873 1,694 1,971 118,990 1,967 120,957 — 120,957 (7) Tangible/intangible fixed assets increased . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 138,059 21,783 3,193 32,341 195,376 182 195,558 587 196,145 Thousands of U.S. dollars (Note 1) Reportable segment Ferry & ContainerDomestic Associated For the year ended March 31, 2015: Bulkships ships transport business Sub Total Others Total Adjustment Consolidated 1. Revenues: (1) Revenues from customers, unconsolidated subsidiaries and affiliated companies . . . . . . . . . . $ 7,133,977 $6,549,621 $466,273 $ 901,964 $15,051,835 $ 68,994 $15,120,829 $ — $15,120,829 (2) Inter-segment revenues . . . . . . . . 4,377 17,167 2,264 330,989 354,797 49,264 404,061 (404,061) — Total revenues . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $ 7,138,354 $6,566,788 $468,537 $1,232,953 $15,406,632 $ 118,258 $15,524,890 $ (404,061) $15,120,829 Segment income (loss) . . . . . . . . $ 450,237 $ (200,940) $ 37,130 $ 90,913 $ 377,340 $ 34,809 $ 412,149 $ 14,996 $ 427,145 Segment assets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $14,310,676 $4,131,539 $337,314 $3,546,060 $22,325,589 $2,880,777 $25,206,366 $(3,370,217) $21,836,149 2. Others (1) Depreciation and amortization . . $ 492,918 $ 134,052 $ 18,965 $ 70,825 $ 716,760 $ 2,355 $ 719,115 $ 11,550 $ 730,665 (2) Amortization of goodwill, net . . . (2,554) 141 374 1,082 (957) (75) (1,032) — (1,032) (3) Interest income . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16,801 2,172 25 516 19,514 11,567 31,081 (8,571) 22,510 (4) Interest expenses. . . . . . . . . . . . . 88,475 19,256 1,415 14,812 123,958 6,016 129,974 (25,489) 104,485 (5) Equity in earnings of affiliated companies, net . . . . . . . 27,345 9,120 1,872 2,239 40,576 449 41,025 — 41,025 (6) Investment in affiliates . . . . . . . . 919,131 40,551 14,097 16,402 990,181 16,368 1,006,549 — 1,006,549 (7) Tangible/intangible fixed assets increased . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,148,864 181,268 26,571 269,127 1,625,830 1,515 1,627,345 4,884 1,632,229 100 Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Value Creation Millions of yen Reportable segment Ferry & ContainerDomestic Associated For the year ended March 31, 2014: Bulkships ships transport business Sub Total Others Total Adjustment Consolidated 1. Revenues: Management Strategy (1) Revenues from customers, unconsolidated subsidiaries and affiliated companies . . . . . . . . . . ¥ 836,409 ¥713,503 ¥55,603 ¥116,599 ¥1,722,114 ¥ 7,338 ¥1,729,452 ¥ — ¥1,729,452 (2) Inter-segment revenues . . . . . . . . 588 1,887 202 20,608 23,285 7,246 30,531 (30,531) — Total revenues . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ¥ 836,997 ¥715,390 ¥55,805 ¥137,207 ¥1,745,399 ¥ 14,584 ¥1,759,983 ¥ (30,531) ¥1,729,452 Segment income (loss) . . . . . . . . ¥ 57,122 ¥ (14,554) ¥ 2,236 ¥ 11,146 ¥ 55,950 ¥ 4,577 ¥ 60,527 ¥ (5,541) ¥ 54,986 Segment assets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ¥1,501,313 ¥449,725 ¥35,089 ¥386,852 ¥2,372,979 ¥325,937 ¥2,698,916 ¥(334,221) ¥2,364,695 2. Others Manufactured Capital (1) Depreciation and amortization . . ¥ 55,546 ¥ 15,014 ¥ 3,303 ¥ 8,623 ¥ 82,486 ¥ 326 ¥ 82,812 ¥ 1,172 ¥ 83,984 (2) Amortization of goodwill, net . . . (619) 18 305 105 (191) 1 (190) — (190) (3) Interest income . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,565 172 6 75 1,818 1,191 3,009 (690) 2,319 (4) Interest expenses. . . . . . . . . . . . . 9,837 2,454 204 1,935 14,430 743 15,173 (2,590) 12,583 (5) Equity in earnings (losses) of affiliated companies, net . . . . . . . (3,009) 1,404 179 193 (1,233) (1) (1,234) — (1,234) (6) Investment in affiliates . . . . . . . . 97,802 3,385 1,777 1,506 104,470 2,308 106,778 — 106,778 (7) Tangible/intangible fixed assets increased . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 140,189 28,511 1,424 10,484 180,608 146 180,754 5,395 186,149 Human Capital (Segment income (loss)) Segment income (loss) is calculated by adjusting operating income for gains on management of surplus funds (interest income, etc.) and the cost of raising funds (interest expense, etc.) (B) RELATED INFORMATION: (1) Information about geographic areas: Our service areas are not necessarily consistent with our customer’s location in our core ocean transport business. Intellectual, Social, Environmental Capital That’s why the revenues of geographic areas are revenues, wherever they may be earned, of companies registered in countries in the geographic areas. Millions of yen For the year ended March 31, 2015: Japan North America Europe Asia Others Consolidated Revenues . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ¥1,538,042 ¥25,044 ¥37,939 ¥215,453 ¥ 592 ¥1,817,070 Tangible fixed assets. . . . . . . . . . . . . . ¥1,229,237 ¥42,750 ¥ 4,055 ¥197,392 ¥24,594 ¥1,498,028 Thousands of U.S. dollars (Note 1) For the year ended March 31, 2015: Japan North America Europe Asia Others Consolidated Revenues . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $12,798,885 $208,405 $315,711 $1,792,902 $ 4,926 $15,120,829 Financial Capital Tangible fixed assets. . . . . . . . . . . . . . $10,229,151 $355,746 $ 33,744 $1,642,606 $204,660 $12,465,907 Millions of yen For the year ended March 31, 2014: Japan North America Europe Asia Others Consolidated Revenues . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ¥1,496,846 ¥19,559 ¥43,094 ¥169,890 ¥ 63 ¥1,729,452 Tangible fixed assets. . . . . . . . . . . . . . ¥1,220,942 ¥33,589 ¥ 3,940 ¥113,904 ¥6,870 ¥1,379,245 (2) Information about impairment loss by reportable segment: Millions of yen Reportable segment Ferry & ContainerDomestic Associated Adjustment For the year ended March 31, 2015: Bulkships ships transport business Sub Total Others and elimination Consolidated Impairment loss . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ¥10,049 ¥— ¥50 ¥— ¥10,099 ¥— ¥99 ¥10,198 Annual Report 2015 101 Thousands of U.S. dollars (Note 1) Reportable segment Ferry & ContainerDomestic Associated Adjustment For the year ended March 31, 2015: Bulkships ships transport business Sub Total Others and elimination Consolidated Impairment loss . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $83,623 $— $416 $— $84,039 $— $824 $84,863 Millions of yen Reportable segment Ferry & ContainerDomestic Associated Adjustment For the year ended March 31, 2014: Bulkships ships transport business Sub Total Others and elimination Consolidated Impairment loss . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ¥6,368 ¥— ¥80 ¥— ¥6,448 ¥— ¥— ¥6,448 (3) Information about goodwill (negative goodwill) by reportable segment: Millions of yen Reportable segment Ferry & ContainerDomestic Associated Adjustment For the year ended March 31, 2015: Bulkships ships transport business Sub Total Others and elimination Consolidated Goodwill (Negative goodwill) at the end of current year . . . . . . . . . . ¥128 ¥364 ¥— ¥2,508 ¥3,000 ¥1 ¥— ¥3,001 Thousands of U.S. dollars (Note 1) Reportable segment Ferry & ContainerDomestic Associated Adjustment For the year ended March 31, 2015: Bulkships ships transport business Sub Total Others and elimination Consolidated Goodwill (Negative goodwill) at the end of current year . . . . . . . . . . $1,065 $3,029 $— $20,871 $24,965 $8 $— $24,973 Millions of yen Reportable segment Ferry & ContainerDomestic Associated Adjustment For the year ended March 31, 2014: Bulkships ships transport business Sub Total Others and elimination Consolidated Goodwill (Negative goodwill) at the end of current year . . . . . . . . . . ¥(379) ¥(1) ¥398 ¥1,554 ¥1,572 ¥1 ¥— ¥1,573 102 Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Value Creation 15. INCOME TAXES The Company is subject to a number of taxes based on income, which, in the aggregate, indicate statutory rates in Japan of approximately 31.75% for the year ended March 31, 2015 and 34.25% for the year ended March 31, 2014. (A) Significant components of deferred tax assets and liabilities at March 31, 2015 and 2014 were as follows: Management Strategy Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars (Note 1) 2015 2014 2015 Deferred tax assets: Excess bad debt expenses. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ¥ 1,011 ¥ 787 $ 8,413 Reserve for bonuses expenses. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,546 1,590 12,865 Net defined benefit liabilities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2,386 2,726 19,855 Retirement allowances for directors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 526 655 4,377 Manufactured Capital Write-down of securities and other investments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,861 1,791 15,486 Accrued business tax . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 450 410 3,745 Operating loss carried forward . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 53,557 54,982 445,677 Unrealized gain on sale of fixed assets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,548 1,675 12,882 Impairment loss . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 661 1,351 5,501 Others . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4,300 5,003 35,783 Total deferred tax assets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 67,846 70,970 564,584 Valuation allowance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (61,414) (64,817) (511,060) Net deferred tax assets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6,432 6,153 53,524 Human Capital Deferred tax liabilities: Reserve deductible for tax purposes when appropriated for deferred (1,897) (1,920) (15,786) gain on real properties . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Reserve deductible for tax purposes when appropriated for (555) (760) (4,618) special depreciation. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Intellectual, Social, Environmental Capital Unrealized holding gains on available-for-sale securities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (22,760) (19,391) (189,398) Gain on securities contributed to employee retirement benefit trust . . . . . . . (2,809) (3,667) (23,375) Revaluation reserve . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (15,436) (14,566) (128,451) Retained earnings of consolidated subsidiaries . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (10,073) (11,591) (83,823) Unrealized gains on hedging derivatives . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (53,880) (31,373) (448,366) Others . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (2,597) (333) (21,612) Total deferred tax liabilities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (110,007) (83,601) (915,429) Net deferred tax liabilities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ¥(103,575) ¥(77,448) $(861,905) Financial Capital On March 31, 2015, amendments to the Japanese tax regulations were enacted into law. Based on the amendments, the statutory income tax rates utilized for the measurement of deferred tax assets and liabilities expected to be settled or realized from April 1, 2015 to March 31, 2016 and on or after April 1, 2016 are changed from 31.75% for the year ended March 31, 2015 to 29.75% and 29.50%, respectively, as of March 31, 2015. Due to these changes in statutory income tax rates, net deferred tax liabilities (after deducting the deferred tax assets) decreased by ¥7,269 million ($60,489 thousand) as of March 31, 2015, deferred income tax expense recognized for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015 decreased by ¥1,155 million ($9,611 thousand), unrealized holding gains on available-for-sale securities increased by ¥1,819 million ($15,137 thousand), unrealized gains on hedging derivatives increased by ¥4,164 million ($34,651 thousand) and remeasurements of defined benefit plans increased by ¥132 million ($1,098 thousand). Annual Report 2015 103 (B) Reconciliation of the statutory tax rate to the effective tax rate for the years ended March 31, 2014 and 2015, were as follows: 2015 2014 Statutory tax rate . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31.8% Statutory tax rate . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34.3 % Non-deductible expenses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0.5% Non-deductible expenses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0.5 % Tax exempt revenues . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (7.8)% Tax exempt revenues . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (4.3)% Effect on tonnage tax system . . . . . . . . . . . . (12.2)% Effect on tonnage tax system . . . . . . . . . . . . (6.6)% Effect on elimination of dividend income . . . 22.9% Effect on net loss carried forward . . . . . . . . . (18.3)% Equity in earnings of unconsolidated (2.3)% Effect on elimination of dividend income . . . 10.6 % subsidiaries and affiliated companies . . . . . . Effect on elimination of loss on valuation of Effect on elimination of loss on valuation of (5.0)% (2.6)% stocks of subsidiaries and affiliates . . . . . . . stocks of subsidiaries and affiliates . . . . . . . Effect on difference of effective tax rate for (10.3)% Others . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (0.7)% consolidated subsidiaries . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Others . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (0.7)% Effective tax rate . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12.9 % Effective tax rate . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16.9% 16. EMPLOYEES’ SEVERANCE AND RETIREMENT BENEFITS (A) OUTLINE OF EMPLOYEES’ SEVERANCE AND RETIREMENT BENEFITS The Group have funded and un-funded defined benefit pension plans and defined contribution pension plans. The defined benefit corporate pension plans provide for a lump-sum payment or annuity payment determined by reference to the current rate of pay and the length of service. The Company has a retirement benefit trust. The retirement lump-sum plans provide for a lump-sum payment, as employee retirement benefits, determined by reference to the current rate of pay and the length of service. Certain consolidated subsidiaries calculate liabilities for retirement benefit and retirement benefit expenses, for the defined benefit corporate pension plans and the retirement lump-sum plans based on the amount which would be payable at the year end if all eligible employees terminated their services voluntarily (a “simplified method”). (B) DEFINED BENEFIT PLANS (1) MOVEMENTS IN RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS EXCEPT PLAN APPLIED SIMPLIFIED METHOD Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars (Note 1) 2015 2014 2015 Balance at beginning of the year . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ¥41,743 ¥42,258 $347,366 Cumulative effect of changes in accounting policies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4,565 — 37,988 Service cost . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,723 1,484 14,338 Interest cost . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 497 837 4,136 Actuarial loss (gain) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (733) (326) (6,100) Benefits paid . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (2,294) (2,510) (19,090) Balance at end of the year . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ¥45,612 ¥41,743 $379,562 (2) MOVEMENTS IN PLAN ASSETS EXCEPT PLAN APPLIED SIMPLIFIED METHOD Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars (Note 1) 2015 2014 2015 Balance at beginning of the year . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ¥59,906 ¥56,636 $498,510 Expected return on plan assets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,198 1,133 9,969 Actuarial loss (gain) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5,845 3,191 48,639 Contributions paid by the employer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,293 1,189 10,760 Benefits paid . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (2,073) (2,243) (17,250) Balance at end of the year . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ¥66,169 ¥59,906 $550,628 104 Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Value Creation (3) MOVEMENTS IN NET LIABILITY FOR RETIREMENT BENEFITS BASED ON THE SIMPLIFIED METHOD Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars (Note 1) 2015 2014 2015 Balance at beginning of the year . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ¥ 9,899 ¥10,918 $82,375 Management Strategy Retirement benefit costs. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,824 1,237 15,178 Benefits paid . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (267) (1,473) (2,222) Contributions paid by the employer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (1,192) (783) (9,919) Balance at end of the year . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ¥10,264 ¥ 9,899 $85,412 (4) RECONCILIATION FROM RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS AND PLAN ASSETS TO LIABILITY (ASSET) FOR RETIREMENT BENEFITS INCLUDING PLAN APPLIED SIMPLIFIED METHOD Manufactured Capital Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars (Note 1) 2015 2014 2015 Funded retirement benefit obligations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ¥ 53,665 ¥ 49,534 $ 446,576 Plan assets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (75,930) (68,750) (631,855) (22,265) (19,216) (185,279) Unfunded retirement benefit obligations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11,862 10,952 98,710 Total net liability (asset) for retirement benefits at end of the year . . . . . . . . . . . (10,403) (8,264) (86,569) Asset for retirement benefits . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13,660 12,936 113,672 Human Capital Liability for retirement benefits. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (24,063) (21,200) (200,241) Total net liability (asset) for retirement benefits at end of the year . . . . . . . . . . . ¥ (10,403) ¥ (8,264) $ (86,569) (5) RETIREMENT BENEFIT COSTS Thousands of Intellectual, Social, Environmental Capital Millions of yen U.S. dollars (Note 1) 2015 2014 2015 Service cost . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ¥ 1,723 ¥ 1,484 $14,338 Interest cost . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 497 837 4,136 Expected return on plan assets. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (1,198) (1,133) (9,969) Net actuarial loss amortization . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (715) (1,111) (5,950) Retirement benefit costs calculated by the simplified method. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,476 1,237 12,283 Others . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 157 287 1,306 Total retirement benefit costs for the fiscal year . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ¥ 1,940 ¥ 1,601 $16,144 Financial Capital (6) REMEASUREMENTS OF DEFINED BENEFIT PLANS Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars (Note 1) 2015 2014 2015 Actuarial loss (gain) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ¥(5,863) ¥— $(48,789) (7) ACCUMULATED REMEASUREMENTS OF DEFINED BENEFIT PLANS Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars (Note 1) 2015 2014 2015 Unrecognized actuarial differences. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ¥(7,626) ¥(1,763) $(63,460) Annual Report 2015 105 (8) PLAN ASSETS 1. Plan assets comprise 2015 2014 Equity securities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47% 54% Bonds. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22% 22% Jointly invested assets. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18% 17% Cash and cash equivalents . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13% 6% Other . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0% 1% Total. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100% 100% Retirement benefit trust . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37% 36% 2. Long-term expected rate of return Current and target asset allocations, historical and expected returns on various categories of plan assets have been considered in determining the long-term expected rate of return. (9) ACTUARIAL ASSUMPTIONS The discount rates ware mainly 0.6%~1.2% for the year ended March 31, 2015 and 2.0% for the year ended March 31, 2014. Also, the rates of expected return on plan assets were mainly 2.0% for the years ended March 31, 2015 and 2014. (C) DEFINED CONTRIBUTION PLANS The estimated amounts of contributions to defined contribution plans were ¥747 million ($6,216 thousand) at March 31, 2015 and ¥855 million at March 31, 2014. 106 Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Value Creation 17. STOCK OPTIONS (A) EXPENSED AMOUNT Expensed amounts on stock options for the years ended March 31, 2015 and 2014 were as follows: Thousands of Management Strategy Millions of yen U.S. dollars (Note 1) 2015 2014 2015 Selling, general and administrative expenses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ¥195 ¥275 $1,623 Total . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ¥195 ¥275 $1,623 (B) TERMS AND CONDITIONS The following table summarizes terms and conditions of stock options for the years when they were granted: Manufactured Capital 2004 2005 2006 2007 Directors: 11 Directors: 11 Directors: 11 Directors: 11 Executive officers: 16 Executive officers: 17 Executive officers: 17 Executive officers: 20 Employees: 32 Employees: 38 Employees: 34 Employees: 33 Number of grantees Presidents of the Company’s Presidents of the Company’s Presidents of the Company’s Presidents of the Company’s domestic consolidated domestic consolidated domestic consolidated domestic consolidated subsidiaries: 34 subsidiaries: 34 subsidiaries: 37 subsidiaries: 36 Number of stock options Common stock 1,570,000 Common stock 1,650,000 Common stock 1,670,000 Common stock 1,710,000 Grant date August 5, 2004 August 5, 2005 August 11, 2006 August 10, 2007 Vesting conditions No provisions No provisions No provisions No provisions Human Capital Service period No provisions No provisions No provisions No provisions From June 20, 2005 to From June 20, 2006 to From June 20, 2007 to From June 20, 2008 to Exercise period June 24, 2014 June 23, 2015 June 22, 2016 June 21, 2017 2008 2009 2010 2011 Directors: 11 Directors: 11 Directors: 10 Directors: 10 Intellectual, Social, Environmental Capital Executive officers: 20 Executive officers: 20 Executive officers: 21 Executive officers: 22 Employees: 38 Employees: 33 Employees: 36 Employees: 34 Number of grantees Presidents of the Company’s Presidents of the Company’s Presidents of the Company’s Presidents of the Company’s domestic consolidated domestic consolidated domestic consolidated domestic consolidated subsidiaries: 36 subsidiaries: 35 subsidiaries: 33 subsidiaries: 33 Number of stock options Common stock 1,760,000 Common stock 1,640,000 Common stock 1,710,000 Common stock 1,720,000 Grant date August 8, 2008 August 14, 2009 August 16, 2010 August 9, 2011 Vesting conditions No provisions No provisions No provisions No provisions Service period No provisions No provisions No provisions No provisions From July 25, 2009 to From July 31, 2011 to From July 31, 2012 to From July 26, 2013 to Exercise period June 24, 2018 June 22, 2019 June 21, 2020 June 22, 2021 Financial Capital 2012 2013 2014 Directors: 9 Directors: 9 Directors: 9 Executive officers: 22 Executive officers: 18 Executive officers: 19 Employees: 33 Employees: 38 Employees: 33 Number of grantees Presidents of the Company’s Presidents of the Company’s Presidents of the Company's domestic consolidated domestic consolidated domestic consolidated subsidiaries: 30 subsidiaries: 33 subsidiaries: 32 Number of stock options Common stock 1,640,000 Common stock 1,600,000 Common stock 1,480,000 Grant date August 13, 2012 August 16, 2013 August 18, 2014 Vesting conditions No provisions No provisions No provisions Service period No provisions No provisions No provisions From July 28, 2014 to From August 2, 2015 to From August 2, 2016 to Exercise period June 21, 2022 June 20, 2023 June 23, 2024 Annual Report 2015 107 (C) CHANGES IN NUMBER AND UNIT PRICES The following tables summarize changes in number and unit prices of stock options for the years when they were granted: (1) Changes in number of stock options Non-vested stock options 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Balance at March 31, 2014 . . . . . . — — — — — — — — 1,640,000 1,600,000 — Options granted during the year . — — — — — — — — — — 1,480,000 Options expired during the year . . — — — — — — — — — — — Options vested during the year . . — — — — — — — — 1,640,000 — — Balance at March 31, 2015 . . . . . . — — — — — — — — — 1,600,000 1,480,000 Vested stock options 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Balance at March 31, 2014 . . . . . . 286,000 878,000 1,443,000 1,680,000 1,750,000 1,630,000 1,710,000 1,720,000 — — — Options vested during the year . . — — — — — — — — 1,640,000 — — Options exercised during the year . — — — — — — — — 283,000 — — Options expired during the year . . 286,000 — 10,000 20,000 20,000 — — — — — — Balance at March 31, 2015 . . . . . . — 878,000 1,433,000 1,660,000 1,730,000 1,630,000 1,710,000 1,720,000 1,357,000 — — (2) Unit prices of stock options exercised during the year 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Exercise price ¥644 ¥762 ¥841 ¥1,962 ¥1,569 ¥639 ¥642 ¥468 ¥277 ¥447 ¥412 Average market price of share — — — — — — — — ¥390 — — at exercise . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Fair value per stock option — — ¥219 ¥ 352 ¥ 217 ¥136 ¥208 ¥ 87 ¥ 67 ¥172 ¥132 at grant date. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (D) KEY FIGURES FOR FAIR VALUE PER STOCK OPTION The Company utilized the Black Scholes Model for calculating fair value per stock option. Key figures of the calculation were as follows: 2014 Stock price volatility . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46.3% Expected remaining term of the option . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 years and 11 months Expected dividends . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ¥5 per share Risk-free interest rate . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0.19% 108 Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Value Creation 18. COMPREHENSIVE INCOME For the years ended March 31, 2015 and 2014, the amounts reclassified to net income (loss) that were recognized in other comprehensive income and tax effects for each component of other comprehensive income were as follows: Thousands of Management Strategy Millions of yen U.S. dollars (Note 1) 2015 2014 2015 Unrealized holding gains on available-for-sale securities, net of tax: Increase during the year . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ¥ 16,331 ¥13,764 $ 135,899 Reclassification adjustments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (57) (780) (474) Sub-total, before tax . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16,274 12,984 135,425 Tax expense . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (3,382) (4,137) (28,144) 12,892 8,847 107,281 Manufactured Capital Unrealized gains on hedging derivatives, net of tax: Increase during the year . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 97,875 48,719 814,471 Reclassification adjustments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (18,834) (9,896) (156,728) Adjustments of acquisition cost . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (9,136) 3,425 (76,025) Sub-total, before tax . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 69,905 42,248 581,718 Tax expense . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (23,231) (9,523) (193,318) 46,674 32,725 388,400 Human Capital Foreign currency translation adjustments: Increase during the year . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20,635 31,158 171,715 Reclassification adjustments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 167 — 1,390 20,802 31,158 173,105 Intellectual, Social, Environmental Capital Remeasurements of defined benefit plans: Increase during the year . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6,578 — 54,739 Reclassification adjustments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (715) — (5,950) Sub-total, before tax . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5,863 — 48,789 Tax expense . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (1,729) — (14,388) 4,134 — 34,401 *Remeasurements of defined benefit plans is disclosed from the current term. Share of other comprehensive income of associates accounted for using equity method: Financial Capital Increase (Decrease) during the year . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (12,827) 14,039 (106,740) Reclassification adjustments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3,680 5,654 30,623 Adjustments of acquisition cost . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (834) (408) (6,940) (9,981) 19,285 (83,057) Total other comprehensive income . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ¥ 74,521 ¥92,015 $ 620,130 Annual Report 2015 109 19. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS For the year ended March 31, 2015 There are no applicable matters to report. For the year ended March 31, 2014 Millions of yen Transactions during the year ended Balance at Millions March 31, 2014 March 31, 2014 of yen Ratio of Relation Name of Paid-in Business the Group’s with related Description of Transacted Category company Address capital description voting rights party transaction amount Account Amount Affiliated Daiichi Chuo Chuo-ku, ¥28,958 Marine Directly Interlocking Underwriting ¥15,000 — — company Kisen Kaisha Tokyo transportation 26.96% directorate of capital Ship chartering increase Notes: 1. With regard to underwriting of capital increase, the Company underwrote capital increase through a third-party allotment of new shares of Daiichi Chuo Kisen Kaisha at ¥1,000 per share. 2. Consumption taxes are not included in transacted amount. 20. SUBSEQUENT EVENT There is no applicable matter. 21. OTHERS The Group is subject to investigations by overseas competition law authorities including those of the U.S. and Europe for violation of competition laws of those countries regarding price control negotiations for ocean transport services of completely built-up vehicles. In addition, a class-action lawsuit was filed in the U.S. and other countries against the Group for damage claims and for a cease and desist order for the questioned conduct. Meanwhile, the effect of these investigations and lawsuit on the financial results of the Group is uncertain as its financial impact is not estimable at this stage. 110 Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Value Creation Management Strategy Manufactured Capital Human Capital Intellectual, Social, Environmental Capital Financial Capital Annual Report 2015 111 Independent Auditor’s Report The MOL Group Mitsui O.S.K. Lines, Ltd. March 31, 2015 ■ Consolidated Subsidiaries ▲ Affiliated Companies Accounted for by the Equity Method Registered MOL's Voting Rights Paid-in Capital Office (%)* (Thousands) ■ BGT Ltd. Liberia 100.00 US$5 Bulkships ■ BLNG Inc. U.S.A. 75.00 US$1 ■ Chugoku Shipping Agencies Ltd. Japan 100.00 ¥10,000 ■ El Sol Shipping Ltd. S.A. Panama 100.00 US$10 ■ Euro Marine Carrier B.V. Netherlands 75.50 €91 ■ Euro Marine Logistics N.V. Belgium 50.00 €900 ■ Lakler S.A. Uruguay 100.00 US$91,401 ■ MCGC International Ltd. Bahamas 80.10 US$1 ■ Mitsui O.S.K. Bulk Shipping (Asia Oceania) Pte. Ltd. Singapore 100.00 S$2,350 ■ Mitsui O.S.K. Bulk Shipping (Europe) Ltd. U.K. 100.00 US$8,402 ■ Mitsui O.S.K. Bulk Shipping (USA), LLC U.S.A. 100.00 — ■ Mitsui O.S.K. Kinkai, Ltd. Japan 100.00 ¥660,000 ■ MOG LNG Transport S.A. Panama 100.00 ¥0 ■ MOL Bridge Finance S.A. Panama 100.00 US$8 ■ MOL Bulk Carriers Pte. Ltd. Singapore 100.00 US$3,500 ■ MOL Cape (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. Singapore 100.00 US$51,752 ■ MOL LNG Transport Co., Ltd. Japan 100.00 ¥40,000 ■ MOL Netherlands Bulkship B.V. Netherlands 100.00 €18 ■ MOL-NIC Transport Ltd. Liberia 75.00 US$13,061 ■ Nissan Carrier Europe B.V. Netherlands 100.00 €195 ■ Nissan Motor Car Carrier Co., Ltd. Japan 70.01 ¥640,000 ■ Phoenix Tankers Pte. Ltd. Singapore 100.00 US$379,311 ■ Samba Offshore S.A. Panama 100.00 US$10 ■ Shining Shipping S.A. Panama 100.00 US$10 ■ Tokyo Marine Asia Pte Ltd Singapore 100.00 S$138,018 ■ Tokyo Marine Co., Ltd. Japan 100.00 ¥100,000 ■ Unix Line Pte Ltd. Singapore 100.00 US$344 ■ World Logistics Service (U.S.A.), Inc. U.S.A. 100.00 US$200 ■ Shipowner/Chartering companies (205 companies) in Panama, Marshall Islands, Liberia, Hong Kong, Cayman Islands, Singapore, Indonesia, Isle of Man and Malta ■ Others (2 companies) ▲ Aramo Shipping (Singapore) Pte Ltd. Singapore 50.00 US$20,743 ▲ Asahi Tanker Co., Ltd. Japan 24.75 ¥600,045 ▲ Carioca MV27 B.V. Netherlands 20.60 €100 ▲ Cernambi Norte MV26 B.V. Netherlands 20.60 €100 ▲ Cernambi Sul MV24 B.V. Netherlands 20.60 €162,160 ▲ Daiichi Chuo Kisen Kaisha Japan 16.99 ¥28,958,411 ▲ Gearbulk Holding Ltd. Bermuda 49.00 US$61,225 ▲ LNG Fukurokuju Shipping Corporation Bahamas 30.00 ¥1,000 ▲ LNG Jurojin Shipping Corporation Bahamas 30.00 ¥1,000 ▲ M.S.Tanker Shipping Ltd. Hong Kong 50.00 HK$2,000 ▲ T.E.N. Ghana MV25 B.V. Netherlands 20.00 €100 ▲ Trans Pacific Shipping 2 Ltd. Bahamas 20.00 ¥3,961,100 ▲ Viken MOL AS Norway 50.00 US$18 ▲ Viken Shuttle AS Norway 50.00 US$338 ▲ Shipowner/Chartering companies (47 companies) in Panama, Marshall Islands, Hong Kong, Liberia, Cayman Islands, Bahamas, Malta, Cyprus and Singapore ■ Asia Utoc Pte. Ltd. Singapore 100.00 S$200 Containerships ■ Bangkok Container Service Co., Ltd. Thailand 100.00 THB10,000 ■ Bangpoo Intermodal Systems Co., Ltd. Thailand 74.62 THB130,000 ■ Chiba Utoc Corporation Japan 100.00 ¥90,000 ■ Hong Kong Logistics Co., Ltd. Hong Kong 100.00 HK$58,600 ■ International Container Transport Co., Ltd. Japan 51.00 ¥100,000 ■ International Transportation Inc. U.S.A. 51.00 US$0 ■ Mitsui O.S.K. Lines (Australia) Pty. Ltd. Australia 100.00 A$1,000 ■ Mitsui O.S.K. Lines (Japan) Ltd. Japan 100.00 ¥100,000 ■ Mitsui O.S.K. Lines (Nigeria) Ltd. Nigeria 100.00 NGN25,000 ■ Mitsui O.S.K. Lines (SEA) Pte Ltd. Singapore 100.00 S$200 ■ Mitsui O.S.K. Lines (Thailand) Co., Ltd. Thailand 47.00 THB20,000 ■ MOL (America) Inc. U.S.A. 100.00 US$6 ■ MOL (Brasil) Ltda. Brazil 100.00 BRL2,403 ■ MOL (China) Co., Ltd. China 100.00 US$1,960 ■ MOL (Europe) B.V. Netherlands 100.00 €456 ■ MOL (Europe) Central Support Unit SP. Zoo Poland 100.00 PLN2,000 ■ MOL (Europe) Ltd. U.K. 100.00 £1,500 ■ MOL (Ghana) Ltd. Ghana 100.00 US$50 ■ MOL (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. Singapore 100.00 S$5,000 ■ MOL Consolidation Service Ltd. Hong Kong 100.00 HK$1,000 ■ MOL Consolidation Service Ltd. (China) China 100.00 RMB8,000 ■ MOL Container Center (Thailand) Co., Ltd. Thailand 99.60 THB10,000 ■ MOL Cote D’ivoire S.A. Ivory Coast 100.00 XOF5,000 ■ MOL Egypt for Maritime Services Ltd. Egypt 49.00 EGP750 ■ MOL Liner, Ltd. Hong Kong 100.00 HK$40,000 ■ MOL Logistics (Deutschland) Gmbh Germany 100.00 €537 ■ MOL Logistics (Europe) B.V. Netherlands 100.00 €414 ■ MOL Logistics (H.K.) Ltd. Hong Kong 100.00 HK$3,676 ■ MOL Logistics (Japan) Co., Ltd. Japan 75.06 ¥756,250 ■ MOL Logistics (Netherlands) B.V. Netherlands 100.00 €3,049 ■ MOL Logistics (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. Singapore 100.00 S$700 ■ MOL Logistics (Taiwan) Co., Ltd. Taiwan 100.00 NT$7,500 ■ MOL Logistics (Thailand) Co., Ltd. Thailand 98.00 THB20,000 ■ MOL Logistics (UK) Ltd. U.K. 100.00 £400 ■ MOL Logistics (USA) Inc. U.S.A. 100.00 US$9,814 ■ MOL Logistics Holding (Europe) B.V. Netherlands 100.00 €19 ■ MOL South Africa (Pty) Ltd. South Africa 100.00 ZAR3,000 112 Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Value Creation Registered MOL's Voting Rights Paid-in Capital Office (%)* (Thousands) ■ Shanghai Huajia International Freight Forwarding Co., Ltd. China 76.00 US$1,720 ■ Shosen Koun Co., Ltd. Japan 79.98 ¥300,000 ■ Thai Intermodal Systems Co., Ltd. Thailand 100.00 THB77,500 ■ Trapac, LLC. U.S.A. 100.00 — ■ Trapac Jacksonville, LLC U.S.A. 100.00 — ■ Management Strategy Utoc Corporation Japan 67.55 ¥2,155,300 ■ Utoc Engineering Pte Ltd. Singapore 100.00 S$2,000 ■ Utoc Logistics Corporation Japan 100.00 ¥50,000 ■ Utoc Stevedoring Corporation Japan 100.00 ¥50,000 ■ Shipowner companies (15 companies) in Panama, Marshall Islands, Hong Kong and Liberia ■ Others (8 companies) ▲ Shanghai Kakyakusen Kaisha, Ltd. Japan 31.98 ¥100,000 ▲ Shanghai Longfei International Logistics Co., Ltd. China 22.05 US$1,240 ▲ Other (1 company) ■ Blue Highway Express Kyushu Co., Ltd Japan 100.00 ¥50,000 Ferry & Domestic ■ Blue Highway Service K.K. Japan 100.00 ¥30,000 Transport ■ Blue Sea Network Co., Ltd. Japan 100.00 ¥54,600 Manufactured Capital ■ Ferry Sunflower Ltd. Japan 99.00 ¥100,000 ■ MOL Coastal Shipping, Ltd. Japan 100.00 ¥650,000 ■ MOL Ferry Co., Ltd. Japan 100.00 ¥1,577,400 ■ Shipowner companies (2 companies) in Panama ■ Others (7 companies) ▲ Meimon Taiyo Ferry Co., Ltd. Japan 38.73 ¥880,000 ▲ Other (1 company) ■ Daibiru Corporation Japan 51.07 ¥12,227,847 Associated ■ Daibiru Facility Management Ltd. Japan 100.00 ¥17,000 Business ■ Green Kaiji Kaisha, Ltd. Japan 100.00 ¥95,400 ■ Green Shipping, Ltd. Japan 100.00 ¥172,000 ■ Hokuso Kohatsu K.K. Japan 100.00 ¥50,000 ■ Ikuta & Marine Co., Ltd. Japan 100.00 ¥26,500 ■ Japan Express Co., Ltd. (Kobe) Japan 86.27 ¥99,960 Human Capital ■ Japan Express Co., Ltd. (Yokohama) Japan 100.00 ¥236,000 ■ Japan Express Packing & Transport Co., Ltd. Japan 100.00 ¥60,000 ■ Japan Hydrographic Charts & Publications Co., Ltd. Japan 95.25 ¥32,000 ■ Jentower Ltd. British Virgin 100.00 US$0 Islands ■ Kitanihon Tug-boat Co., Ltd. Japan 62.00 ¥50,000 ■ Kobe Towing Co., Ltd. Japan 100.00 ¥50,000 ■ Kosan Kanri Service Co., Ltd. Japan 100.00 ¥20,000 ■ Kosan Kanri Service West Co.,Ltd. Japan 100.00 ¥14,400 ■ Kusakabe Maritime Engineering Co., Ltd. Japan 100.00 ¥200,000 Intellectual, Social, Environmental Capital ■ M.O. Tourist Co., Ltd. Japan 100.00 ¥250,000 ■ Mitsui O.S.K. Kosan Co., Ltd. Japan 100.00 ¥300,000 ■ Mitsui O.S.K. Passenger Line, Ltd. Japan 100.00 ¥100,000 ■ MOL Career Support, Ltd. Japan 100.00 ¥100,000 ■ MOL Kaiji Co., Ltd. Japan 100.00 ¥95,000 ■ MOL Techno-Trade, Ltd. Japan 100.00 ¥490,000 ■ Nihon Tug-Boat Co., Ltd. Japan 87.26 ¥134,203 ■ Saigon Tower Co., Ltd. Vietnam 100.00 VND48,166,000 ■ Tanshin Building Service Co., Ltd. Japan 100.00 ¥20,000 ■ Ube Port Service Co., Ltd. Japan 99.39 ¥14,950 ■ Vibank-Ngt Co. Ltd. Vietnam 99.00 VND349,000,000 ■ White Lotus Properties Ltd. British Virgin 100.00 ¥6,910,000 Islands ■ Chartering company (1 company) in Panama ▲ Shinyo Kaiun Corporation Japan 36.00 ¥100,000 ▲ South China Towing Co., Ltd. Hong Kong 25.00 HK$12,400 ▲ Tan Cang-Cai Mep Towage Services Co., Ltd. Vietnam 40.00 US$4,500 Financial Capital ■ Euromol B.V. Netherlands 100.00 €8,444 Others ■ Linkman Holdings Inc. Liberia 100.00 US$3 ■ Mitsui Kinkai Kisen Co., Ltd. Japan 80.42 ¥350,000 ■ Mitsui O.S.K. Holdings (Benelux) B.V. Netherlands 100.00 €17,245 ■ MM Holdings (Americas), Inc U.S.A. 100.00 US$200 ■ MOL Accounting Co., Ltd. Japan 100.00 ¥30,000 ■ MOL Adjustment, Ltd. Japan 100.00 ¥10,000 ■ MOL Engineering Co., Ltd. Japan 100.00 ¥20,000 ■ MOL FG, Inc. U.S.A. 100.00 US$20 ■ MOL Information Systems, Ltd. Japan 100.00 ¥100,000 ■ MOL Manning Service S.A. Panama 100.00 US$135 ■ MOL Marine Co., Ltd. Japan 100.00 ¥100,000 ■ MOL Ocean Expert Co., Ltd. Japan 100.00 ¥100,000 ■ MOL Ship Management Co., Ltd. Japan 100.00 ¥50,000 ■ MOL Ship Tech Inc. Japan 100.00 ¥50,000 ■ MOL SI, Inc. U.S.A. 100.00 US$100 ■ MOL Treasury Management Pte. Ltd. Singapore 100.00 US$2,000 ■ Shipowner/Chartering companies (4 companies) in Panama ▲ Minaminippon Shipbuilding Co., Ltd. Japan 24.00 ¥200,000 *MOL includes MOL and its subsidiaries Annual Report 2015 113 Worldwide Offices Japan Africa Mitsui O.S.K. Lines, Ltd. MOL South Africa (Pty) Ltd. Head Office (Tokyo): Tel: 81-3-3587-6224 Fax: 81-3-3587-7734 Head Office (Cape Town): Tel: 27-21-441-2200 Fax: 27-21-419-1040 Nagoya Branch: Tel: 81-52-564-7020 Fax: 81-52-564-7047 Mitsui O.S.K. Lines (Nigeria) Ltd. Kansai Branch: Tel: 81-6-6446-6522 Fax: 81-6-6446-6513 Head Office (Lagos): Tel: 234-1-2806556 Fax: 234-1-2806559 Hiroshima Branch: Tel: 81-82-252-6020 Fax: 81-82-254-0876 Kyushu Branch: Tel: 81-92-262-0701 Fax: 81-92-262-0720 MOL (Ghana) Ltd. Head Office (Tema): Tel: 233-22-212084 Fax: 233-22-210807 Mitsui O.S.K. Lines (Japan), Ltd. Head Office (Tokyo): Tel: 81-3-3587-7684 Fax: 81-3-3587-7730 Middle East Yokohama: Tel: 81-45-212-7710 Fax: 81-45-212-7735 Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Ltd. Middle East Headquarters Nagoya: Tel: 81-52-564-7000 Fax: 81-52-564-7047 Dubai: Tel: 971-4-3573566 Fax: 971-4-3573066 Osaka: Tel: 81-6-6446-6501 Fax: 81-6-6446-6513 MOL (UAE) L.L.C. Kyushu: Tel: 81-92-262-0701 Fax: 81-92-262-0720 Head Office (Dubai): Tel: 971-4-3573566 Fax: 971-4-3573066 North America Mitsui O.S.K. Bulk Shipping (Asia, Oceania) Pte. Ltd. MOL (America) Inc. Doha: Tel: 974-4-836541 Fax: 974-4-836563 Head Office (Chicago): Tel: 1-630-812-3700 Fax: 1-630-812-3703 Muscat: Tel: 968-2440-0950 Fax: 968-2440-0953 Atlanta: Tel: 1-678-855-7700 Fax: 1-678-855-7747 MOL Egypt for Shipping Agencies S.A.E. Long Beach: Tel: 1-562-983-6200 Fax: 1-562-983-6292 Head Office (Cairo): Tel: 20-22-456-8900 Fax: 20-22-259-5857 New Jersey: Tel: 1-732-512-5200 Fax: 1-732-512-5300 San Francisco: Tel: 1-925-603-7200 Fax: 1-925-603-7229 Oceania Seattle: Tel: 1-206-444-6905 Fax: 1-206-444-6909 Mitsui O.S.K. Lines (Australia) Pty. Ltd. MOL (Canada) Inc. Head Office (Sydney): Tel: 61-2-9320-1600 Fax: 61-2-9320-1601 Head office (Toronto): Tel:1-905-629-5925 FAX: 1-905-629-5914 Mitsui O.S.K. Lines (New Zealand) Ltd. Mitsui O.S.K. Bulk Shipping (USA) LLC. Head Office (Auckland): Tel: 64-9-300-5820 Fax: 64-9-309-1439 Head Office (New Jersey): Tel: 1-201-395-5800 Fax: 1-201-395-5820 Mitsui O.S.K. Bulk Shipping (Asia, Oceania) Pte. Ltd. Houston: Tel: 1-832-615-6470 Fax: 1-832-615-6480 Melbourne: Tel: 61-3-9691-3224 Fax: 61-3-9691-3223 Long Beach: Tel: 1-562-528-7500 Fax: 1-562-528-7515 Perth: Tel: 61-8-9278-2499 Fax: 61-8-9278-2727 Miami: Tel: 1-954-861-1034 Sydney: Tel: 61-2-9320-1629 Fax: 61-2-9320-1601 MOL Logistics (USA) Inc. Head Office (New York): Tel: 1-516-403-2100 Fax: 1-516-626-6092 Asia Los Angeles: Tel: 1-310-787-8351 Fax: 1-310-787-8168 MOL Liner Ltd. Head Office (Hong Kong): Tel: 852-2823-6800 Fax: 852-2865-0906 Central and South America Mitsui O.S.K. Lines (India) Private Limited MOL (Brasil) Ltda. Head Office (Mumbai): Tel: 91-22-4054-6300 Fax: 91-22-4054-6301 Head Office (Sao Paulo): Tel: 55-11-3145-3980 Fax: 55-11-3145-3946 Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Lanka (Private) Ltd. MOL (Chile) Ltda. Head Office (Colombo): Tel: 94-11-2304721 Fax: 94-11-2304730 Head Office (Santiago): Tel: 56-2-2630-1950 Fax: 56-2-2231-5622 MOL (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. MOL (Panama) Inc. Head Office (Singapore): Tel: 65-6225-2811 Fax: 65-6225-6096 Head Office (Panama): Tel: 11-507-300-3200 Fax: 11-507-300-3212 Mitsui O.S.K. Lines (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. MOL (PERU) S.A.C. Head Office (Kuala Lumpur): Tel: 60-3-5623-9666 Fax: 60-3-5623-9600 Head Office (Lima): Tel: 51-1-611-9400 Fax: 51-1-611-9429 MOL Myanmar Limited Corporativo MOL de Mexico S.A. de C.V. Head Office (Yangon): Tel: 95-9-7318-9815 Fax: 95-9-5137-7174 Head Office (Mexico City): Tel: 52-55-5010-5200 Fax: 52-55-5010-5220 P.T. Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Indonesia Mitsui O.S.K. Bulk Shipping (USA) LLC. Head Office (Jakarta): Tel: 62-21-5288-0008 Fax: 62-21-5292-0920 Mexico City: Tel: 52-55-5550-1612 Fax: 52-55-5089-2280 Mitsui O.S.K. Lines (Thailand) Co., Ltd. Sao Paulo: Tel: 55-11-3145-3980 Fax: 55-11-3145-3946 Head Office (Bangkok): Tel: 66-2-234-6252 Fax: 66-2-237-9021 MOL Logistics (Mexico) S. de R. L. de C.V. MOL Philippines, Inc. Head Office (Monterrey): Tel: 52-81-8134-2400 Fax: 52-81-8134-2200 Head Office (Manila): Tel: 632-888-6531 Fax: 632-884-1766 Europe Mitsui O.S.K. Lines (Vietnam) Ltd. MOL (Europe) B.V. Head Office (Ho Chi Minh): Tel: 84-83-8219219 Fax: 84-83-8219317 Head Office (Rotterdam): Tel: 31-10-201-3200 Fax: 31-10-201-3158 Mitsui O.S.K. Lines (Cambodia) Co., Ltd. Genoa: Tel: 39-10-2901711 Fax: 39-10-5960450 Head Office (Phnom Penh): Tel: 855-23-223-036 Fax: 855-23-223-040 Hamburg: Tel: 49-40-356110 Fax: 49-40-352506 Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Pakistan (Pvt.) Ltd. Le Havre: Tel: 33-2-32-74-24-00 Fax: 33-2-32-74-24-39 Head Office (Karachi): Tel: 92-21-35205397 Fax: 92-21-35202559 Vienna: Tel: 43-1-877-6971 Fax: 43-1-876-4725 Basel: Tel: 41-61-716-8001 Fax: 41-61-716-8070 MOL (China) Co., Ltd. Head Office (Shanghai): Tel: 86-21-2320-6000 Fax: 86-21-2320-6331 MOL (Europe) Ltd. Beijing: Tel: 86-10-8529-9121 Fax: 86-10-8529-9126 Head Office (Southampton): Tel: 44-2380-714500 Fax: 44-2380-714519 Tianjin: Tel: 86-22-8331-1331 Fax: 86-22-8331-1318 Mitsui O.S.K. Bulk Shipping (Europe) Ltd. Shenzhen: Tel: 86-755-8400-7900 Fax: 86-755-8400-7901 Head Office (London): Tel: 44-20-3764-8000 Fax: 44-20-3764-8393 MOL (Taiwan) Co., Ltd. Hamburg: Tel: 49-40-3609-7410 Fax: 49-40-8430-6105 Head Office (Taipei): Tel: 886-2-2537-8000 Fax: 886-2-2537-8098 Moscow: Tel: 7-495-369-90-58 Mitsui O.S.K. Bulk Shipping (Asia, Oceania) Pte. Ltd. MOL Logistics (Deutschland) GmbH Head Office (Singapore): Tel: 65-6323-1303 Fax: 65-6323-1305 Head Office (Dusseldorf): Tel: 49-211-418830 Fax: 49-211-4188340 Bangkok: Tel: 66-2-634-0807 Fax: 66-2-634-0806 MOL Logistics (Netherlands) B.V. Kuala Lumpur: Tel: 60-3-5623-9772 Fax: 60-3-5623-3107 Head Office (Tilburg): Tel: 31-13-537-33-73 Fax: 31-13-5373-575 Seoul: Tel: 82-2-567-2718 Fax: 82-2-567-2719 MOL Logistics (U.K.) Ltd. Mumbai: Tel: 91-22-4071-4560 Fax: 91-22-4071-4557 Head Office (London): Tel: 44-1895-459700 Fax: 44-1895-449600 Chennai: Tel: 91-44-4208-1020 Fax: 91-44-4208-1020 114 Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Shareholder Information Capital: ¥65,400,351,028 Head office: 1-1, Toranomon 2-chome, Minato-ku, Tokyo 105-8688, Japan Number of MOL employees: 890 Number of MOL Group employees: 10,508 (The parent company and consolidated subsidiaries) Total number of shares authorized: 3,154,000,000 Number of shares issued: 1,206,286,115 Number of shareholders: 104,192 Shares listed in: Tokyo, Nagoya Share transfer agent: Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank, Limited (Contact information) Stock Transfer Agency Business Planning Department 8-4, Izumi 2-chome, Suginami-ku, Tokyo 168-0063, Japan Communications materials: Annual Report (English/Japanese) Investor Guidebook (English/Japanese) Market Data (English/Japanese) News Releases (English/Japanese) Website (English/Japanese) Safety, Environmental and Social Report (English/Japanese) (As of March 31, 2015) Stock Price Range (Tokyo Stock Exchange) and Volume of Stock Trade Fiscal 2012 High ¥369 Fiscal 2013 High ¥482 Fiscal 2014 High ¥450 (¥) 800 Low ¥177 Low ¥287 Low ¥308 700 600 500 400 300 200 100 (Million shares) 0 800 700 600 500 400 300 200 100 12 13 14 15 0 /4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 /1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 /1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 /1 2 3 4 5 6 Annual Report 2015 115 For further information, please contact: Investor Relations Office Mitsui O.S.K. Lines, Ltd. 1-1, Toranomon 2-Chome, Minato-ku, Tokyo 105-8688, Japan Telephone: +81-3-3587-6224 Facsimile: +81-3-3587-7734 E-mail: iromo@molgroup.com URL: http://www.mol.co.jp/en/ This annual report is printed on Forest Stewardship Council™ (FSC)-certified paper made of wood from responsibly managed forests. Printed in Japan It was also printed using vegetable oil inks.
