COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 UN GLOBAL COMPACT TABLE OF CONTENT 1I Statement from the CEO 2I The ten principles of the UN Global Compact 4I HRA Pharma at a Glance 6 BUSINESS ETHICS 6I Fostering responsible business conduct Committed to responsible and compliant conduct 7I Rigorous quality controls and pharmacovigilance system Developing a rigorous quality process Establishing a corruption prevention program 9 COOPERATION & ENGAGEMENT 9I Internal satisfaction and engagement survey Become an effective manager at HRA Pharma 10 I Quality of life at work charter 12 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT 12 I Fostering innovation Awareness on women’s issues The HRA Pharma Company’s Foundation 13 I Minimize our environmental impact STATEMENT FROM THE CEO Welcome to the HRA Pharma 2015 Communication on Progress (COP) report. In this third report, we review our corporate responsibility efforts, performance and progress since we became a member of the UN Global Compact in 2011. Our Company revolves around core values Dream-Dare-Share, which distinguish us and guide our actions. We dream of a world of responsible growth and sustainable health outcomes for all. We dare to take actions to advance, at our scale, societal goals and we share our convictions and successes with others. We conduct our business in a responsible and ethical manner. We support universal human rights, respect legal and regulatory frameworks and foster cooperation and engagement among our employees. We strive for sustainable business development with the objective to do our business responsibly while reducing our own environmental footprint. On the following pages, you will read more about our progress against the 10 principles of the UNGC. We have laid the strategic and operational foundations for the challenges that lie ahead, and we are committed to expanding and extending our corporate citizenship efforts, moving forward to create sustained impact in communities around the world. Erin Gainer CEO of HRA Pharma COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 – UN GLOBAL COMPACT I 1 THE TEN PRINCIPLES OF THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT Launched in 2000, the United Nations Global Compact is a voluntary initiative for companies that are committed to sustainable business practices. It seeks to align corporate strategies and operations with universal principles on human rights, labour, environment and anticorruption, and take actions that advance societal goals. More than 8300 companies from 161 countries have joined Global Compact. HRA Pharma signed up to the Global Compact in 2011 and has adopted it 10 principles. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLE 7 PRINCIPLE 2 Make sure that they are not complicit Businesses should support a precautionary in human rights abuses. approach to environmental challenges; PRINCIPLE 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater LABOUR environmental responsibility; and PRINCIPLE 9 PRINCIPLE 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom Encourage the development and of association and the effective recognition diffusion of environmentally friendly of the right to collective bargaining technologies PRINCIPLE 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE 5 The effective abolition of child labour; PRINCIPLE 10 and Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including PRINCIPLE 6 extortion and bribery The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation 2 I COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 – UN GLOBAL COMPACT DREAM SHARE DARE at HRA Pharma, we support women and men in over 80 countries, working every day to fill unmet medical needs HRA PHARMA AT A GLANCE We are an international specialty pharmaceutical company focusing on identifying unmet medical needs in niche therapeutic areas and developing novel pharmaceutical products to treat them. We specialize in the therapeutic fields of women’s health and endocrinology, which both involve regulation of the human hormonal system, and are particularly experienced in emergency contraception, uterine fibroids, and rare endocrine disorders such as Cushing’s syndrome and advanced adrenal cortical carcinoma. We, together with our strategic partners, have discovered, developed, registered, and launched a number of innovative products including our key growth driver ellaOne, a new, more effective class of emergency contraceptive, and esmya, a novel therapy for uterine fibroids. Our company was incorporated in 1998 and launched its first product, the emergency contraceptive pill NorLevo, in 1999, and through our commercialization efforts successfully made it the market leader in its category in Europe. We currently have a marketed por tfolio of nine pharmaceutical products and devices, which include: • e llaOne, the most effective emergency contraceptive pill in Europe and the United States (source: Trussell et al.) that can be taken within five days after unprotected intercourse or contraceptive failure. ellaOne was launched in 2009 as a prescription product. Following our successful Rx-to-OTC switch, ellaOne has been available as an OTC product since early 2015 in most E.U. countries and is experiencing dynamic growth. • esmya, a novel therapy for uterine fibroids, which are benign tumors of the uterus. esmya is marketed in Europe and other major markets through a partner company. •N  orLevo, a first generation oral emergency contraceptive pill which was developed by us in 1999. Through our commercialization efforts, Norlevo has attained and maintained a leading position in the emergency contraception market in Europe. • Lysodren, the only approved treatment for advanced adrenal cortical carcinoma in Europe; and •M  etopirone and Ketoconazole HRA, two different products for the treatment of Cushing’s syndrome. In addition to our marketed portfolio, we also have a pipeline of a number of new pharmaceutical products in women’s health and endocrinology, which are currently in various clinical and pre-clinical stages of development. Since our founding we have been strongly focused on research and development, committing 15% to 20% of revenues to our R&D activities. We have built a scalable business model, which includes a lean supply chain with outsourced manufacturing and an effective commercial organization. Our headquarters are located in Paris, France and we have 7 sales subsidiaries covering 11 European countries, with over 70 sales representatives targeting pharmacies, gynecologists, sexual health clinics, hospitals and endocrinologists and over 140 employees (Dec 2014). In addition to direct sales, we also have longstanding licensing and distribution partnerships for certain of our products with reputed pharmaceutical companies. Overall, our products are sold in over 80 countries worldwide. We have grown our revenues by 43% between 2012 and 2014 to reach €70 million for the year ended December 31, 2014 and believe we have strong fundamentals to support our growth in the future. Revenues (2014, IFRS) Investment Core EBITDA 148 Employees €70.2 M in R&D (2014, IFRS) in 2014 (2014, IFRS) €9.6M €11.2M 4 I COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 – UN GLOBAL COMPACT DREAM SHARE DARE DREAM is an essential value of HRA Pharma without which nothing new or innovative can emerge. Dream is above all our ability to constantly push the boundaries, to question the certainties. It is our desire to design new and intelligent solutions and deploy enthusiasm to develop them. DREAM BUSINESS ETHICS To better meet the needs of patients and healthcare providers worldwide, HRA Pharma has built a scalable business model while reaffirming the principles of integrity and responsible business conduct COMMITED TO RESPONSIBLE AND COMPLIANT CONDUCT Responsible and compliant conduct is FOSTERING RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS integral to our corporate policies and forms the basis for the long-term success CONDUCT of our company. All around the world, HRA Pharma strives HRA Pharma sells its products worldwide. Its global to build lasting relationships with its activities are subject to a wide range of national and industrial and commercial partners. We international legislations, regulations and standards. believe that building quality relationships HRA Pharma has put in place a robust corporate with our business partners is one of the compliance department with the objective of provikey factors to achieve growth and profiding a standardized, Group-wide compliance organizatability. tion. Alongside ensuring that HRA Pharma’s business Following our engagement with the UN Global Compractices are examined in detail throughout the entire pact, HRA Pharma systematically introduces a clause Group, this organization also ensures that guidelines to all newly negotiated and/or renewed contracts inare updated and implemented as necessary. forming the partner companies about HRA Pharma’s engagement with the UN Global Compact and requiring from every partner to confirm its commitment to the essential principles stemming from the Global Compact Since the beginning of our engagement in 2012, 136 contracts with the “UN Global Compact” clause have been signed. Possible dysfunctions, violations of internal guidelines, and codes of conduct are repor ted through myMISHAP, an internal follow-up tool. Once recorded, incidents are examined, necessary measures are initiated and the successful implementation of such measures is monitored. Compliance representatives are assigned to HRA Pharma subsidiaries and certain regions. In addition, training programs with a focus on corporate compliance will be introduced in the years to come. The corporate compliance organization reports directly to the CEO of the company. 6 I COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 – UN GLOBAL COMPACT DREAM I BUSINESS ETHICS RIGOROUS QUALITY CONTROLS At the end of August 2015, over 100 partners had been qualified worldwide. Through this innovative AND PHARMACOVIGILANCE SYSTEM partnership strategy, HRA Pharma has now a worldProduct safety is the basis for our comwide database of partners that has been developed prehensive product responsibility. systematically and in accordance with a strict identification and qualification process. HRA Pharma products are developed, manufactured and marketed under the strict governance of our quality management systems. We monitor our products in the market and follow up on observations relating to ESTABLISHING A CORRUPTION safety. When necessary, we notify the relevant authorities and undertake the measures required to ensure PREVENTION PROGRAM our patients’ safety. Corruption is a global ethical and legal issue of corporate and public life, having many forms and taking place in both developed and developing countries. HRA DEVELOPING A RIGOROUS Pharma is committed to conduct its QUALITY PROCESS business with integrity and transparency and does not tolerate any form of bribery Manufacture of medicinal products and or corruption. the active pharmaceutical ingredients used as starting materials in the producThe company published a set of specific guidelines for tion of these products is subject to strict its employees on conflicts of interest, gifts and hospitagood manufacturing practice regulations lity. The objective is to guide all our employees in their that are designed to ensure their quality, daily practice, by supplying the necessary practical safety and efficacy. knowledge to detect and prevent corrupt practices, and to know how to act in compliance with antiHRA Pharma has put in place a rigorous quality corruption laws. process to identify, select and qualify its industrial and distribution partners. Standard Operating Procedures Every employee is required to read the content of to this effect have been included to the Company’s these guidelines and carr y out his/her work and Quality system. This documents detail the steps that responsibilities in accordance with their principles. need to be implemented to adequately manage supSince 2012, HRA Pharma has undertaken its antipliers through the complete life cycle of the product, corruption awareness efforts by providing training including: courses to any employee who might encounter situa• Supplier selection process tions at risk in their line of work. • Due diligence process • Quality assessment of all suppliers • Pharmaceutical change control assessment • Supply chain security • Ongoing monitoring and evaluation COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 – UN GLOBAL COMPACT I 7 DREAM SHARE DARE DARE is the ultimate manifestation of our willingness to constantly go beyond what is expected. Dare expresses the collective merging of ideas, talents and skills. By creating an innovative and exciting dynamic for all members of our company, Dare is the key to the sustainable growth of HRA Pharma DARE COOPERATION & ENGAGEMENT Supporting professional development, providing a safe and healthy workplace for employees, promoting gender equality, ensuring a culturally and professionally diverse workforce are just some of the fundamental principles followed by the company OVER 140 EMPLOYEES (Dec 2014) 75 WOMEN % 25 % MEN 50% 17 OF FEMALE DIFFERENT EXECUTIVES NATIONALITIES ON THE EXECUTIVE LEADERSHIP TEAM (Dec 2014) INTERNAL SATISFACTION Conducted every two years and divided into seven topic areas – project, commitment, compensation, & ENGAGEMENT SURVEY training, evaluation, communication and traceability, HRA Pharma’s people are critical to its the 2015 survey ran from March 9 to 20. This year’s success. Set up in 2013, HRA Pharma’s results that garnered an over 70% response rate internal survey was designed to undersshowed strong individual motivation and trust in the tand employees’ perception of the Comcompany’s project. 87% of responders expressed pany and its issues, to gauge their level their trust and belief in the company’s project and of satisfaction and learn more about the 83% reported strong commitment to their job, their vision they have of their work and career team and the company as a whole. The average score development within the Company. of 77% ranks well above the average 55% score for other companies that use the same sur vey tool, making HRA Pharma an attractive company. The next survey of this type is planned in 2017. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 – UN GLOBAL COMPACT I 9 I COOPERATION & ENGAGEMENT DARE BECOME AN EFFECTIVE MANAGER In 2016, the company plan to continue the work begun in 2015 by developing a central management The Company’s objective is to help maguide and reference for managers in day-to-day denagers perform at their best and bring cision-making. This Management Guide is meant to about improvements to the culture of the reflect the organization’s purpose, mission, values and organization, so enabling improved staff principles, and linking these to the standards of profeswellbeing and enhanced organizational sional conduct and managerial behavior. performance. •G UIDANCE FOR MANAGERIAL BEHAVIOUR QUALITY OF LIFE AT WORK CHARTER In 2015, HRA Pharma embarked on an collaborative In 2015, HRA Pharma worked on a “Quality of Life internal project to determine the most important beat Work” Charter – the purpose of this charter is to haviors of their managers on employee performance provide a common framework for corporate practices and well-being. Rather than apply generic manageand conduct. This Charter will be rolled out in 2016. ment principles, HRA Pharma distilled the five most important behaviors in its own corporate culture. The objective for the years ahead will be to integrate them into every manager’s training, coaching and perWORKING CONDITIONS FOLLOW-UP formance review sessions. Follow-up on measures taken since 2013 at HRA Pharma (data correspond to Paris HQs and HRA Pharma France) tP  ercent of employees benefiting from programs designed to enhance quality of life at work: Dec 2013 Sept 2014 Dec 2015 One day per week 14% 21% 19% telecommuting system Part time hours Data NA 15% 11% Professional training 80% 83% (1Jan to TBD 31 Dec 2014) 8-week intensive course 26% 7% in mindfulness based stress reduction (MBSR) Child-care initiative 15% 16% slots at local day-care centers 5% 4% Childcare vouchers 10% 12% 10 I COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 – UN GLOBAL COMPACT DREAM DARE SHARE At the heart of the company since its beginnings, SHARE drives the way we design, manufacture and market our products. It inspires our behavior within the company, the way we work with our colleagues and partners and the social and societal initiatives we support SHARE SUSTAINABILE BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT HRA Pharma is conscient of the ecological, social and economic impacts of each business activity and aims to develop its business while contributing to economic, environmental and social development FOSTERING INNOVATION with the aim of broadening understanding and mobilizing its staff around various women’s issues. In 2015, Business structures designed to simula press cartoon exhibition «Let’s Talk about Women» taneously cultivate innovation, encourage depicting women’s condition in the world was hold at entrepreneurs, and provide real-world, the Company’s Headquarters in Paris. practical support are key to driving innovation. Additionally, HRA Pharma hosted a talk on women’s condition worldwide by Ms. Elisabeth Crémieu, assoLate 2014, HRA Pharma has founded HRAi an incubaciate professor of geography at higher school prepator set up to support smaller businesses such as acaratory classes and the author of the book “Geopolitics demia, biotech and/or spin-off companies in the health of the women’s condition”. sector. HRAi offers its pharmaceutical and technical expertise and know-how to help innovative projects and technologies to emerge in. The company reviews THE HRA PHARMA FOUNDATION early-stage projects to determine their potential for The HRA Pharma Foundation was established in 2012, development. Since HRAi’s inception, over 20 projects to reinforce our historical corporate social responsihave been reviewed, with several moving forward bility commitment and further promote and support toward active development. the implementation of programs and activities primarily in the area of women’s health. Our mission is to foster young girls’ and women’s access to education, reproductive health and the arts across the world. We partner with likeminded individuals and organizations worldwide to develop socially responsible programs in three focus areas: • Education AWARENESS ON WOMEN’S ISSUES We focus on providing educational opportunities to girls and women worldwide. All around the world, International Women’s Day represents an opportunity to • Reproductive health celebrate the achievements of women Through our initiatives, we aim to expand women’s while raising awareness of the challenges access to safe, effective and modern methods of and struggles faced by women worldwide contraception and reproductive health services. and calling for greater equality. • The arts In March of each year HRA Pharma organizes an inWe recognize that art and culture play a vital role in ternal awareness raising event called “Women’s Week” promoting social development. 12 I COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 – UN GLOBAL COMPACT SHARE I SUSTAINABILE BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT •F OSTERING EMPLOYEE MINIMIZE OUR ENVIRONMENTAL ENGAGEMENT IMPACT The Foundation provides support for charity or comWe aim to minimize our environmental impact and munity projects in which employees are encouraged help develop an environmentally responsible working to take part. Each September a call for projects is environment. We intend to identify and control our launched, aimed at employees, external individuals, environmental impact, and improve our environorganizations or associations. mental performance by: Proposals can include full programs or proof of • Disposing of waste in an environmentally concept initiatives to be expanded on a larger scaled responsible manner if pilot is successful. They should also include ways • Reusing and recycling where practicable to evaluate the outcome of proposed initiatives • Developing environmentally responsible whenever possible. working solutions Following a rigorous assessment, focused in particular • Promoting sustainability within the organization on the social impact, alignment with the Foundation’s key areas of focus, employee involvement and budget, the board of HRA Pharma Foundation select one or • RECYCLING several projects in each area defined above. Grantees HRA Pharma believes that recycling & recycling are responsible for the final elaboration, implemeneducation are critical to sustainability. tation and monitoring of the project. They benefit from support from HRA Pharma or other identified Measures taken in this field include: partners. • Sorting plastic and paper for recycling In 2015, 17 projects have been founded and 13 are • Using recycled paper currently ongoing. To know more about projects • Printing double-sided by default supported by our Foundation please refer to HRA • Recycling printer cartridges Pharma Company Foundation Activity Report 2014. • Communicating electronically to reduce paper consumption. tP  aper bought versus paper recycled (in kg) at HRA Pharma Headquarters between 2012 and 2014. 2012 2013 2014 Paper A4 & A3 format bought (in kg) 1351 1435 1342 Paper recycled (in kg) 2022 2075 2630 CO2 equivalent (in kg) 1112 1141 1447 kWh equivalent 8088 8300 10520 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 – UN GLOBAL COMPACT I 13 I SUSTAINABILE BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT SHARE Star ting, next year, HRA Pharma plan to carry out • ENVIRONMENTALLY annual environmental mapping of the buildings we RESPONSIBLE WORKING occupy including: SOLUTIONS • Paper consumption & recycling • E lectricity consumption – electricity used for We seek out new technologies and maximize their use operating the offices and for heating, based on to reduce our environmental impact. This year, Lifesize bills from supplier companies. In 2014, at HRA Cloud, a virtual meeting technology that provides an Pharma Headquarters, our electricity consumpeffective alternative to travel, has been implemented tion in kWh / m2 was equal to 156 kWh /m2. in all of our offices worldwide. Currently, communications via this new videoconferencing system repreThe mapping will be accompanied by an information sent about 100 hours per month.The company always campaign and initiatives directed toward the comassesses the usefulness of air travel while actively pany’s staff with the objective to ensure the reduction recommending and promoting the use of information and recycling of waste, including the efficient use of technology-based ways of communication. energy. Photo credits: Isabelle Néry, iStock • Design & creation: scriptoria-crea 15, rue Béranger – 75003 Paris – FRANCE Tel.: +33 (0) 1 40 33 11 30 – Fax: +33 (0) 1 40 33 12 31 www.hra-pharma.com
