WE DESIGN FOR PEOPLE GLOBAL COMPACT COP 2015 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS CONTINUED SUPPORT FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT PLH Arkitekter A/S is a multi-disciplinary architectural practice focused on stimulating an interactive and productive working environment for our talented and creative people, partly architects, but also interior designers and industrial designers, together with specialists within construction, process planning and communication. PLH works with a broad spectrum of commissions from architecture, urban planning and workplace design to client advisory and industrial design. The company is often involved in complex, largescale multi-disciplinary projects that evolve over long timeframes and are often associated with a high degree of confidentiality and proper due process. Regardless of the project type, PLH’s commitment to responsible business practices and highest standards of professional integrity are the foundation of all interactions with clients, collaborators and fellow colleagues. PLH’s business ethics and code of conduct is grounded in over 30 years of professional industry experience and the commitment of the leadership team to follow responsible business practices in an ever changing global marketplace. Since 2009, PLH has been a member of the UN Global Compact initiative as part of maintaining and developing our social and environmental responsibility. PLH embraces, supports and enacts, within its sphere of influence, the Global Compact set of core values in the areas of human rights, labour standards, the environment, and anti-corruption. PLH wishes to continue participation in Global Compact and seeks to support the principles as an integral part of our day-to-day operation and organizational culture, and where possible align leadership strategies to the ten principles. The principles covering the environment are a focus area for PLH and where we can have a measurable, positive impact. Steen Enrico Andersen, Director, Architect MAA, Intl. Assoc. AIA July 2015 THE 10 PRINCIPLES Human Rights Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. BUSINESS INTEGRITY AND RESPONSIBILITY As a member of the Danish Association Firms, PLH is obliged to respect the Financial reporting of Architectural Firms (DANSKE basic conventions. Mie Rasmussen Finance Manager ARK), PLH’s operational procedures supported by PWC consulting auditors are based on Danish Legislation and Engagement in business DANSKE ARK’S instructions, guidelines associations Legal accountability and risk management and contractual standards, aimed Several of PLH’s 9 partners are Jan Sander Fredriksen Partner at strengthening the quality level leading representatives at DANSKE supported by Philip & Partners Lawyers and professionalism of practicing ARK, acting as members or heads of architectural firms, and covering Quality Assurance committees such as the Board, the Contracts Committee, the Committee Ib Laursen Partner Level of professional liability insurance and standard contracting agreements for Professional Indemnity Insurance, Digital knowledge management General Conditions for Consultancy and and the Committee for Professional Jan Sander Fredriksen Partner and Assistance 1989 (ABR 89). Agreements and the International Claus Johannessen Senior Architect Committee. Collective bargaining process whereby Sustainability (PLH Green Team) DANSKE ARK negotiates the general Several partners are also active Søren Mølbak Partner, Paulette agreements on pay and working members of the Architect’s Christophersen Partner, Steen Enrico conditions etc. of the technical staff Association of Denmark (Akademisk Andersen Partner and Rie Rosenkrans that are in the employment of the Arkitektforening), represented in Gjedsted Architect Cand.polyt.arch member firms. the Legal Committee and as the organisation’s appointed jury members Staff representatives Fees and standards for architectural in architectural competitions. Henning Solfeldt Product Design work with individual clients, private Manager, Rikke Haugaard, Jesper client organizations and public Leadership responsibility Spager and Laura Mayner Architects. authorities. Occupational Health & Safety The PLH leadership team members are Supervisor Helle Maria Christensen, DANSKE ARK also participates in individually and collectively responsible Architect. negotiations with public authorities on for ensuring the firm’s adherence to tax aspects, prices and profit legislation, responsible business practices and regulations on competitive tendering, our Code of Ethics. To that end, the liability and insurance matters as well as following nominated partners, directors building assignment procedures, quality and professional staff have been assurance and other terms relating assigned specific areas of responsibility to the professional activities of the member firms. BIMS & UN Global Compact Based on national and international Steen Enrico Andersen Partner and legislation on human rights, the Danish Paulette Christophersen Partner Consolidation Act no. 68, of January 2005, and our membership of the Financial accountability Danish Association of Architectural Torben Hjortsø Partner “Our business responsiblity is based on high standards of Danish legislation and our active engagement in associations, committees and conferences” WORK ENVIRONMENT AND POLICY PLH has a clear and balanced Psychiatry Fund to be able to advise ment, also in relation to the split of gender policy where some of our and guide colleagues on issues of sex, nationality and age. We foster key values are to embrace diversity stress. The PLH leadership, together an open and inclusive culture where of competencies, experiences with the stress counsellors have racism or bullying is not tolerated. and viewpoints and to support a prepared an anti-stress policy guideOur procedures have proven effechumanistic and collegial work style line that covers both preventative tive and PLH wishes to continue this to add real value to our business. actions (behaviours and organisation engagement and investment in the of work), detection of early warning working environment in order to Actions signs and management of stress remain an attractive, healthy and effected staff. Any stress affected productive office retaining and We recruit solely on proven compeemployees will be offered psycholoattracting the best. The priority of tencies and experiences, not sex, gical consultation as needed. a responsible work environment nationality, religion nor age. Staff members are selected for project and recognition of human diversity teams on the basis of relevant qualiBenefits is a significant value for the office’s fications and experience corresponPLH is recognized as a stable and capability to evolve in tune with the ding with the project demands and attractive workplace, with many changing demands, challenges and our overall strategies and goals for employees being a part of the practendencies of our industry. meeting the clients’ needs. tice for 10-25 years. In order to promote well-being at We follow the Danish Working work, PLH has in recent years focusEnvironment Act and, according to sed on prevention of stress. Two our latest annual Work Assessment of our employees have undergone carried out in 2012, our staff is very specialised training through the satisfied with the working environNumber of employees at PLH split on sex and age. PLH is a team of 60 employees in July 2015 age 20 to 30 years age 31 to 40 years age 41 to 50 years age 51 to 60 years age 61 to 70 years Our purpose is to improve the quality of people’s life through design. This could be at home, at work, at school, in the city, in nature, at the station anywhere people gather in a space or use objects of design. OUR PURPOSE IS TO IMPROVE QUALITY OF LIFE PLH’s main focus in connection to ons concerning the environment, can thrive. the principles of UN Global Compact whether it is “locally” at the office or Our office is focusing on a holistic is directed towards environmental “globally” with a client. approach across disciplines to create challenges and possibilities. PLH has Sustainability is an integrated eleinformed, inventive and sustainaa responsibility to create holistic ment in our projects from the initial ble solutions. PLH is taking several sustainable and humanistic solutions thoughts about form and function. initiatives to promote our responsito the greatest extent that it can We strive to inform our clients bility towards the environment and influence project outcomes. throughout the decision making prois including environmental aspects We are committed to reviewing how cess to optimize the outcomes within in all phases of our project and conour activities can contribute to the the parameters of each project. We struction processes. reduction of CO² emissions and minisee workshops and exchange of By focusing attention and knowledge mize the planet’s consumption of knowledge with the project’s stakesharing on environmentally sustainafossil resources. However, sustainaholders as the optimal foundation ble design (ESD) parameters, the bility is not only a question of energy for the development of sustainable practice has been able to inform cli– social well being and cultural behaprojects that are also aesthetically, ents of possibilities and advantages, viour are aspects that we consider as functionally and economically sucand advise them about ESD options a central part of designing sustainacessful. and systems, that can become an ble buildings. investment in operational savings. PLH supports a considered approach Promotion and goals Our significant competencies within to environmental challenges by Buildings are more than “passive” the area have also enabled the office promoting our own and others users of energy. They are also to respond to and challenge the awareness of our impacts on the “active” environments, where expectations of our increasingly environment and surroundings. We human needs are an integral part environmentally conscious investors expect our staff to be conscious of of the creation of environmentally and clients. the consequences of their actisustainable solutions where people # CASE NEW PSYCHIATRIC CENTRE BISPEBJERG WELCOMING ARCHITECTURE AND CARE PLH’s competition design, developed in been to create a welcoming architecwith direct access to garden spaces, on collaboration with Friis & Moltke, ture, where the patient and immediate a very limited building site. Another key focuses on psychiatry’s vision of opentreatment becomes the starting point contradiction was the patient’s need for ness, accessibility and options in the for the physical environment. discretion on the one hand and the need treatment of patients. for vistas and daylight on the other. The project strives to create attractive The competition brief posed a series of modern settings, where patients are the dilemmas, which have been considered focal point and the hospital becomes a and balanced in the architectural solufunctional background. From the first tions, such as how to get the maximum stroke, the project’s clear ambition has number of wards on the ground floor ”I am delighted that we will now have one consolidated mental health treatment facility in Copenhagen. It will improve the conditions for both patients and staff. It is also exiting to see the new possibilities for pleasant and inviting courtyards for the patients,” says director Martin Lund from The Capitol Region’s Mental Health. COMPETITION PROPOSAL Team PLH / FRIIS & MOLKTE has been selected among 3 teams to continue in 2nd competition phase 26,900 m2 # CASES HOUSING THAT ENHANCES URBAN LIFE # CASE NEW PSYCHIATRIC CENTRE BISPEBJERG # REMISEVEJ AMAGER WELCOMING ARCHITECTURE AND CARE In a team with Primus Architects, we have won a social housing competition. This marks the beginning of a revitalization of a run-down district called “the Urbanplan”, on the isle of Amager. Our approach was clearly urban, defining classical city spaces and attractive public areas with a strong identity, thus commencing the transformation of the precinct into a new and attractive place to live. # STRANDLODSVEJ AMAGER ” ”The two housing projects are both starting points for revitalization of two run down city districts on the Isle of Amager. Our aim is to create good urban life of these city areas through 3 focal points: Creating well defined urban spaces that support interaction between people, creating synergies through diversified functions and demographics and creating new architectural expressions by building new and old together. These 3 focal points we believe are essential for converting old run down districts into attractive districts for urban dwelling. The identity of places, spaces and buildings is vital for urban life and in these revitalizations, we have concentrated on forming new city elements or add on the former industrial architecture.” says Lars Toksvig, Partner at PLH. # CASE PLH STUDIO NOMINATED FOR AWARD The transformation and interpretation of old building while preserving its history the studio where they create a ‘roof’ a former factory building in the city of and spirit.’ that defines the café at one end and Copenhagen has created a new workteam space at the other. space for PLH based on synergies from The conversion project involved refurinside to outside. bishment of the existing building, adding “The six nominated projects are all pera mezzanine along one side, as a huge formed at the highest professional level 165 projects were set to the Renovation ‘piece of furniture’ providing 40 extra while showcasing the width of renovaAward ‘RENOVER prisen’ in March 2014 workspaces upstairs and diverse ‘laboration. We have both projects that inteland in June 2014 the field was reduced tory spaces’ below for meeting, modelligently and artistically interact with their to only 6 nominated projects, competing making, brainstorming and product surroundings, projects with enormously to become Denmark’s best renovation in research. The interior is defined by its ambitious energy solutions and projects 2014. An electoral college of 67 represenspaciousness, with a ceiling height of 6.5 that completely rethinks the buildings tatives of the Danish building industry meters, and the tall, narrow industrial function without compromising the heriwill evaluate the 6 projects and vote for windows. The verticality of the space tage, “said Chairman of the Nomination the best project that will be unveiled is underlined through the rhythmic Committee and former City Architect, at an award celebration September 11, repetition of columns and windows, and Gøsta Knudsen. 2014. the inserted mezzanine level creates a dynamic effect, and exciting new van‘RENOVER prisen’ is founded by RealdaThe committee that nominated PLH tage points. nia and GI (Grundejernes InvesteringsStudio describes the project with these fond) to recognize renovation projects words – ‘The PLH office has taking a The original crane structures and elethat can show the way for solving the dose of their own medicine and transments such as steel trusses and beams major social task of updating the existing formed an old factory building to their are exposed as a dramatic reminiscence building stock in Denmark. new studio. The refurbishment is a beauof the buildings industrial past. The tiful example of how to modernize an cranes are now parked in each end of Der skal afsættes areal til rent depot i stofindtagelsesområdet som i café-området. FLOW Et stort rengøringsrum med plads til gulvvaskemaskine placeres cen# CASE HALMTORVET 17 tralt i indretningen. forslag A rev. A INDGANGE OG Areal til teknikrum for køkkenanlæg, stofindtagelse, øvrige rum samt el/teknik/varme skal disponeres. UDGANGE UDENDØRS RYGEAREAL STOFINDTAGELSE STOFINDTAGELSE RYGNING RYGNING SYGEPLEJE AKTIVITETSRUM SAMTALE/ SAMTALE/ KONTOR KONTOR PERSONALE AFFALD TOILET + BAD PERSONALERUM OPHOLDSZONE MODTAGELSE TOIL OBSERVATION VENTE CAFE RESTITUERING TOILETTER AFFALD AFFALD SPISE/OPHOLD ANRETTERSAMTALERUM SAMTALE/ KØKKEN DEPOT OG BAD, TOILET, KONTOR RENGØRING TØJDEPOT DEPOT STOFINDTAGELSE STOFINDTAGELSE INJEKTION INJEKTION Diagram showing flow and function 26 PLH is refurbishing a medically superence stability and security. Safety is a program has been clarified and adjusted vised injecting centre for the City of key issue for both staff and drug users. in accordance with the economy. Copenhagen on Halmtorvet 17 in the With nudging through design and comMeatpacking District a popular area of munication it’s possible to affect user The approach of being able to decode Vesterbro with butchers, artists, creative behavior in a positive direction, to prethe issues, suggest the right solutions businesses, restaurants and galleries. vent conflicts and to create more fertile and navigate with great public attention, The public politicians of Copenhagen has situations, and to ensure that staffs have is very imperative to a project like this. decided to offer the drug users in an overview and visual contact with each Copenhagen a 24/7 open location speother. It is estimated that app. 500-1000 cially designed for the purpose of taking users stay in Copenhagen, and that the drugs and staffed by health profesmain part will pass the centre on a daily sionals. There will be supervision and basis. counseling of drug intake and optionally first aid as well as a chance to rest after Authorities, politicians and locals pay drug intake, acute nursing and counselgreat attention to this centre and the ing on other health services including impact it will bring on local urban life. treatment. Because of the special nature of the project, it is therefore grounded in a very The vision of the injecting centre is to wide cooperation and involving process. save lives and reduce injuries to creHealth professionals, the local commuate good relationships with drug users nity, the local police, the Meatpacking and build bridges to other services and District facility department and the clitreatments – and to reduce the inconveent, are involved in the project (Building nience of the local city area Vesterbro. Committee), in order to have the entire The users of the centre need a safe and socio-cultural and health spectrum welcoming place where they encounter represented. respect and tolerance. The character of the spaces must therefore give a sense PLH has carried out an intensive and of calmness and discretion without an structured process with the Building The existing building before refurbishment. institutional touch, so the users experiCommittee and the building’s space Doku Proj Fase Indh Aktø Vers Vers Revi Revs Side “Besides my DGNB consultant training, I have been educated in using the LCA methods (Life Cycle Assessment) and Renov Projekt LLC (Life Cycle Costs) on projects with the focus on environTDD 1-4 Miljø Placerin og dispone RAPPORT ment and sustainability.” MILJ KOR ØTLÆ MILJ MILJ funktio GNIN PRIO ØMILJ ENERGIMÆRKNINGSeksis G RITE PRO ØSTAT Øteren RING GRA for hver US de eksis M RAPPORT og lands bygn teren fase inger Miljøpriorit kab de forho ld MILJ LOKALPLANEN ØKO RTLÆ FOR SLU VEN GNING RIE ROSENKRANS GJEDSTED, DGNB INTERNATIONAL MILJ HEL TEVA ØPÅ TED AF BET HED MILJ ved LUE VIRK E RAG SPRO Øaflev RING NING ER IFT. TNINGER GRA M ering reno MILJ verin Ø nyby proje gsgger ktet i FORURENINGSUNDERSØGELSE Doku MILJ ØKO RTLÆ FOR MILJ VEN GNING MILJ ØPÅ TED AF PRO ØSTØJKORT VIRK E GRA NING Proj ER M nyby sted, gger og landsfunkt proje iion ktet kab TEKN. RAPPORTER Miljøpriorit Fase CONSULTANT, PLH MILJ OG NOTATER ØKO RTLÆ FOR MILJ VEN GNING ØPÅ TED AF VIRK E Indh NING sted, ER fuktio og lands n kab “LCA is a tool to perform life cycle analysis of materials conAktø Konstru Vers Vers tained in construction. The analysis provides an overview Revi Revs Helhedbetr Side of the materials’ environmental impact, e.g. in relation to Dokumentna ProjektID: Fase: Disp Indholdsty avn:I1229_K :1229 positionsfo K01_C05_N01 orslag 1_Helhedsbe etragtninge er ift. mil ljø hvor de ops ype:C05 Aktør:K01 global warming and different issues, and focuses on the RRG Versionsda ato: 201302 Versionsnr 228 r.:01 Revisionsn nr: XX Renov Ex: Revsionsda ato: 2012XX Side: 2:3 XXX consumption of energy for exploration and production, Renovering: Projekteringsasp Projekt pekt Energiforhold Vinduer, dagslys s Dokumentna avn:I1229_K K01_C05_N01 1_Helhedsbe etragtninge er ift. mil ljø Placering på gru Ventilation n og unden og Bygningernes place‐ og kunstlys ProjektID: :1229 Lydfoorhold disponering af Indeklima Rumudf Fase: Disp positionsfo Løsninger (virkem orslag Placerin ring er e fastlagt. Især Behov for regulerb midler) funktioner bar Behov for att solafskærmning, begrænse aIndholdsty ype:C05 bygn. 20 har mange dder Behov v for at facad gør det muligt ntallet af Der er lavet en transportation, disposal and recovery. I have produced a der orienteret udnytte dagslys at oplukkelige Aktør:K01 åbninger begræ RRG ænse antallet af funktioner ift. zon neinddeling af mod syd, syd‐vest, dispone ogg oplukk kelige åbninger brug vest. Zoneinddelin passiv solvarme og vinduer modmVersionsda ato: og vinduer mod 201302 228 placeret i en zone gstid. Faglokaler er Strandboule og o af funnktioner ift. g maksimalt. Versionsnr evarden Strandr.:01 gruppe‐ og fællesru basislokaler, pga. foruren dboulevarden um i en anden. brugsstid, for dermed ning Revisionsn og pga. fonr: XXog Desuden er der støjbelastning. orurening ikke placeret funktio at minimere basislokaler ud Revsionsda støjbe ato: 2012XX elastning. XXX mod Strandboule‐ energgiforbrug varden (i etape unød til Side: 3:3 1). De vinduer er orienter oplukkelige dig ventilation ret ind mod skolens Konstruktioner og op pvarmning. grønne arealer. s Eta ablering af indven‐ Beho ov for velisolere‐ dig regulerbar solafskærmning, supplementary tool to evaluate the materials further on de ko onstruktioner Behov for overflad samtidig sikrer der der Behov for tu udssyn og mulighed med høj unge for att opnå lavt var‐ lysreflektans. Tykk konstruktion Nybyggeri: Behov v for udluftning ved åbning af vinduer. for mefo orbrug. OBS! Op‐ ner for at konstr Ydervægge ke udjævne terrmiske ruktioner med er til mestendels timerring er klima‐ ydevægge reducer hulmurede og rer Projekteringsashøj lyd spekt samt Energiforhold Vinduer, mm. dagslyys Ventilation n og Lydfoorhold Løsninger (virkemidler) lysindfald og udsy varmebelasttninger disolering i dimm. 400‐800 skærmene er fra‐ yn behov Efterisolering er gennem vinduer. og dermed reducere v for fra avalgt.ogRåkunstlys Indeklima valgt,, med undtagel‐ r lydabssorbenter ubehandlede murv behovet for værksflader har se af hvor der af an‐ Placering på tunge, foran gruunden Idræt tshallens lysreflektans , menss Behov for lav regulerbbar ‐ ‐ Der er foretaget en n zoneinddeling af ventilation. Behov den årsag å og disponering aaf lydreflekterende place høj ring på grundenskillevægge lysreflektans har solafskærmning, dder hallen i forhold til brug. b Denne 3‐ udføres et for at rumlu . Lydabsorbent tiltagg, ex. laves uft og sikrer r placeres stort solindfald gør det er muligt at deling bevirker at kun k en del af hallen stør‐ ventilationsluft funktioner konstrruktioner. ikke på yd dervægge, men har uden videre mobil indervægge, på udnytte dagslys ogg ventileres, oplyses,, opvarmes/køles. parameters such as scarce resources, cleaning and maintere lyssindtag i kælder‐ direkte adgaang e vægge, i loftet til på inventar skygg gevirkning forfra ogg etageen på bygning overfladen på derrmed atpassivudnytte solvarme p de den termiske nabob bygninger. Etablering af indvendig regulerbar 20 – ded nye vinduer tunge masse og maksimalt. Rumudformning er en nergieffektive. Zonei inddelingp,afsom undgå skimmelsvam solafskærmning, de er samtidig sikrer g konstruktion ner. m ellers kan opstå Storee rum bag lydabsorbent funkt ioner ift. er mulighed for udluftning ved åbning aff Behov for rum placeret på en vanskkeliggør meed hulmuret brugsstid, for dermed ydervæg vinduer. stor fleksibilitet, Behov for sttort pga. kondens. energgieffektiv Behov v for lukkede at min nimere åbenhed og lys rumvolumen for indekklimareguler fraa at rum med Der energarbejdes giforbrug medtil store ing. flere retninger. reducerer og m god s rum, mulighed unødig ventilation og med udjævne lydisolation mellem for at kun nne opdele i Behov for stor mindre opvarrmning. rumlighede rum og mod nance.” loftshøjde og ventilationsbehov. er. Ved brug af Konstruktioner bygnin ngens mobile Behovvvægge for skab bes fleksible Behov ex. for vægge Behov for tu unge Behovv for Ydervægge er 600 mm og for at højtsiddende/høje rumligheder e omgiv velser. Behov veliso olerede til adsskillelse afmed høj konstruktion ner for at lydabssorbenter forbedre kontrast og o lys/skygge vinduer – særligt støjende stille og i for lyddabsorbenter i funktione konsttruktioner for De er. at mobilelysreflektans. Tykkke udjævne terrmiske foran tunge, forhold etableres ene tekstil reflektor dybe rum. vægge loftet i lav højde og opnåskal lavtyde tilstrækkelig vægge reducerer varmebelasttninger lydreflekterende som trækker dagslyyset længere ind i lydisolation og Installa på vægge og andre Konstru varmeeforbrug. lydaabsorbering. lysindfald og udsyyn r og dermed reducere konstrruktioner. hallen. Der er etableret 15 % Der arbejdes med Installationer overflader nær flere f gennem vinduer. lofthøjder behovet for vent. glasareal/gulvareall. Lydabsorbering Behoov for støjkilder. hvert rum, for i at skkabe zoner Behov for att rumluft monteres på vægge fra 2 m over gulv energgieffektive Behov for i størst forskellige funktion til de mulig grad at Behov for i størst ner med forskellige og ventilatio onsluft og op og ligeledes i loftet. Både på installationer samt s Behov akustiske behov. tilgodese mulig udstræ v for støjsvage har direkte adgang a vægge og i loftet ettableres lameller regulering heraf. ækning install Installationer og individuelle behov at tilgodese ationer som deeres regulering til overflade en på de foran lydabsorbering for at afværge v ikke påvirker energioptimeres, for regulering individuelle behov således at skolen tunge bolde el. lign som kan k beskadige af lyys‐ akustikken negativt. uden for brugstid og solindfald samt om at kunne e ex. e i weekenden konstruktion ner. materialet. På denn ne måde tilgodesess t Solafs kun er opvarmet afskærmning mod regulere kærmninggmå Rumudformning Store rum til 17 grader. Den Behov for rum meed Behov for sttort Behovv for de akustiske forholld og samtidig d ikke give unødig energieffekti ve drifft vægtes stor fleksibilitet, generende indetemperatur støj vanskkeliggør højere rumvolumen for at lydabssorbenter i holdes en del af de en tunge og ved re egulering. end individuel solindfald. lufttilførsel. energgieffektiv regu ulering, derfor åbenhed og lys fraa reducerer og loftet i lav højde og konstruktion åben for adgang for det ikke muligt for brugerne er regulereindekklimaregulering. at flere retninger. udjævne på vægge og andre rumluft, således at massens temperatu urforhold via Behov for stor termostater. Derim ventilationsbehov. overflader nær varmeakkumuleringsevne til dels mod er det muligt loftshøjde og støjkilder. udnyttes til udjævn ning af termiske åbne vinduer, att dog vejledes brugerne højtsiddende /høj e belastninger. til kun at åbne vindduer mod Strand‐ vinduer – særligt i boulevarden uden for undervisning dybe tiden, for at undgå s‐ rum. støj giver og forurening. Overflader Lyse overflader o Behov for loft og Behov for Behovv for Vægge i en idrætsh hal males i (ex. 30% bedree udnyttelse af vægge med høj allergivenliggt, lydabssorbenter på grå) for at give beddre fokus på dagslyyset og lysreflektans. Rå støvfrit inde eklima vægge e og andre aktiviteter/ redskaber/udstyr. For at reduccerer dermed tegl‐ og med overflader nær mindske behovet for kunstlys, behovvet for kunstlys. betonoverflader bbør rengøringsvenlige, støjkilder. monteres lysreflektorer ved vinduer derfor holdes i lys e robuste ove erflader. for at trække dagslyset længere ind i farver. hallen. De akustiske forhold optimeres ved at etablere lydabsorbenter på vægge og lofter med lameller foran n for at afværge beskadigel‐se af materialet, til gengæld nedprioritteres det rengørings‐venlig indeklima, dog minimeres antallett af horisontale flader ved at udføre lamellerne vertikalt. Installationer Behovv for Behov for i størst Behov for i størst s Behovv for støjsvage Brugernes behov fo or individuel energgieffektive mulig grad at mulig udstræ ækning installationer som regulering af luft og varme tilgodeses.. installationer samt tilgodese at tilgodese ikke påvirker i Evt. kan laves den individuelle styring reguleering heraf. individuelle behovv individuelle behov akustikken negativt. gøres tidsdefinerett, ex. efter 2 timer for regulering af lyys‐ om at kunne e Solafskærmning må ændres reguleringe er til de og solindfald samtt regulere ikke give unødig støj driftsoptimerede in ndstillinger. afskærmning modd indetemperatur og ved re egulering. generende lufttilførsel. solindfald. Rumudf LOCAL INITIATIVES GLOBAL IMPACT Installa Central to sustainable design is using gies in optimizing the passive characontinually being reduced. local resources and adapting the steristics in buildings. We are conscious of the environmenbuilding complex to the local climate We have hired new employees with tal impact of transportation to/from conditions, inspired by the local certification training from the newly meetings, and use office bikes for tradition. established Green Building Council meetings held within a 5 km radius Local resources must be explored Denmark. DGNB Denmark is a Danish of the office. Our other initiatives in wind for electricity, sun for energy, certification system for sustainathis area include widespread use of sea water for cooling, rainwater for bility in buildings which match the tele-conferences and tele-meetings, recycling and underground geotherinternational high standards. Other together with purchasing carbon mal potential. Sun screening, lighting sustainability and calculation tools quotas on air travel. control, natural ventilation as well as are continuously implemented and It is our aim to be considered as an local and natural materials are imporseveral employees have particienvironmentally conscious office tant factors in obtaining a comforpated in the course ’Innovation & with expertise in the planning and table indoor climate and optimized Certification’ held by Architectural execution of high quality sustainable energy efficiency. Association in 2012. buildings. The selection or exclusion of green An essential approach in all our work initiatives needs to be seen from a is the integration of hard factors lifecycle perspective. Many solutions such as geometries, orientation, Sustainable design at PLH will have an appealing pay-back time location of windows, choice of PLH’s knowledge about sustainable when considered over a 5, 10 or 15 materials, engineering systems and solutions and initiatives, seen in a year horizon for running costs. lighting, with soft factors related to broader perspective, is developed The office has established an internal user comfort and welfare. significantly by implementing specific task-force working with initiatives PLH is working on a targeted effort projects with defined goals from the and approaches for internal developto minimize the environmental load client’s viewpoint, and by participament, training, debate and knowof the daily running of our own office ting in competitions. All projects play ledge sharing, study trips, lectures, and to create a healthy and safe an important role as ”case studies” workshops etc. An extensive seminar workplace. Resource consumption which reinforce the practice’s comon energy was held in 2011 in order (power, HVAC, water) as well as the petencies, skills and profile. to upgrade our design methodolowaste of office supplies and paper is In 2011, PLH won the competition 0 kg CO2 per year 290 kg CO2 per year 22% bike/walk cykler/går 40 kg CO2 per year 31% by bus or train bus/tog 47% by car bil Employees transport to and from work at PLH for a new Hospice in Svendborg, DSV’s core values of ​​ equality and the implementation of UN City in which was completed in autum 2012. openness, and the competition Copenhagen. PLH has a key role in The recurring theme in the design proposal suggested a series of the development of this new benchis to create a homely place where sustainable initiatives, such as natumark Energy Class 1 office campus the sense of life is ever-present ral ventilation and CTS-controlled for Denmark. PLH has focussed on and nature an integral part of the external blinds. A large solar power ensuring a holistic vision incorporaexperience at the hospice. The plant on the adjacent terminal could ting sustainable workplace thinking, architectural main idea is to merge be integrated on the roof, in order to such that UN City will not only be an form, function and landscape into produce electricity used for forklifts energy efficient building, but also a a coherent whole, with fine experiand other local equipment. healthy and productive workplace. ences for the senses. In collaboration with landscape Apart from specific project exampThe brief demanded an increased architects, PLH also won a competiles, it is important to note that on a requirement for environmentally tion for transformation and revitadaily basis, the staff at PLH is making sustainable design, such that the prolization of an urban park in Husum, informed and conscious decisions ject meets the criteria of the future near Copenhagen. The proposal impacting on the environment when Building Code 2015. The hospice is incorporates local drainage of rainthey select and specify materials, designed and developed in a genuine water (LAR), which also can contrifinishes, furniture and fixtures. sustainable matter using new builbute to changing experiences in the Through one-on-one or group actividing materials, certificated as ”cradle green precinct. ties, our staff is continually updated to cradle” products in combination In the spring of 2010, PLH received on new and emerging products, with high standards in insulation and an award for the Aller Building, a techniques or manufacturers that indoor environment. Key energy feamultimedia office in Copenhagen. can strengthen our ESD approach. tures in the total energy programme, The award acknowledged the builis the extensive use of solar cells on ding’s energy saving planning and the roof, approx 15 % of the buildings sound indoor environment, amongst area, and underground geothermal other aspects. This building is one of energy. PLH’s “flagships” in demonstrating a Over the past years, PLH qualified to holistic sustainable building, where participate in many competitions, the workplace design is integrated in most of which included sustainability a compelling architectural form. as criteria in the weighted scoring The practice also undertakes a wide system. range of client advisory commissiIn 2012, PLH won the competition for ons, where sustainability goals are a a new headquarters for the transfocus for our clients, and an integral portation and logistics company component of our approach. Of note DSV with a compact atrium for 750 is our commission as Tenant Advisor employees. The building supports to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for DEVELOPING PROJECTS AND DESIGNS What kind of sustainable aspects do you integrate in a project? JESPER FRIIS, CONSTRUCTION ARCHITECT, PLH “I usually enter the process after the most significant sustainable initiatives have been decided. In the Clearance and Maintenance Center, the client – Metroselskabet – required that cradle to cradle materials were used, as a minimum PVC-free materials. It was a very clear and tangible request. It gave some challenges, e.g. when we planned the flooring, which required different standards in relation to the loads and wear and tear.” “Ryparken’s Ice Skating Rink in Copenhagen is the project which carried most sustainability forward. We had 11 spearheads in all, which made it a ‘tour de force’ project on that front. It was quite exceptionel and additional initiatives that are beyond the law are usually difficult to convince the developer about.” Which sustainable aspects do you have in focus whilst developing design objects? HENNING SOLFELDT, PRODUCT DESIGN MANAGER, PLH “There are three main aspects I consider in the product development. Firstly, the product should be able to get dismantled into individual components when its lifetime has come to an end. Secondly, the materials or the components should be reusable. Thirdly concerns the operation and maintenance, where the product during its lifetime has as sensible an energy consumption as possible. It is the type of product that determines which factor gets the biggest importance, if not all. I develop products with ‘common sense’ in mind and on the basis of the dialogues I have with other professional experts in the team. Years ago we developed a sign series, DanSign, before ‘sustainability’ was a widespread notion, and now the series has been ‘cradle to cradle’ certified. It could only be done on the basis of ideas about simplicity of design components and materials, and it confirms that ‘common sense’ can bring you far. “ CMC CLEARANCE AND MAINTENANCE CENTER FOR THE NEW CIRCULAR LINE, METRO CITYRINGEN COPENHAGEN NEW TECHNOLOGIES AND DESIGNS PLH will put effort into the specificaThe sign is made of 5 mm aluminum, for, major international light manufaction, use and development of new in a very flexible design, that allows it turing companies. products and techniques that reduce to be combined in countless ways and impact on the environment. As stated in many different sizes for indoor and In April 2012 Philips Lighting launched earlier, it is a question of using local outdoor use. The sign is equipped with LumiStone a new LED fixature desigresources and adapt the construction the patented magnetic locking system ned by PLH (Henning Solfeldt design methods and technologies to the local that ensures that it is easy and simple manager) as the first suspended LED climate conditions, inspired by local to maintain. PlanSign is the only sign fixature that meets current requiretraditions. PLH integrates this in develosystem in the world that is Cradle to ments for office lighting. LumiStone ping projects with the central aim to Cradle certified. In 2014, the manufactugives a luminous efficiency exceeding improve the environment, generating rer DanSign met higher environmental 100 lm / W, which is 30-40% higher than energy and add value to the human standards and increased their certificaT5 luminaires often used for offices. The everyday life. tion level from Basic to Bronze. PlanSign fixture is elegant, evocative and energy was previously awarded the internaefficient, and is specifically developed PLH’s industrial design team has put tional product design award “iF Design to bring at homely atmosphere into great initiatives in product design that Award”. the work spaces. It has a unique LEDbear modern marks and aim at long shielding so the light does not dazzle or lasting validity. This is, among other PLH designteam developed a new distract the user. designs, shown in the PlanSign series, series of light fittings for energy saving LumiStone is designed for long life which was designed in 2004 and gained lighting. These innovative light fixtures cycling and has a lifespan of approx 17 a Cradle to Cradle Certification in 2014. are produced in collaboration with, and years by usage of 8 hours a day and all materials can be reused by a simple process of developing a ventilation unit dential buildings and bringing them up separation of the fixtures parts. that can recycle 4/5 of the energy in the to a present level of legislation. The unit otherwise lost heat, which makes the ensures basic ventilation of individual In 2013, the LED technology and the unit an obvious technical device to use in rooms with high heat recovery efficiency cone-shaped apertures from LumiStone connection with the renovation of older (> 85%). It is also possible to incorporate were transferred unchanged into a buildings. pollen filters that can make life easier for recessed ceiling fixture, called LumiLine. The project was sponsored by the allergy sufferers. The unit thus improves Design kinship with LumiStone is clear Innovation Fund (Fornyelsesfonden) indoor air quality at people’s homes. even though LumiLine is a flat, oval luminaire . LumiLine was developed for in the initial phase and is now supDSV’s new headquarters, where the ported by Market Maturation Fund PLH Global Compact Ambition building’s rounded volumes called for a (Markedsmodningsfonden) in order to 2015/2016 ceiling fixture in a similar friendly exprestest the unit in a larger social housing in Sønderborg. The unit is expected to PLH is proud to be a member of Global sion. The fitting was subsequently also be ready for production in the spring of Compact. In the year ahead, the pracused throughout Alfa Laval’s new office 2016. tice will continue to seek opportunities in Aalborg. to support and enact the principles. In The existing building stock represents Elforsk will support the development of a particular, we aim to show built works a tremendous energy consumption and similar unit based on a different technothat demonstrate more extensive and there is a great potential to reduce the logy and runs as a parallel project. The measurable outcomes in the area of total energy consumption in refurbishgeneral objective of this other unit is to environment. ments of older buildings. PLH is in the improve the ventilation in the older resi PLH ARKITEKTER A/S VERMUNDSGADE 38K 2100 KØBENHAVN Ø WWW.PLH.DK
