! ! A. About Alaquil Trading … ! Alaquil Trading holds, Alaquil Consultancy and Bear Hugs Education Center. • Alaquil Consultancy: Focuses in bridging the gap for firms who seek to initiate trade with Saudi Arabia and other GCC locations. Due to the recent increase of Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainable Awareness, Alaquil Trading has added this valuable service for major corporations. Through our extensive experience and proven methods, we specialize in personalizing sustainable development initiatives geared to creating CSR programs, supporting the community you live in, focusing on education, health, protecting the environment, fighting corruption and reducing unemployment. www.alaquil.com “Hand in Hand Towards Sustainable Development”. • Alaquil Education Center (Bear Hugs): Is a unique environment for children from 2 to 5 years of age that offers children an opportunity to learn and have fun at ! ! the same time. Our curriculum is based on learning ! through practical experiences and self-discovery within ! a carefully prepared child oriented environment. www.bearhugs.info ——*—— * ——* ——— www.alaquil.com ! B. Statement of continued support for the CEO ! ! ! ! ! www.alaquil.com C. 1. Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. ! Commitment: !Alaquil Trading supports the UNGC on Human Rights. The company has clear policies supporting human rights under its “Code of Conduct” communicated to all employees. Our company is highly committed to providing an equal opportunity work environment. Alaquil Trading encourages openness and honesty, and aims to provide an environment that is supportive, and where everyone is treated fairly, and with courtesy and respect. Alaquil Trading believes in its strong commitment towards helping in building sustainable development. The company provides a safe and healthy environment, beside the Medical insurance provided to the staff from the principle of keeping a healthy environment. Also in our school (Bear Hugs) we understand that each child is different with their own struggle, personal family circumstances or learning difficulties. Implementation: All staff are issued with an original duplicate of the contract and copy of the rules that applies within the organization. Annual appraisals are carried out each year, also a semi-annual gathering for all the staff. In addition to our health insurance, in special cases we carry out extra expenses for treatments or financial support for those who are having crisis. ! At Bear Hugs School, we try to work with each child according to his ! or her circumstances and help them emphasize on the positive traits ! and to overcome the negative ones. We follow our motto, Bear Hugs ! School is a Home away from Home . Results: We are able to maintain happy employees, increase productivity and positive outcomes. Receiving recognitions from the local community and individuals. www.alaquil.com 2. Labor Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. ! Commitment: Alaquil Trading supports the UNGC principles on Labor. The company’s employment contracts and bi-laws along Alaquil Trading Code of Conduct include a clear position on labor rights and principles and in accordance to the various employment laws in our country. Alaquil Trading believes in equal opportunity employer, all employment decisions at Alaquil Trading are made based solely on job requirements and qualifications of applicants. Alaquil Trading does not permit any discrimination or harassment of any sort based on age, race, color, gender, religion, beliefs, origin, disability. Alaquil Trading believes in the significance of women’s participation in the workforce and as such is highly committed to gender equity. Implementation: Discrimination or inappropriate conduct is not tolerated and we continuously monitor and enforce this policy. We will continue to monitor all incompliances and develop procedures as needed. Results: ! ! Employees feel respected, thus their loyalty and dedication ! towards their job increased. ! ! —— * —— * ——* ——www.alaquil.com ! 3. Environment ! ! Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; ! Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater ! environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. ! ! Commitment: !The company encourages all its employees to be responsible individuals, and act accordingly internally and externally, towards the community and the environment. Alaquil Trading is committed to promoting and encouraging environmentally and socially responsible actions. This goes beyond government laws and regulations. Our employees are encouraged to help protect the environment and act to the best of their ability to demonstrate such a responsibility. Implementation: A number of recycling bins are distributed throughout our premises, Recycling is still a rather new initiative in Saudi Arabia, but is a growing concern. We work towards raising awareness within our company and activities, and encourage keeping our environment healthy and clean. We celebrate Earth Day, the month of Health & Hygiene; also we celebrate every year Gardening Time at Bear Hugs Preschool . Further to our community services, we are working with a local children's orphanage in Jeddah, (Saudi Arabia), offering afternoon activities to orphans as well as giving ! summer jobs for the teenagers. ! ! In addition, due to the very limited educational facilities ! catered to children with learning difficulties, we are excepting limited students who are autistic who have shadow teachers, to attend our preschool and be integrated among other children, as well as children with speech delay. ! —— * —— * —— * —— ! ! www.alaquil.com ! 4. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. ! Commitment: !Alaquil Trading is highly motivated and committed to the values of transparency and integrity; our strategic priorities is to strengthen institutions and promote public sector integrity. ! Alaquil Trading consultancy performance include receipt of research, analysis and briefings carried out by the organization, access to resources that allow peer-to-peer exchange, opportunity to exhibit leadership and progress in corporate governance and transparency, and to participate in exclusive events and roundtables with key influencers in the region to promote such concepts in the working environments. ! Implementation: At Alaquil Trading we realize the importance of applying transparency and accountability at the organization and institutions, and it should be based on the correct understanding of our customs to create wide awareness among young people and children in order to enhance their patriotism, as well as to be part of its development, and the need for intensive efforts to achieve. !Alaquil Trading was an active participant at many workshops, forums, roundtable discussions and summits that promote the concept of good business practices, with the cooperation of international organizations and institutions. ! !! ! ! —— * —— * —— * ——! www.alaquil.com
