Tudor House, 6 Friar Lane Leicester LE1 5RA, United Kingdom Tel: +44 (0)116 222 9900 Fax: +44 (0)116 222 9901 hello@tudor-rose.co.uk www.tudor-rose.co.uk 8th January 2015 Global Compact Communication on Progress To our stakeholders I am pleased to confirm that Tudor Rose reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Yours sincerely Jon Ingleton Managing director Tudor Rose Holdings Ltd. Registered address: Tudor House, 6 Friar Lane, Leicester LE1 5RA, United Kingdom Registered in England, number 3404118. VAT: GB 715 113 083 Tudor Rose Communication on Progress HUMAN RIGHTS Assessment, policy and goals Tudor Rose confirms its faith in fundamental human rights, in the dignity and worth of the human person and in the equal rights of men and women. The company encourages personal responsibility – while accounting for issues of equality and diversity – and promotes social progress and better standards of life within its sphere of influence. Implementation During 2014, Tudor Rose, in a public-private partnership with DESA-DSPD, created a publication entitled Family Futures to coincide with the 20th Anniversary of the International Year of the Family. By cataloguing the experiences and livelihoods of people, especially those in vulnerable situations, the 208-page book projects the benefits of focusing on the family unit in overall development efforts, emphasising how family-oriented policies and programmes can contribute to achieving sustainable development goals. We are in full support of the Women’s Empowerment Principles initiative and have signed the CEO Statement of Support, having added our company’s name to the official list of signatories. Tudor Rose also continues to pursue opportunities to publish books covering social, political and technological progress for the betterment of a wide range of human development issues, including Human Rights, around the world. We have established an agreement to create a UNESCO copyright publication in aid of the International Decade for the Rapprochement of Cultures 2013-2022 and in support of a new stakeholders’ engagement to help promote mutual understanding and foster dialogue for sustainable development. Tudor Rose has effective health and safety procedures in place, which comply with industry, national and international standards. We also continue to ensure that staff are afforded safe, suitable and sanitary work facilities; that the working week is limited to 40 hours; that overtime is infrequent and limited; and that employees are given reasonable breaks and rest periods. We are mindful of protecting workers from any form of workplace harassment. Human resource policies and procedures are made available to each member of staff by means of the company handbook. Measurement of outcomes The company has successfully published two books during 2014 that are a result of sharing resources to engage official governmental, international, institutional and professional bodies, each with interests in developing sustainable human societies. The above-mentioned Family Futures was one such book. Tudor Rose senior management periodically reviews the company’s responsibilities towards human rights in relation to compliance with national and international law. 2 Tudor Rose Communication on Progress LABOUR Assessment, policy and goals Tudor Rose supports the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. We recognise the rights of employees to freedom of association and to bargain collectively and we encourage employees to gather independently to discuss work-related problems. Implementation Tudor Rose has written policies that clearly state employee rights and responsibilities and their compensation and benefits. It is company policy to ensure that decisions concerning hiring, wages, promotion, training, discipline, retirement and termination are based only on unbiased criteria, and are not linked to any discriminatory characteristics. All directors, managers and staff are signed up to our equal opportunities policy and are expected to adhere to it. The company has created and maintained awareness of gender equality and inclusion and non-discrimination for all workers and we make appointments to all positions on merit, regardless of gender. As signatory to the Women’s Empowerment Principles initiative, Tudor Rose offers: equal pay for work of equal value; flexible work options; access to child and dependent care; support for pregnant women and those returning from maternity leave; and training and development of female employees. The company also addresses any gender-specific health and safety issues such as feminine hygiene, and offers health and safety assessments for pregnant staff. Our company polices and culture, as outlined in the company handbook, stand against any harassment and violence to all staff, including sexual harassment against women. We will support all staff if this occurs within the workplace and support would be provided if it occurred outside of the workplace including compassionate leave with help and assistance as required. The company has implemented a mechanism for hearing, processing, and settling employees’ grievances as well as a public disclosure or ‘whistle blowing’ policy. Employees are consulted in a periodic assessment of company strategy. Measurement of outcomes Tudor Rose senior management periodically reviews the company’s responsibilities towards labour rights in relation to compliance with national and international law. ENVIRONMENT Assessment, policy and goals At Tudor Rose we are committed to operating our business responsibly, complying with, and ideally exceeding, environmental legislation and approved codes of practice. We are aware that this demands ongoing review and internal housekeeping, and aim to continually improve our performance. 3 Tudor Rose Communication on Progress Our ethical procurement policy urges us to consider the environmental and ethical performance of companies in our supply chain and, wherever financially viable, give preference to products and suppliers with the least environmental impact and highest ethical values. As a publisher of books and magazines, our goals for the upcoming year are to reduce the number copies printed in favour of distributing content digitally, being also mindful that digital distribution also has its own carbon footprint. Implementation In June 2014, Tudor Rose became a new member of Disaster Risk Reduction Private Sector Partnership (DRR-PSP) in support of the United Nations Office for Disaster Risk Reduction in its mission to enhance national and local resilience to disasters by raising the awareness through partnerships. During 2014 the company created a 258-page book entitled Deep Roots, co-published by Tudor Rose and the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations to commemorate the 2014 International Year of Family Farming (IYFF). The book comprises articles from family farming experts throughout the world with the aim of raising the profile of family farming and smallholder farming by focusing world attention on its significant role in eradicating hunger and poverty, providing food security and nutrition, improving livelihoods, managing natural resources, protecting the environment, and achieving sustainable development, in particular in rural areas. Deep Roots digital edition was made available for the Global Dialogue in Rome in October 2014, with the printed edition launched in December 2014 at the closing ceremony of the IYFF in Manila, Philippines. We are in full support of the Caring for Climate initiative and have signed the CEO Statement of Support. Tudor Rose sits on the UK’s Professional Publishers Association (PPA) environment committee that works closely with the UK Government in helping shape environmental policy, and has successfully worked to increase recycling rates. We are helping to pioneer the PPA’s Carbon Calculator – an industry-wide initiative to understand, minimise and manage the impacts of magazine publishing in the UK, allowing publishers to estimate the anticipated carbon footprint of key elements of their business. The printing of our magazines and books is carried out by suppliers that use FSC (Forest Stewardship Council) certified material. This accreditation guarantees that the paper comes from responsible and rigorously controlled sources. We only use paper which is certified ECF (Elemental Chlorine Free). At Tudor Rose, we are mindful of sustainability programmes such as WRAP (Waste Resources Action Programme) and the OPRL (On-Pack Recycling Label) whose combined recent work has resulted in amendments to previous recommendations on the use of plastic film. As such, we are now focused on using recyclable film, urging consumers away from consigning plastic to landfill even where the film is oxo-biodegradable. We also encourage our readers to recycle their magazines rather than send them to landfill. 4 Tudor Rose Communication on Progress Tudor Rose recognises the impact that unsold copies of books and magazines can have on the supply chain and a significant effort has been made to reduce the volume of these. We ensure that any unsold magazines that are not earmarked for back-issue sales are collected and the paper fibre recycled. Measurement of outcomes The company has published two books during 2014 that are a result of sharing resources to engage official governmental, international, institutional and professional bodies, each with interests in developing sustainable human societies. The above-mentioned Deep Roots was one such book. Through our involvement with the UK’s Professional Publishers Association environment committee we are measuring our carbon footprint with a view to changing company strategy dictating print quantities and the associated transportation footprint. Tudor Rose continues to consider the source of raw materials for suitability in the manufacture of products in the effort to deliver improvements to the company’s carbon footprint. We continue to review the impact – on management, processing and costs through the supply chain – of reducing the number of unsold copies of our of books and magazines. ANTI-CORRUPTION Assessment, policy and goals It is Tudor Rose’s policy to conduct business in an honest way and without the use of corrupt practices or acts of bribery to obtain an unfair advantage or favour. The company attaches the utmost importance to this policy and applies a “zero tolerance” approach to intentional acts of bribery and corruption by any employee, worker or business partner working on its behalf. Implementation In July 2014 the company submitted a letter of support of the Anti-Corruption and the Global Development Agenda – an appeal by the private sector urging governments to promote efficient and effective anti-corruption measures and to implement robust policies that will foster good governance. We have therefore committed to work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery, as advanced by the UN Global Compact’s tenth principle. The company informs all employees about its anti-corruption commitment with full details made available in the company handbook of which every staff member has a copy. Measurement of outcomes The company has and promotes a function by which employees can safely report suspicion of corruption related cases through its public disclosure or ‘whistle blowing’ policy. The Tudor Rose Communication on Progress will be made easily accessible to all interested parties on the company website. 4
