• 16.10.15 To our stakeholders: It is my great pleasure to confirm that ‘Southeast Electronic Components Pvt Ltd’ reaffirms its support to the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, I.S.Banan [ M.D. ] Human Rights • Southeast has of confirm belief that all human beings are born free and gift of nature. They are equal in dignity and rights. At southeast we promote the culture that everyone is entitled to all the rights and freedoms, without distinction of any kind, such as race, colour, sex, language, religion, political or other opinion, national or social origin, property, birth or other status. As our duty, we educate people about their rights and promote this activity thru our human resource dept. Trainings are provided and feedbacks taken. Records of training maintained. Implementation • The HR dept is regularly in touch with people and guide them for their rights and ensure that they are not deprived of their rights. • A suggestion / complaint box is maintained at the main gate in which any person can put their suggestions or complaints and the same was handled confidentially with the top management for its resolution. It is ensured that there is no violation of any human rights and dignity of people is maintained while resolution of issues. We welcome openness of our employees and due consideration is given on their suggestions and complaints. For best suggestions employees are awarded with gifts on monthly basis. Measurement of outcomes • The company has not encountered any incident in the last year for human rights violation and also employee motivation level is high. Labour Assessment, policy and goals • A written down 'Labour Policy' is maintained wherein ‘Southeast’ committed to comply to the various rules and regulations as applicable by the law of land and applicable in the country. ‘Southeast’ believes in promoting the culture which is developed on mutual trust, dignity and respect of persons and discourage any type of child labour within the organization and with the suppliers engaged with Southeast. Implementation • Labour policy is approved by M.D. and displayed in the company and utmost care has been taken by top management that various rules and regulations are implemented and strictly followed. This is regularly monitored by the company HR dept and the GM plant. Measurement of outcomes • HR dept.and top management jointly discuss and ensure that all employees are treated equally and provided equal resources which are applicable as per law of land and proper records related to govt. regulations are maintained. • Undertakings being taken from suppliers that they are not employing any child labour and also educate at different platforms thru regular interactions. Random visits also carried out at supplier end to verify the effectiveness and to ensure that no child labor is involved in operations. • Monthly meeting of all employees with the top management is organised to address their issues and due consideration is provided with appreciation on good suggestions. Environment Assessment, policy and goals • Environment, Health Policy is written down and displayed prominently at ‘Southeast’ so as to ensure protection of environment and health of their employees. To strengthen its working and ensuring sustainability company has a valid ISO-14001 certificate which is valid till 2017.Environmental policy is also printed in local language and provided to employees. Implementation • Regular trainings provided to employees on environment protection and ISO-14001 systems followed in the company followed with regular feedback thru audits from third party. Save water/ Electricity awareness provided thru campaigns and posters within the company. Measurement of outcomes • Performance is monitored thru regular internal audits and compliances assured with proper records. Third party audits conducted once in a year for ensuring compliance of the ISO-14001 system in the company and no major issues were reported during the last year. EMS Systems found in compliance as per guidelines. Anti-Corruption Assessment, policy and goals • Company is holding a very strict stand on this issue and continuously holds the Zero tolerance policy for corruption and bribery. In accordance to this company has formulated the Ethics Policy and continue with it. Implementation • Ethics Policy is duly formulated and approved by top management and regularly monitored by M.D./ Sr. Management for any lapses and the actions required. Employees are encouraged to give feedback for any unfair practices prevalent in the company thru' suggestion / complaint box which is in direct access to everyone. Measurement of outcomes • Regular interaction meetings held at different levels with different employee groups and feedback taken without disclosing their identities and also they are encouraged to submit their complaints /suggestions either in person to their superiors or thru suggestion box. Suppliers are also encouraged to report any incidence to top management on account of any malpractice. No incidence of corruption has been reported in the last year.
