New Eyes for Industry CSR Report Message from the President Now is Precisely the Time to Practice CSR Management through the Eyes (Lenses) for Key Industries The possibilities found within lenses—the eyes for industry—are spreading to countless, diverse applications. Given this, Tamron will not only look to correctly understand customer needs for conventional interchangeable lenses, surveillance cameras, automotive camera lenses and other products, both in Japan and overseas, but also seek out new fields where it can leverage its business experience. We have strengthened our product strategy as of late in order to correctly capture the needs of not only the Japan market, but local markets in emerging markets and around the world, too, through our subsidiaries, with the goal of supplying lenses suitable for a wide range of applications. I believe our mission is to practice CSR management through our core business, by being the lens of choice of industry, regardless of country. Therefore, we are more committed than ever before to establishing high quality, eco-friendly development, design and production systems so that we can continually improve quality in Japan as well as at our plants in China and Vietnam, with the ultimate aim of creating products that customers continually choose over others. As for the environment, we have established a company-wide target to lower our CO2 emissions compared to the benchmark year of 2012 by 1% per year on average in terms of basic unit per sales. All told, we hope to reduce CO2 emissions about 7% by 2020 and in 2014 we had already lowered emissions by 7.0%. Going forward, we will begin to focus on reducing CO2 emissions in terms of total volume instead of just basic unit per sales. At the same time, we are promoting eco-friendly product designs. For example, we are adding improved features to our interchangeable lenses, such as better imaging quality and image stabilization, but also working to make these products more compact, lighter weight, quieter as well as use fewer parts. We are also in the process of building a better supply chain; one that is focused on legal compliance in Japan and overseas, upholds international standards in CSR procurement, such as those concerning conflict minerals, respects human rights and a sound working environment, and pays close attention to fair operating practices. CSR Activities Practiced by Self-Disciplined Employees It is important that we develop employees who can think and act both independently and correctly, without having to wait for orders from above. Management that values employees will empower employees to identify customer needs and get more proactively involved in society. As part of our global expansion, we also we need workplace environments that are suited to local conditions. Our leadership at overseas subsidiaries understands Japanese business, hires local people who have the greatest understanding of local markets, and carries President & CEO out CSR activities tailored to their communities. Moving forward, we will work to improve Tamron Co., Ltd. the English proficiency of our employees so that we can engage customers more closely and develop a mindset ready to tackle any challenge that my present itself. Morio Ono Of particular importance is creating an environment where female employees can thrive professionally. We will hire more women and provide opportunities for them to contribute, while increasing the ratio of female managers in the process. In 2014 a number of male employees took parental leave, which until then had mainly been taken by women only. In 2015 we plan on establishing a day care facility at our head office location. We are definitely committed to creating workplace environments where female employees can thrive. The efforts of self-disciplined employees greatly support our citizenship activities for society. Our employees continue to give back to photographic culture through the Railroad Scenery Photo Contest and Macro Lens Photo Contest, and are actively involved in the local community through their support for physically challenged athletes, science classes for children, and donations to the conservation of the Minuma Tambo area of Saitama City. Supporting the 10 Principles of the UN Global Compact Tamron continues to be an active supporter of the 10 principles laid out in the U.N. Global Compact as part of its global expansion. We recognize these 10 principles represent guidelines that truly multinational corporations must put into practice, and as such, we have reflected these principles in our Action Declarations and thoroughly educate our employees on the principles. Compliance at our overseas sites is particularly important and our compliance action guidelines incorporating specific activities have been made known to all so that we can fulfill the expectations and trust of our stakeholders around the world. In compiling this CSR Report, we focused on engagement with stakeholders. We would greatly appreciate your comments and suggestions for how we can further improve our CSR management. 1 Tamron CSR Report 2015 Contents Message from the President………………………………… 1 Table of Contents and Company Outline… …………… 2 Tamron’ s CSR Management………………………………… 3 Editorial Policy This report was issued to keep stakeholders, including customers, Participation in the UN Global Compact………………… 4 employees, shareholders, investors, business partners, local communities, public institutions, NGOs and NPOs, abreast of Tamron’ s activities for Special Feature: Aiming to become a Company where protecting the environment and carrying out its social responsibilities. Diverse Human Resources can Thrive Professionally… …… 5 This report covers activities across the entire Tamron Group, including Tamron Co., Ltd., Tamron Optical (Foshan) Co., Ltd., Tamron Optical Relationship with Shareholders and Investors… ……… 7 (Vietnam) Co., Ltd. and overseas sales subsidiaries, excluding certain environmental data and other information. Relationship with Business Partners……………………… 8 Guidelines mainly referenced in compiling this report: Relationship with Customers… …………………………… 9 ・‌Environmental Report Guidelines (Ministry of the Environment) (2012 version) Management System… …………………………………… 13 ・‌Greenhouse Effect Gas Measuring & Reporting Manual Version 3.5 ・‌Environmental Accounting Guidelines (Ministry of the Environment) (2005 Relationships with the Environment…………………… 15 version) ・‌The GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines and ISO 26000:2010 Manual Environmental Objectives and Targets Achieved…… 16 on Business Entities’Social Responsibility were also referenced to identify important information that should be disclosed to stakeholders. Reducing CO2 Emissions and Electricity Consumption…… 17 ・‌We made efforts to disclose information based on stakeholder Reducing Waste and Water Consumption…………… 18 perspectives, by referencing the warranty processes in the AA1000 Warranty Standard. Relationship with Society… ……………………………… 19 ・‌The cover design was selected to express our stance toward Activities at Tamron’ s Overseas Subsidiaries………… 21 contributing to the environment and achieving harmony with all stakeholders through our lenses. Independent Third-Party Opinion… …………………… 22 Company Profile Trade name Tamron Co., Ltd. Head office 1385 Hasunuma, Minuma-ku, Saitama-shi, Saitama, Japan Tel. +81-48-684-9111 Founded November 1, 1950 Incorporated October 27, 1952 Capital 6.923 billion yen Head Office (Saitama City, Saitama Prefecture) President & CEO Morio Ono Employees 2,694 (consolidated; excluding 3,985 temporary employees) 《Net Sales for the Previous Five Years》 Net sales 73.621 billion yen (consolidated; as of December 31, 2014) (Billion yen) Consolidated Listed First Section of the Tokyo Stock Exchange 800 73.6 700 68.4 Domestic plants One each in Hirosaki, Namioka and Owani in Aomori 64.3 600 56.6 58.5 Overseas plants Foshan, China and Hanoi, Vietnam 500 Consolidated subsidiaries 400 United States, Germany, France, Hong Kong, China （Shanghai） , 300 Russia, and India 200 100 0 Outline of Business Operations 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 FY 《Employees》 Commercial/ 17.2% (person) Consolidated Consolidated industrial-use optics (regular employees) (temporary employees) 8,000 355 7,000 406 4,090 3,985 3,843 Optical 9.5% 6,000 components Percentage 5,000 of sales by 4,000 business 7,198 3,000 6,005 segment 2,000 (2014, 1,000 2,295 2,545 2,694 consolidated) 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 FY Photographic 1 lenses 73.3% 1. ‌The increase in temporary workers during 2012 was attributed to changes in employment format made primarily at Tamron Optical (Foshan) Co., Ltd., our manufacturing subsidiary in China. Temporary workers at Tamron Optical Foshan will soon be switched to regular employees per changes in China’ s labor laws. Tamron CSR Report 2015 2 Tamron’ s CSR Management Enhancing Corporate Value Twelve Themes for Enhancing CSR Management Tamron’ s CSR management is conducted under our corporate We have been working on our business operations under twelve themes philosophy of contributing to the economy, society and established for being a company acknowledged by stakeholders. environment as eyes for industry. Tamron also pursues CSR We have established a sound corporate governance system and management through stakeholder engagement based on the carry out management with a fundamental focus on compliance, Action Declarations, which define the stance the company should while also considering the economy, society and the environment. take toward stakeholders divided into the five categories of Furthermore, by engaging in themes such as the environment, “customers,”“employees,”“shareholders,”“business partners,” quality/product safety, and employment/human resources and and“ society,”and the Action Codes, which show how all Tamron other social issues, we are striving to be a company that has the employees should conduct themselves. power to be selected by customers1. 1.This is one of our corporate objectives, showing that we have the power to be selected and supported by customers. Twelve Themes Association table Tamron s Action Declarations Twelve Themes Relevant page ●From the customer perspective Recognizing that customer satisfaction is of the highest Compliance P7、14 importance, Tamron will contribute to society by supplying safe, high-quality original products and services. Corporate Governance P7 ●From the employee perspective Risk Management P13 ・In order to become self-reliant, each employee at Tamron works with a challenging spirit, maintains good Environment P15 〜 18 communications with fellow workers for creating a lively Disclosure P7 work environment, and strives to yield the best possible results at all times while observing laws and regulations. Quality and Safety P9 〜 12 ・Each and every employee at Tamron respects human rights to support society as a good corporate citizen. Occupational Safety & Health P14 ●From the shareholders/investor perspective Employment and Human Resources P5 〜 6 Everyone working at Tamron strives to enhance corporate Human Rights P5 〜 6、8 value through faithful management, to proactively engage stakeholders, and to enhance stakeholder conﬁdence to be a Social Contributions P19 〜 21 company worthy of stable investments. Information Security P7 ●From the business partner perspective By respecting human rights, complying with laws and carrying Privacy Protection P5、7 out fair and transparent business transactions, Tamron will ensure that it can build relationships with its business partners so that they deliver quality materials and services, achieve mutual growth and contribute to society. ●From the society perspective ・Maintaining good communications with local communities, Tamron will strive to contribute to their growth while upholding The Power to be Corporate Value their tradition and culture as a good corporate citizen. ・Tamron will observe laws and regulations, aiming to earn Selected Responsibility to Contribute to conﬁdence from society as a good corporate citizen. ・Tamron take a resolute stance against all anti-social forces and organizations that pose threats to the public order and Disclosure safety of our civil society. Social ・Tamron will work hard in NGO and NPO projects to establish Environment Contributions a good society. Quality and Safety Employment and Social and Environmental Issues Human Resources Occupational Communicating for CSR Promotion Privacy Protection Safety & Health Tamron’ s CSR Committee meets monthly to closely monitor the Information Security progress of CSR activities. The committee is an organization under Human Rights the direct control of the President and CEO. Representatives from all divisions at the head office and plants in Japan and overseas Risk Management meet through videoconferencing. Compliance Society Environment Every year Tamron publishes a CSR report as part of our Corporate Governance stakeholder engagement activities. We are pleased to announce that our CSR report for 2014 was recognized Economy with an award of excellence at the 18th Environmental Communication Awards sponsored by the Ministry of the Environment and the Global Environmental Forum. For more details, please visit our corporate website(Japanese): WEB http://www.tamron.co.jp/news/release_2015/0226.html Twelve Themes for Enhancing CSR Management 3 Tamron CSR Report 2015 ISO26000-4.7 Respect for international norms of behaviour Participation in the UN Global Compact Tamron has operations around the world, including a the principles and related issues while deepening their production base in China and subsidiary sales companies understanding about Tamron’ s current situation and in Europe and the United States. Agreeing to the Global situations where employees should act. Tamron will Compact (GC), in August 2007 Tamron became a continue to abide by the 10 principles and carry out supporter of this international initiative proposed by the corporate activities that fulfill its responsibilities to society. United Nations to support the Ten Principles related to human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. The Ten GC Principles became pillars for establishing our CSR promotion structure. In 2014, a total of 107 employees participated in human rights and labor training following the principles of the UN Global Compact, including workers at Tamron Optical (Foshan) Co., Ltd. (below, “Tamron Optical Foshan”) and Tamron Optical (Vietnam) Co., Ltd. (below,“Tamron Optical Vietnam”). This training is intended to broaden understanding about the principles of the UN Global For further details about the GC, please visit the United Nations Compact and encourage action. Employees learn about WEB http://www.unglobalcompact.org/. COP Report (Communication on Progress) The following table describes Tamron’ s accomplishments and efforts during 2013 in line with the Ten Principles. Relevant Principles Tamron’ s Policies Results for 2014 page 1 Business ‌ should support and respect ・‌We support basic human rights in our Action the protection of internationally Declarations. P3 Human Rights proclaimed human rights. ・‌Carried out operations based on the ・‌We declare respect for human rights and elimination Human Rights Protection & Labor of discrimination in our Compliance Regulations. Standard Management Regulations. ・‌We clarify management items for operations ・‌Clarified management items for 2 Business ‌ should make sure that they operations and strengthened checks P5 〜 and strengthen checks and balances (the Human are not complicit in human rights and balances (Japan and Tamron Rights Protection & Labor Standard Management P8 abuses. Optical Foshan). Regulations). ・‌Definition of CSR procurement(Tamron Supplier Code of Conduct) ・‌Periodically provided opportunities to discuss labor-management issues (head office). 3 Business ‌ should uphold the freedom ・‌We declare respect for the right of our ・‌Held social gatherings involving the President P5 〜 of association and the effective employees to organize in our labor organization and female employees (head office). recognition of the right to collective P6 memorandum. ・‌Improve working conditions through bargaining. labor union activities (Tamron Optical Foshan and Tamron Optical Vietnam). 4 Business ‌ should uphold the ・‌We stipulate the importance of complying with laborLabour ・‌Specified all business days as“ No P5 〜 elimination of all forms of forced and related laws and regulations and maintaining a proper work overtime work days”(Head Office). P7 compulsory labour. environment for our employees in our Compliance Regulations. ・‌In-house training on the 12 CSR themes in ・‌We vow not to use child labor. We do not ・‌Established a manual to check the age of 5 Business ‌ should uphold the effective accordance with the abolition of child labour. employ workers under the age of 15 which is UN Global Compact: applicants at the time of hiring (Tamron P7 stipulated in our employment rules. Optical Foshan and Tamron Optical Vietnam). 107 employees participated ・‌Achieved targets for the ratio of females 6 Business ‌ should uphold the ・‌We have targets for employing persons with promoted to management positions. P5 〜 elimination of discrimination disabilities and a policy to increase the ratio of ・‌ Participation in the UN ・‌Ratio of eligible employees taking in respect of employment and female managers in order to realize a diversified P6 Global Compact Japan parental leave: 100%. occupation. work place. Network working ・‌Ratio of hiring of persons with disabilities: 2.3%. groups ・‌We have a provision in our consolidated ・‌Incidents of environmental nonmanagement policy to prevent environmental P8 conformity : 0 deterioration through efforts such as the P12 ・‌Held training sessions on environmentally 7 Business ‌ should support a following: conscious designs and reducing CO₂ precautionary approach to (1)Reducing CO₂ emissions; Environment emissions: One session each (total of P15〜 environmental challenges. (2)Reducing industrial waste; 152 participants) P18 (3)‌Finding alternatives to harmful chemical ・‌Supported ecosystem protection efforts P20 substances; and (head office). (4)Conserving biodiversity 8 Business ‌ should undertake initiatives ・‌We have a policy to clearly establish environmental to promote greater environmental objectives and targets for the following: ・‌Reduced CO₂ emissions by 7.0 % P12 responsibility. (1)Reducing CO₂ emissions; compared to 2012 per unit of sales. 9 Business ‌ should encourage the (2)‌Reducing industrial waste emissions to ・‌Reduced product weight by 1% on average. P16〜 development and diffusion of ultimately achieve zero emissions; and ・‌Reduced product size by 1% on an average. P18 environmentally friendly technologies. (3)Promoting environmentally-friendly designs. ・‌We have a our policy to regulate acts of Anti-Corruption 10 Business ‌ should work against ・‌The Compliance Promotion Committee endowment and political donations and terminate corruption in all its forms, including ties with anti-social forces in our Compliance held workshops for employees to learn P7 extortion and bribery. more about compliance. Regulations and Action Declarations. Tamron CSR Report 2015 4 Special Aiming to become a Company where Diverse Feature Tamron employs a diverse workforce at its domestic and overseas business sites in We are committed to providing workplaces that are motivating based on fair place to work so that our people can thrive professionally and support the growth of Aiming for Self-Disciplined Human Resources Tamron has established a training regimen for newly hired employees Training System Diagram to develop self-disciplined human resources with a challenging spirit. Occupational-based training programs Rank-based training programs Company-wide training programs This comprises rank-based training programs held periodically to help employees gain the necessary skills for their jobs, occupational-based Engineer training Correspondence Manager training Sales and training programs that teach the required competencies to engineers Training for mid-career On the job administrative as well as sales and administrative staff, and company-wide training education hires training programs that seek to improve individual skills. staff training Training for new graduate hires Human Resource Development Overseas Approximately 60% of Tamron’ s workforce is employed at its overseas 99% of participants have been able to use what they learned in these business sites and each of these sites carries out human resource sessions to make improvements in operating processes. development initiatives based on their individual situations and needs. Production and manufacturing technology training covered automation Tamron Optical Foshan carries out occupational-based training related topics for workers responsible for development equipment programs as part of its efforts to develop human resources and improve to encourage even greater automation, labor savings and digitization production and manufacturing technologies well as the leadership of production equipment. The Assembly Division production training skills of managers. In 2014, manager training was held on six occasions sessions for managers twice a month to help ensure more consistent on management knowledge and production and manufacturing quality, while information about quality issues in the production technologies with the goal of developing candidates for positions in process was relayed to related departments during training. The goal senior management. A total of 128 managers attended, including 10 of these sessions is to encourage employees to think outside their own assistant managers, 61 team leaders, and 57 other employees. Some processes to make help improve overall quality. Expanding Manager Training and Engineer Training in Japan To further enhance rank-based training programs, a new session the global expansion of our operations. An instructor specializing called 360 degree feedback training was held for managers in in engineering English leads the weekly course for four months 2014. The term 360 degree feedback refers to an evaluation during which time they cover communication with customers and process of manager capabilities involving their supervisors, business email writing, among other topics. subordinates and people from other departments that work with them. This allows managers to objectively reflect on their own Manager Training management and make improvements for the future. Name of course Details This training was held for 20 general manager class employees at the head office. After the training was over participants shared Managers Managers learn about the basic principles of management and obtain Basic training the necessary skills and knowledge to grow as a supervisor positive feedback, saying that would like to use their leadership Personnel evaluation Fosters understanding of the purpose and approach to personnel to create better organization for both managers and employees training evaluations given the fact discrepancies exist between the feelings of Personal information Fosters understanding of the Personal Information Management Rules management rules and and ensures managers properly handle personal information at the supervisors and subordinates. We will continue to hold this regulations training working level training going forward while expanding the scope of those eligible 360 degree The manager receives evaluations about their own abilities from to participate. feedback supervisors, subordinates and colleagues to analyze themselves and training improve their management skills Furthermore, we hold a training course called English for Engineers (for around 15 senior mid-level engineers) targeting Mental health Managers learn about important matters to pay attention to in order to prevent mental issues with their people and seek to maintain and young engineer who will need to use English in their work given training improve workplaces Section Manager, Cost Management Section Interview with a Manager Hiroko Sakai Product Development Management & Administration Dept. Product Development Management & Administration Unit I n t e r v i e w I am applying what I learned at the basic training course for managers at my workplace. I learned about how to ask subordinates questions and making my subordinates first think about something before sharing my views. I work in a back-office section, so the challenge I face is rotating team members around and stabilizing operations while seeking to promote greater efficiencies at work. We have been able to carry out duties despite the limited amount of time thanks largely to the support of my supervisor and team members. It is quite difficult to tackle efficiency or improvement activities alone. This is why I find it very motivating when we can update our daily processes through mutual collaboration between supervisor and team members. I have also been able to take advantage of our hourly leave system. This has made it possible for me to participate in my child’s school events and achieve a balance between my personal and professional life. 5 Tamron CSR Report 2015 ISO26000-6.3 Human Rights / 6.4 Labour practices Human Resources can Thrive Professionally order to deliver products and service that satisfy its customers around the world. assessments and compensation and mutual understanding, with the ultimate goal of being a rewarding the company. Aiming to be an Female-friendly Company With Japan expected to suffer from labor shortages in the future it is Number of Employees taking Parental Leave more important than ever to create a society where women can thrive personally and professionally. The ratio of female workers at Tamron (employees) 100 Japan Tamron Optical Foshan overseas is 60%, but only 20% in Japan, of which 50% are in their 30s, so 90 we need to create n environment conducive to retaining these employees 80 even after marriage and childbirth. This is why Tamron has established 70 and continually improved various programs for its people to achieve a 60 50 work-life balance and continue working for the company. 40 76 65 60 Tamron has programs in place for childbirth and childcare, and 100% of 30 36 eligible employees have taken maternity leave before and after childbirth 20 30 10 and parental leave, returning to work thereafter. (See the graph for 10 10 10 8 18 0 the number of employees taking parental leave.) Employees also take 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 advantage of our reduced working hours program where they can work up to two hours less than normal to fulfill their childcare obligations. Saitama Prefecture, where our head office is located, is carrying out the Main Benefits Programs for Childcare and Nursing Care (Japan) Saitama Prefecture Womenomics Project to revitalize the local economy Program Term Overview through the power and contributions of women. As part of this project, companies with diverse work styles are recognized and in March 2014 Parental Until the child turns 1 An employee can take leave to leave (Extendable up to 14 months of age) care for and raise a child Tamron received Gold recognition 1 for its efforts to ensure female employees who give birth return to work thereafter. Up to the day the child turns Extended An employee can take paid In 2015, we plan on opening a daycare at our head office in consideration parental 18 months of age or April 15 of leave if they are unable to find a the year after the child turns 1, of the growing issue of children wait-listed for daycare. This will allow leave whichever is longer daycare or for other reasons female employees to return to work sooner and enable them to achieve An employee take paid leave a work-life balance between their private life and professional life. 2 Until the child begins elementary school Child care for a doctor’ s appointment, Additionally, our employment ratio of persons with a disability in Japan (Up to 5 days per year) leave vaccinations or nursing care 10 days if the employee has more than two children needs of a child has surpassed 2% for the previous five years and in 2014 this ratio was 2.3%, which exceeds the statutory ratio of 2%. Reduced Until April 30 of the school year An employee can shorten their workday by up to two hours working in which the child becomes a first as long as they work six hours 1. ‌Please visit our corporate website for more information about our recognition from hours grader in elementary school continuously Saitama Prefecture as a company with diverse work styles. WEB http://www.tamron.co.jp/news/release_2014/0530.html An employee take leave to Nursing Less than a total of 93 days provide nursing care to an elderly 2. ‌This daycare will be made available not only for the children of employees, but also care leave family member in need children from the local community as well. Supporting Men’ s Involvement in Childcare (Japan) To support women’ s careers, men need to change their the first five days are designated as paid leave. This work styles and help out with chores and childcare on encouraged five employees at the head office and two at weekdays. We made changes to our parental leave the three Aomori plants to take parental leave. program in 2014 to make it easier for men to take shortParental leave is intended to encourage men to rethink term leave to assist with homemaking duties and childcare, how they work in the future to enrich both their which have tended to be the exclusive role of women. professional and personal lives through work-life balance. When taking parental leave that is less than one month, Interview with Procurement Section, Procurement Dept., a Male Employee who Took Parental Leave Kouji Moriyama Procurement Center, Production Management & Administration Unit I n t e r v i e w My wife had a baby in October 2014 and I took parental leave thereafter. Normally, I only did a small amount of cleaning and clothes washing when I had time off, but during my five-day parental leave I submitted documentation to the city office and also assisted my wife. This is our first child, so I felt the parental leave was instrumental in helping me to quickly learn about and familiarize myself with the care that a child needs. I didn’ t have a worry at work because I was able to split up my duties within the section to other people in advance to ensure everything was covered. I learned just how hard it is to raise a child during my parental leave, so I will be helping my wife out with childcare and chores around the house from now on. Tamron CSR Report 2015 6 ISO26000-6-2 Organizational Governance Relationship with Shareholders and Investors We are committed to fair and transparent management practices as well as enhancing corporate value, which is achieved by strengthening corporate governance to build up trust with shareholders and investors. Corporate Governance Basic Policy Corporate Governance Structure We at Tamron have constantly pursued fair and transparent management practices under our management General Meeting of Shareholders philosophy and in line with our brand message, Election/dismissal Election/dismissal Election/dismissal “Contributing to Society by Creating Eyes of Industry ” Board of Auditors (Corporate Auditors and Accounting Auditor as well as by respecting the rights and equality of our Independent Auditors) Coordination shareholders and working diligently to maintain a sound Audit Coordination Audit relationship with all stakeholders. Coordination Board of Directors (Directors and External Directors) Corporate Governance System Overview Tamron has employed the Executive Officer System CSR Implementation & Administration Board President & CEO Internal Audit & Supervision Board to speed up decision making and improve efficiencies, Management which has enabled it to establish a management structure CSR Committee Meeting (MAC) Internal Audit capable of making accurate and strategic decisions. Compliance Committee Executive Oﬃcers External Directors with expertise in their respective field Each department/subsidiaries carefully monitor and advise the company regarding its execution of operations from an independent and fair standpoint. At the same time, Independent Auditors with expert knowledge of finance, accounting and legal affairs Shareholder and Investor Engagement as well as Corporate Auditors well versed in Tamron’ s operations work together with the Accounting Auditor and In 2014 Tamron held two earnings presentations as well as Internal Audit & Supervision Board to carry out rigorous hosted meetings and plant tours for institutional investors audit programs. Tamron appoints 15 Directors, of which and securities analysts. 2 are External Directors, and four Corporate Auditors, of In addition, Tamron continues to participate in conferences which 3 are Independent Auditors. for domestic and international investors organized by securities companies. We also hosted five briefings for (1)Board of Directors individual investors. Meetings of the Board of Directors are held twice a month, We are committed to actively engaging our shareholders in principle, attended by all Directors and Corporate and investors through Auditors, for reviewing the execution of duties by the dynamic IR1 activities. Directors and deciding on important issues as set forth in the basic policy of the company and related laws and regulations. In 2014, Board of Directors met 24 times. 1. ‌IR stands for investor relations (2)Board of Auditors and means providing shareholders The Board of Auditors audits the processes of decision and investors with information making by the Board of Directors and the execution of such as financial standing that is necessary for investors to make duties of Directors by attending the Board of Director investing decisions. IR conference for institutional investors and securities analysts meetings and checking approval documents. The Board of Auditors meets monthly, in principle. In 2014, Board of Auditors met 15 times. (3)Executive Officer System Compliance Tamron has employed the Executive Officer System In accordance with our Compliance Rules, we carry out to ensure separation between management and the compliance promotion activities through the Compliance execution of operations. Executive Officers carry out Committee, comprising members of the executive management their duties and responsibilities following the basic policy team, and under this the Compliance Promotion Committee, determined by the Board of Directors. comprising members selected from each business division. (4) Internal Control through Committee Meetings In 2014, commentary was provided on Tamron’ s compliance We regularly hold monthly management (MAC) meetings action guidelines, while explanations were also given about attended by all Directors, full-time Corporate Auditors domestic laws concerning our business and foreign laws (bribery and Executive Officers to discuss management issues and and export controls)1 where extraterritorial application applies. respond to the fast-changing management environment. Focus was also placed on the compliance activities of overseas (5) Accounting Auditor subsidiaries and management of these companies received Tamron has concluded an auditing agreement with Wako support for compliance activities and were informed about Audit Corporation and receives audit from this firm in its various legal issues. capacity as accounting auditor. Going forward, we will carry out promotional activities across the company and work to foster a compliance mindset among each and every Tamron Group employee. 1. ‌There are instances where a foreign law may apply outside of the original jurisdiction when business involves another country. 7 Tamron CSR Report 2015 ISO26000 6.6 Fair Operating Practices Relationship with Business Partners Tamron respects human rights, ensures compliance with laws and regulations, and establishes good relationships with business partners to grow and contribute to society together. Summary of Activities in 2014 Tasks for 2015 ● Continued investigations for conflict minerals ● Further reinforce CSR procurement with business partners ● Continued rigorous management of chemical substances Business Partner Accreditation Program CSR Efforts in the Supply Chain In order to contribute to society in accordance with its CSR Working Together with Business Partners to policy, Tamron works together with its business partners to Manage Chemical Substances comply with laws and regulations, and continually aspires to Tamron maintains a policy to avoid the use of harmful serve as a partner that delivers high quality products and services. chemical substances in the materials used to make its For product and environmental quality1, we conduct surveys products. We use a system to check substances regulated by to check the status of our suppliers through on-site and paperthe EU’s RoHS Initiative based on environment data obtained based audits in accordance with our assessment standards. from our suppliers2. We continued to internally implement In 2008 we commenced CSR procurement and requested analytical work with advanced equipment including suppliers comply with the Tamron Supplier Code of Conduct Inductivity Coupled Plasma Atomic Emission Spectrometry to ensure we do business only with companies that act in (ICP-AES) and Gas Chromatography Mass Spectrometry (GCaccordance with these standards. Going forward, we will MS) to ensure only the safest most secure products are continue to re-examine ways of confirming suppliers’compliance delivered to customers. We also manage substances with our with the code of conduct. business suppliers in accordance with REACH, with relevant 1.“Environmental ‌ quality” means regulating the use of harmful chemical substances in products our suppliers deliver to us to ensure they fall below information in turn passed on to customers and consumers. the threshold level stated in our standards. 2. ‌Such data and documents as the certificate of non-use of harmful chemical substances, ICP analysis data and MSDS Procedures for Selecting Suppliers Initiatives to Improve Quality Meet Delivery Deadlines Request the supplier to make efforts in CSR, covering aspects including labor, health and safety, environmental protection, administration The cooperation of our business partners who deliver components systems and ethical management, in addition to promoting environmental and quality assurance to us is absolutely essential to fulfilling our customer’ s quality, cost, delivery, environmental and societal (CSR) needs. In particular, Check whether the supplier complies with the delivery deadlines can be quite short, so we take a rigorous Tamron Supplier Code of Conduct. approach to managing processes. One of the factors behind delivery delays is more rigorous quality standards placed on Periodical evaluation Carry out quality audits, environmental quality No, components supplied by business partners because of the high requires performance demands of the end product. audits, process audits and paper-based audits improvement Therefore, Tamron does not leave everything up to the business Yes, conforms to standards partner, but instead shares issues through close communication Accreditation as business partner to ensure quality requirements are met. Occasionally we dispatch engineers to our business partner’ s place of business to think up CSR management implemented by business partners solutions and improvements together. These efforts helped us to following the Tamron Supplier Codes of Conduct receive deliveries of components from business partners sooner on more occasions in 2014, which helped us improve quality and delivery. History of Our Activities Response to Conflict Minerals 2008 ‌Requested all business partners to comply with A portion of the minerals (tantalite, tin, gold and tungsten) the Tamron Supplier Code of Conduct produced in the Democratic People’ s Republic of the Congo and 2009 ‌Requested respective business partners to neighboring countries of Africa are being used to fund armed perform self-evaluations(questionnaire) militants that violate human rights and cause environmental 2010 ‌I n t r o d u c e d c a s e e x a m p l e s o n p a r t i c u l a r l y destruction. important aspects such as“occupational health These minerals are now collectively referred to as conflict and safety”and“human rights protection” minerals and regulated. Tamron has declared a policy3 not to use 2011 ‌Held CSR Procurement Workshops for all business illegal conflict minerals related to the violation of human rights or partners in Japan and abroad environmental destruction in order to fulfill its corporate social 2012 ‌Continued to work on improving methods for responsibilities within its procurement activities. checking business partner compliance with the In 2014, we carried out tracking investigations, including on parts Tamron Supplier Code of Conduct Held internal training sessions and in-house hearings for which investigations were not performed in 2013. These 2013 ‌Prepared questionnaire (draft) investigations did not find any connection to conflict minerals that 2014 ‌Revised questionnaire (draft) and examined ways are being used to fund armed militants. of using the questionnaire 3. Please visit our corporate website to view our policy on conflict minerals. WEB http://www.tamron.co.jp/en/envi/top/index.html Tamron CSR Report 2015 8 Relationship with Customers Tamron is committed to contributing to society by supplying customers with safe, unique and quality products and services, putting the highest priority on satisfying customers, dealers and OEM customers. Summary of Activities in 2014 Tasks for 2015 Manufactured products in various fields, including unique ● ‌ Create unique products that customers appreciate ● ‌ photographic lenses and automotive camera lenses Pursue environmentally-conscious products, ● ‌ Developed technologies for producing higher performance lenses ● ‌ such as those that use recycled materials Tamron Products Familiar to All We leverage our optical technologies to Photographic create many eyes of industry. and imaging culture Contributing to the propagation and development of photographic culture and imaging technologies ・Lenses for DSLR cameras Daily life ・Lens units for video cameras ・Lens units for compact digital cameras Manufacturing Contributing to our economy, society Supporting factory automation Contributing to safety and environment with eyes for industry and quality enhancement and security in everyday life ・Lens units for surveillance cameras (including infrared) ・Industrial lenses ・Surveillance cameras ・Lenses for automotive applications Commendations and Recognition Tamron focuses on developing lenses for DSLR cameras that design with a length of 10cm and weight of 540g makes feature high power zoom capabilities so that both wide angle photographing easier and more enjoyable. and telephoto shots can be captured with a single unit that never Additionally, the SP 150-600mm F/5-6.3 Di VC USD (Model: needs to be changed. Two lens models released in 2013 and A011) is a 150mm to 600mm super telescopic lens for enjoying 2014 received the awards noted in the table below. The 16capturing scenes of birds, wildlife, sports and aircraft. It is 300mm F/3.5-6.3 Di II VC PZD MACRO (Model: B016) features equipped with a vibration compensation (VC) mechanism, the world’s first 18.8-times zoom 1 providing wide angle and ultrasonic silent drive (USD)3 and has an eBAND coating4 that telephoto capabilities in a single lens. This particular lens also greatly prevents light reflections, making it possible to capture has a vibration compensation (VC) mechanism2 and its compact high resolution images with less flares or ghosting. Lens Awards Category Model Award Awarding Organization EISA Award B016 European Imaging and Sound Association (Europe) European DSLR Zoom Lens 2014-2015 5 Imaging (Photographic lens) EISA Award A011 European Imaging and Sound Association (Europe) European DSLR Telephoto Zoom Lens 2014-2015 5 1. World’ ‌ s first among exchangeable lenses for DSLR cameras per a Tamron study in January 2015. 2. ‌VC stands for Vibration Compensation, which helps prevent blurry images. Tamron lenses for Sony cameras do not offer Tamron’ s VC mechanism because Sony includes an imagine stabilizing mechanism in the body of its DSLR cameras. 3. ‌USD stands for Ultrasonic Silent Drive, which is essentially an ultrasonic motor that converts ultrasonic vibrations into torque, which makes it possible focus faster with greater precision 4. ‌The acronym eBAND coating standard for Extended Bandwidth & Angular-Dependency Coating, which is a proprietarily developed membrane that makes images clearer and more complete. It uses a nanotechnology-based coating technique to form a multicoated surface with a super-low refractive index membrane to significantly reduce unwanted reflections compared to multicoated surfaces made from resins. 5. ‌Tamron lenses have received an EISA award for nine consecutive years since 2006. EISA is an acronym for European Imaging and Sound Association. This organization sponsors the EISA Awards along with editors and senior engineers from related media including photography, video, sound, and mobile electronics. Every year the awards recognize leading products in the fields of photography and audio visual. 9 Tamron CSR Report 2015 ISO26000 6.5 The Environment / 6.7 Consumer Issues Lenses Underpinning Safety and Security Tamron manufactures and markets lens units (including infrared Automotive lenses for rear-view cameras, birds-eye cameras models) for indoor and outdoor surveillance cameras, making and etc. are mainly used for confirming by sight. We are also safety and security an important pillar of its businesses. In recent developing sensing type lenses for use in emergency brake assist years we have also focused on the development of lenses for systems and lane keeping assist systems. automobiles. Automotive lenses are largely separated into two categories. First International demand for automotive cameras is expected to is lenses used in traffic monitoring systems installed at points continue growing in the future given the KT Act1 in the United above roads. The other is automotive camera lenses installed on States and Europe’ s Euro NCAP2. Tamron will continue to support vehicles. the safety of vehicles by creating high quality, high performance As for traffic monitoring lenses, Tamron developed the model lenses tailored to each individual application. DE005 (1/8 15-50mm F/1.4) zoom lens with auto focus and remote operation capabilities, making it possible to easily 1. ‌Kids and Transportation Act. This law requires that all new cars come equipped with a rear-view monitor by the year 2014. monitor various roads at different distances. The image 2. ‌European New Car Assessment Programme. This program refers to automobile processing technology is designed so that users can extract the safety testing performed in Europe. information they need based on the application. Camera lenses for detecting pedestrians at night Lenses for sensor cameras (including infrared camera lenses) (lane keeping assist systems, etc.) Headlight lenses Lenses for surrounding vicinity surveillance monitors (light dispersal) (for rear, side and bird s eye views) Developing Highly Unique Photographic Lenses The SP 150-600mm F/5-6.3 Di VC USD (Model: A011) released in 2014 features zoom capability with a focal length up to 600mm, making it possible to capture, for example, a bird flying in the sky as well as its distinctive facial features all from the same location. It is equipped with a vibration compensation (VC) mechanism for stabilizing shots and an ultrasonic silent drive (USD) that delivers sporty focus and silent operation unlike similar lens models before it. The A011 is able to quickly and seamlessly take pictures of subjects exactly as you see them in real life. Model A011 The Model A011 lens features an easy-to-use focal length Interview with Lens Developers range and a compact size and inexpensive price tag I n t e r v i e w given its performance. A telescopic lens get bigger as the magnification increases, but we were able to prevent a Yuzo Minowa Masahide Saitoh Shinichi Sujino giant-sized lens by reducing the number of components Design Technology Section 1 Senior Engineer Electronics Design Section 1 Design & Engineering Production Engineering Electronics Design & used inside it. This is also an ecological product that uses Dept. Dept. Engineering Dept. Image Products Business Unit Image Products Business Unit Image Business Division less power thanks to its USD and VC. As for usability, we integrated a number of innovations to ensure the zoom function doesn’ t feel too heavy under any conditions or that the focus doesn’ t feel too light, since the lens weight typically gets heavier as the size of the telescopic lens increases. We will continue working as a team to develop and create the products of tomorrow that satisfy our customers. Tamron CSR Report 2015 10 Quality Management System Expanding After-sales Services Globally and Tamron manufactures products using an integrated quality Improving Customer Satisfaction management system 1. Before being delivered to customers, Tamron is actively working to standardize worldwide repair products go through various processes, from product planning service quality with the goal of building a system that achieves based on customer needs to design, metal mold fabrication for a consistent three-day turnaround time for product repairs plastic components and prototype manufacturing to name just anywhere in the world. a few. A design review is carried out at every stage in order to The goal of a worldwide high quality after-sales service will be check if the products have been completed exactly as specified made possible through the dispatch of repair technicians from during each respective process. In addition, temperature, the head office and overseas subsidiaries to the repair outlets of endurance and other tests, as well as sequential sampling, are distributors in each country and holding training on repair work performed before the final products are delivered to customers. periodically at our sites in Japan. We also offer free cleaning of Tamron brand lenses at major 1. Please ‌ refer to page 13 of this report for further details about Tamron’s photography trade shows held around the world. This has helped integrated quality management system. to raise our visibility and also bring a smile to customers able to take advantage of this free service. In November 2013 we opened the Tamron Lens Customer Evaluations by Distributors and OEM Customers Service Center to receive feedback and questions from customers Every year we ask our OEM customers and Tamron brand at the time of purchase and after their purchase, and the number distributors to complete a customer satisfaction survey. In 2014, of customer consultations continues to rise. We also started positive improvements were observed year on year in seven Tamron Lens Life Membership Club for after purchases. This categories, with the exception of delivery. The reason for the service offers repair discounts and streams an email magazine to drop in our score for delivery was because we were unable to members. These efforts form part of our broader commitment to secure a sufficient supply of our strongly selling mainstay Tamron further improve customer satisfaction. brand lens models, resulting in delivery delays. As a result, we worked on improving communication with customers by regularly Please visit our corporate website for further details about the Tamron Lens Life Membership Club. WEB https://cstamron.secure.force.com/ur/RegistA01 notifying them of detailed delivery plans and also taking steps to adjust production to secure adequate numbers for shipment. Going forward, we make further efforts to quickly secure a stable number of products to ensure supplies satisfy customer demand. Results of Customer Satisfaction Survey The survey was conducted at 17 companies. Delivery 2013 6.0 2014 Handling of 5.0 repairs Cost 4.0 3.0 2.0 Free maintenance service at CP+ 1.0 Response to complaints 0.0 Communications Incorporating Customer Feedback Reports/Instructions Product inquiry Reports/Instructions Feedback for product Management team Quality Development planning Reporting capability Customer Suggestions and design Service Oﬃce departments Customers Technical capability ●Identifying ●Necessary 1. Very dissatisfied 2. Dissatisfied 3. Slightly dissatisfied Questionnaire quality steps 4. Slighly satisfied 5. Satisfied 6. Very satisfied problems and proposing Development Technical Response to Handling Delivery Cost Communications capability capability Quality complaints of repairs Overall solutions ●Reflection FY2013 5.2 4.3 5.0 4.8 5.2 4.9 5.0 5.0 4.9 Mail magazine in products ●Customer and services FY2014 5.1 4.6 5.5 5.3 5.5 5.1 5.1 5.2 5.2 service improvements Gap −0.1 +0.3 +0.5 +0.5 +0.3 +0.2 +0.1 +0.2 +0.3 Provide better products and services to customers 11 Tamron CSR Report 2015 ISO26000 6.5 The Environment / 6.7 Consumer Issues Relationship with Customers Environmentally-friendly Designs Enhancing Our Technological Development Capabilities We perform product assessments starting from the design stage Tamron’ s three plants in Aomori Prefecture (Hirosaki, Namioka to ensure we deliver products that are environmentallyfriendly. and Owani) develop and manufacture exchangeable lenses There are nine factors to consider in assessing designs, with light for DSLR cameras as well as other photographic lenses, video weight and compact designs are particularly important goals. cameras, surveillance cameras and automotive camera lenses. In 2014, we reduced the overall weight of all models produced In recent years, lenses require higher precision and accuracy than by 1% and overall compactness by 1% 1. To reduce impacts before because of the high resolution designs of today’ s CCD and to human health and the environment, we constantly manage CMOS3 sensors. To accommodate these high resolution cameras, harmful chemical substances based on our Environment-related Tamron’ s Production Technology Division and Namioka Plant Substance Management Regulations, which our own internal is working on the development and commercial production of regulations based on RoHS and the REACH Initiative. highly surface accurate lenses that greatly improve the precision Our products with environmentally-friendly designs wear the of conventional lens because of their improved surface accuracy. Tamron Eco Label badge. In December 2014, we added 11 The stable fabrication of highly surface accurate lenses was found photographic lens models as well as one series and two models to be quite difficult using conventional lens polishers. Therefore, of lens units for surveillance cameras. we introduced a polisher equipped with an NC 4 in order to fabricate the surface of lenses with even greater precision. This In order to reduce waste from manufacturing processes, we make polisher has enabled the consistent fabrication of highly surface rear caps for our DSLR camera lenses from 100% recycled plastic accurate lenses. To fabricate these lenses with the NC equipped runner materials2. We started using these plastic runner materials polisher we had to make a number of process changes and in 2010 and since then we have used some 93 tons of recycled improvements, including changing the polishing sheets used for materials up to 2014(4.16 million rear caps). In 2014, we created aspherical lenses, modifying the design and precision of polishing recycled materials with the necessary performance and quality tools, and improving measurement accuracy during fabrication. and molded components for testing purposes, with the hopes of Additionally, for aspherical lenses, we had to improve the expanding this initiative to other parts as well. In 2015, we will precision of molds and changed the molding process to achieve continue to research the commercial viability of these efforts. our target. Going forward, we will continue to improve our technological development capabilities to accommodate greater demands for high precision products, which will lead to the creation of even Lens Assessment Item Table higher quality products that satisfy customer needs. Evaluation Items 1. Extended usage of lens 3. ‌An imaging element that together with CCD/CMOS transforms light entering 2. Light weight design the lens into electronic signals. 3. Reduced volume 4. ‌Numerical control (NC) is the automation of machine tools using programmed commands, which makes super fine adjustments in fabrication possible. 4. Energy efficiency during usage 5. Use of recycled materials 6. Ease of disassembly 7. Reduced use of packaging materials 8. Use of recycled materials for packaging materials 9. Proper management of controlled environmental substances 1. Calculated using production volume from 2014 comparing conventional models. 2. Waste material that occurs when pouring plastic resin during the production process. NC equipped polisher Tamron Eco Label： The label was designed to resemble an eye gently looking at our economy, society and environment. The eyebrow symbolizes a flowing stream of air and water, the pupil represents the green in the earth, and the tree in the pupil stands for our work for the three Rs of“reduce,”“reuse”and“recycle”. Please visit our corporate website for further details about the Tamron Eco Label. WEB http://www.tamron.co.jp/envi/top/index.html Tamron CSR Report 2015 12 Management Systems Tamron strive to enhance our product and service quality while reducing environmental impacts through our integrated management system. Additionally, we ensure the continuity of our business by avoiding various management risks using our risk management system. Integrated Management System Audit System and Identifying Problems Tamron has obtained blanket ISO9001 (quality) and ISO Tamron regularly performs internal quality and environmental 14001 (environment) certification applicable to the entire audits covering the head office and three Aomori plants. Tamron Group’ s integrated management system, including In addition to the internal audit, the Head Office and three Tamron Optical (Foshan) in China as well as Hirosaki Plant, Aomori plants audit each other to check their systems and Namioka Plant and Owani Plant and other sites in Japan.In manufacturing processes. We periodically arrange to receive 2014 Tamron Optical Vietnam also obtained both ISO9001 audits from external audit organizations. As a result of external and ISO14001 certification on a standalone basis. audits implemented in 2014, the effectiveness of the policy and management processes adopted at our domestic sites and Tamron Optical (Foshan) Co., Ltd. was assessed at level-4 on a Integrated Management Policy scale of one to five. Issues pointed out through this triple audit system are promptly remedied, and these improvements are in As a member of the international optical industry, we will continue turn rolled out at our other locations within the Tamron Group to to manufacture products that deliver customer satisfaction and continually improve activities. help achieve our goal of Contributing to Society by Creating Eyes for Industry, while being considerate of environmental conservation. 1. ‌We will supply our customers with high quality and reliable products by using our originality, ingenuity and technology, Risk Management System pursuing sustainable growth with profits arising out of customer Tamron’ s risk management system covers 10 specific themes in delight and satisfaction. accordance with its Risk Management Policy. 2. ‌In running our business, we will comply with all related laws, In 2014, Tamron made changes to the way it identifies risks in standards and treaties at home and abroad, respecting the advance of upcoming revisions to ISO standards. We is now requests and demands made by our customers and the local moving forward with integrating its management systems based community. on a deeper understanding of risk achieved prior to the slated 3. ‌We will work on preventing environmental contamination revisions to be made to ISO9001 and ISO14001 in 2015. We through reducing CO₂, waste emissions and harmful chemicals, have also completed work on our business continuity plan (BCP) while seeking alternatives and keeping biodiversity intact. and put proper systems in place for our head office and the three 4. ‌We will continue to work on improving the effectiveness of our integrated management system. plants in Aomori Prefecture. In 2014, we updated provisions on 5. ‌To achieve this management policy, we will establish specific related departments and procedural documents in accordance objectives and targets, periodically evaluating our progress. with the new plan. Moving forward, we will now work to 6. ‌To enhance recognition of our integrated management, we reinforce our crisis management system to prepare for major will maintain good communications while providing sufficient disasters that could occur in the future. education and training to all people working for Tamron. 7. ‌We will closely cooperate with society in all countries and regions where we operate and disclose information as necessary on our quality assurance and environment conservation efforts. Tamron’ s Risk Management Policy December 7, 2009 In recognizing all possible risks that may affect our business, Morio Ono Tamron is committed to all possible prevention measures in order President & CEO to minimize damage to the economy, society and environment. In emergencies, we work to minimize damage and promptly restore operations by acting responsibly, providing continuous services to our customers, ensuring continuous growth. We aim for safety and peace of mind for all stakeholders including our employees, Integrated Management System Implementation System shareholders, customers and business partners. We will continue to provide opportunities for learning about risk management to all Representative (President) employees so that they may work on risk management from a CSR Quality/Environment perspective built on properly recognizing the importance of the Committee Consolidated Administration policy and their mission. Manager September 30, 2009 Secretarial Office (CSR Implementation & Administration Board) Morio Ono President & CEO Aomori Consolidated Omiya Consolidated Administration Manager Tamron Optical (Foshan) Administration Manager Hirosaki, Namioka, and Owani Manager Consolidated Administration Responding to Emergencies Secretarial Oﬃce Secretarial Oﬃce Secretarial Oﬃce (CSR Implementation & Administration Board) (Operation Promotion Section） (ISO Promotion Oﬃce) As part of their risk management initiatives, Tamron’ s head office and three plants in Aomori Prefecture as well as Tamron Optical Foshan Specialty committees (Waste Reduction, Eco-friendly Design, CSR Procurement) hold firefighting drills led by employees, while departments that handle chemicals carry out emergency response drills for chemical Head Oﬃce Hirosaki Namioka Owani Tamron Optical spills. Additionally, Tamron’ s head office stepped up its initial Plant Plant Plant (Foshan) Co., Ltd. response capabilities, by practicing how to start back-up power *‌Integrated Internal Auditors work at our all sites, while Integrated Management generators in case of a blackout in accordance with the BCP and by Promotion Committee members are fulfilling their missions at all domestic sites. making changes to its emergency contact system. 13 Tamron CSR Report 2015 ISO26000-6.2 Organizational Governance / 6.5 The Environment / 6.7 Consumer Issues Management Creating Safe and Comfortable Workplace Environments Compliance with Laws and Regulations Tamron works hard to ensure safety, to enhance the mental There was once incident at Tamron Optical Foshan that involved a violation and physical health of employees and to create comfortable of environmental laws and regulations. Tamron Optical Foshan actively workplace environments. Tamron drew up its Occupational Health implementing environmental conservation activities that include participation and Safety Regulations, organized the Occupational Health and in the clean production activities organized by the City of Foshan, which Safety Committee and started patrols with health and safety includes preventing environmental pollutions, conserving energy and reducing administrators to help prevent labor accidents. waste. As part of these city-sponsored activities, the plant was inspected In 2014, there were two occupational accidents and four by the city, which found that the PH and COD levels of water at the plant commute-related accidents in Japan, and four occupational exceeded the legal limit in November 2013. As a result, the city requested that accidents at Tamron Optical Foshan. Occupational accidents the plant make adequate improvements. Later the cause was determined to involved burns caused by a fire resulting from damage to a piece be from a leak of pollution from piping in place to prevent leaks in the waste of equipment during the lens cleaning process at Tamron Optical water treatment tank located onsite. Tamron Optical Foshan immediately Foshan, and there was also a minor injury from glass fragments removed the external wastewater pipes at its own discretion and updated its during the core drilling process. We are working hard to prevent facilities to improve its wastewater treatment capacity. As a result, a water similar accidents from happening again by analyzing the causes quality test performed by an external environmental conservation evaluation and changing equipment and work procedures. These accidents institution found that levels were under the legal limit1. did not have an effect on the external environment. Work environment readings taken regularly inside the Namioka Plant in Commute-related accidents involve mainly automobile or accordance with the Industrial Safety and Health Act found that measured bicycle traffic accidents. We strive to prevent similar accidents values temporarily exceeded statutory requirements at a certain workplace. from happening again by analyzing the causes, providing safety This particular workplace used organic solvents during lens processing, so all education and raising awareness about safety. Tamron also workers were immediately required to wear protective masks and to carefully organizes an annual training session on CPR and other emergency follow the existing rule to dispose of all paper exposed to organic solvents responses to prepare employees for emergencies and to be disposed of in a receptacle with a lid. In addition, the plant added new minimize injuries and damages. exhaust fans, which has improved the work environment. For mental health issues, we hold in-house training seminars. Additionally, transformers containing low concentrations of PCBs stored at the In 2014, a total of 105 employees participated in the seminars. head office were disposed of responsibly. Tamron carefully stores and fully We will continue to support employees’mental health and help reports PCB wastes2 to government agencies in accordance with the Act on prevent mental illnesses by offering health consultations with Special Measures concerning Promotion of Proper Treatment of PCB Wastes. industrial physicians and follow-up interviews with personnel The following table contains information on Tamron’s compliance with department staff. important laws and regulations, including those mentioned above. In 2014, Tamron complied with the expanded scope of REACH substances and also verified that its use of substances of very high concern (SVHC) were within reporting guidelines. Environmental Accounting (Japan) 1. ‌ The incident occurred in 2013 but was reported in this report because the solution was instituted in 2014. 2. ‌PCB is an abbreviation for poly chlorinated biphenyl. PCB was generally used in the In 2014, total environmental accounting in Japan amounted to insulation oil of electronic equipment and thermal catalysts used in heat exchangers. investments of 51 million yen and costs of 248 million yen (please visit Chronic exposure to PCB can lead to a build-up of the substance in the body, which has led to reported health problems. our corporate website for the 2014 environmental accounting table). Of this, trends concerning investments and costs incurred for the reduction of CO2, one of our most important tasks, are shown in the Compliance at Respective Sites graph below. ◎ : Compliance ○ : Exceeded statutory requirement temporarily △ : Request for improvement made by local government In 2014, a total of 73.26 million yen was spent on investments and × : Administrative action as a result of violation of law/regulation costs associated with reducing CO2 emissions. Normally, we record Head office Aomori plants Foshan5 Vietnam5 investments and costs of more than 30 million yen, but in 2013 we made 323 million yen in investments for reconstructing the head Energy saving (Energy Saving Act) ◎ ◎ ― ― office building and installing high efficiency air conditioners, which CO₂ reduction (Act on Promotion of ◎ ◎ ― ― helped us to improve our CO2 emissions per basic unit of sales. Global Warming Countermeasures) Chemical substance management 3 ◎ ◎ ◎ ◎ t-CO2/non-consolidated sales(Millions of yen) (Thousands of yen) Air ◎ ◎ ◎ ◎ 350,000 322,997 0.25 300,000 Global environment Water quality ◎4 ◎ △ ◎ conservation costs 0.20 250,000 0.20 0.19 0.20 Costs Soil ◎ ◎ ◎ ◎ 0.17 0.15 200,000 0.16 Global environment Noise ◎ ◎ ◎ ◎ conservation costs 150,000 0.10 Investments Vibration ◎ ◎ ◎ ◎ 100,000 64,268 73,256 47,366 0.05 CO2 50,000 36,459 Basic unit Odor ◎ ◎ ◎ ◎ of sales 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 FY 0.00 (Japan) Occupational health & safety ◎ ○ ◎ ◎ 3. ‌Laws related to managing and investigating chemical substances apply to domestic *Please see past CSR reports for costs prior to 2014. sites; international directives including RoHS and REACH apply to the entire group. *The greenhouse gas coefficient from the Greenhouse Effect Gas Measuring & Reporting 4. ‌Values for groundwater temporarily exceeded certain standards, but our treatment Manual Version 3.5 is used for managing medium-term targets with a benchmark year measures prevented contamination from spreading outside our facilities. of 2012. For consistency purposes, this same coefficient has been used to re-calculate 5. ‌Compliance is evaluated with regards to the laws of China and Vietnam as well as basic unit of CO2 emissions from 2010 to 2014. international laws concerning the handling of chemical substances, such as the RoHS WEB http://www.tamron.co.jp/envi/top/index.html Directive and REACH regulations. Tamron CSR Report 2015 14 ISO26000 6.5 The Environment Relationship with the Environment Tamron is considerate of the environment in all aspects of its business operations and constantly works to be in harmony with the environment. Summary of Activities in 2014 Tasks for 2015 Established environmental management system at Tamron Optical Vietnam ● ‌ Examine ways to reduce CO2 emissions further ● ‌ Reduced CO2 emissions thanks to improvements in logistics ● ‌ Environmental Impacts In Japan, Tamron carries out design work, creates prototypes and use water for polishing and cleaning lens elements. fabricates metal molds at its head office plant located in Saitama The Owani Plant and Tamron Optical (Foshan) manufacture Prefecture, while the Namioka Plant manufactures lenses, the plastics used to make peripheral components for lenses, and Owani Plant molds plastic components, and the Hirosaki Plant these processes produce runner materials1 and other waste. assembles products. Tamron manufactures parts and assembles Air cargo, marine shipping, and trucks are used to transport products at Tamron Optical (Foshan) in China and at Tamron components and products between plants, which results in CO2 Optical (Vietnam). emissions from the burning of fuel. These sites use electricity, heavy oil, kerosene and other energy 1. ‌Waste material that occurs when pouring plastic resin during the production process. sources for developing, designing and manufacturing, which produce CO₂. Our plants in Namioka, Foshan and Vietnam also Inputs Sites covered: Energy Water Transportation energy2 Head oﬃce (including Tokyo Sales Oﬃce and Osaka Sales Oﬃce), the Electric power 73,917,000kWh Clean water 633,000㎥ Diesel 174kℓ three plants in Aomori Prefecture, Heavy oil 207kℓ Groundwater 136,000㎥ Gasoline 60kℓ Tamron Optical Foshan) and Tamron Kerosene 15kℓ Total 769,000㎥ Optical Vietnam. Total 234kℓ Diesel 20kℓ 2. Data for transportation covers Gasoline 1kℓ Raw/auxiliary materials energy used to transport parts LPG 5,000㎥ and ﬁnished products by ground Metal (brass and aluminum) Natural gas 122,000㎥ and commercial vehicles Glass connecting Tamron s ﬁve satellite Total 685,000GJ Plastic oﬃces in Japan. Tamron Optical Chemicals (drugs, solvents, and cleaners） Foshan data covers company Paper Gas (nitrogen, oxygen, and argon) owned vehicles only. Tamron Optical Vietnam is excluded from Copy paper 22t Electrical components the scope because it began Cardboard operations in the summer of 2013. Site coverage: 96% Manufacturing of raw materials/ Development, design and Transportation between factories and distributors Use by customers components at suppliers production at Tamron (logistics/commercial vehicles) Outputs Reference guideline: CO2 Recycling CO2 emissions during transport2 Greenhouse Eﬀect Gas Measuring & Reporting Manual Ver. 3.5 CO2 40,335t-CO2 Plastic 251t Diesel 456t-CO2 Electric power 560t-CO2 Cardboard 266t Gasoline 139t-CO2 3. Industrial waste includes 2 tons Heavy oil 38t-CO2 General waste (thermal recycling) 185t of Pollutant Released & Transfer Kerosene Total 595t-CO2 53t-CO2 Waste liquid 119t Registered (PRTR) substances. Diesel One ton of a PRTR substance 3t-CO2 Waste oil 90t Gasoline (xylene) was also released into LPG 33t-CO2 Metal 150t the atmosphere. Natural gas 272t-CO2 Paper 36t Polishing sludge 17t Total 41,294t-CO2 Other 13t Waste contracted for intermediate processing Total 1,127t Industrial waste3 834t General waste 735t Products Total (Japan) 1,569t Total for products 1,774t 15 Tamron CSR Report 2015 ISO26000-6.5 The Environment Environmental Objectives and Targets Achieved In 2014, we worked toward achieving the environmental objectives and targets for the second year of our phase-five environmental protection program, and achieved our CO2 reduction targets. Environmental Objectives and Targets Achieved in 2014 The Tamron Group has established a target to reduce its CO2 because part of the operations conventionally performed at the emissions compared to its benchmark year of 2012 by 1% per Owani Plant was moved to the Mold Techno Center during 2014, year on average in terms of basic unit per sales1 and also a midcausing an increase in waste volume. Second was the material term environmental target to reduce emissions 7.7% by 2020. recycling ratio3 of waste plastics at the Namioka Plant. This is In 2014, we achieved a 7.0% reduction in CO 2 emissions because the volume of the type of waste plastics that can be versus 2012 compared to the target of 2% (basic unit per used in material recycling decreased. (Please see page 18 of this sales). Although 2014 sales and CO2 emissions both increased report for our waste reduction efforts.) compared to 2013, improvements were made in the basic unit In 2015, Tamron’ s Waste Reduction Sub-committee will handle versus 2012 (please see page 17 of this report for more data on matters related to the reduction of industrial waste, while the our CO2 emissions). Integrated Design, Engineering and Production Sub-committee As for environmental impacts other than CO2 emissions, each site will address the promotion of environmentally-friendly products. has set individual targets because of each site manufacturers a These sub-committees manage horizontal targets and carry out different category of products. their activities throughout the manufacturing process. In 2014 we were unable to achieve two targets. First was a The organizational chart for each sub-committee is provided in reduction in the amount of waste plastics generated by the Integrated Management System Implementation System diagram head office’s Mold Techno Center. This target was not achieved on page 13 of this report. 2013 to 2020 Mid-term Environmental Targets Progress in 2013 and 2014 and Targets for 2015 Reduction 2013 2014 2015 rate of CO2 7.7% CO2 reduction target emissions reduction 1% reduction About a 2% reduction About a 3% reduction per basic Average annual (versus 2012 basic unit of sales; cumulative annual average) unit of reduction of 1% sales Results 3.6% reduction 7.0% reduction − 2012 2020 (benchmark year) (mid-term target year) Status ○ ○ − Environmental Targets Achieved in 2014 Environmental targets 2014 targets 2013 results Status Head Office(Mold & Tooling Waste plastics volume 5% reduction vs. 2013 42% increase × Technology Center) (basic unit of sales) Material recycling rate for waste plastics ○  Hirosaki Plant : 45% Hirosaki Plant : 57% Reduce industrial waste 3 Aomori plants  Namioka Plant : 34% Namioka Plant : 22% ×  Owani Plant : 6% Owani Plant : 9% ○ Industrial Waste Tamron Optical (Foshan) 3.3% reduction ○ Reduce 2% compared to 2013 (basic unit of sales) ・Promoted environmentally-friendly designs Promote environmentally・Promote environmentally-friendly designs Lightweight : 1% reduction Compact : 1% reduction All sites ○ friendly products4 ・Incidents of environmental non-conformity: 0 (compared to conventional models; calculated based on 2014 production volume) ・Incidents of environmental non-conformity: 0 Environmental Targets for 2015 Environmental targets 2015 targets Head Office(Mold & Tooling Waste plastics volume 5% reduction vs. 2014(basic unit of sales) Technology Center) Material recycling rate for waste plastics 35％ Reduce industrial Material recycling rate for waste plastics Hirosaki Plant : 50% waste 3 Aomori plants  Namioka Plant : 25%  Owani Plant : 6% Tamron Optical (Foshan) Industrial Waste Reduce 2% compared to 2014 (basic unit of sales) Promote environmentally・Promote environmentally-friendly designs All sites friendly products4 ・Incidents of environmental non-conformity: 0 Total CO₂ emissions（ｔ－ CO₂） 1. Basic unit per sales: Consolidated sales (million yen) 2. The ‌ greenhouse gas coefficient from the Greenhouse Effect Gas Measuring & Reporting Manual Version 3.5 is used for managing medium-term targets with a benchmark year of 2012. For consistency purposes, this same coefficient has been used to re-calculate basic unit of CO2 emissions from 2013. (Prior the change the reduction was 9.6%, but after the change the reduction was 3.6%.) 3. ‌Material recycling refers to the collection and utilization of used products and waste generated from production processes as raw materials to make new products. Tamron recycles runner materials as waste plastics and prioritizes material recycling over thermal recycling so that recycled materials can be reused offsite. The material recycling ratio of waste plastics indicates the percentage for which material recycling was carried out compared to the total amount of waste plastics. 4. ‌Promoting lightweight, compact designs and the use of recycled materials in line with our product assessment regulations Tamron CSR Report 2015 16 ISO26000-6.5 The Environment Reducing CO2 Emissions and Electricity Consumption Tamron strives to reduce CO2 emissions and electricity consumption at plants using its integrated management system. Sources of CO2 emissions Reducing CO2 Emissions through Improvements in Logistics Looking at sources of CO 2 emissions, excluding distribution Tamron products manufactured at Tamron Optical Foshan in China and logistics, from the head office, the three Aomori plants and are delivered to points around the world. Up until 2008 inventory was Tamron Optical Foshan in China, electricity accounts for 98%, centrally managed in Japan, meaning products were shipped by air followed by heavy oil at 1%. Given this mix, our energy saving internationally via Narita Airport to destinations worldwide, but starting activities focus on reducing electricity consumption. in 2009 we made changes to our logistics network in which our logistics hub was relocated to Hong Kong to increase the number of shipments Electricity Heavy oil Natural gas and others by air sent from there to our sales subsidiaries, distributors and retailers (excluding certain regions). These improvements in our logistics scheme helped reduce CO2 emissions by 2,580t-CO2 between 2009 and 20142. Natural gas In 2014 we made two additional improvements. First, we improved the Heavy oil and others logistics route for our products shipped from Tamron Optical Vietnam. As 1.4% 0.9% with Tamron Optical Foshan, these products are now routed through our hub in Hong Kong to points in Europe and North America. This change helped reduce CO2 emissions by 113t-CO2 in 20143. Second, we improved the routing used for shipping parts from our three Electricity plants in Aomori Prefecture to Tamron Optical Foshan. Until now, parts 97.7% were shipped by air from Narita to Hong Kong and then placed on trucks for the final leg to Tamron Optical Foshan. We decided to reroute products through Guangzhou Airport, which is closer to Tamron Optical Foshan, with the final leg still left to local ground transport. In 2015, we will examine ways to make further improvements in shipment methods for shipping products from Tamron Optical Vietnam to Trends in CO2 Emissions neighboring countries. Over the past five years CO2 emissions from the head office, three Aomori plants, and Tamron Optical Foshan have been on the rise, Improvements in Product Shipment Routing from Tamron Optical Vietnam in 2014 and in 2014 the total volume of CO2 emissions from the company rose 4% compared to 2013. Viewed by geographic location, our To Europe sites in Japan saw a 5% increase, while Tamron Optical Foshan saw a 8% decrease due to reduced production volume, and while Tamron Optical Vietnam, which began operations in the summer Tamron New route of 2013, saw a 134% increase. Optical Our energy conservation measures included the launch of a Vietnam To the United visualization system at the head office as well as a shift to energy Hong Kong States efficiency compressors and air conditioners and replacement 2. The ‌ number of flights between Hong Kong and Narita Airport was reduced. of radiator heater/heating piping at the Hirosaki Plant, and As a result, this amount was calculated based on transport volume. 3. ‌The number of flights between the airport closest to Tamron Optical upgrading of resin material driers to more energy efficient models Vietnam and Narita Airport was reduced. As a result, this amount was at the Owani Plant. These efforts helped to reduce CO2 emissions calculated based on transport volume. in terms of the basic unit of sales by 3% compared to 2013. In 2015, we will examine ways to make energy saving Environment Training and Initiatives to Save Energy improvements at the three plants in Aomori Prefecture through the use of visualization and other methods. Tamron regularly holds training on the environment. In 2014, we provided training on energy conservation activities for 45 members of the Head oﬃce Hirosaki Namioka Owani Tamron Optical Foshan Tamron Optical Vietnam Basic unit1 Integrated Management Promotion Committee, focusing on international 45,000（t-CO₂) trends and legislation concerning global warming. 41,294 In addition, the third Friday of every month has been designated No 39,744 40,000 38,826 5,848 35,147 2,504 t-CO₂/ net sales My Car Day, while certain days in the summertime and wintertime are 35,000 34,441 (Millions designated Eco Life Day (organized by Saitama Prefecture), as part of the of yen) 30,000 0.60 company’ s efforts to raise awareness about the environment among all of 0.608 0.601 0.603 0.581 0.561 its executive officers and employees at the head office4. 25,000 0.50 Furthermore, in 2014 we contracted an external institution to analyze data 20,000 24,010 25,201 27,492 27,545 25,242 0.40 on the previous three years’worth of electricity usage by our three plants 15,000 0.30 in Aomori Prefecture as well as the electricity usage of certain facilities. 727 4. ‌2014 Approximately 13 tons of CO2 emissions were reduced as a result of 10,000 726 653 671 640 0.20 No My Car Day and Eco Life Day in 2014. 5,702 5,452 6,478 5,149 5,384 5,000 1,158 1,104 1,207 1,143 1,200 0.10 2,845 2,737 2,922 2,732 2,980 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 FY 1. ‌The greenhouse gas coefficient from the Greenhouse Effect Gas Measuring & Reporting Manual Version 3.5 is used for managing medium-term targets with a benchmark year of 2012. For consistency purposes, this same coefficient has been used for this report to re-calculate basic unit of CO2 emissions from 2010 onward. Energy reduction potential diagnostics being carried out at the three Aomori plants 17 Tamron CSR Report 2015 ISO26000 6.5 The Environment Reducing Waste and Water Consumption Tamron is working to reduce waste and water consumption by improving the way in which business division operates. Trends in Waste Volume Trends in Water Consumption Tamron’ s total volume of waste emitted by the entire group Tamron’ s total water consumption volume by the entire group in 2014, including Tamron Optical (Foshan), increased 3% in 2014, including Tamron Optical Foshan and Tamron Optical compared to 2013. Vietnam, dropped 7% compared to 2013. In 2014, Tamron’s total volume of waste emitted in Japan was Water usage in Japan increased 9% in 2014, which was largely unchanged from 2013. Tamron Optical Foshan reduced attributed to an increase in production volume at the Namioka its waste emissions by 4% compared to 2013. This was because Plant because large amounts of water are used in cleaning it reduced its 2014 waste plastics volume 25% compared to equipment during the lens manufacturing process. At Tamron 2013 by reusing trays and recycling rear caps in order to reduce Optical Foshan, water consumption dropped 18% due to a waste plastics. Tamron Optical Vietnam, which began full scale decline in production volume, and it also decreased 14% per operations in 2014, was added to the scope of the Tamron basic unit of sales as well. Going forward, Tamron is committed Group, resulting in a slight increase in waste emissions. to reducing its water usage further by using molded lenses3 that do not require polishing and by continuing to reuse rainwater. Head oﬃce Hirosaki Namioka Owani Tamron Optical Foshan Tamron Optical Vietnam Recycling ratio of industrial waste (Japan) Head oﬃce Hirosaki Namioka Owani Tamron Optical Foshan Tamron Optical Vietnam Basic unit （ t） 1,777 1,729 1,800 （%） 1,800 100 (thousand ㎥) 99.7 99.9 99.9 1,000 969 99.2 99.7 1,600 1,516 1,569 95 thousand ㎥/ 98 900 852 sales 90 831 (billion yen) 1,400 800 769 16 85 1,200 722 39 80 700 14.6 15.1 14 1,265 1,262 1,316 1,045 999 1,000 75 600 12.7 12 800 12.1 70 500 10 600 10.4 65 74 57 49 400 8 400 73 89 60 546 671 789 650 533 224 202 214 206 247 300 6 200 145 55 110 97 123 90 69 70 92 89 86 200 0.4 0.4 0.8 0.5 0.6 4 0 50 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 FY 100 179 161 165 162 162 2 6 9 7 9 7 10 7 11 7 10 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 FY 3. Molded ‌ lenses are made by heating glass and other materials until soft and Waste Reduction Initiatives then pressing them in mold. The Waste Reduction Sub-committee is working diligently Interview with to reduce waste and recycle more in order to reach its zero an Environmental Manager emissions target1. We have been working since 2012 to improve our material I n t e r v i e w recycling2 ratio by consigning the recycling of waste plastics that were normally discarded to an external provider. HAN NGUYEN Deputy Section Manager These activities, which were started at the Hirosaki Plant, were ISO Promotion Section expanded to the head office, Namioka Plant, Owani Plant and Quality Assurance Department Tamron Optical Vietnam Tamron Optical Foshan in 2013 and 2014. The scope of waste plastic is also being expanded from plastic packaging trays to I’m responsible of the plant’s environmental management system, edge materials of peripheral parts for lenses and defective parts. employee training and overall environmental management. In 2014, we The total material recycling amount contracted to a third party in carried out periodic measurements of our environmental impacts on the 2014 was 187 tons. air and water in order to establish our environmental management system. In addition, the Integrated Design, Engineering and Production We also had each department prepare documentation and carried out Subcommittee is promoting the reuse of waste plastics in Tamron an internal audit. The culmination of these efforts was in October when products to help reduce plastic waste (please see page 12 of this we obtained ISO14001 certification. At Tamron Optical Vietnam we report for more details.). have set targets for legal compliance, preventing environmental pollution, In 2015 we will continue to reduce waste with confidence the management of chemical substances as well as numerical for the through these activities. reduction of copying paper usage and use of electricity per employee. 1. Tamron’ ‌ s definition of zero emissions is recycling more than 98% of the industrial In 2014, we achieve every single one of our targets. We also focus on waste it produces. environmental training as a means to ensuring employees carry out 2. ‌Material recycling refers to the collection and utilization of used products and waste generated from production processes as raw materials to make new operations safely and in consideration of the environment. This training products. Tamron recycles runner materials as waste plastics and prioritizes includes seminars on environmental procedures led by ISO managers and material recycling over thermal recycling so that recycled materials can be reused offsite. evacuation drills in case of fire, among others. In 2015, I will be making greater efforts to improve our current system so that we can implement even better, more beneficial activities in the future. Tamron CSR Report 2015 18 Relationship with Society Tamron supports activities that contribute to photographic and imaging culture, while its employees are actively involved in their local communities, which helps them to recognize the importance of their work and close connections with society. In this way, Tamron is aspiring to be a company beloved by the local community. Contributions to Photographic Culture The 7th Railroad Scenery Photo Contest Tamron sponsors the Railway Scenery Photo Contest in order to promote train culture and local revitalization in Omiya, known as an important railroad town in Japan and also site of our head office. As part of this contest, a photo exhibition is held at the Omiya Sogo Department Store showcasing the winning entries. This local event is made possible with the support of the City of Saitama, the Saitama Chamber of Commerce and Industry and the Saitama City Board of Education. The 7th Railroad Scenery Photo Contest received strong support from a host of different individuals, including amateur photographers and railway fans. A total of 7,000 submissions were received for the general and student divisions, which was higher than the 6,584 entries received the previous time. WEB http://www.tamron.co.jp/special/train2014/result.html (Japanese) General Division Grand Prize (Saitama City Mayor’ s Prize) Mr. Seiichi Higuchi Colorful Shower I captured a heavy snowfall illuminated in different colored lights on the Ban’ etsu West Line between Yamato and Kitakata stations, making the falling snow appear like a colorful shower. Student Division Grand Prize (Saitama City Board of Education Superintendent’ s Award) Ms. Ayana Youda Light, Shadows and Camera Girls I captured this low angle silhouette of my friends in Ohikage Tunnel, a railroad Humorous Photo Contest Award (Saitama City Chamber of Commerce and Industry President’ s Award) heritage site from the Meiji period, by placing my camera on a railroad tie. Mr. Takumi Hashimoto Station Master I took a picture of a train as it passed by the cut out part of a photo caricature, hoping to get a laugh out of people uninterested in trains (at Asakusa Station on the Tokyo Sky Tree Line). 11th Macro Lens Photo Contest This photo contest accepts entries shot from any macro lens, regardless of manufacturer. For the 11th contest a total of 4,806 entries were received. The contest has two categories: the Nature Division for nature enthusiasts that enjoy taking pictures of plants and insects and the Genre-Free Division for amateur photographers using DSLR cameras to take pictures of food, their children or pets. Many of the entries featured beautiful, warm natural scenes captured delicately in only ways a macro lens can. 11th Macro Lens Photo Contest Grand Prize WEB http://www.tamron.co.jp/special/macrocon2014/result.html Mr. Masayuki Mitsugi Ground Filled with Light (Japanese) 19 Tamron CSR Report 2015 ISO26000 6.8 Community Involvement and Development Relationship with Society Growing Together with Local Communities Supporting Adaptive Athletes Contributions of the Three Aomori Plants Tamron has provided support to adaptive athletes since 2013. Tamron’ s three plants in Aomori Prefecture contribute to their World famous wheelchair track and field athletes Wakako community by sponsoring a local festival (Hirosaki: Nebuta Tsuchida and Kota Hokinoue as well as prosthetic legged runner Festival; Namioka: Kitabatake Festival; Owani: Fire Fighting Saki Takakuwa are currently training hard for the upcoming Rio Exhibition). de Janeiro Paralympic Games. Each of the plants also takes part in monthly clean-up activities In May 2014, Wakako Tsuchida gave a lecture at the Tamron around their sites, with the exception of winter months from head office and employees were inspired by her efforts to December to March. The three plants collected a total of 53.9kg overcome her disability to compete on the world stage. This of garbage in 2014. The plants also collect pull-tabs, with the lecture was indeed a meaningful event for all who attended. total reaching 80kg in 2014. Tamron is committed to supporting the activities of these The three plants are more committed than ever to giving back to courageous athletes as they attempt to fulfill their dreams. their local communities going forward. Participation in the Saitama City CSR Promotion Council For further details, please visit the website at : Tamron’ s head office was a member of a CSR promotion WEB http://www.tamron.co.jp/en/special/athlete/ council organized by the City of Saitama, which instituted a CSR certification program and established the CSR Promotion Council in order to heighten CSR activities being undertaken by small and medium-sized enterprise in the city. As a member of this organization, Tamron offers advice on CSR activities as well as standards and screening methods for the CSR certification program for SME in the city. Science Classes for Children Tamron has organized science Ms. Tsuchida classes for children at local public halls and elementary schools since 2008 to spur interest in the Ms. Takakuwa sciences. In 2014, we held six science classes at local public halls and elementary schools, with a Learning how to make a camera total of 162 children in attendance. out of a milk carton at one of the science classes Mr. Hokinoue Supporting the Cookie Project Supporting Nature Restoration Tamron provided advertising support and donations to Cookie Tamron’ s head office continues to support the nature restoration Bazaar 2014 held in Saitama City project carried out by the Ecosystem Conservation Societyin January and February 2014 and Saitama together with local citizen groups at the Shibakawa organized by the Cookie Project. Daiichi Flood Control Reservoir and surrounding areas. Many This organization works to help the years ago the Minuma Tambo area of the reservoir area was disabled live independently in the an abundant wetland with white herons. Today the reservoir community. continues to see a number of wildfowl such as swans and even Cookie bazaar short-toed eagles visit the area to feed. Enabling Access to the Polio Vaccine Ta m ro n s u p p o r t s P E T b o t t l e c a p co l l e c t i o n a c t i v i t i e s t h a t fund ef for t s for environmental conservation and the eradication of polio. From 2008 to 2014, we Shibakawa Daiichi Flood Control Reservoir have collected about 1,400kg of PET bottle caps, which have been A letter of appreciation received from the redeemed for money to cover the Letter of appreciation from the Ecosystem Conservation Society-Saitama. Omiya East Rotary Club Pull-tabs collected by employees were also cost of polio vaccinations for about redeemed for cash that was donated to the 700 people in need. organization. Tamron CSR Report 2015 20 ISO26000 6.8 Community Involvement and Development Activities at Tamron’s Overseas Subsidiaries Tamron’ s subsidiaries outside Japan continue to strengthen their relationship with local communities. Tamron Europe GmbH Tamron Optical Shanghai Four years have passed since Tamron Europe installed 344 PV To promote photographic culture to the younger generation, panels on its rooftop to generate its own power and reduce Tamron Optical Shanghai has held a photo contest and CO2 emissions when adding on to its head office building. The photography classes continually since 2010. weather was good in 2014 which led to an increase in generated In September 2014, Tamron Optical Shanghai launched a new electricity by 4.6% year on year to 64,000kWh, which lowered scholarship program called Tamron – Stars of Tomorrow at CO2 emissions by 45 tons. To date the system has produced a Sichuan University of Media and Communication, one of China’ s total of 250,000kWh and reduced CO2 emissions by 175 tons. two largest media universities. Under the program, every year Tamron Europe also continues to provide donations of 10,000 students with the top grades are awarded a scholarship in euros to an organization that supports children with cancer order to develop the human resources of tomorrow who will be located in Cologne, Germany as part of its commitment to give actively involved in photography or media or who will inspire back to local communities. This organization was established the world. Going forward, Tamron Optical Shanghai plans on in 1990 by the parents of children with cancer in order to aid holding photography classes at Sichuan University of Media children battling cancer and their families. This organization and Communication to help photography department students undertakes a wide range of activities, from building and enjoy taking photos with Tamron’ s interchangeable lenses to remodeling university hospital wings, building and operating experience their leading quality. facilities where family members can live temporarily, providing Tamron Optical Shanghai also donated to the official aid receiving financial support to families, promoting clinical research and center in Shanghai to provide clothing articles to schools in need offering after care. located in Inner Mongolia as part of its continuing donation activities. Scholarship presentation ceremony Rooftop PV panels at Tamron Europe GmbH Tamron USA Tamron USA focuses on communicating information about the ecology and the environment utilizing the Internet. In 2014, Tamron USA launched a channel on YouTube called Tamron Vids where it provides a host of information about using Tamron products that cannot be conveyed by paper alone. Consumers can check out a behind the scenes look at Tamron USA’ s Tamron Tailgate Tour and Tamron 3-Days, where products are repaired within three days. Tamron USA will continue to share information on its initiatives that normally go unseen so that product users and people interested in Tamron can use its products with greater peace of mind. Event to benefit children with cancer WEB https://www.youtube.com/user/TamronVids In addition to the above, Tamron’s other business sites in Hong Kong, France, Russia and India will continue to promote social contribution activities that meet the needs of their local communities in ways that only Tamron can. 21 Tamron CSR Report 2015 ISO26000 7.5 Communication on Social Responsibility Independent Third-Party Opinion Environmental Credentials Current Title Eco Action 21 Screener and Environmental Counselor (Business Associate Professor Division/Civic Division) Department of Social-Human Environmentology Daito Bunka University Areas of Specialization All aspects of corporate management and sustainability, including Career History environmental management, management strategy theory, CSR, 2004 ‌Completed coursework without degree at Yokohama environmental management systems, carbon management National University’s Graduate School of Environment and Information Science Committees 2008 ‌Guest Associate Professor, Graduate School of Innovation Review Committee for a Japan-ASEAN Coordinated Transportation Environmental and Management, Hosei University Action Plan (Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism; 2009) 2010 ‌F u l l t i m e I n s t r u c t o r , D e p a r t m e n t o f S o c i a l H u m a n Review Committee for Co-benefit Type Global Warming Prevention Environmentology, Daito Bunka University Measures and CDM (Ministry of the Environment; 2010) 2013 ‌A s s o c i a t e P r o f e s s o r , D e p a r t m e n t o f S o c i a l H u m a n Environmental Management System Assessment Committee (Saitama Prefecture; 2011) Environmentology, Daito Bunka University Working Group Committee for the Environmental Communication Awards (Global Environmental Forum; 2014) Academic Societies Sustainable Management Forum of Japan, Japan Academy Works Authored of Business Administration, The Academic A ssociation for Carbon Disclosure (author and editor) published by Zeimu Keiri Kyokai Associate Professor Organizational Science, Academy of Management, Japan Society Sustainability and Business Administration (co-author) published by Minerva Shobo Yoshifumi Tsuruta for Applied Management, Association for the Study of Industrial Management, Japan Academy of International Business Studies, Modern CSR Management Principles (co-author) published by Soseisha Co., Ltd. Environmental Management for Everyone (author and editor) published The Japanese Association for Environmental Sociology by Minerva Shobo Nurturing Self-disciplined Human Resources Working diligently to develop self-disciplined human resources the company will set up a daycare at its head office to further that can think and act correctly on their own is beneficial improve its support for work-life balance. This daycare will also not only to general human resource development but also to accept children from the local community not affiliated with working with various stakeholders. It is also important from the the company, which will help to alleviate the social issue of perspective of CSR management. children wait-listed for daycare. The construction of the daycare Tamron is al so working on making its workplaces more also involves soundproofing and other considerations for the employee-friendly and female-friendly. Tamron has established local community as well as safety facilities for users, which parent leave systems that make working easier for women and demonstrates the company’s faithfulness and integrity. can also be accessed by its male employees as well. This fall Achieving Global CSR Management I feel the underlying strength of Tamron from the fact that it is focusing on shifting from lowering CO2 per basic unit of sales continues to work diligently toward higher performance and to total emissions demonstrates its stance to faithfully fulfill its higher quality as well as its inroads into lenses for surveillance responsibility as a global multinational corporation. cameras and automotive cameras in search of business growth. Additionally, I feel the company’s dedication to realizing global I believe this is made possible by not only its technical strengths CSR management through its participation in the UN Global but also its close, eco-partner relationships with suppliers Compact. I also feel Tamron’s high awareness of building an grounded in trust. Depending on the product, Tamron serves as internationally ethical supply chain through its efforts to address its own supplier, so I think its deep understanding as a supplier the issue of conflict minerals. contributes to sustainability in its supply chain. As part of its However, I feel that Tamron has yet to systematically coordinate global expansion, Tamron has built environmental and quality its 12 CSR themes and the 10 principles of the UN Global management systems at Tamron Optical Vietnam and also Compact with its actual CSR initiatives. This may be because made changes to its logistics systems at its plants in China and defining materiality and the process involved with this definition Vietnam as well in an effort to lower CO2 emissions. Tamron’ s is rather difficult to see. By reflecting the marked effects on production of molded lenses that do not require polishing at the economy, environment and society, and organizing the its Namioka Plant have also helped it to reduce water usage. materiality of stakeholder evaluations and fundamental impacts I expect the company to work on further water conservation of decision making, I believe Tamron will be able to further initiatives both in Japan and overseas in light of the need to enhance the consistency of its CSR management. conserve international water resources. The fact that Tamron Editorial Team’ s Postscript This report contains information on Tamron’ s annual activities Head office as a way to facilitate engagement with our many stakeholders. The special feature section of the 2015 report focuses on the development of diverse human resources and the company’ s employee benefits program for achieving work-life balance. In addition, universal font has been used to ensure even more people have access to this content. We sincerely hope that these initiatives have helped our readers learn more about Tamron. Based on the views expressed in the third-party opinion, we will make systematic changes to our systems and continue with Tamron Optical (Foshan) our commitment to achieve global CSR management. We also encourage readers to share their honest opinions and requests so that we may be able to use these to improve next year’ s report. The three Aomori plants Tamron CSR Report 2015 22 Tamron Co., Ltd. CSR Implementation & Administration Board 1385 Hasunuma, Minuma-ku, Saitama-city, Saitama 337-8556 Japan Tel. +81-48-684-9190 Fax. +81-48-677-6653 E-mail: e-report@tamron.co.jp Website: http://www.tamron.co.jp Published March 2015
