Sustainability Report 2013/14 Membership and guidelines UN Global Compact and Bribery Act Acre is a member of the UN Global Compact and actively integrate its universally accepted principles within our strategy and operations. We are strong advocates of human rights and equal opportunities and regularly review our internal policies to address the Bribery Act. www.unglobalcompact.org 2 Acre Sustainability Report 2013/14 Contents 1. Foreword ................................................................ 4 2. A note from our directors .......................................... 5 3. About us, values and mission ................................. 6 4. Our commitment to sustainable development ....... 7 5. Progress on 2012/13 commitments ...................... 8 6. Our sustainable approach ....................................... 9 a. The broader sustainability marketplace .............. 9 b. Investing in our people ...................................... 11 c. Enriching communities through the Acre Foundation ............................ .............................. 12 d. Environment and our carbon impact .................15 7. Looking ahead: 2014/15 ..................................... 16 Acre Sustainability Report 2013/14 3 1. Foreword Acre is more than just a business. As the country’s leading sustainability recruitment company, we have a duty to follow the example of our clients and set an example to our candidates, instilling an ethos of corporate responsibility and sustainable behaviour that reverberates through the sector. This is not just good for society and the environment, it also makes good business sense. As we demonstrate in this report, it creates happy, driven employees; it creates the best financial results in Acre’s history; it creates innovative new approaches to working; and it helps to win the Recruitment Agency of the Year award. This is the story of our most successful year yet. It also sets out how we intend to build on these achievements to make an even greater difference – and achieve greater success – in future. 4 Acre Sustainability Report 2013/14 2. A note from our director “ Acre connects professionals with a common This year we aim to move a step closer to achieving our dual aspiration of playing a positive role in society whilst benefiting commercially from associated initiatives. This purpose; to desire is captured in our new mission statement: create social and “Acre connects professionals with a common purpose; to create social and environmental environmental value and promote good business. We measure our success one individual at a time.” value and promote Acre’s two stand-out contributions of the past year have been the launch of the good business. Acre365 recognition scheme which rewards individuals who have made an outstanding environmental or social impact in their first 365 days with an organisation and the We measure our 24 Peaks Challenge, which saw our team raise over £10,000 for Great Ormond Street success one Hospital by climbing 24 peaks in the Lake District in 24 hours. individual at a Our ambition is to ensure that the “citizen” is not left in the street when he or she time. walks through the office door. In fact, our values play a headline role in our decision making. Acting responsibly is becoming more important to our business model, and this philosophy is becoming ever more enshrined in our operations as we expand. ” Andrew Cartland Founder Acre Acre Sustainability Report 2013/14 5 3. About us Acre is the leading recruitment company focusing on corporate responsibility, sustainability, environment, energy and health & safety functions. Since it was founded in 2003, Acre has built a community of the sharpest sustainable business professionals in the world. This unique network can be deployed in several ways; through executive search for permanent hires aimed at the most challenging projects; contract and fixed“ term solutions for organisations looking to source staff for short-term appointments; direct access to interim sustainability professionals through the Acre Bench; and use of our Business Intelligence function to address challenges and opportunities. “This total Acre was named Recruitment Agency of the year at the 2014 Recruiter Awards, which recognised: transparency shows Acre’s brave • Acre’s innovative approach, including the launch of the Acre Bench approach in driving • Acre’s transparency, including use of the third party feedback tool Feefo. We hold ourselves to account and strive to improve by listing ALL feedback that is collected. up standards in the industry – as well Our values as highlighting the Our six values are critical to how we operate as a business. They drive how we work on company’s passion a day-to-day basis and are a critical element of our corporate and sustainability strategy. for recruitment”. Entrepreneurship Innovation The Recruiter We value and reward productive We embrace new ideas and work and constantly endeavour technology, as well as the Awards 2014 ” to go the extra mile for our clients innovation and creativity of our and the organisation. employees and the sector as a whole. Business Protocols Transparency We value both company and We keep our processes individual growth and prize simple, transparent and avoid financial success. We always seek bureaucracy. We deal with people to achieve positive results for our and issues in the most direct clients and have confidence and manner without hidden agendas. pride in our ability to do so. As an organisation we share common goals. Ethics Collaboration We always do our best to ensure We are a team and we all strive to that we are ethical in everything make people at Acre feel valued that we do. We are honest with and appreciated. We have a each other, our clients and our common goal and celebrate each suppliers and expect the same other’s successes together. We in return. We seek to be an want Acre to be the best it can be agent of positive change and to for our clients, our candidates and deliver the highest quality service our employees. available in the sector. 6 Acre Sustainability Report 2013/14 Our aim As the wider sustainability landscape evolves, Acre is in a strong position to have a positive and meaningful impact on the individuals who work within it. Operating at the heart of the sustainability marketplace, we aim to be a catalyst for positive change through the people we place. 4. Our commitment to sustainable development Our objective is to create networks that promote positive environmental and social impact and encourage good business. We have endeavoured to embed this in everything we do. We also regularly contribute to the knowledge base of the sustainability sector by providing thought-provoking intelligence and sharing best practices. We are a member of the universally recognised UN Global Compact and produce an annual Sustainability Report to communicate our progress. Acre’s award-winning corporate citizenship and philanthropic activity is undertaken under the umbrella of the Acre Foundation. Set up and managed by staff, the Foundation is the vehicle for our fundraising activities and volunteering schemes, and forms a key component of our strategy. To date, the Foundation has raised £31,771. Full details can be found at www.acre-foundation.com Acre Sustainability Report 2013/14 7 5. Progress on 2012/13 commitments 2012/13 Commitments Actions Grow our partnership with Wiles Acre now sources all Greenworld to ensure we are as office supplies from Wiles Environmental efficient as possible Greenworld. We will build on this with a formal Green Procurement policy Develop a mission statement that Through consultation with Acre encompasses our sustainability employees, our clients and objectives and the environmental candidates, Acre has developed and social impact of our a new mission statement candidates Investing in our people Continue to provide There have been six promotions, encouragement and support for and we have introduced a career development across the new mentoring process, a team new training programme and ongoing support for further education Increase donations on behalf We increased donations by 19% of clients to the Ecoscheme through our Ecoscheme and charities through placements, our 98% through our Christmas Christmas card drive and other card drive initiatives Enriching communities Develop a comprehensive Acre team members completed volunteer strategy for the Acre 138 hours; falling short of our team with a calendar of activities, target but more than tripling undertaking a minimum of 150 our cumulative volunteering hours hours of the previous year 8 Acre Sustainability Report 2013/14 6. Our sustainable approach a. The broader sustainability marketplace Acre places more sustainability professionals in work than any other organisation. We recognise that our success is dependent on a buoyant and maturing sustainability industry and we therefore look to play a part in that development. Acre focuses on four main themes to create value: 1) strengthening networks, collaboration and knowledge sharing; 2) increasing transparency; 3) ensuring integrity and accountability; 4) assisting in professionalising, developing and maturing the sustainability marketplace. Transparency Acre Bench Feefo Collaboration Integrity Events & Industry Networks Accreditation Thought Leadership Benchmarking Professionalise These broader themes translate into a wide range of initiatives: Thought Leadershi p Acre contributes to the sector’s knowledge base by equipping clients with intelligence and sharing best practices. For example, Bench Insights are short pieces of market intelligence created by Acre’s Bench Members. Since April 2013 a total of 65 Insights have been published. With our partners, Acre has developed and published the most comprehensive CR and Sustainability Salary Survey which builds understanding of the professional CR/Sustainability landscape. It provides information on the salaries and benefits, responsibilities and backgrounds of people working in the sector – both in-house and for external consultancies. This data is open sourced, with participation from sustainability professionals globally. The information benchmarks an industry that is still evolving, allowing professionals to identify with the sector, understand their value and to map the varied backgrounds of their peers. Acre Sustainability Report 2013/14 9 Acre also invests to provide up-to-date sustainability news, blogs and other helpful information. The Bench The Acre Bench enables us to change the traditional recruitment model and drive pioneering transparency, collaboration and knowledge sharing in the sustainability marketplace. Launched in July 2013, it is an online, publicly visible database that profiles Acre’s carefully selected and accredited senior interim professionals, allowing free and direct access to clients who can self-select depending on the specific needs of their organisation. This is based upon trust and transparency. Acre has hosted three successful events to promote collaboration among Bench members, featuring a feedback session, a facilitated networking session and interviews with sustainability experts. Feefo Feedback Acre is shaking up the recruitment sector by utilising Feefo, an online customer review “ and feedback system run by a third party. Feefo publishes feedback from Acre’s candidates and clients without any interception by Acre, regardless of whether it is good or bad. This creates total transparency and credibility, and aims to drive up standards and accountability. At time of printing we have 97% positive feedback from both our clients Great speakers, and candidates. a well organised, Networks & Events excellently Women in Sustainability, Safety and Environment (WISSE) chaired network of WISSE was launched in 2011 as a platform for women to network, connect and share professionals at best practice. The Acre Salary Survey has shown that women are paid less than men the right level. The and WISSE is designed to support women in the sustainability sector and progress their careers. time we had was well managed and WISSE events in 2014 included: I really like the fact Date Event theme that Oonagh made October 2013 Investment insight into sustainability reporting sure everyone had November 2013 Networking event the opportunity to Pioneering integrated reporting and March 2014 information sharing contribute. Sharing advice on why CR is important to April 2014 investors Head of Corporate Sharing different approaches to delivering May 2014 H&S and sustainability Sustainability, Approaches to total impact management and BSkyB July 2014 measurement ” Acre also hosts the largest New Zealanders in Sustainability network event, reaching 120 sustainability professionals, and we sponsor The Crowd, the premier sustainability business network. 10 Acre Sustainability Report 2013/14 Industry Accreditation Institute of Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability (ICRS) and Bench Accreditation Acre’s senior management team has provided pro-bono support to the newly founded Institute of Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability (ICRS), sitting on its advisory panel “ during the pre-launch phase, and on its governance panel. The ICRS aims to support CR and sustainability professionals at all stages of their careers, recognising and promoting high professional standards. Acre has also developed the Bench Accreditation, a milestone in driving transparency and It’s wonderful to standards. It aims to help companies make more informed hiring decisions and enable interim professionals to add weight and verification to their credentials. Since July 2014, see there are so 20 members have gone through the accreditation process and it is now used as standard many wonderful for all prospective Bench members. people sharing the Acre365 Recognition Programme vision for change Placing talented professionals in roles where they can have a positive through Acre365. social and/or environmental impact is core to Acre’s mission. We want to recognise and celebrate the contribution individuals have made via our recognition programme Acre365. We believe that Foundation the impact a person has in the first 12 months in a role is critical to their ability to help build a better organisation. Acre365 seeks to Manager, The OVO identify agents of change by recognising individuals who have made Foundation ” real progress on social or environmental issues. Acre365 will also share best-practice and innovation with the wider sustainability community so that others can learn and be inspired. b. Investing in our people Acre places upmost importance on the career development and personal growth of our staff. Acre seeks to retain staff through engagement – we are committed to employees’ goals, supporting individuals wishing to pursue higher education, and providing regular volunteering, fundraising and teambuilding initiatives. Acre’s professional development of its consultants surpasses anything the market has to offer. We achieved an 80% staff retention rate in 2013 the result of providing a challenging, innovative, inclusive and transparent culture. We believe that investing in people is critical to our success as a profitable business. The 2013/2014 financial results were the best in Acre’s history, correlating with this increased investment. Staff development 2013/2014 was a year of celebration and achievement: • Six internal promotions • Development of a new internal recruitment process to identify talented individuals • Launch of an induction training programme for new starters • Development and launch of recruitment best practice training and staff coaching scheme • Development of a new company handbook • Continued investment in IT solutions to improve productivity Acre Sustainability Report 2013/14 11 “ Support for postgraduate study Acre is committed to supporting our consultants’ ambitions for continued learning and development. Financial backing and study leave were offered to three staff members Acre has been undertaking postgraduate qualifications in the sustainability and environmental field in incredibly 2013/2014. supportive of Sabbaticals my decision We are proud of our team and reward loyalty with sabbatical leave for individuals after to undertake four years’ service. Two team members had this anniversary in 2013/2014 and their sabbatical leave gave them the opportunity to travel extensively in Europe, Asia and a Masters Australia. in Business Acre Foundation Strategy and the Environment. The The Acre Foundation provides not only a vehicle for our corporate citizenship and philanthropy, but also an opportunity for our staff to be involved in sustainability strategy. course content The Foundation is managed and run by three staff members on a rotating six monthly basis, with a remit to develop its activities, scope and impact. This has given individuals compliments experience in fundraising, corporate partnerships, internal and external communications, my role and has and creating and reporting sustainability strategy. enhanced my Company handbook and policies ability to engage Acre has developed a new company handbook to guide staff, refreshing our policies with industry and practice. 2013/2014 marked the return of our Training Manager from maternity experts. leave with a flexible working pattern, and the departure on maternity leave of one of our managers under an enhanced maternity policy. Acre is an equal opportunity employer and seeks to satisfy the objectives and intentions of relevant legislation and codes of Manager, Acre practice pertaining to equal opportunities. ” c. Enriching communities through the Acre Foundation At Acre we believe we should have a positive impact on the communities we operate within. We have taken a strategic approach to our corporate citizenship and philanthropic activity, bringing this together under one roof the Acre Foundation. 2013/2014 was our most successful for corporate responsibility initiatives and we aim continuously to improve. At the time of publishing Acre has donated a total of 186 hours and raised £32,386.07 for the initiatives we support. In summary: • 186 hours volunteered • £1,914 Kiva donations to entrepreneurs • £9,915 Ecoscheme donations on behalf of our clients • £20,557 other donations and fundraising by employees 12 Acre Sustainability Report 2013/14 “ The Acre Fundraising Challenge: 24 Peaks In 2014 we voted to focus our fundraising efforts on Great Ormond Street Hospital Children’s Charity after a staff consultation. The charity is based just around the corner from our office in Holborn, London, and is also close to our hearts: in 2011 the team at GOSH operated on Annabel, our Training Manager’s daughter, at birth, saving her life. We are delighted Read Annabel’s story. that staff from To drive these fundraising efforts, build our corporate identity and engage Acre’s Acre Resources employees, we decided to really challenge ourselves. Acre took on the 24 Peaks Challenge Ltd have raised in the heart of the Lake District. The hike entails a total ascent of 4263m over a distance of 50.9km all within 24 hours. Success would depend on dedication and commitment to such a fantastic training, strong willpower and determination, and most importantly teamwork! Over the amount for us... course of six months, Acre’s staff organised a busy fundraising calendar. This included: Generous gifts • Acre Comedy Night; with Jason Manford headlining and kindly donating his like this mean that time and wit. we can support • Great Acre Clothes Swap; a fantastic success in which everyone left with a research into cures recycled new wardrobe, as well as reducing textiles sent to landfill and raising money for a good cause. and treatments for childhood diseases • Acre Tournament; which involved 100% of the staff, who donated to enter, and compete against one another to predict the final results of the World Cup. which will benefit children all over the • Sustainable Wine Tasting event; Acre’s clients and network joined us in raising money for GOSH and sampling ethically produced wines at the first Fairtrade world. Café in London. It was a great opportunity to network, enjoy a sustainable event and add to our fundraising total. Fundraising Exec, GOSH • Gig Night; four bands provided a great final celebration of the (completed) ” hike. The Acre 24 Peaks Challenge raised £10,604.84 for the Great Ormond Street Hospital Charity. A great success, it helped to build a strong team when a number of new employees had started and gave individuals a chance to lead projects and learn new skills. A small company of 25 people showed they were able to do amazing things to climb 24 mountains in 23 hours and 35 minutes, to organise an event with a leading British comedian and to raise over £10,000. Acre Sustainability Report 2013/14 13 “ Staff Volunteering: Acre has continued to promote volunteering of staff within our community and has a scheme in place that gives each team member four days’ volunteering leave per year. This The London year, Acre staff volunteered a total of 138 hours, almost tripling our previous cumulative Wetland Centre total. We believe that we have valuable skills to offer the community. Volunteering is also an opportunity to widen our skills and build self-worth, team spirit and cohesion. Our (WWT) is a volunteering efforts are considered important in attracting and retaining staff who want beautiful place to be a part of an organisation with a strong social focus. to spend the day. In 2014 Acre was awarded the inaugural Octavia Foundation Corporate Volunteer of the Year award. Acre has developed a bespoke partnership with the Octavia Foundation over Within the confines almost five years in its Gateways to Work programme aimed at supporting unemployed of the city, it or socially disadvantaged people in nearby London boroughs. Through the scheme, we provide mentorship to Octavia’s clients, helping individuals back into work. Octavia provides a refuge recognised Acre’s partnership as having “been nothing short of transformational for a from the stress and number of clients”, with some having “gone onto their dream jobs after an intervention with Acre”. endless concrete that can be London In 2013, a survey of Acre employees indicated a preference to volunteer on environmental projects. Acre sent four teams to the London Wetland Centre, part of the Wildfowl & city life. Wetlands Trust. Our volunteering efforts included planting trees, rebuilding fences and islands, and clearing weeds a long way from our day jobs but a unique opportunity for team-building and employee engagement. Consultant, Acre ” Ecoscheme, Kiva and other causes Acre’s Ecoscheme ties fundraising efforts to our day-to-day work. For each individual that we recruit for our clients, Acre makes a financial donation to selected charities. The Ecoscheme currently comprises the three charities – Octavia, ZSL and CoolEarth which bring together our commitment to climate change, environment and conservation, society and community. In 2013/2014 Acre donated £2,295 on our clients’ behalf, a cumulative total of £9,915. We also involve our clients through our Charity not Cards initiative: instead of sending them Christmas cards, we asked clients to select a charity in the Ecoscheme and make a donation of £5 on their behalf. This raised a total of £880 in Christmas 2013. Acre also supports Kiva, a non-profit organisation with a mission to connect people through lending to alleviate poverty. Kiva uses micro-finance to empower budding entrepreneurs in developing countries. Every new employee at Acre is welcomed with a £100 voucher to lend within Kiva. This year we are proud to have contributed a total of £1,200 to a variety of Kiva schemes. One enabled a lady in Malawi to start commercial pig production to pay for her son’s university tuition fees. Comparison of charitable contributions in 2012/13 and 2013/14 2012/2013 2013/2014 % Increase Echoscheme £1,935 £2,295 19% Charity not Cards £ 435 £ 880 98% Kiva £ 720 £1,200 67% Time volunteered 1 hour 138 hours 14 Acre Sustainability Report 2013/14 “ Other fundraising: The Acre team are all passionate about a range of their own causes which they proactively support. The Acre Foundation supports these efforts by pledging to match staff fundraising up to a total of £100. This year, our staff took part in everything from baking cakes for the Red Cross Typhoon Haiyan Appeal, to completing a Tough Mudder It is a great for Save the Children, raising a total of £600. program to be d. Environment and our carbon impact a part of and thoroughly Although recognised as relatively low impact, we continuously strive to improve our environmental performance. Being responsible stewards also generates real business engaging, benefits. These include reduced costs through improved efficiencies, engagement with particularly once staff who are passionate about the environment, and an opportunity to build knowledge and awareness of issues that our clients and candidates are grappling with (albeit on a the entrepreneurs smaller level). In the last two years Acre has made substantial capital investment in a new start returning thin client IT infrastructure and database. This helps us to be more effective and energy efficient in delivering on recruitment projects. This year Acre formed a partnership with funds so you can Groundwork, an EU-funded charity that works with SME’s to reduce their environmental tell it has made a impact. positive impact. Groundwork calculated the following findings on behalf of Acre: Consultant, Acre ” Acre’s carbon footprint, based on the consumption of electricity at our office: 594.72 kg of CO2 emissions Waste we have prevented from going into landfill: 1.35 tonnes 67.7 kg 292 kg 37 crates Paper & Confidential Plastic & Metal Glass Card Paper Shredding Travel: • 78% of staff use 100% public transport, cycling and walking to get to work, the other 22% combine car and public transport • Remote video conferencing is promoted and frequently used to reduce travel by international and local clients and candidates • Ride to work scheme is used by six employees Acre Sustainability Report 2013/14 15 7. Looking ahead: 2014/15 Acre’s continued direction is to become more strategic and relevant in our focus on sustainability. We want to develop many of our initiatives and ensure that they are embedded within a joined up sustainability approach. In an effort to ensure that our efforts are making the most of opportunities and reducing risks to our business, Acre conducted a materiality assessment. In November 2014 this survey was sent to a number of Acre clients and candidates to gain their perspective. The survey highlighted the most important issues as: • Client satisfaction • Attracting the best candidates • Business ethics • The integration of sustainability into mainstream roles This demonstrates that we need to do what we do – recruitment – and do it well. This is no surprise and will remain the core focus of our business. Based on the survey feedback, Business Ethics will be addressed in the year 2014/2015 more formally. Currently it is one of our core company values, and an important part of our culture and hiring strategy, but not measured and managed. Also of importance to us in the coming year is: • Attracting and developing the best staff • Thought leadership in sustainability • Thought leadership in recruitment • Diversity, equality of opportunity and equal pay • Staff who are ambassadors for a sustainable world 16 Acre Sustainability Report 2013/14 Looking ahead Strategic priorities We have identified two strategic priorities for our core business to have a significant impact on society: 1. Helping to develop the sustainability marketplace. 2. Developing staff as recruitment experts and sustainability champions. The first priority is about knowing our market, investing in sustainability marketplace development and understanding that our success is tied to this, and staying ahead of our competition. Secondly, essential to the development of our business is retaining knowledgeable and motivated staff who are invested in Acre’s success and that of the sustainability marketplace. This requires giving staff directional and managerial involvement in our corporate responsibility and sustainability strategy. We will focus on 5 pillars and commitments: 1. The broader sustainability marketplace: • Launch Acre365 to recognise excellence and expertise in the sustainability market. • Facilitate a forum to discuss the gender pay gap in our WISSE group and report on this in the CR and Sustainability Salary Survey. • Expand on our events and thought leadership programme to include a more diverse group • Continue to provide business intelligence and facilitate discussion around the integration of sustainability into mainstream business roles. 2. Investing in our people • Build expertise of staff to ensure we act as ambassadors for a sustainable world. Create learning and personal and professional development opportunities through increased volunteering and involvement in Acre’s sustainability strategy. • Continue to provide encouragement and support for career development and aim for continuous improvement in staff retention. 3. Enriching communities through the Acre Foundation • Increase internal engagement for skill-based volunteering, with 75% of consulting staff taking this opportunity. • Donate a minimum of 150 volunteer hours to charities over the course of the year. Acre Sustainability Report 2013/14 17 4. Environmental • Develop behaviour-change campaigns to educate and motivate employees to act as responsible citizens inside and outside of Acre. • Recognise positive actions to measure and improve environmental impact and reduce waste. • Develop an Environmental Policy and a Green Champion checklist to ensure actions and continuous improvement. • Increase the proportion of renewable energy that makes up our energy consumption. • Ask Groundwork to fit our taps and toilets with water saving devices. • Improve internal communications to celebrate environmental impact milestones. • Formalise a Green Supply Chain and Procurement Policy. 5. Business ethics • Develop a pillar within our sustainability strategy to formalise and direct business ethics. • Enhance and unify our commitment to, and internal communication on, business ethics and values. • Formalise and provide training to all individuals involved in internal recruitment to continue developing an ethical and values-driven decision-making approach. This past year has seen some great work from the Acre team and we are proud of our achievements. We look forward to the year ahead, and the Acre Foundation team are amped with some exciting initiatives already underway. 18 Acre Sustainability Report 2013/14 Acre connects professionals with a common purpose; to create social and environmental value and promote good business. We measure our success one individual at a time. +44 (0)20 7400 5570 33 High Holborn London mail@acre.com WC1V 6AX www.acre.com
