Raya Communication on Progress: Year 2014 Our Commitment to Our Community Raya embodies four main core values that help it to strive for excellence in all services and products; those values are: Respect for People, Customer Focus, Teamwork and Excellence. These values are held dearly by our management and personnel, and ultimately are evident to our customers who have come to rely on our high quality service and integrity. Our values are the pillars that build the strong foundation of our corporation. We want to create a workplace where employees achieve the highest business and personal standards, and where everyone feels proud and truly takes ownership of their role in fulfilling these core values. It is of great importance to have a strong internal communication program and thus, Raya highly emphasizes on regular and transparent communication amongst employees of all levels through internal events that work to form a pleasant work environment. We always seek to have a Corporate Sustainability strategy that integrates ethical, social, and environmental policies into our values, culture, strategy and operations, in order to establish better practices within the corporation which generates wealth and develops our society. As a leading company with a diversified portfolio business operating in more than 6 locations globally, Raya aims to conduct its business in a socially responsible manner, to contribute to the communities in which it operates in and to respect the needs of customers, employees, suppliers, investors, and other stakeholders. As we look ahead, we want to build on these significant social commitments which remain vital to our mission, strategic to our operations, and aligned with our values. It is an honor to lead a company that focuses on its people in order to achieve excellence. We have a long standing chain of our own associates, supply chain partners, customers, and communities that help us build this strong reputation. An important factor in maintaining and enhancing our reputation is based on recognizing and complying with specific standards that are applied to the activities and transactions of our Lines of Businesses and employees in leading our business. We will continue to identify new ways of doing business that improve our performance, and allow us to do business from a socially responsible perspective Going forward, we will continue to support the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and will conduct business in a manner that is sensitive to societal and environmental issues that align with the principles of the compact. Let me express how proud I am that Raya employees have overwhelmingly incorporated the concept of social, ethical and environmental responsibilities. I am grateful for their commitments that have reflected extremely well on our company. Medhat Khalil Chairman & CEO, Raya Holding UN Global Compact Actions Taken & Impact Achieved and/or Plans for the Upcoming Year HUMAN RIGHTS 1. Businesses should Most of the human rights issues are fully considered and fully respected at support and respect the Raya Holding. All employees are well treated, fairly appraised on an annual protection of basis, and compensated financially based on an annual salary and benefits internationally proclaimed survey analysis that determines the salary scales for each job. They are human rights compensated based on their achievement level for their annual objectives. To ensure fairness in compensation, Raya has applied Towers Wattson Grading System, in order to be able to classify compensation and benefits brackets and to ensure that all employees and their jobs are graded fairly and equitably. Therefore, their motivation as well as their productivity levels has increased. All international safety measures are applied at the work places and all employees are medically covered and have life and disability insurance. Raya is committed to providing a safe workplace for all employees. In addition, there are laws and regulations that impose responsibility on Raya Group to safeguard against safety and health hazards. As well as securing the work environment by protecting ourselves, our assets and our operations against risk of injury, loss or damage resulting from criminal or negligence acts. Employees and other persons who are present at Raya facilities – where safety procedures are required – are expected to follow all the available safety instructions. Raya building is an OHSAS 18001 certified building with full occupational health and safety management. We are a smoke free building where smoking is not allowed except outside the facilities. It also has its own Gym with specialized instructors where all employees are entitled to use. In addition, special hours have been appointed for females in the gym in case they feel more comfortable to exercise in these specified hours alone. Moreover, a free hour on a daily basis is allocated for the employees to recharge their energy in the Gym or/and the cafeteria, where healthy subsidized meals are offered. Furthermore, a library to enrich our employees’ intellectual abilities and knowledge and to encourage them to have a work-life balance has been built in Raya building. The library includes more than 250 books from different areas like literature, self-development, management, etc. Library seminars, where prominent speakers are hosted to discuss intellectual topics and have book reviews with our employees are also conducted. Respect for people whether they are employees, customers or shareholders is a vital principle that we adhere to strongly in each and every realm of our 1a. Respect for the existence. We believe that investing in people is by far the best allocation of Workplace our resources. Thus, we give both our customers and employees a superior environment for interaction and delivery. In interest of an efficient work place and in respect for Raya Group employees and directors, you are not allowed the following;  Solicit or distribute any non work related literature for any purposes during working hours or at any working area,  Eating, and/or chewing gum in work areas where customers are allowed to enter,  Using loud voice while talking to either colleagues and/or customers,  Engaging in any political act of any kind during the working hours or at any working area. Constant Respect We treat each other with respect and fairness at all times, just as we wish to be treated ourselves. We value the differences of diverse individuals from around the world. Employment decisions are based on business reasons, such as qualifications, talents and achievements, and are in compliance with local and national employment laws. 1b. Workforce Harassment Development Abusive, harassing or offensive conduct is unacceptable, whether verbal, physical or visual. Examples include: derogatory comments based on gender, racial or ethnic characteristics, and unwelcome sexual advances. We are encouraged to speak out if a coworker’s conduct makes us or others uncomfortable and to report harassment if it occurs. Threats or acts of violence or physical intimidation are prohibited. Human Resource policies provide additional guidance on harassment, consistent with local law. Raya reinforces the Roman poet Juvenal's saying, A healthy mind in a healthy body . Raya has a committee for sports and activities that organizes around 10 sports tournaments a year for employees, including football, volleyball, 1c. Raya Sports Activities squash, table tennis, bowling, darts, baby foot, Connect 4, etc., with the aim to not only entertain them but to stimulate their physical health and to reinforce their work-life balance. All subsidiaries' employees join to compete for Raya Cup in a spirited and warm environment. Raya Group is an equal opportunity employer and strives to treat its employees with respect and dignity. Raya is committed to capitalizing on the diversity of its employees and recognizes that its diverse workplace provides many benefits including creativity, variety in approaches to problem solving and the ability to work effectively as a regional company. This policy applies 1d. Treatment of to all human resources actions, including recruitment, hiring, placement, Employees & their promotion, separation, compensation, benefits administration, training, social personal information and recreational programs, and the use of Raya Group facilities. Raya Group respects the privacy and dignity of all individuals. Under our current policies, personal information necessary for effective business operations will be collected and retained. Access to personal employee information within Raya Group will be limited to employees and those persons with legitimate business need for such information. Raya Group will disclose any information required by law or court order. Raya reserves the right to present such information without having the employee’s written consent and will notify the concerned employee afterwards. Raya prides itself on its strongly entrenched employee culture that is based on four essential values: teamwork, respect for people, customer focus and excellence. Part of a strong internal communication program, Raya puts high emphasis on regular and transparent communication among employees of all levels through regular internal events that work to create a harmonic work environment. 2. And make sure that they No form of force is conducted with the employees at all. Relocations of are not complicit in human employees between the different branches of the group geographically are rights abuses sometimes done whenever the employees are needed there due to their experience. In those cases, the employees are fairly rewarded by having a convenient home to live in addition to the financial reward. Moreover, the company does not undertake any employment discrimination practice when it comes to hiring employees and only hires the ones who are most qualified for a job. An internal posting is given the priority to hire from within before looking at the external pool when there is a job opening, which always keeps the employees motivated. We avail summer training programs in different disciplines to prepare the youth for the job market and gain the needed technical and business skills. LABOR RIGHTS & FREEDOM 3. Businesses should There is no formal association of employees in the group but there is an uphold the freedom of informal system of the employees talking to their managers who in turn raise association and the the issues to Senior Management in order to make decisions. We also have a effective recognition of the direct communication channel between Senior Management and employees right to collective through several forms: bargaining  Annual Kick Off Meeting: At the beginning of the year, Raya conducts a kick-off meeting for all employees. The group celebrates the accomplishments of the past year and shares the goals and strategy for the coming one. High achievers are recognized in the event and are awarded the membership of Raya Achievers Club (RAC), which entitles them to a trip abroad.  Bi-weekly Chairman Breakfast: Randomly selected employees get faceto-face contact with the chairman to highlight any concerns.  Rayetna: Our internal portal, where there is a special link (discussion board) for employees to put their thoughts, opinions and discuss various subjects.  Fluka: A monthly internal news magazine which includes a section that receives employees’ suggestions, and daily work experiences.  Annual Management Seminar: targeted for the management board and first line managers to align the leadership strategy and raise and answer any inquiries or concerns related to it and to employees working conditions.  On-going Focus groups and Employee Satisfaction Surveys are conducted to measure employee motivation, performance, and morale.  Tips Program: bi-weekly tips are sent to the staff and leaders to enhance their skills and experience to have an improved work life balance.  Cafeteria Screens: Raya building has four screens in the cafeteria: two for broadcasting news and sports and two for broadcasting motivational and valuable videos to empower employees and enhance their loyalty and engagement.  Induction Program: Raya runs an induction program for the new hires in the organization in order to provide them with an orientation about Raya’s policies and procedures through an HR presentation, IT policies and services offered through an IT presentation, and a tour in the building as well as a discussion about the safety and security measures through a Facilities presentation. 4. The elimination of all Raya Holding does not hire anyone by force or keep any employee by force. All forms of forced and employees have contracts and are insured – medically and socially. The hiring compulsory labor and firing policy of Raya Holding is based on the Egyptian labor laws and is rigidly respected. Any employee can resign with a prior notice period based on the signed contract at the beginning of the employment. 5. The effective abolition of Child labor is completely banned in Raya Holding. child labor Minimum employment age is 18 years even for outsourced services offered by Raya’s suppliers, such as the security and cleaning companies. Child labor is not allowed at all. The minimum age of young employees who are employed on part time basis is 18 old, and those are usually summer trainees still at university who can perform small jobs to learn, acquire experience, and be compensated financially. 6. And the elimination of Equal opportunities are provided to everyone during the hiring process. Any discrimination in respect job applicant is merely assessed based on his qualifications and merits. If a job of employment and becomes vacant, an internal announcement is released to the company to give occupation a chance for existing permanent employees as part of our valuation and motivation to our employees. Raya enjoys a highly diversified pool of employees with regard to age, gender, religion, race, color, culture, background etc., which shows the absence of any discriminative attitude during the hiring process. The selection process is standardized and multi-layered in order to ensure that employees are hired based only on their merits and qualifications, not based on any discriminative criteria. Promotions and outstanding achievements are recognized and announced to show employees how their colleagues advance in order to encourage healthy competition between them. Raya has established different recognition programs that allow outstanding employees to be recognized for their achievements. Each employee is eligible to be nominated for any of Raya’s recognition programs to be filtered by an objective selection committee that evaluates winners based on strict pre-set criteria.  Wall of Fame Program: Managers who over-achieve their target for 4 consecutive years and accomplish a superior landmark in the history of the organization are rewarded through becoming candidates for Raya Wall of Fame, which is located in the entrance of the building and has one member’s name (selected by a top management committee) engraved for each historical year of the organization.  Star of the Quarter Program: Each department head nominates an employee as the star of the quarter based on Raya’s values (Excellence, Team Work, Customer Focus, and Respect for People). A selection committee selects one employee to represent each line of business for the quarter. Finally the committee selects one star of all lines of business candidates. Winners of each value are rewarded with a recognition certificate and to join Raya Achievers Club’s trip (see next point).  Raya Achievers Club: Employees who have exerted outstanding efforts in the preceding year (either quantitative or qualitative results) are part of the annual Raya Achievers Club. This group is recognized by certificates of superior achievement and is rewarded with a unique recreational 5 days trip, usually abroad. ENVIRONMENT 7. Businesses should Raya believes in creating economic value without negatively impacting the support a precautionary environment: approach to environmental challenges  Employees’ work in well-equipped offices with air-conditions. We seek to implement the environmental management systems and promote greater environmental responsibilities. 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater  Raya building is smoke free and smoking is only allowed outside the environmental building responsibility  The company makes considerable efforts to promote greater environmental responsibility and considers the discarding of waste or 9. And encourage the obsolete equipment part of that responsibility. An Environmental development and diffusion Management System in accordance with ISO 14001 and Occupational of environmentally Health & Safety Management System in accordance with ISO 18001:1999 friendly technologies are employed in Raya's Maintenance centers.  In our offices we have special wastebaskets to recycle office paper that are discharged and delivered on regular basis to a specific organization where they recycle papers. In addition, Raya Waste Segregation Initiative successfully reached the aim to separate paper, plastic and organic waste in order to make the recycling process easier for garbage collectors.  Raya has an energy saving program where we shut down Raya building electricity everyday at seven o’clock in the afternoon to save energy.  Our consumer electronics maintenance business, exports 80% of its electronics waste to Hungary in order to recycle these spare parts  We are working on a number of Green IT initiatives to preserve power consumptions.  We launched an anti-smoking campaign in order to educate our employees about the health and environment hazards of smoking. The campaign includes providing aid tools for employees who smoke to help them quit smoking.  We sponsored the 2012 Terry Fox Run in Egypt held by The Children’s Cancer Hospital Foundation 57357, The Canadian Embassy in Cairo in partnership with the American University & The European Union. The Terry Fox’s story of courage, perseverance, & compassion has inspired millions of people worldwide to support the fight against cancer. Raya employees participated to raise the awareness and collect funds to improve the quality of life and support the research work in Egypt ANTI-CORRUPTION 10. Businesses should Raya Holding maintains the highest standards of ethics and integrity in all its work against all forms of business operations. We maintain honest and open relationships based on corruption, including mutual trust. We honor all our commitments internal and external whether extortion and bribery verbal or written – values and mission statement. Internally, Raya has set up an internal auditing system where all departments and expenditures are audited on an ad-hoc basis to ensure that all the budgets are spent properly according to the company’s policies. Externally, Raya does not allow any sort of briberies and believe that transparency is the only way forward for a better economy. Raya emphasizes anti-corruption strategies through clear financial and project reports. Our policies state clearly that employees are not allowed any form of corruption and bribery and have set clear rules to business operations and customer and supplier relationship management, governing the exchange of any sort of gifts/ giveaways. These policies are clearly and directly communicated to all employees upon their hiring in a “code of business conduct” manual which s even posted on our corporate website Raya demonstrates a strong commitment to transparency and accountability and its Board believes that sound corporate governance practices provide an essential foundation to assist it in fulfilling its responsibilities in building value and trust for all stakeholders (employees, partners, customers, and shareholders). Corporate Social Responsibility and Commitment to Our Community Raya is a company rooted in community contributions and we are proud to have maintained this culture through our Lines of Businesses. It allows us to create a great work environment for our employees to excel. As part of our efforts to encourage and promote corporate citizenship activities, we will continue to take the lead in concentrating the drive of Raya’s employees, to highlight new values to our customers that contribute to society on an ongoing basis. 2014 was a year of developments for our CSR program, starting with the launch of our CSR Committee. In this matter, we assigned members from different Lines of businesses based on their commitment and effort in giving back to their communities. The CSR’s strategy is based on three main pillars, social, ethical and environment, which act as guidance in our decision-making process. This new committee structure allows us to take a further approach to our CSR activities. At Raya, we see the inseparable link between business success and the needs of citizens and communities that must be in balance in order to drive and achieve forward progress. We correspondingly and firmly believe that business can and should have a positive impact in our communities. Therefore, we constantly strive to embed our CSR policies and practices into everything we do. Above all, we’re eager about the future and are committed to making more positive contributions. In addition, we are pleased to note a number of our accomplishments in 2014. We aimed to permit our employees to become more health-conscious by introducing “Healthy Corner” that has introduced a large variety of healthy options from salads, fresh juices and vegetables to whole wheat sandwiches. We also continued with our efforts to give back to the community where we donated more than 500 blood bags to the National Blood Transfusion Services (NBTS, which is esteemed for its reputation as the safest blood bank in Egypt). We also continued our support to Misr El Kheir foundation through distribution of Ramadan food packages across governances for underprivileged families. Moreover, we also worked with the foundation during the winter to aid them in the home roofing restoration in Assiut. We also worked with Dar El Orman Association in collecting winter clothes from all of Raya’s premises and we managed to reach the highest donations of winter clothing for this year. Our employees across Lines of Businesses were involved in an array of volunteer and community initiatives aligned with our objectives of supporting local communities. Since the regular schooling system does not integrate economic and occupational education into the school curricula, Raya in cooperation with Injaz launched the volunteer-based education program for Spring 2015. Community Support: Volunteer-Based Education Programs with Injaz At Raya, volunteerism has added a new dimension to the working environment. The company's CSR volunteerism activities created more active employee volunteers who are interested to work in the field of educating the underprivileged. Raya in cooperation with Injaz launched the volunteer-based education program for Spring 2015.We invited our employees to Join Injaz in Empowering, The Next Generation. Injaz is an educational organization that strives to bridge the gap between the educational system and the private sector. We picked passionate committed employees to go into local schools for an hour on a weekly basis for a period of 5 weeks. Our active volunteers share their professional lives with youth and empowering them by providing their own personal insight on practical training, specifically on essentials to succeed in life. Injaz have multiple educational programs and Raya targeted to work in these two prime ones: It’s My Business – with its main focus on Entrepreneurship, the program emphasizes on the four main entrepreneurial characteristics. Throughout the course, students are able to identify potential businesses and examine ways to apply the four characteristics, in order to develop business plans as social entrepreneurs. The Environmental Program – primarily focuses on raising environmental awareness in order to make a significant shift in the students’ attitudes. It introduces the notion of limited resources and the importance of sharing them responsibly. The modules then create a link between the student’s daily life, resources and waste and highlight a very important issue in Egypt, that being pollution. The program encourages proactivity and the importance of recycling in order to achieving a sustainable way of living. Raya participated in teaching activities which gave its employees a greater sense of purpose; they feel motivated and thus they tend to excel more in the workplace. In 2015, our volunteers are working on having more volunteering hours in teaching and creating career awareness in schools. International Women’s Day Raya continues to celebrate International Women's Day with our employees by recognizing their undeniable achievements. Raya seeks to instill in our employees the importance of creating a healthy working environment for both men and women. Raya encourages its employees to excel in all that they do and to truly play a significant role in the company and community’s growth and progress. This year, Raya’s main message to its employees was: Make it Happen For more women in science, engineering and technology. Rooftop Restorations Clothes shortage isn’t the only obstacle families face during Egypt’s coldest days; a lot of families are left unsheltered in the street or in areas with no roofs over their heads. With the increase of residents living without basic infrastructure or services, Raya’s employees engaged to raise fund for Roof Restoration of houses in Assuit. In cooperation with Misr El Kheir Foundation we started the restoration process in Assuit-Abu EL Tig Nazlet Bakor Village. Employees were given the choice of either contributing in renovation or the reconstruction of choose of houses to protect the villagers from the cold in winter. Our goal is to continue in improving the external environment of homes and communities through the renovation of houses and roofs. As part of the initiative, we will commit to the restoration of houses for more villagers in the coming future. Warm Clothing for Families in the winter This winter the need is greater than ever. Raya has launched Winter Clothing Drive to ensure that families can stay safe and warm, while looking forward to a more hopeful future. Millions of families across Egypt are living in harsh conditions with no houses or clothing to keep them warm. Thus, our CSR community started an ongoing winter clothes drive for local communities. Raya in cooperation with El Orman Charity Association organized a 'winter clothing donation campaign for those in need. We encouraged our employees to donate their clothes that they see fit as suitable in helping those who need some sort of sheltering during the harsh winter conditions. Drop boxes were kept around all Raya Premises for people to donate their clothes. The Winter Drive provides warm winter clothing to some neediest households. Raya has collected a total of 1000 kilograms of winter clothing that were distributed all over Cairo. Raya will continue this campaign in the hopes of reaching as many as local communities in need of the gift of warmth. Ramadan Campaign In alignment with socially oriented initiatives that aim to serve our local communities in Egypt, Raya Holding cooperated with Misr El-Kheir foundation to launch Ramadan's El Khair Campaign. The slogan of the campaign was “Share Happiness: Feed a Family in Ramadan”. We aimed to donate and distribute 1000 Ramadan packages and with the continued support from our employees we have successfully reached our goal in providing the necessary items in helping those in need to have a secured Ramadan meal on a daily basis. The campaign targeted underprivileged families in 5 governorates in Upper Egypt (Assiut, Sohag, Minya, Beni Suef and Luxor). In each governorate, 200 packages were distributed. POWERFUL is how we describe El Khair Campaign. Our Ramadan food packages arrived at a particularly critical time, as it makes it possible to provide the basic necessities to the families residing in remote and rural areas and reaching out to a large number of families living in Upper Egypt. Employees Support: Blood Drive Raya Holding continues to support and contribute with “The Triple Effect” team in making this year’s blood donation campaign happen. Triple Effect is a community organization that is committed to ensure accessibility of safe blood for people who are need across the country. This year, our employees were assigned from different facilities holding the name “Blood Champions”. Different employees across various departments were given the title of Blood Champions to help raise awareness of the campaign to our employees. Each Blood Champion attended an awareness session held by The Triple Effect. They briefly presented within 20 minutes, the blood issue in Egypt and the problem the country faces, explained who needs blood donations, as well as those who are responsible for collecting the blood. Then, we cooperatively coordinated with them on ways to promote and create awareness inside the company for the blood drive. They were responsible for duration of a week to raise awareness of the campaign in different Raya premises through email shots, flyers and announcements. We have participated in this year's World Blood Donor Day where Raya received a triumph award. In addition our Blood Champions were honored and received UNV certificates. It wasn't just a great experience but a very impactful one indeed, as our donors’ contribution, commitments, efforts and goodwill helped us save lives. The campaign has turned out to be one of the most successful campaigns that Raya held as we collected 500 blood bags in total and saved 1500 lives. We briefed our donors with certain information regarding their impactful donation: • National Blood Transfusion Services (NBTS) is the safest blood bank in Egypt as it is supervised by the World Health Organization and certified by the Food & Drug Association as it follows the International standards. • All blood bags collected by NBTS are dedicated to public hospitals under the Ministry of Health. • If you need access to safe blood, you can visit/call any of the NBTS's centers listed in the attached list. • Regarding the blood analysis tests, all donors received a sealed envelope with results for the following: ◦ Blood Type ◦ Virus B ◦ Virus C ◦ Syphilis ◦ HIV / AIDS Orphan Day at RCC Maadi The Orphan's Day celebration aims to relieve part of the stress and sufferings faced by the orphans as well as introduce a happy event in their young lives, which they would not forget. Orphans do require care, love, guidance, and support. Raya strived to create a special day for the orphans; during the month of April, Raya partnered with Coca Cola to celebrate the Orphans’ Day with a group of 1000 young orphans. The event took place at Maadi Technology Park. Coca Cola participated with food and beverage while Raya employees participated in coloring activities to brighten up their lives. The day is truly eventful where it started the day by some walking/running activity followed by the musical chairs game. They also had the opportunity to play together, paint, draw and color, which highlights the importance of the arts in creating a healthy environment for kids. They passionately enjoyed the spirit of adventure through riding motorbikes and playing in the garden. Following this energetic activity, boys and girls were constantly entertained in numerous sports activities. At the end of the day, the children were very happy to receive presents, where Raya employees handed out their Raya Frisbees to the kids; it was a truly joyful day that brought happiness to the children. Social Support: The youth are an integral part of achieving societal growth and thus, we highly support activities with various organizations to create a future of equal opportunities for the youth through setting of systems and standards. We particularly worked with Wataneya Organization, which seeks to continuously develop orphanages; through this collaboration we aim to adopt all aspects of care and services that can provide the youth with an efficient working environment. We managed to donate needed equipment to facilitate the working environments for the orphans who work with Wataneya Organization. We have encountered on a large number of youngsters who are extremely interested in creating a career path within the Information and Communication Technology industry. Therefore, we embarked on achieving certain goals in the near future where we utilize our IT expertise and assist the youth segment that is interested in this industry by providing them workshops. Another focus area we want to develop is using our capabilities of Information and Communications Technology to support the society as a whole. We are planning to build workshop centers to provide the tools that can help them succeed in their IT career. Health & Sports Support Running Campaign In the month of December “Run for Your Heart” Campaign took place and marked as the first Raya Run Activity. Raya is proud to be part of a growing number of running events across Egypt. For the first time in cooperation with Cairo Runners, Raya organized a run in 6th of October for Raya’s employees. The event was more than just running activity as it also aimed to raise essential funds for the local community to secure their educational future, which were donated to Nebny Foundation. It was a day for employees to be with family and friends, share memories and become part of that important charitable event. Every kilo we ran/walked and every pound we raised supported the local youth segment through the Foundation, which primarily focuses on improving the living conditions and quality of life of the Egyptian youth. Corporate Social Responsibility Committee, Raya Sports & Activities Committee and Raya’s employees with their family and friends made a difference in the life of a child and helped in sponsoring their education. 2014 marked the year for Raya to hold Running/Walking Campaigns at the Headquarter site to encourage the habit of getting moderate exercise and we aspire to make it a yearly campaign. Sports Campaign Raya Run Club Corporate Social Responsibility Committee in cooperation with Raya Sports & Activities Committee launched the first running club at Raya Headquarter premises. We invited and encouraged all employees to join Raya Run Club. We launched a health awareness campaign all around the premises to encourage employees to start running. We distributed healthy tips about running, Do’s and Don’ts, food to eat before/after a run and a schedule to follow to become a fit runner. We set a schedule to assemble three times a week to meet on Mondays and Wednesdays at 7:15 am and on Tuesdays to gather at 6:30 pm. The club has weekly group training runs around premises streets. The goal is to create and maintain a social running group for all employees. In the future, we are aiming to use the Raya Runners as a group to brand our company and its presence at local running races. Raya’s employees participated at Cairo 3rd Half Marathon organized by Cairo's Biggest Running Troupe “Cairo Runners” It was a fundraising event and all the donations were given to a public hospital ‫ مستشفى الحميات‬, where they were able to utilize the money and buy their needed medical equipment. Healthy Corner We support the advancement of health by providing various types of health guidance and raising health awareness. The Healthy Corner opening marked a turning point for our employees where we are able to provide them with healthy menu choices featuring a balance of calories and nutrition. Through this coming period, we are seeking to take more active measures to promote better health to improve employee motivation and raise productivity. To encourage active lifestyles, Raya helps employees make active choices. Wellequipped gym, showers, health and wellness tips, running programs, team sports, and Healthy Corner offer healthy options and are just some of the measures that encourage fitness and healthy lifestyles amongst employees. In the effort to prevent illnesses, Raya, together with Raya Sports & Activities Committee, are promoting initiatives that focus on exercise and healthy eating.
