Sustainability Report 2013/2014 Whirlpool Latin America | 2013/2014 Sustainability Report 1 Mission, vision and values G4-56 Mission Create demand and earn trust every day Vision The best branded consumer products in every home around the world Values Respect. Integrity. Diversity and inclusion. Teamwork. Spirit of winning Whirlpool Latin America | 2013/2014 Sustainability Report 2 table of ContentS highlights . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 About this report . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 message from the Ceo . . . . . . . . . . . . 7 profile and history . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8 Business conduct . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12 engaged people . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20 Building the future . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37 Recognitions and awards . . . . . . . . . 49 gRI Index . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 51 Auditor’s report . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 65 Acknowledgments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 67 Whirlpool Latin America | 2013/2014 Sustainability Report 3 Highlights Whirlpool Latin America launched Whirlpool Latin America signed a pledge Whirlpool Latin America approximately 340 new products in 2013 of 10 Commitments promoting reached the goal of and 2014, more than three launches every LGBT rights prepared by several Zero Waste for industrial waste week on average. companies and Instituto Ethos. previously sent to landfills and reducing 13.11% of hazardous • Brastemp brand’s outstanding launch waste generated between in 2014 was B.blend, the first all-in-one The Company provided more than 2012 and 2014. multi‑drink capsules dispenser in Brazil, 450,000 hours of training between 2013 and with more than 20 types of carbonated or 2014 to more than 50,000 employees. non-carbonated, cold or hot drinks. A total of 428,000 m3 of water were reused between 2013 and 2014, an • The high spot for Consul brand was Health and safety indicators have amount equivalent to the daily consumption cervejeira, the first beer cooler in Brazil, improved for the fifth consecutive year, of 2.6 million inhabitants1. with a modern design and capacity to store with no occupational fatalities or up to 75 beer cans. diseases. Energy intensity — the ratio between energy consumption and 2013/2014 revenues Company’s net sales came to Approximately 90% of direct suppliers — was reduced by 9.9%. R$9.7 billion in 2014, an increase were audited for the Suppliers Excellence of approximately 4.0% over 2013, Program in 2013 and 2014. which stood at R$9.3 billion. The Company’s direct greenhouse gas emissions (scope 1) fell 13.6% The Instituto Consulado da Mulher between 2012 and 2014. The Company invested supported more than 100 popular R$19.7 million in environmental projects per year, between 2013 and 2014, management during 2013 and 2014. that together profited R$13.2 million. 1. According to average consumption per inhabitant in Brazil estimated by the 2013 Water Service Analysis published by the Sistema Nacional de Informações sobre Saneamento (SNIS) [the Brazilian Sanitation Information System] Whirlpool Latin America | 2013/2014 Sustainability Report 4 about tHiS RepoRt G4-3 G4-18 G4-19 G4-25 G4-26 G4-27 G4-28 G4-30 This Sustainability Report contains information on Whirlpool Latin America, its commitments, management, and performance of its manufacturing and administrative centers. It covers the operation of Whirlpool Latin The revalidation process steps were: America in Brasil from January 1, 2013 to December 31, 2014 (possible exceptions, SuRVeyS i.e., information on broader or more limited scope, are duly identified in the report). It is noteworthy that the financial performance of information disclosed in the report relate to to identify Whirlpool SA, parent company of Whirlpool Latin America appliances division. relevant aspects to the corporate sustainability for the sixth consecutive year, the Sample: report is based on global Reporting Global Reporting Initiative offers sustainability news related to the Company and Initiative (gRI) guidelines, under the Core a standard set of indicators for to the specific industry sector (homeappliances option; additionally, for the first time, it organizations around the world to and electroelectronics) comprehends a two-year period, replacing report their profile, strategy and the annual disclosure made since 2009, for Period: performance based on economic, a more relevant and mature disclosure of 2013 and 2014 social and environmental aspects. information and analysis. This allows the reader and the To define the topics to be addressed in this inteRVieWS companies to make year-year and report and prepare a document that meets its stakeholders’ demands, Whirlpool revalidated with Whirlpool company-company information comparison, for a more transparent its materiality matrix elaborated for the 2012 leaders to gather and relevant reporting. For further Sustainability Report, available at www. whirlpool.com.br/sustentabilidade2012/. relevant aspects to the information on GRI, go to http:// globalreporting.org/ The new matrix is presented below. Company’s sustainability Whirlpool Latin America | 2013/2014 Sustainability Report 5 About this report These aspects reflect topics of stakeholders’ interest identified during consultation and the results from surveys and interviews, which were used as metrics to define each topic in the matrix axes, Waste according managementto their perceived relevance during the process. Relevance to all Energy efficiency stakeholders Based on this, WaterGRI indicators related to each management of these topics were identified, regardless of their matrixSustainable scoring, products because all items were considered relevant in some da Instituto Consulado of Mulher the steps during stakeholders consultation and revalidation Occupational process. Selected health and indicators aresafety described in the GRI index included Climate changein this report. Strategic sustainability management Waste management Sustainable innovation Relevance to all Energy efficiency Employees development stakeholders Water management Sustainable products Instituto Consulado da Mulher Occupational health and safety Climate change Strategic sustainability management Sustainable innovation Strategic relevance to the organization Employees development Whirlpool Latin America | 2013/2014 Sustainability Report 6 Message from the CEO G4-1 In 2014, We stand out due to our investments in research and innovation, always aiming at detecting and meeting our consumers’ desires. This was already Whirlpool recognized by the media and several institutions. We made important steps towards open innovation, through partnerships with universities Latin America and other organizations, exchanging knowledge and incorporating others’ experiences, in order to contribute to foster innovation in Brazil. carried out the greatest Over the two recent years, we invested R$27.5 numberof launches million in projects aimed at sustainability and social responsibility — the latter through the Instituto of its history, offering clients Consulado da Mulher (Women’s Consulate Institute). The notably results we obtained make innovative products with us very proud, such as zeroing out industrial waste produced by all factories previously sent sustainable attributes. to landfills. We also turned careful attention to water consumption indicators in our operations We are a team constantly and, currently, 25% of water used in factories is Guia Você S/A. These achievements also have Steering Committee in Brazil] and undertaking sustainably obtained through rainwater harvest a positive impact on our work environment. initiatives on human rights, labor rights, challenging ourselves to and effluent treatment projects. The 2014 Employee Engagement survey, with environmental protection, and anti-corruption Whirlpool’s personnel and executives of all practices. With these topics in mind, we obtain outstanding results, We were recognized for the fourth time as one regions, got to one of the best results in our prioritize the Company’s sustainability and the most sustainable companies in Brazil by 2014 history, which was considered above the bestsocial responsibility initiatives, which produced focusing on sustainability, Guia de Sustentabilidade (Sustainability Guide), in-class companies results. the 2013–2014 results disclosed in this report, innovation, people, and the most reputable survey about sustainability development in Brazil. Our focus on talents is Whirlpool Latin America reinforces its following the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines. operational excellence. also consistently acknowledged by the market. For the 18th consecutive year, we are among commitment to the UN’s Global Compact by participating in the Comitê Brasileiro do Pacto João Carlos Brega the best companies to work for, according to Global (CBPG) [Global Compact Local Network CEO of Whirlpool Latin America Whirlpool Latin America | 2013/2014 Sustainability Report 7 01. pRofile and HiStoRy Whirlpool Latin America | 2013/2014 Sustainability Report 8 pRofile and HiStoRy WHiRlpool latin aMeRiCa G4-4 G4-5 G4-6 G4-8 G4-9 Whirlpool Latin America is one of the leaders in home appliances in Latin America and offers, through seven renowned brands, refrigerators, freezers, ranges, washers and dryers, dishwashers, microwave ovens, air conditioners and water filters, in addition to selling electric ovens, evaporative coolers, range hoods, kitchen accessories, vacuums and portable appliances, such as mixers and blenders. United States BAYAMÓN Puerto Rico In Brazil SANTO DOMINGO Dominican Republic QUITO Ecuador Headquarters Oﬃce Distribution Center In Latin America Technology Center Factory Whirlpool Latin America | 2013/2014 Sustainability Report 9 Profile and history History 1957 1976 Whirlpool’s history in Brazil began with Multibrás acquired important ownership the formation of Multibrás S.A. Indústria de interest in the competitor Consul S.A., Aparelhos Domésticos, in São Paulo, with manufacturer of refrigerators, with the main purpose of selling Brastemp brand headquarters in the city of Joinville (state of products. The brand had a great reception in Santa Catarina). Consequently, the Company the market and expanded significantly, and began to hold interest in the Empresa Brasileira became Brastemp S.A. Aparelhos Domésticos de Compressores S.A. — EMBRACO, Consul’s e Comerciais in 1972. affiliated company that produces compressors, an essential component in the manufacturing DNA of Innovation: In the 1950s, Brastemp of refrigerators. launched the first automatic washing machines with the pioneering agitation and spinning DNA of Innovation: In the 1970s, Consul washing system, still currently in use. At the launched the first air conditioner manufactured time, Consul also created Consul Junior, the in Brazil, and Brastemp brought to the market “father” of the current minibar. In the 1960s, the first dishwasher and upright freezer Brastemp launched its first range, and the first in Brazil. Brazilian dryer and double-door refrigerator. 1984 Multibrás acquired all shares representing the controlling interest in Semer S.A., a notable manufacturer of popular ranges located in the city of São Paulo. 1957 DNA of Innovation: In the 1980s, Brastemp introduced to the consumer the first frost-free refrigerator and the self-cleaning oven. 1984 Whirlpool Latin America | 2013/2014 Sustainability Report 10 pRofile and HiStoRy HiStoRy 1990 1998 2014 muLTIBRáS openeD the washing machine muLTIBRáS ACquIReD philips’ major home BRASTemp LAunCheD B.blend, the first manufacturing plant in the city of Rio Claro appliance business in Chile, which changed its all-in-one multi-drink capsules dispenser (state of São paulo). name to Whirlpool Chile Ltda., consolidating in Brazil, which promises to bring about a its presence in Latin America. revolution in the way people prepare beverages at home. There are more than 20 types of drinks on the touch of a button, carbonated or 1992 non-carbonated, cold or hot: juices, nectars, BRASTemp DA AmAzÔnIA WAS eSTABLISheD 2000 sodas, energy drinks, iced teas, teas, coffees, to manufacture microwave ovens. WhIRLpooL CoRpoRATIon ACquIReD chocolates, frapês and non alcoholic drinks. ninety-eight per cent (98%) of multibrás S.A.’s capital stock through public offering. 1994 Read more about b.blend at: bblend.com.br muLTIBRáS WenT puBLIC on the São paulo Stock exchange and incorporated Consul 2006 S.A. and Semer S.A. into one sole controlling The CompAny ABSoRBeD ALL emBRACo company, becoming the largest home appliance shares. It also changed its corporate company in Latin America. name from multibrás eletrodomésticos to Whirlpool S.A. DNA of Innovation: During the 1900s and 1997 2000s, the brands tightened relations with muLTIBRáS’ ConTRoLLIng InTeReST WAS consumers and launched new categories ACquIReD by Whirlpool Corporation, which of more efficient products with innovative undertook manufacturing and sales operations designs, so as to meet modern consumer’s of major home appliances for the Latin America. growing needs. Whirlpool Latin America | 2013/2014 Sustainability Report 11 02. buSineSS ConduCt Whirlpool Latin America | 2013/2014 Sustainability Report 12 Business Conduct Corporate governance G4-34 Whirlpool Latin America is a direct subsidiary of Whirlpool S.A. for the home appliance industry and is part of the global group Whirlpool Corporation. The Company went public in 1994 and trades G4-SO3 Management its shares on the Securities, Commodities and In 2013, a total of 26 processes in five different Futures Exchange (BM&FBovespa) under the units were submitted to Internal Audit review Whirlpool’s management structure is composed of ticker symbols WHRL3 and WHRL4, and is subject and tests to ensure the compliance with SOX’s professionals highly experienced in each business aspect. to the Comissão de Valores Mobiliários (CVM) control requirements. In 2014, a total of 31 [Brazilian Securities and Exchange Commission] processes were audited in six units. regulations and standards of transparency. Whirlpool Latin America’s management structure with term of office up to 2018 Whirlpool also constantly assesses its João Carlos Costa Brega CEO / Executive Officer of the Home Appliance Business Unit internal process controls to comply with the Capital stock Financial Executive Officer of Compressors and Refrigerators Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOX) requirements, to Carlos Henrique Pinto Haddad Business Unit and Investor Relations Executive Officer which Whirlpool Corporation is subject. The Company’s capital stock is composed of 1,502,786,006 shares, of which 31.5% are Paulo Domingos Mileo Miri Executive Officer of Sales, Logistics, and Human Resources SOX establishes that companies listed on the preferred shares and 68.5% are common Nathalie Catherine Marie Executive Officer of Marketing New York Stock Exchange — such as Whirlpool shares, for a market capitalization of R$5.99 Therese of the Home Appliance Business Unit Corporation — must ensure transparency and billion at the end of 2014. Executive Officer of New Products Development Alexandre de Oliveira Czesnat of the Home Appliance Business Unit credibility of its management through internal rules and audit mechanisms. As a publicly held company, Whirlpool is committed to transparency in the disclosure to the Board of Directors market and its shareholders of its quarterly results and information on risk management, João Carlos Costa Brega Chairman of the Board of Directors possible losses, strategy, policies and any other factors that may influence the Company’s market Armando Ennes do Valle Junior Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors capitalization and investor’s decision making. Antonio Francisco Lima de Member of the Board of Directors Rezende Read more about these topics at whirlpool.com.br/investidor Antonio Mendes Member of the Board of Directors Whirlpool Latin America | 2013/2014 Sustainability Report 13 Business Conduct Operational and economic performance Macroeconomic and industry scenario 2014 was marked by high economic and political volatility due to several events, such as the World Cup soccer games and the presidential election, which altered seasonality in the major home appliance industry. Economic growth for the year is expected to be petty, given the constant bear revisions throughout the period. The scenario was little favorable for a more expressive expansion of consumption, given the actual employment income downturn, high inflation, weak credit market, and one of the lowest consumer confidence levels in history. High inflation led the Central Bank of Brazil to increase 1.25% of the Selic benchmark interest rate during the year, closing 2014 at 11.75%. 2015 is expected to be a year of adjustments in the economy. One of the major challenges is the tax adjustment, since Brazil has been through a process of increasing government spending and reducing tax rates. The market also foresees an increase in government-controlled tariffs and a higher exchange rate, which would increasingly press up domestic market prices. Given the high inflation scenario, higher Selic rate is expected for 2015. The market believes that 2015 will be a year of low economic growth. Operating highlights In 2014 the Company launched in the domestic market around 180 Brastemp, Consul and KitchenAid brand products. One of them was Brastemp’s B.blend, the first all-in-one multi-drink dispenser in Brazil. Brastemp also brought to the market the new Side Inverse refrigerator, the first in Brazil with Wi-Fi connection, and the Brastemp Maxi Flat microwave oven, with flatbed technology that eliminates the need for a turntable. Consul’s outstanding launch was the Consul Mais product category, comprising the beer cooler Cervejeira and the microwave oven with toast feature, and the dishwasher Consul Facilite. KitchenAid put on the market the Pro Line product category, with four products inspired in the Stand Mixer design. Whirlpool Latin America | 2013/2014 Sustainability Report 14 Business Conduct Operational and economic performance Economic and financial performance G4-9 In 2014, Whirlpool S.A.’s consolidated net sales totaled R$9.659 million, up 3.47% over the R$9.335 million recorded in the previous year. The result for the year, after interest in controlling and affiliated companies and before taxes, was R$976 million (R$1.025 million in 2013), corresponding to 10.10% of net sales (10.98% in 2013). Net income for the year ended December 31, 2014 came to R$709 million (R$813 million in 2013), equivalent to R$0.47 per share (R$0.54 em 2013). The Board of Directors’ Meetings held on June 3, 2014, November 5, 2014 and December 9, 2014, in accordance with provision of the by-laws, authorized the payment of dividends amounting to R$1,113,020. Value added distribution G4-EC1 2012 2013 2014 Suppliers 57% 54% 53% Employees 10% 10% 9% Shareholders 5% 8% 8% Government 23% 23% 25% Reinvestment 5% 5% 5% FOTO Whirlpool Latin America | 2013/2014 Sustainability Report 15 Business Conduct Risk management G4-2 Ethics and compliance G4-56 The Company has a specific and dedicated area that monitors and evaluates on a daily basis the business Whirlpool’s operations are guided by ethics in relations and compliance with applicable exposure to possible risk factors, in order to define instruments to mitigate them and avoid their impacts. regulations. Below are the main risks managed by Whirlpool. For further information on this management, read the To ensure proper conduct of employees, the Company prepared its Code of Ethics — to which 2014 Reference Form, item 5, at goo.gl/fOcQ26 (only in portuguese). all employees must commit— summarizing its 15 Global Compliance Policies. The document defines the personal and professional behavior of the employees in all countries where Whirlpool operates, stating what the Company considers acceptable in topics such as negotiations, disclosure materials, product manuals, customer and supplier relationship, and involvement in Main financial performance risks political activities. The Company is exposed to commodity price fluctuations, mainly copper and aluminum, which may Upon hiring, the employees receive a printed version of the document, also available digitally affect the operating and financial results. at the Company’s internal portal, which must be read during the integration event and then signed, being a proof of employees’ commitment to its content. In addition, the Company’s Besides, the exchange rate variation risk may affect the Company, because Whirlpool exports around executives must reinforce every year their commitment to the 15 Global Compliance Policies by 20% of its products to customers abroad and imports part of its products and raw material from signing electronically the Management Questionnaire form, which lists behaviors expected from suppliers or related parties in foreign currency. a leader while performing their duties, especially in people relations and corporate processes. With this scenario, also including the interest rate variation risk, the Company’s management is During 2014, more than 50 on-site training events of around five-hour-duration each were responsible for measuring, monitoring and mitigating financial risks deriving from these exposures. provided to Company’s executives about the Code of Ethics and the Global Compliance Policies. For such purpose, it uses derivative financial instruments with the purpose of managing the risks Also, two online training events were provided about anti-corruption and money laundering. and protecting the Company’s cash flow, assets and liabilities from the commodity price volatility and foreign exchange variations. The Company’s strategic level also received training through eight compliance workshops about the Global Compliance Policies and the role of medium and senior management in disseminating among employees and making them committed to Ethics culture and the correct way of making In addition to financial, tangible, measurable and formalized risks considered in the Company’s business. risk management, Whirlpool also monitors, identifies and manages potential risk factors related to the availability of human and environmental resources essential to its operations, to the compliance with applicable social and environmental legislation, and to the social and environmental changes and improvements in the communities and markets where it operates. For more information, refer to Chapters Engaged people and Building the future in this report. Whirlpool Latin America | 2013/2014 Sustainability Report 16 Business Conduct Ethics and compliance In 2014, in addition to training, Whirlpool’s Compliance and Corporate Ethics area carried out more than 15 communication initiatives about the topic, which were concluded with the Compliance Day, an event conducted in every unit in Latin America, with the participation of professor and philosopher Clóvis de Barros Filho who spoke on ethics in personal and professional lives. As a result, the employees in the administrative area considered these Compliance communication initiatives the Company’s actions of most relevance and quality in the year, with more than 350 positive comments — 94.5% MQCI. Hotline services Whirlpool’s Code of Ethics also discloses the Company’s hotline — telephone number, postal address or online portal access — dedicated to receive complaints regarding practices in disagreement with the Compliance Policies. This hotline, which ensures confidentiality, forwards the reports to the commission that analyzes ethics-related events in the Company. This multidisciplinary committee meets every week and is composed of Compliance, Audit, HR, and Corporate Security representatives to investigate possible nonconformities. However, the Company strongly encourages managers and employees to solve alleged unfair conflicts or situations by open conversation, having the Company’s HR department to mediate in case of doubts or complaints. To regulate supplier relations, the Company developed in 2008 the Supplier Code of Conduct, through which the partner companies commit to ethically develop their business and operations. The Legal Executive Office is responsible for leading and managing ethics and compliance. Two ethics committees are designed to oversee everyday ethics-related events, one for Brazil and other for the other countries in the Latin America region. FOTO Whirlpool Latin America | 2013/2014 Sustainability Report 17 Business Conduct Sustainability strategy G4-56 ENERGY Sustainability is part of EFFICIENCY Whirlpool’s corporate Thus, sustainability is present and naturally incorporated into all business steps: planning, DNA since the beginning. regulatory requirements positioning and possible crises, product manufacturing and It serves as guide for after use, as well as in daily activities of more than 16,000 employees. WASTE RESTRICTED SUBSTANCES a mature business MINIMIZATION REDUCTION The Sustainability Committee plays an management and is crucial important role, holding quarterly meetings to define strategies, choose priorities and decide for the achievement over sustainability management; so do the Sustainability Educators, who develop initiatives Sustainability of good results and in all units with the purpose of ensuring the dissemination of the topic, disclosing good strategic pillars business longevity. practices, identifying opportunities and ensuring that annual sustainability goals are The continuous efficiency improvement is not attained. SUSTAINABLE SOCIAL USE OF WATER DEVELOPMENT an option for the Company, but the essence of its operations. It includes from saving natural Throughout the report, this concept is shown resources — water, energy, raw materials in practice, with the description of Whirlpool’s — until reducing greenhouse gas emissions, initiatives and management based on the six creating more efficient products and properly main pillars for the building of an innovative, CARBON managing waste. sustainable and possible future. EMISSIONS REDUCTION Given the importance of sustainability and its significant relation with the business, Whirlpool’s Sustainability Committee is composed of six executive offices — Sustentainability, Marketing, Human Resources, Product Development/Innovation, Supply, and Legal — and the Sustainability Executive Office, and other executive offices invited ocasionally. Whirlpool Latin America | 2013/2014 Sustainability Report 18 Business Conduct Sustainability strategy In 2013, Whirlpool prepared a G4-EN31 Investments in sustainability strategic Voluntary commitments G4-15 qualitative analysis of organization’s pillars (Millions of R$) Whirlpool’s sustainability management also aligns itself with Brazilian and global initiatives most relevant sustainability for sustainable performance that creates value. The Company reaffirmed the following public commitments: aspects within its strategic pillars, 13.0 13.0 14.6 and defined, upon approval and 3.7 3.8 4.2 Global Compact Whirlpool is signatory of UN’s initiative aimed at stimulating organizations participation of the Sustainability 10.4 9.3 9.2 to adopt universally accepted core values in the areas of human rights, Committee, its sustainability action labor relations, environmental protection and anti-corruption, through map and priorities for the period the pursuit of the Ten Principles. Whirlpool’s contribution to the accomplishment of the Ten Principles is described at goo.gl/L5A22m between 2013 and 2015. 2012 2013 2014 Na Mão Certa (in the right hand) Program Environmental Management Consulado da Mulher The Company is signatory of the program that establishes, since 2006, an The highlights are the initiatives alliance companies against sexual exploitation of children and adolescents on rational use of water, energy Investments in environmental in Brazilian highways, proposed by Childhood Brasil (Brazilian organization which is part of the World Childhood Foundation) and Instituto Ethos. efficiency, social development, and management by category (R$ million)* At the end of 2013, the coalition summed 1,465 signatory companies. reduced use of restricted substances. 2013 2014 In addition to the financial support to the project, Whirlpool raises awareness of carriers that For information on these initiatives Environmental prevention and management costs: provides services to the Company. At the end of 2014, a total of 61% of the 40 companies investments, consulting, and their results, refer to Chapters legal rates, and payments to Environmental 4.6 4.9 that serve the Company were signatories of the program. More information on the pact is at Building the future and Engaged people. Management teams. namaocerta.org.br/pacto.php (only in portuguese). Waste disposal, emission Brazil GHG Protocol Program treatment, and remediation costs: it includes operation 4.6 5.5 Whirlpool joined the initiative — maintained by Fundação Getúlio and maintenance, disposal Vargas’ São Paulo Business Administration School Sustainability Study and transportation Center — that fosters corporate culture of disclosing greenhouse gas Total 9.2 10.4 emission inventories. * Information on investments includes operations in Brazil and Argentina. Since 2008, Whirlpool discloses annually its inventory through Brazil’s Public Registry of Greenhouse Gas Emissions online platform using the GHG Protocol International methodology. The inventories are disclosed at registropublicodeemissoes.com.br/index.php/participante/113 (only in portuguese). Whirlpool Latin America | 2013/2014 Sustainability Report 19 03. engaged people Whirlpool Latin America | 2013/2014 Sustainability Report 20 Engaged people EmployeeS Whirlpool’s people management strategy is designed to develop employees, recognizing their performance, and valuing diversity, in order to create a friendly work environment to engage and retain talents. Employees profile G4-9 G4-10 G4-LA1 G4-LA12 TOTAL EXECUTIVE OFFICE: 16 TOTAL MANAGEMENT: 187 In 2014, Whirlpool signed a pledge of “10 Company’s Commitments BY AGE GROUP BY GENDER BY AGE GROUP BY GENDER Promoting LGBT Rights”, an initiative 2 12% developed since 2013, through its participation in a forum composed of companies. The Guide with the Commitments was sponsored by the ILO (International Labor Men Women Men Women Organization), UNAIDS and UNDP (United Nations Development Program) aimed at promoting actions TOTAL ADMINISTRATIVE AREA: 2,270 TOTAL MANUFACTURING AREA: 13,071 that value practices and attitude towards promotion of LGBT rights. BY AGE GROUP BY GENDER BY AGE GROUP BY GENDER 6,562 50% 1,167 52% 6,092 47% 1,420 63% Below are Company’s employees profile 1,007 44% 6,208 47% 6,509 50% and initiatives towards development and recognition. Men Women Men Women + 27 trainees + 101 interns + 36 apprentices + 412 in LAR international operations A TOTAL OF 16,120 EMPLOYEES AT THE END 2014 Whirlpool Latin America | 2013/2014 Sustainability Report 21 Engaged people Employees Employees by region 412 2,236 3% 79 14% 0.5% South Region (Joinville) 3,727 23% Southeast Region (São Paulo) 53% 8,552 Southeast Region (Multibras Administrative Center) Southeast Region (Rio Claro) Southeast Region (Compra Certa purchase club) 3% 4% North Region (Manaus) 540 LAR International* 574 * Includes Whirlpool Latin America employees in Latin America’s countries in which the Company operates (except for Brazil), and the Miami unit in the United States. From the total number of employees, only 137 were hired under term employment contract (interns and apprentices). The remaining employees were under at-will employment contract. Concerning working hours, only 36 employees apprentices were part-time and, the remaining employees, were full-time. With regard to inclusion of minorities, Whirlpool staff included 624 people with disabilities (3.9% of total number) and 793 black people (4.9% of total number). G4-LA3 Among the employees that took parental leaves, retention rate one year or more after the leave was 82.4% in 2013 — of a total of 779 employees — and 81.7% in 2014 — of a total of 815 employees. Whirlpool Latin America | 2013/2014 Sustainability Report 22 engaged people eMployeeS Training and development G4-LA9 G4-LA10 Whirlpool offers training and education programs for employees in all levels of operations, with the purpose of stimulating professional development — thus having human capital necessary to seek efficiency and innovation improvements. Below are the Company’s main programs: ESCOLA dE LÍdErES (SChooL of LeADeRS) EdUCAçãO dE JOVENS E AdULtOS (eJA) [youTh AnD ADuLT eDuCATIon] Purpose: Leadership alignment with the Company’s strategy and values. Purpose: To provide education for employees and improve their career development potential. Public: executive officers, managers, chiefs/specialists, manufacturing supervisors, trainees and Public: factories’ hourly workers. former trainee analysts. Units in Brazil: Joinville. Units in Brazil: Administrative Center, São paulo, Rio Claro, Joinville, and manaus. Units abroad: united States — miami, Argentina, and Colombia. WhIRLpooL unIveRSITy Launched in 2013, it offers four educational fronts — Whirlpool Academy, Business Academy, fÓrUM hMM (hmm foRum) functional Academy, and Leadership Academy — with the purpose of preparing employees to Purpose: To have discussions led by senior leaders based on theoretical material from harvard obtain excellent results in their current positions and potential future. university. Public: managers, chiefs/specialists, and former trainee analysts. Units in Brazil: Administrative Center, São paulo, Rio Claro, and manaus. Whirlpool Academy Business Academy Disseminates the mission, Develops competences related SUPEr 100 vision, principles and values that to the business and the systemic Purpose: To train hourly employees based on Strategic Competences. underline Company’s culture. and strategic vision. Public: factories’ hourly workers and facilitators. Units in Brazil: Rio Claro, Joinville and manaus. Functional Academy Leadership Academy SIStEMA dE GEStãO INtEGrAdA (SgI) [InTegRATeD mAnAgemenT SySTem] TRAInIng Aligns functional development Develops leaders and future Purpose: To train employees on SgI requirements and procedures. with Whirlpool’s strategic leaders for management Public: factories’ hourly workers. competences in the medium positions. Units in Brazil: São Paulo, Jaboatão dos Guararapes, rio Claro, Joinville and Manaus. and long term. Whirlpool Latin America | 2013/2014 Sustainability Report 23 Engaged people Employees G4-LA11 In addition to training programs, all Whirlpool employees are submitted to performance and potential Succession Planning (Potential Evaluation) evaluation. Evaluations processes for hourly employees and administrative employees are different, Applicable to employees that range from senior personnel (analysts, engineers and equivalents) as follows: until vice presidents, the professionals with potential to succeed and assume higher positions were identified in 2014. The process was made by a joint committee by the hierarchical level immediate Avaliação de Desempenho Horista (ADH) [Hourly Employee Performance Evaluation] above the evaluated group, identifying successors and then using a methodology to verify mapping Applicable to hourly employees serving the Company for at least three months, it includes aspects such coherence with the previously identified potential. With the process, the Company identified as practice of Company’s values, behavior (commitment and initiative, attendance and safety practices) potential for vertical growth, readiness to assume a higher position (for whom have this potential), and results (quality, productivity, and lean manufacturing practices). ADH is conducted at least once a and data to prepare employee’s feedback and PDI. year and is used to raise salaries, stimulate growth in hourly employment career, and give scholarships. Programa de Monitoramento de Performance (PMP) [Performance Monitoring Program] Workplace Environment and culture G4-HR2 Applicable to all active administrative employees, it is conducted annually divided into three major phases: establishment of goals, monitoring throughout the cycle (half-yearly feedbacks) and Whirlpool continuously monitor, through internal and external surveys employee engagement individual performance evaluation (final evaluation). After individual evaluation, a joint committee and satisfaction. This is essencial to strengthen their motivation, thus ensuring good business compares peer performance and prepares a final evaluation. development. Based on survey results, improvements plans are formulated to each unit. PMP evaluates five criteria jointly referred to as Extraordinary Performance & Results (EP&R) — Administrative employees answer the global employee engagement survey, operational employees Results versus Objectives, Job Scope, Practice of the Company’s Values, Leadership, and Talents & also take part in the Workplace Environment Survey. Development —, assessing which and how goals were attained. The Company also carries out the Culture and Values Project, aimed at disseminating its vision, Plano de Desenvolvimento Individual (PDI) [Individual Development Plan] mission and values among employees. The project organizes workshops to ensure that all employees Applicable to all active administrative employees, PDI is prepared throughout the year by the are aligned with the Company’s commitments to sustainability, such as the promotion of human employee and its manager, with the purpose of addressing development points and enhancing rights, diversity and inclusion, ethics and respect. Between 2013 and 2014, a total of 386 managers employee’s strengths. were trained in on-site workshops, and 637 employees did online training modules in 2014. Whirlpool Latin America | 2013/2014 Sustainability Report 24 Engaged people Employees Health and safety Promoting employees’ health and safety is priority in Whirlpool’s operations and is crucial to Absenteeism rate totaled 3.79 in 2013 and maintain skilled and engaged employees and to manage business risks. 4.38 in 2014, including only the manufacturing units and also the hours away from work Given the great importance of this aspect, the Company adopts globally accepted rigorous because of maternity/paternity, family deaths engineering and control standards and monitors monthly health and safety indicators, with the and scolarship. active participation of the CEO and vice presidents of the Company. In 2014, for the fifth consecutive year, neither Whirlpool develops training programs and promotes the adoption of the best practices of occupational occupational fatalities nor occupational health and safety in all operations, underlined by a preventative culture which is known and put illnesses were recorded. into practice by all employees. Management systems comply with and are certified by the standard systems ISO 9001 (Quality Management), ISO 14001 (Environmental Management) and OHSAS Health and safety indicators (*) (**) 18001 (Occupational Health and Safety Management). These committees helped to consistently reduce the number of occupational accidents. 5.44 5.43 G4-LA5 To guide the Company’s operations on these topics, Whirlpool has 14 formal safety and health committees composed of 2,197 employees. These committees helped to consistently 1.24 reduce the number of occupational accidents. 0.57 0.48 0.32 2012 2013 2014 G4-LA6 In five years, the Company reduced 75% of injury rate and 88% of the number of days away from Injury rate Days away rate work case, closing 2014 with an injury rate with and without days away at 0.32. Days away rate also had an expressive fall of 86%, coming to 1.24. *Health and safety rates comply with the US Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA). ** Includes LAR International information, which includes, in addition to Brazil, Latin America’s countries in which the Company operates, and the Miami unit in the United States. Whirlpool Latin America | 2013/2014 Sustainability Report 25 Engaged people Suppliers G4-12 G4-56 G4-EC8 G4-LA14 G4-HR1 G4-HR5 G4-HR6 G4-HR10 The relationship between Whirlpool and its suppliers is based on trust and the pursuit of mutual development, both stuck to the same principles to ensure the quality and sustainability in the Company’s entire product chain. Whirlpool Corporation Supplier Code of Conduct establishes rules for supplier relationship and management. All suppliers must agree with this code before being hired and annually for contracts renewal. 1. Monitoring Since 2004 for direct suppliers and in 2011 for indirect suppliers, this system evaluates the performance with regard to quality, safety, health, environmental and social Integrated Supplier responsibility standards required by Whirlpool. Management System (SGIF) Whirlpool intends to audit all critical suppliers through In Brazil, Whirlpool has around 500 direct suppliers (whose materials are directly the system and support them in the pursuit of better used in product manufacturing) and about 3,000 suppliers of indirect materials performance based on the Company’s strategic and services. sustainability pillars. Among the commitments required by the Code are the respect to human rights, labor relations, health and safety, environmental protection, and ethics through anti-corruption initiatives. For more 2. Stimulating Whirlpool organizes workshops with its suppliers to discuss and exchange knowledge on sustainability-related information on the Code, go to suppliers.whirlpool.com/pub/Suppliercodeofcoduct.html and developing aspects, in order to ﬁnd out better and more eﬃcient ways to manage social and environmental topics in supplier Exchange of knowledge relations. In addition, Whirlpool developed a Suppliers Excellence Program to share good practices and stimulate sustainability management in the entire supply chain. Between 2013 and 2014, around 90% of direct suppliers (measured based on total purchase amount) were audited within the scope of the program. Below are the main initiatives aimed at promoting sustainability and excellence in supply chain. 3. Recognizing The Company receives case studies from suppliers, regarding sustainability practices and recognizes the best ones which Supply Chain Sustainability are aligned with its six sustainability pillars. Award Whirlpool Latin America | 2013/2014 Sustainability Report 26 Engaged people Suppliers In 2013, the first cycle of Whirlpool’s Cadeia do Aço (Steel Chain) Program was concluded. It aims at conducting audits in suppliers and subcontractors in the steel production chain, basic raw material for home appliances, including suppliers of coal and iron ore, with the purpose of verifying how these suppliers are complying with environmental and social responsibility requirements, such as the respect to human rights and indigenous people, and the rejection of slave and child labor. Since 2009, when it began, 13 industry companies were submitted to first audit (in 2011) and second audit (in 2013), which did not reveal serious irregularities, but appointed improvement opportunities in the compliance of legal requirements. In 2013, an event was conducted to certify the participants of the project, with the presence of the Company’s senior management, its audited suppliers and subcontractors, government agencies and the press. Since 2012, the Company has also promoted the Whirlpool Supply Chain Sustainability Award, which, in addition to recognizing the companies with the best sustainability initiatives, intends to increasingly develop supply chain, engaging partners to the topic, thus intensifying their contribution to the sustainable development. Whirlpool’s suppliers eligible to participate in the Award are those that provide raw material, services or parts which were audited and were classified under the Grow category. Case studies were evaluated by an internal committee formed by specialists, which are scored based on their alignment with Whirlpool’s strategic sustainability pillars. In 2013, a total of 38 companies competed for the Award, presenting 55 case studies aligned with Whirlpool’s sustainability pillars. The award ceremony was carried out in the Supplier’s Day, in November, with eight winners and one supplier of the year, which had the opportunity to present its case study. FOTO Whirlpool Latin America | 2013/2014 Sustainability Report 27 Engaged people Government G4-16 The relationship between Whirlpool and the governments of where it operates is based on enforcement of law, the code of ethics and the Whirlpool Leadership Model — document that establishes the role of Whirlpool as one of the leaders in the development of public policies and solutions for the industry as a whole. With this in mind, the Company has representatives in the Associação Nacional de Fabricantes de Produtos Eletroeletrônicos (Eletros) [Brazilian Association of Manufacturers of Electronics], leading and stimulating discussions among companies in the home appliance industry and, through the Association, taking to the government and other stakeholders proposals for public policies for the industry development. Between 2013 and 2014, Whirlpool contributed to the discussion of the following aspects: Payroll tax cut – This is to benefit companies with large workforce, since employment is a direct indicator of a company’s contribution to the Brazil’s economic and social development; Excise Tax (IPI) – With lower rates collected in the industry, the domestic product can be offered at better prices in comparison with the imported good and have its energy efficiency improved; Whirlpool and its companies are not allowed to make contributions or donations to political parties or candidates, as per provision of the by-laws, in order to ensure independency with regard to possible political interests. Whirlpool Latin America | 2013/2014 Sustainability Report 28 Engaged people Government Plan for compliance with the National Waste Management Policy – a model that Research and Development – was deemed appropriate for all Brazilian regions was submitted to the Government. For the regions Whirlpool enables and establishes partnerships far from major centers — where reverse logistics is more challenging —, it was proposed a gradual with several universities and research centers, implementation schedule. with the support of two Brazilian laws: the Brazilian Technology Innovation Law and the To prepare the model submitted to the Government, Whirlpool worked directly at the Associação Law for the Good. They allow the Company Brasileira de Reciclagem de Eletroeletrônicos e Eletrodomésticos (ABREE) [Brazilian Association for to allocates funds which would be destined to Recycling of Electroelectronics and Homeappliances], which was grounded in 2011 as a result of income tax payment to finance innovation and the Company’s effort to establish an effective operation for the industry’s reverse logistics. With research and development projects. this purpose, ABREE has made electroelectronics logistics reverse campaigns in important cities in Brazil (São José dos Campos and Niterói in 2013 and Jundiaí, Porto Alegre and Fortaleza in 2014). This It also maintains constant partnerships with knowledge has guided ABREE’s operational strategy and have been used as an important base for the government agencies focused on innovation: discussions with the government over the sectorial agreement. Such information on this topic which Financiadora de Estudos e Projetos (FINEP) is still rare in Brazil is already being presented in congresses and seminars in Brazil and abroad. [Financing of Studies and Projects], the Brazilian Development Bank (BNDES), Programa Brasileiro de Etiquetagem (PBE) [Brazilian Labeling Program] – The Fundações de Amparo à Pesquisa (FAPEs) Instituto Nacional de Metrologia, Qualidade e Tecnologia (Inmetro) [National Institute of Metrology, [Research Support Foundations], the CNPQ Quality and Technology], with the participation of Eletros, has developed increasingly rigorous [National Council for Technological and criteria to classify the performance of home appliances, in order to raise the level of energy efficiency Scientific Development], and Serviço Nacional of Brazilian products. By promoting this process, Whirlpool endorses that the highest the energy da Indústria (SENAI) [National Service for efficiency of products, the lowest the taxes, so that the products can be more accessible to different Industrial Training]. consumer markets. G4-EC4 In 2014, in partnership with Instituto Euvaldo Lodi (IEL)/Conselho Nacional de Desenvolvimento Científico Tecnológico (CNPQ)[National Council for the Scientific and Technological Development], Whirlpool promoted the dissemination of the Innovating Talents program, which aims at increasing the number of professionals trained in innovation activities in the corporate industry. The Company is the second most active organization in Brazil in the program, with the approval of 42 projects and 51 scholarships up to the end of 2014. Whirlpool Latin America | 2013/2014 Sustainability Report 29 engaged people SoCiety G4-EC7 G4-EC8 G4-SO1 inStituto ConSulado da MulHeR Whirlpool focuses its social investments on the promotion of women’s entrepreneurship Before During After and empowerment. for that reason, it (prior advisory) (advisory) (consulting) created in 2002 the instituto Consulado Collective meetings Application of Gradual reduction da Mulher (Women’s Consulate institute), to discuss solidarity methodology, of activities and a public interest social organization economy and identify guided by the application of PDCA sponsored by the Company and associated interested people PDCA Cycle* by the entrepreneurs themselves with Consul brand. Since it was founded in 2002, the Instituto Consulado da mulher has already benefitted more than 33,000 people, 95% of them being Consulado supports low-income women. In 2013 and 2014, Whirlpool* invested R$8.0 million, which were used to empower entrepreneurial women with little women, in more than 100 popular projects formal education that live in vulnerable each year. Together, these small businesses generated revenue of R$13.2 million and communities located in the outskirts of benefited more than 6,500 people. large cities or the countryside in all regions These figures mean that each R$1.00 invested of brazil. through an advisory process focused on income generation, knowledge 6 months on average 2 years Up to 1 year by Whirlpool in the Instituto Consulado da mulher generates R$1.70 for the economy of benefited communities. and resources are deployed in order to contribute to improved quality of life. * four-step continuous improvement tool (Plan, do, Check, Action) * Investments made by Whirlpool S.A. Whirlpool Latin America | 2013/2014 Sustainability Report 30 Engaged people Society In 2014, Instituto Consulado da Mulher received the Ruth Cardoso Medal — granted by the São Paulo State Council for Female Conditions to projects aimed at empowering women — and was recognized by the Santa Catarina State Legislature as an active organization in the pursuit of the Millenium Development Goals, mainly the number 3, which is “to promote gender equality and empower women.” To read more, participate and support Instituto Consulado da Mulher, please access the website: consuladodamulher.org.br Advised social projects are located in 17 Brazilian states. In the regions where Whirlpool has factories, Consulado’s technical team acts directly with the projects. In other places, the same methodology is used by partner social organizations, which provide advisory to the projects in the cities where Consulado does not have its own team. Instituto Consulado da Mulher in figures People Direct and Number of Total revenue Year generating indirect projects (Millions of R$) income beneficiaries* 2010 174 3.6 1,344 5,300 2011 169 5.9 2,306 6,900 2012 160 6.5 1,851 8,000 2013 122 7.8 1,596 6,500 2014 108 5.4 1,570 6,300 *​ Dependants from income generated by the project. Because the projects involve female heads of households, the benefits include all their dependants. 93% of directly benefited people are women. Whirlpool Latin America | 2013/2014 Sustainability Report 31 Engaged people Society 2013/2014 Highlights Consulado da Mulher conducted New learning spaces named Oficina do Sabor two editions of the Work Factories Award, in (Flavor Shop) managed by entrepreneurs 2013 and 2014, which selected 30 projects supported by Consulado da Mulher in 2013 and 20 projects in 2014 in food and were opened in the Whirlpool São Paulo laundry areas, featured by women from 12 Administrative Center. Brazilian states. The selected projects were awarded home appliances for production and The first Manaus Christmas Fair was technical advisory of the institute. In addition, conducted, in which 14 projects advised by the the ten projects awarded in 2013 and the institute sold their products at the Whirlpool ten best projects in 2014 received a capital factory, reaching a total sales of R$5,000.00. contribution to invest in basic infrastructure improvements. INSTITUTO CONSULADO DA MULHER formed its Advisory Board, composed of independent From January to September 2014, the executives who do not serve Whirlpool, Madeira River located in the North region aimed at supporting the definition of best of Brazil was hit by its all-time most severe strategies, contributing to the development of flood, leaving thousands of people homeless organization’s social goals. or dislodged, mainly those living near the river and in isolated communities. In partnership In addition to increasing income of with Fundação Amazonas Sustentável – FAS beneficiaries, the institute monitors periodically [Sustainable Amazonas Foundation], the qualitative management indicators, such as Instituto Consulado da Mulher supports the Labor Conditions, Self-Management Ability, recovery and adaptation these communities Emancipation Structure, Gender Relations, and by stimulating the cultivation and processing of Environmental Responsibility. Entrepreneurs açaí palm. Through the partnership, the institute must be aware of the importance of these donated freezers to store the production, in indicators and their improvement during the addition to providing analyses and training advisory process, so that favorable conditions on entrepreneurship topics, in an effort to are created for the longevity of the projects strengthen income generation in communities. after the conclusion of the advisory. Whirlpool Latin America | 2013/2014 Sustainability Report 32 Engaged people Society Sharing to empower Institute’s methodology is certified as social technology by Fundação Banco do Brasil and UNESCO, and in 2012 was structured in a basic advisory guide for popular and solidarity projects. To get information on the methodology, go to http://goo.gl/yQDTxA (only in portuguese). Consulado da Mulher is also part of World Bank’s Jobs Knowledge Platform, which recognizes social projects of excellence in the whole world. For further information, go to goo.gl/SKOGJF In 2014, the highlight was the launch of the book Mulheres que Fazem História (Women that Make History), developed by the institute in partnership with Brazil’s Museum of the Person, that tells the stories of 30 benefited women entrepreneurs. The book is available at goo.gl/AtqY6z Corporate volunteerism In 2014, Whirlpool consolidated its Volunteer Project, which aims at offering corporate actions that promote social and environmental development, having its employees as volunteers. Trainees lead the Project for two years — in addition to their regular activities —, forming a multifunctional committee that defines the Project’s governance and priorities, as well as global initiatives aligned with Company’s vision. The first initiatives were the blood donation campaign in São Paulo, with the participation of 60 volunteers, and the donor of 90 Christmas hampers to old aged support institutes. For 2015, the Project will focus on three pillars: good education for everyone, improvements on life standards, and environmental sustainability. Whirlpool Latin America | 2013/2014 Sustainability Report 33 Engaged people Consumers Through its brands, Whirlpool serves millions of Latin American customers of diverse profiles, needs and expectations. But the purpose is the same for each of them: to offer quality products that satisfy all consumers and promote their quality of life and good moments. This guides the business and its structure from To read more the innovation process to create more efficient about Whirlpool’s products with the lowest environmental management, impact and the best features, including G4-PR1 G4-PR3 production selection of suppliers and manufacturing in Whirlpool has a Global Product Safety Policy applicable and innovation factories, until after-sales service, which is to all products, accessories and services in all regions, processes that essential to maintain customer satisfaction. businesses and operations, in order to ensure consumer aim to take quality safety. products to the consumers, refer The guidelines of this policy assure, for example, that all Products G4-9 to the Chapters the products developed, manufactured and sold meet all Building the product safety standards applicable to the markets in which Whirlpool manages its product portfolio based future and on the ongoing creation of innovative offers that the Company operates, as well as the Company’s internal Engaged people. exceeds customers expectations, providing them safety standards. with special design, simplicity, convenience, durability, sustainability throughout the product’s The compliance with the policy is evaluated through audits life cycle and excellence in after-sales service. during development phases and failure simulation tests before the products are introduced in the market. Tests Developed within these principles, around include product electromagnetic radiation, predictable 340 products were launched in 2013 and misuse, forced failure, and evaluation of the product 2014, more than three launches per week on manual which includes, for example, information related average, for a total portfolio of 838 products in to user safety, warning about the risks and describing the Brazil at the end of 2014. proper way to use the product. Whirlpool Latin America | 2013/2014 Sustainability Report 34 Engaged people Consumers Innovation Innovation is one of the core pillars for the business sustainability, given that 20% of the Company’s In 2010, a tool began to be developed in partnership with the University of São Paulo (USP) named sales come from innovative products. For that reason, the Company systematically promotes Design for Environment (DfE). The tool is aimed at evaluating the environmental performance of innovation in products and processes through tools based on the design thinking methodology, a sample of new products selected during the Project Development phases. Throughout recent which are structured in the Consumer Solution Process (CSP). years, the tool guided the projects into rational use of water and energy, recyclability and waste generation minimization. This tool considers product life cycle phases, including the production of What ensure success in innovation are the focus on customer since the beginning of a solution raw material, use of product and its disposal, as shown in the examples below. development and the multidisciplinary actions of several Company’s areas during the process. irevenue* Product efficiency gains G4-EN7 G4-EN27 revenue from sales In 2014, Whirlpool launched products that provided its customers with natural of innovative products resources consumption efficiency, mitigating environmental impacts: . 8 kg Consul Top Load Washer a class A energy efficient appliance featuring Water Recycling Economic . Washing function, which saves up to 20,000 liters of water per year . considering — according to the Fabric Care 2014 Habits and Attitudes study Innovation culture brings Whirlpool — a consumer who washes clothes six times per week at the maximum a step ahead in the industry, with water capacity. the launch of products that at the same time have unique features, Brastemp Side Inverse Refrigerator stimulates consumers and improves with energy consumption 8% better than the their everyday lives, and have minimum required for class A energy-efficient products, with proper disposal potential to generate value to of all waste generated during manufacturing and recycling rate of 89%. shareholders. Recycling rate calculation is based on a methodology that considers a loss * Data up to 2012 includes Lar International, because it was ratio, both in product disassembly process and material and component not stratified. recycling processes. Methodologies support the product innovation process evaluation based on costs, ease in manufacturing and simplicity in analysis of failures and corrections. Whirlpool Latin America | 2013/2014 Sustainability Report 35 Engaged people Consumers Brastemp Dishwasher WITH 12 CLEANING Authorized services (after sales) G4-PR5 CYCLES, which was selected as one of the products that save the greatest quantity of Whirlpool Latin America is the major consumers, thus speeding up the resolution management tool. The number of Procon bases water in the Disputa de Casas (Household Race) manufacturer of home appliances in Brazil, of possible problems and gaining customer integrated into Sindec is growing constantly: in campaign carried out in 2013 in the city of São with an installed base of more than 100 satisfaction. 2013 and 2014 it was 45% greater and every Roque (state of São Paulo) and in 2014 in the million products. The consumer is at the month new agencies include their information city of Florianópolis (state of Santa Catarina), center of all Company’s processes, either in With the purpose of providing the customer in the national data base. In this scenario, which stimulates careful use of water in homes. the development of new home appliances or with services of excellence, Whirlpool Whirlpool’s resolution rate was 64% in 2013 The dishwasher saves water at a quantity up to in the after-sales service. invests constantly in training for all customer and 74% in 2014. six times greater than manually washing dishes, service team, technicians and engineers, as confirmed in a study conducted in 2014 by In 2014, Whirlpool began to consider and in the frequent review of procedures. the Falcão Bauer Laboratory in São Paulo. and monitor new channels that register The recognitions achieved in 2014 are an In 2013 and 2014, despite the increase in complaints, such as the Consumidor.gov. evidence of this. The Company was granted demand for services due to the hot summer br, which aims at clearing up problems not the Companies that Respect Customers award and the high usage of some products, the solved by the traditional channels before from the Consumidor Moderno magazine, Company recorded an improvement in the consumer register a claim in the State and ranked 20th in good customer service performance indicators. During the period, Consumer Protection and Defense Agency ranking according to survey conducted by the time to repair a product was reduced, (Procon) or the Court. Being the first company the Instituto Brasileiro de Relacionamento and the percentage of complaints had a slight in the industry to doing so, Whirlpool aims at com o Cliente (IBRC) [Brazilian Institute for decrease between 2013 and 2014, even when expanding its relationship and contact with Customer Relation] in partnership with Exame the number of work orders increased 12%, magazine, the third consecutive year that the assuring a positive year result. Company improved its position in the ranking when compared to previous year. Whirlpool also conducted the Net Promoter In 2014, the Company was the only Score (NPS) survey, which measures the large company that manufactures Another proof of quality in Company’s customer customer satisfaction with the service and the home appliances to be granted the service is the Sistema Nacional de Informações brands. This data is used only internally and Operational efficiency gains Selo Ótimo (Seal of Great Company) de Defesa do Consumidor (SINDEC) [Brazilian helps the Company to have a real vision of The results obtained by Whirlpool’s operations, of Reclame Aqui (Complain Here) Consumer Protection Information System], an services provided and, consequently, achieving directly linked to innovation and management website, raising two satisfaction levels automated system that integrates processes consistency and excellence in its market. processes and aiming at a sustainable future within one year. and procedures related to consumer service in are detailed in the Chapter Building the future. Procons, in order to provide a proper Whirlpool Latin America | 2013/2014 Sustainability Report 36 04. building tHe futuRe Whirlpool Latin America | 2013/2014 Sustainability Report 37 Building the future Waste management G4-34 Aligned with the National Waste Management Policy, in 2011 Whirlpool A practical example of the results obtained committed to the challenge of zero from these initiatives is the reuse of polyurethane foam — used to fill the inner industrial waste sent to landfills up part of refrigerators and freezers. The factory to December 2014, and so it did. located in Joinville stopped disposing this substance in 2013 and began to recycle it to be applied in other industries in the production process of chairs, school tables and frames In order to attain this goal of doors and windows, in addition to energy cogeneration. and then minimize one of the business environmental impacts, Such initiatives were developed in the entire operation, in a big engagement effort, given the Company has worked hard the dimension of business and, therefore, the great environmental impact reduction: since 2011, with leadership’ together, São Paulo, Manaus, Joinville and Rio Claro units have almost 16,000 employees, efforts, employees’ awareness and more than 163,000 trucks transporting and behavioral changes, supplier above 1.5 million metric tonnes of products, materials and raw materials. engagement, and business And it all well worth the effort. Whirlpool was opportunities development with one of the first companies in Brazil to achieve this goal in all factories. With all these advances, Whirlpool achieved the challenge that was launched in 2011 and zeroed the external partners, as well as around 793 metric tonnes (estimated volume volume of industrial waste sent to landfill in December 2014. The success of the investments in new processes, based on landfill disposal in 2012) of waste were not sent to landfills by the Company initiatives that enabled this result stimulated the Company to establish a new goal for 2015 of zero non-industrial waste sent to landfills. technologies and materials between 2012 and 2014. Whirlpool Latin America | 2013/2014 Sustainability Report 38 Building the future Waste management Operational performance* G4-EN1 G4-EN2 G4-EN23 Waste sent to landfills (t) Landfill disposal of hazardous and non-hazardous waste from Whirlpool’s operations was reduced 1,457 by 72.7% and 52.3%, respectively, between 2012 and 2014. 1,022 696 Below are the volume of materials used, waste generated and its destination. Non-hazardous — Class II (t) Main materials Derived from Derived from 2013 (t) 2014 (t) 44 Hazardous — Class I (t) consumed in operations recycling (%) recycling (%) 35 12 Plastics* 56,187 4.14 47,195 3.8 2012 2013 2014 Papers 44,921 44,723 Volume disposed (t) Destination Type of waste Metals 0 73 2012 2013 2014* Hazardous — Class I 44 35 12 Chemicals 34,835 35,358 Waste sent to landfills Non-hazardous — Class II 1,457 1,022 696 Copper 5,306 1,648 Hazardous — Class I 517 514 547 Aluminum 7,674 10,220 Waste for co-processing Non-hazardous — Class II 48 139 308 Steel 142,830 140,352 Hazardous — Class I 980 1,052 768 Total 291,752 0.8 279,568 0.6 Recycling of waste Non-hazardous — Class II 611 3,613 5,957 * Plastic recycling is accounted and made internally through processes established by the Company. Scrap Non-hazardous — Class II 31,852 29,043 26,045 Other materials are recycled by external specialized companies. Hazardous — Class I 13 22 21 Incineration Non-hazardous — Class II 323 313 284 Hazardous — Class I 1,554 1,623 1,347 Total Non-hazardous — Class II 34,292 34,130 33,291 *Waste sent to landfill in 2014 includes the total volume throughout the year, considering that the goal of zero waste sent to * Includes operations in Brazil and Argentina landfills was only attained in December 2014. Whirlpool Latin America | 2013/2014 Sustainability Report 39 Building the future Rational use of water G4-EN8 IMPROVED AND INNOVATIVE PROCESSES Rational use of water TO REDUCE CONSUMPTION IN OPERATIONS is one of the main points of concern for Whirlpool’s sustainability management. Given that water is an essential resource for the business and for life, the Company devotes attention to consumption efficiency WHIRLPOOL´S in operations — in factories INITIATIVES TO STIMULATE RATIONAL and offices — and to awareness AND EFFICIENT USE raising and engagement of its OF WATER stakeholders for the reduction of individual consumption, in addition ENGAGEMENT AND to developing products that helps AWARENESS RAISING IMPROVED AND reducing household consumption. OF STAKEHOLDERS TO REDUCE EVERYDAY INNOVATIVE PRODUCTS TO REDUCE HOUSEHOLD CONSUMPTION CONSUMPTION Whirlpool Latin America | 2013/2014 Sustainability Report 40 Building the future Rational use of water Operational performance G4-EN8 G4-EN10 Water consumption (m3)* The initiatives brought about an important 684,256 effect: Whirlpool’s average water consumption 614,851 626,547 in 2013 and 2014 reduced 9.3% despite the increase in production, accounting for 63,557 m3. In all units, water consumption per manufactured product stayed within the targets established for the year. 2012 2013 2014 Given the huge dimension of the Company’s * Includes consumption of operations in Brazil and Argentina. operations, this volume saved represents the daily consumption of around 382,000 people*. Water consumption by source (m3) In addition, a total of 428,000 m3 of water were reused between 2013 and 2014 — a volume which was not withdrawn from supply sources 121,150 103,981 —, representing the daily consumption of 2.6 220,589 14.5% 207,503 12.5% million inhabitants. 26.4% 24.9% 46.5% 18.8% 40.3% 16.1% 388,010 RIVERS 336,867 156,834 134,556 WELLS PUBLIC SOURCES 2013 2014 REUSE *According to average consumption per inhabitant in Brazil estimated by the 2013 Water Service Analysis published by This result was possible thanks to several projects that enabled, for example, the collection and use the Sistema Nacional de Informações sobre Saneamento of rainwater, water treatment, and reuse of treated water. Below are the main initiatives developed (SNIS) [the Brazilian Sanitation Information System]. in the period: Whirlpool Latin America | 2013/2014 Sustainability Report 41 Building the future Rational use of water Estação de Tratamento de Efluentes (ETE) [Wastewater Treatment Plant] of the Rio Claro Laundry Technology Center ETE treats and reuses wastewater derived from more than 300 laundry product test sites since 2012. This process reduced 60% of water withdrawn from artesian aquifers and avoided the disposal of 3.96 million liters / month of effluents — more than 90% of load, and the estimation is that 2.6 million liters are reused in laboratory tests and 1.4 million in other activities, such as bathrooms and floor washing. Rainwater harvest system in Manaus The system collects on average 30 m3 of water per week to be used by the unit, thus reducing withdrawal from water table. In 2013 and 2014, a total of 1,120 m3 of water was collected, representing the daily consumption of 18,700 inhabitants. Awareness raising and savingS in São Paulo In 2014, given the challenging scenario of low rainfall that affected the state of São Paulo, Whirlpool strived harder to save water in the city, a strategic location for the business (its headquarters and a • All leak problems in water network were repaired. operational unit located in the region). • Engineering standards were adopted to reduce water flow in facilities. • Faucets and toilet valves were replaced to enhance efficiency and control. • Restaurant menus were redesigned to minimize the need of water in operation. The Company’s initiatives to reduce water consumption brought about significant effects in • Utilization of water from de São Paulo unit wastewater treatment plant to supply around 20% of the period, and they were very important in the city of São Paulo, which had poor rainfall water used in toilet bowls. and is under the high risk of water shortage. Whirlpool reduced the consumption in São • Daily control over water meters, and weekly reports about consumption in the headquarters and Paulo unit and its administrative center by 48% between 2013 and 2014. The goal for 2015 in the São Paulo unit are disclosed and monitored by leadership. is to reduce more 10% of water consumption in the region. • Internal campaigns designed to employees are conducted, stimulating habits that help reducing consumption, and a spokesperson visits the units to provide related information. In addition to the initiatives aimed at reducing consumption, Whirlpool, as a measure to manage A significant management program was implemented to reduce consumption through infrastructure the crisis, signed a contract with a company to provide water tank truckers for a continuous period improvements and awareness raising initiatives, as follows: and flow to ensure the alternative supply of water in regions under shortage risk. Whirlpool Latin America | 2013/2014 Sustainability Report 42 Building the future Rational use of water Water disposal G4-EN22 Whirlpool treats wastewater derived from its operations before disposing it to sewage networks or water bodies, in order to comply with environmental legislation and avoid pollution. Effluents generated and type of treatment and disposal (m3) 2012 2013 2014 22,764 15,263 15,395 208,019 207,439 258,949 173,470 193,109 201,026 17.78% OF WATER 26.40% OF WATER 24.88% OF WATER CONSUMPTION CONSUMPTION CONSUMPTION FROM REUSE FROM REUSE FROM REUSE TREATED BIOLOGICAL EFFLUENTS TREATED PHYSICAL AND CHEMICAL EFFLUENTS NON-TREATED EFFLUENTS* * Non-treated effluents comprehend those not treated internally in the facilities, which are sent to the municipal wastewater treatment plant. Whirlpool Latin America | 2013/2014 Sustainability Report 43 Building the future Energy efficiency G4-EC8 G4-EN7 Whirlpool’s energy consumption One of the initiatives taken by Whirlpool between 2013 and 2014 to enhance energy efficiency was its significant participation in the Programa Brasileiro de Etiquetagem (PBE) [Brazilian Labeling Program] management invests in improved managed by the Instituto Nacional de Metrologia, Qualidade e Tecnologia (Inmetro) [National Institute of Metrology, Quality and Technology]. With the Associação Nacional de Fabricantes de Produtos energy efficiency processes in Eletroeletrônicos (Eletros) [Brazilian Association of Manufacturers of Electroelectronics], in which the Company has a representative, Whirlpool took part in several discussions about the improvement in the Company’s operations and energy efficiency ratios for major home appliances, and the improvement in industry’s regulation and public policies. The Company will continue this initiative in 2015, seeking to transform the agreements in new technologies to reduce already made into regulation and to ensure expected regulatory advances. Whirlpool participates in a social consumption of home appliances. program conducted by Brazilian In 2013 and 2014, Whirlpool’s continuous production portfolio was composed of 409 and 534 electricity providers aimed at appliances, respectively, registered at Inmetro. Products’ energy consumption is classified into the stimulating the replacement following energy efficiency classes, A being the most energy efficient and E the least efficient. More than 90%* of CO2 emissions of old home appliances in low Total products by energy efficiency class in the product life cycle occur income communities for newer and more efficient products. In during usage, at the consumers’ 2013, Whirlpool provided 87,000 11 12 10 13 15 4 refrigerators, 16,000 of which were homes, due to electricity offered in exchange of the old ones, 45 3% 3% 2% 2% 3% 1% 11% 107 consumption. This is the which were sent for recycling. With 20% this initiatives, reason why investments CLASS A in alternative products 18,882 families were benefited; and 81% 331 74% 395 CLASS B Beneficiaries saved 90.6 GWh of that consume less electricity CLASS C electricity and reduced 20,024 tonnes CLASS D (and gas in case of ranges) of CO2 emissions, equivalent to the emissions from all registered cars in 2013 2014 CLASS E are so important. São Paulo during three days. For further information on energy efficiency classes and the PBE, go to inmetro.gov.br/pbe/cartilha.php (only in portuguese). * Calculated based on estimated data. Whirlpool Latin America | 2013/2014 Sustainability Report 44 Building the future Energy efficiency Operational performance Energy consumption (GJ)* Consumption by type of energy (GJ)* G4-EN3 G4-EN5 1,056,685 544 3,728 1,015,995 0.1% 0.4% Improved efficiency in Whirlpool’s processes 987,002 34,528 78,812 can allow for significant gains in energy savings, 3.4% 666,178 7.8% given the huge dimension of the Company’s 658,986 651,663 operations. 239,344 23.6% Whirlpool’s factories have reduced energy 390,507 357,009 335,339 consumption by manufactured product since 64.9% 2012 2013 2014 658,986 2000, when it began to be monitored and better managed through projects focused on Fuels Electric energy new technologies, replacement of engines, 2013 replacement of bulbs, and process intelligence * Includes consumption of operations in Brazil and Argentina. and optimization. 699 6,392 0.1% 0.6% 30,341 Between 2012 and 2014, reduction of total 74,863 Energy intensity (GJ/R$ million)* 3.1% energy consumption came to 6.6%, and 7.6% energy intensity, the ratio between energy Ratio between energy consumed by gross sales consumption and revenues in the period, in R$ during the period 223,044 22.6% improved by 23.4%. -23.4% 66.0% 651,663 2014 140.0 119.3 107.4 ELECTRICITY NATURAL GAS LPG DIESEL OIL ALCOHOL GASOLINE 2012 2013 2014 * Includes consumption of operations in Brazil and Argentina. * Includes consumption of operations in Brazil and Argentina. Whirlpool Latin America | 2013/2014 Sustainability Report 45 Building the future Climate change G4-EC2 Whirlpool seeks to contribute to The main effort is the pursuit of energy the reduction of greenhouse gas efficiency, because most of emissions directly generated by Whirlpool’s activities are related emissions and the reversion of to energy use for equipment operation or heating processes, and the indirectly generated climate changes caused by them. emissions refer to electricity consumption during usage of appliances. Most of greenhouse gas For this reason, the Company is constantly fostering energy efficiency in processes and emissions in the Company’s products. For more information on related initiatives, refer to Chapter Energy efficiency. operations come from suppliers and service providers, which historically account for 40% of total emissions registered in its inventory. The remaining emissions directly related to the Whirlpool prepares annually its greenhouse gas emission inventory business are the focus of the to monitor the changes in indicators, Company’s performance in order to support management and provide transparent information to improvement initiatives. stakeholders. Prior-year inventories are available at goo.gl/evqeiS Whirlpool Latin America | 2013/2014 Sustainability Report 46 Building the future Climate change Operational performance G4-EN15 G4-EN16 G4-EN17 G4-EN18 G4-EN19 G4-EN30 As a result of the constant efforts to make operations more efficient in terms of energy consumption Besides, the inventory was adjusted because 2012 data did not include the correct kWh/CO2 conversion and, consequently, of greenhouse gas emissions, Whirlpool had significant reductions in 2013 and factor for Manaus unit, which is located in the Amazonia isolated system. Consequently, with the 2014 scope 1 emissions. correct factor in 2013, the volume of t CO2 eq deriving from energy consumption in that unit increased. Emission intensity (g CO2eq/R$) Greenhouse gas emissions (t CO2eq) Ratio between scope 1 greenhouse gas emissions and revenues in R$ during the period 43,558 49,353 -34.8% 54,524 12,045 22,214 31,585 35,472 33,328 30,658 47,517 55,543 62,243 4.70 2012 2013 2014 3.91 3.34 SCOPE 1 SCOPE 2 SCOPE 3 Despite the increased number of products manufactured during the years, scope 1 emissions per manufactured product — those related directly to the Company’s operations — reduced 34.8% between 2012 and 2014, mainly due to the initiatives for the decrease in fossil fuel consumption. Scope 3 emissions — those related to Whirlpool’s value chain — correspond to 44.2% of Company’s total emissions at the end of 2014, and come mainly from the distribution of products Scope 2 emissions — deriving from purchased electricity — increased 84% when compared to the from factories and warehouses to large retailers. The 13% increase between 2012 and 2014 2012–2013 period and 42% in the year-over-year comparison, mainly due to the increase of 47% was a result of the greater number of products distributed and the broader scope of emissions and 41%, respectively, in the conversion factor determined by the government based on Brazil’s monitored in the year, which began to include the distance traveled to transfer parts and products energy matrix, over which the Company does not have any control. between units. Whirlpool Latin America | 2013/2014 Sustainability Report 47 Building the future Reduction of use of restricted substances One of the Company’s strategic It is worth mentioning that Whirlpool complies with all market regulations, but Whirlpool is already using high volumes of alternative substances, selected based on sustainability objectives is to seeks constant improvement because it criterias allowing reductions of environmental endorses related international practices. An impacts and the increase in energy efficiency reduce the use of restricted example is the US regulatory requirements of products and operations. One of the ways with regard to the so called Conflict Minerals, to continuously monitor and manage these substances in its operations. which restrict the use of minerals extracted changes is through the Sistema de Gestão from conflict zones in Congo, Africa, where Integrada (SGI) [Integrated Management human rights are infringed. System], which includes frequent internal For this purpose, it evaluates Another example was the Ministry of and external audits in operations conducted by skilled professionals to measure efficiency constantly raw materials used Environment decision in 2012 to make a of processes and activities according to ISO national inventory of the use of new persistent 9001 (Quality Management), ISO 14001 in the manufacturing of products, organic pollutants (POPs), in order to comply (Environmental Management) and OHSAS with the 2004 Stockholm Convention 18001 (Occupational Health and Safety in order to minimize social and international environmental treaty. The Management). Ministry also constantly reviews the rules to environmental impacts. control imports of hydrochlorofluorocarbons The innovation and product development (HCFCs), as per the Montreal Protocol process takes into account such requirements international treaty agreed in 1987. through the Design for Environment (DfE) methodology; and the supply chain through HCFCs, used in thermal insulation foam for controlled by the Sistema de Gestão Integrada refrigerators and refrigeration circuits for para Fornecedores (SGIF) [Integrated Supplier air conditioners, are not produced in Brazil. Management System]. For that reason, they are subject to import quotas, which control their use and stimulate companies to seek for new alternatives and solutions. Whirlpool Latin America | 2013/2014 Sustainability Report 48 05. ReCognitionS and aWaRdS Whirlpool Latin America | 2013/2014 Sustainability Report 49 Recognitions and awards Melhores e Maiores Great Place to Work Empresas mais inovadoras nas Instituto Sustentar In 2014, for the second consecutive time, In 2014, Whirlpool Latin America was relações com clientEs/consumidores In 2014, Instituto Sustentar (Sustain Institute) Whirlpool ranks first in the Electronics category recognized for the third time as one of the best no Brasil recognized Whirlpool in the Sustainable in the Melhores & Maiores (best and major companies to work for according to the Great Whirlpool Latin America was once more Product (1st place), Sustainable Service companies) award, granted by the Exame Place do Work Institute in partnership with elected in 2014 as the most innovative (1st place) and Sustainable Initiative (2nd place) magazine. The Company is in the ranking for Época magazine, of publisher Globo. company in customer/consumer relations in categories. the sixth year. Brazil by Consumidor Moderno magazine. Melhores Empresas para WEPs Brazil Award Best Innovator Você Trabalhar Most InDemand Employers (Women’s Empowerment Principles) In 2013, Whirlpool was among the ten most In 2014, Whirlpool Latin America In 2103, Whirlpool Latin America profile at the Whirlpool got a honorable mention in 2014 innovative companies according to ranking was recognized for the 18th time social network LinkedIn was recognized as the due to the support demonstrated by the senior prepared by the consultancy A.T. Kearney and as one of the best companies to 8th Most InDemand Employer. management to Women’s empowerment Época Negócios magazine. work for according to Guia Você issues. This was an initiative of Itaipu Binacional S/A publication. Top of Mind supported by UN Global Compact. Guia Exame de Sustentabilidade In 2014, Brastemp was recognized for the 6th In 2014, Whirlpool Latin Época 360º time in the Washing Machine category and America was among the 20 In 2014, for the second consecutive time, the for the 8th time in the Ranges category as the companies with the best Company was recognized by Época Negócios Top Of Mind brand, according to Folha de São sustainability practices according magazine as one of the best companies in the Paulo newspaper survey. to Exame magazine’s Guia de Electronics category in the Época 360º award. Sustentabilidade (Sustainability Top of Mind Guide) for the fourth time. 100 Empresas de Melhor Reputação In 2014, Consul was recognized for the 23rd no Brasil time in the Refrigerator category as the Top Os RHs Mais Admirados do Brasil Whirlpool Latin America is one of Brazil’s 100 Of Mind brand, according to Folha de São In 2014, Whirlpool Latin America was most reputable companies in 2014 according Paulo newspaper survey. recognized in the Os RHs Mais Admirados to Exame magazine. do Brasil award in The most admired HR Empresas Mais Inovadoras do Brasil departments in Brazil and 25 most admired As Empresas Mais Admiradas do Brasil In 2014, Whirlpool Latin America was the most companies by HR departments categories. In 2014, Carta Capital magazine recognized innovative company in Brazil, according to Info Whirlpool Latin America as one of Brazil’s most Exame magazine’s ranking. admired companies for the 17th time in the Home Appliances category. Whirlpool Latin America | 2013/2014 Sustainability Report 50 06. gRi index Whirlpool Latin America | 2013/2014 Sustainability Report 51 gri Index Relation to the Global GRI INDICATORS Cross-reference (page) / Direct response Omissions and justifications External verification Compact principles Strategy and Analysis Statement from the most senior decision-maker about Procedures (a) and (c) G4-1 Page 7 1, 8 and 9 the relevance of sustainability for the organization G4-2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities Page 16 7, 8 and 9 Procedures (a) and (c) Organizational Profile G4-3 Name of the organization Page 5 Procedures (a) and (e) G4-4 Primary brands, products, and/or services Pages 9 to 11 Procedures (a) and (e) G4-5 Location of organization’s headquarters Page 9 Procedures (a) and (e) G4-6 Number of countries where the organization operates Page 9 Procedures (a) and (e) G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form Corporation Procedures (a) and (e) G4-8 Markets served Page 9 Procedures (a) and (e) G4-9 Scale of the reporting organization Pages 9, 15, 21 and 34 Procedures (a) and (e) The Company does not provide information on outsourced workforce G4-10 Workforce profile Page 21 6 Procedures (a) and (e) due to the lack of a centralized workforce database. In Brazil, all employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements, Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining G4-11 except for interns and apprentices, who are not covered by the clauses 1, 2 and 3 Procedures (a) and (e) agreements referring to pay rise. G4-12 Description of organization’s supply chain Pages 26 e 27 Procedures (a) and (e) Significant changes in organization’s structure during the No significant changes — such as in capital stock or in the Company’s G4-13 Procedures (a) and (c) reporting period operational structure — were made. * See the auditor’s report at page 65. Whirlpool Latin America | 2013/2014 Sustainability Report 52 gri Index Relation to the Global GRI INDICATORS Cross-reference (page) / Direct response Omissions and justifications External verification Compact principles Organizational Profile – Commitments to externally developed initiatives The precautionary principle is part of the Company’s strategic planning and Explanation of whether and how the precautionary risk management process, such as the pursuit of more innovative and efficient G4-14 Procedures (a) and (c) principle is addressed by the organization products and the management of social and environmental impacts caused by its operations. Externally developed economic, environmental and social G4-15 charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the Page 19 1, 2, 7 and 8 Procedures (a) and (e) organization subscribes or which it endorses Memberships in associations and/or national/ international advocacy organizations in which the G4-16 organization has positions in governance bodies, Pages 28 and 29 7, 8 and 9 Procedures (a) and (e) participates in projects or committees, provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries All information contained in this report include Whirlpool Latin America units in Brazil (Any possible exceptions, i.e., information on broader or more limited scope, are identified in the report). Whirlpool Latin America is the h ome appliances segment of Whirlpool S.A., a subsidiary of Whirlpool Corporation, traded on the BM&FBovespa. For financial indicators purposes, this report uses the reporting of G4-17 Entities included in the organization’s financial statements Procedures (a) and (e) Whirlpool S.A. as base, to the capital market and Comissão de Valores Mobiliários (CVM) [Brazilian Securities and Exchange Commission]. On page 24 of the Financial Statements, available at http://goo.gl/RhsqjF (only in portuguese), you will find a list of Whirlpool S.A. subsidiaries, however, financial information relating to Whirlpool Latin America are not publicly available due to confidentiality restrictions. The process for defining the report content and the G4-18 Pages 5 and 6 Procedures (a) and (e) aspect boundaries List of material aspects identified in the process for G4-19 Pages 5 and 6 Procedures (a) and (e) defining the report content The Company made a macro analysis of aspect boundary, without considering G4-20 Each material aspect boundary within the organization Procedures (a) and (e) aspects materiality by each operational level or geographic location. All matrix aspects are deemed as relevant to the external public — based on Each material aspect boundary outside of the G4-21 data extracted from sample of news—, although aspects are not detailed by Procedures (a) and (e) organization public / location / limitation. * See the auditor’s report at page 65. Whirlpool Latin America | 2013/2014 Sustainability Report 53 gri Index Relation to the Global GRI INDICATORS Cross-reference (page) / Direct response Omissions and justifications External verification Compact principles Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries Explanation of the effect of any restatements of G4-22 The Company did not restate any information provided in previous reports. Procedures (a) and (c) information provided in previous reports Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the G4-23 The Company did not restate any information provided in previous reports. Procedures (a) and (c) scope and aspect boundaries Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization Procedures (a) and (c) Whirlpool promotes continuously stakeholder engagement, because the Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with Company believes that it is quite relevant and may influence business G4-25 sustainability. Engaged stakeholders and this relationship’s main aspects and Procedures (a) and (c) whom to engage channels of communication are described in the Chapter Engaged people. Additionally, information on the materiality definition process is in Chapter Organization’s approaches to stakeholder engagement About this report, and details on stakeholders consultation are included in G4-26 Procedures (a) and (c) and frequency of engagement the Company’s 2012 and 2011 reports. For more information, access http:// goo.gl/o09r1N (2012), and refer to page 4 at http://goo.gl/rUFb8N Key topics that have been raised through stakeholder G4-27 engagement, and measures adopted by the organization to Procedures (a) and (e) respond to these topics Report Profile G4-28 Reporting period for information provided Page 5 Procedures (a) and (e) G4-29 Date of most recent previous report 2012 Procedures (a) and (e) G4-30 Reporting cycle Page 5 Procedures (a) and (e) G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report sustentabilidade@whirlpool.com Procedures (a) and (e) Option adopted by the organization to apply guidelines G4-32 (essential or comprehensive), GRI index and external Core Procedures (a) and (e) assurance * See the auditor’s report at page 65. Whirlpool Latin America | 2013/2014 Sustainability Report 54 gri Index Relation to the Global GRI INDICATORS Cross-reference (page) / Direct response Omissions and justifications External verification Compact principles Report Profile The report was submitted to external verification. The Sustainability Description of current policy and practice with regard to G4-33 Committee is responsible for resolving on the final decision about this matter, Procedures (a) and (e) external assurance for the report following Whirlpool’s information reliability standards. Governance – Governance structure The Company’s structure does not have formal committees that support the Management, but committees that support the Company’s operations and are G4-34 Governance structure, including committees Procedures (a) and (e) composed of representatives from senior leadership, such as the Sustainability Committee. Ethics and Integrity Organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of G4-56 Pages 2, 16, 17,18 and 26 1, 2 and 7 Procedures (a) and (e) behavior such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics Economic Performance Aspect: Economic performance G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Page 15 Procedures (a) and (c) The Company does not report quantitative information on economic risks directly related to climate change Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for impacts, for it is treated as confidential G4-EC2 Pages 46 and 47 7, 8 and 9 Procedures (a) and (c) the organization’s activities due to climate changes information. However, the Company develops initiatives aimed at mitigating these risks, as shown in Chapter Building the future. All Whirlpool employees in Brazil are eligible to a pension plan and may contribute Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan with up to 5.5% of the salary — this percentage varies according to wage brackets. G4-EC3 Procedures (a) and (c) obligations The Company makes an equivalent contribution based on the amount paid by the employee, which varies according to the age. G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from government Page 29 Procedures (a) and (c) * See the auditor’s report at page 65. Whirlpool Latin America | 2013/2014 Sustainability Report 55 gri Index Relation to the Global GRI INDICATORS Cross-reference (page) / Direct response Omissions and justifications External verification Compact principles Economic Performance Aspect: Market presence Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to The lowest salary paid by Whirlpool is equivalent to the current local G4-EC5 Procedures (a) and (c) local minimum wage at significant locations of operation minimum wages in the locations where it operates. In line with Whirlpool’s strategy, transferring employees between units and Proportion of senior management hired from the local to other regions outside of the country is an important factor for professional G4-EC6 Procedures (a) and (c) community at significant locations of operation development and opportunities. For that reason, the Company does not monitor local hires. Aspect: Indirect economic impacts Development and impact of infrastructure investments G4-EC7 Pages 30 to 33 Procedures (a) and (e) and services supported Significant indirect economic impacts, including the G4-EC8 Pages 26, 30 to 33, and 44 1, 2, 7, 8 and 9 Procedures (a) and (c) extent of impacts Environmental Aspect: Materials G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume Page 39 8 Procedures (a) and (c) Percentage of materials used that are recycled input G4-EN2 Page 39 7, 8 and 9 Procedures (a) and (e) materials Aspect: Energy G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization Page 45 7, 8 and 9 Procedures (a) and (e) G4-EN5 Energy intensity Page 45 7, 8 and 9 Procedures (a) and (e) The Chapter Energy efficiency presents the reduction of energy intensity. G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption 7, 8 and 9 Procedures (a) and (c) Results by reduction initiative are not available. G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services Pages 35 and 36 7, 8 and 9 Procedures (a) and (e) * See the auditor’s report at page 65. Whirlpool Latin America | 2013/2014 Sustainability Report 56 gri Index Relation to the Global GRI INDICATORS Cross-reference (page) / Direct response Omissions and justifications External verification Compact principles Environmental Aspect: Water G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Page 41 7, 8 and 9 Procedures (a) and (e) G4-EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water Page 41 7, 8 and 9 Procedures (a) and (c) G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused Page 41 7, 8 and 9 Procedures (a) and (e) Aspect: Emissions G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) Page 47 7, 8 and 9 Procedures (a) and (c) Indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from purchased G4-EN16 Page 47 7, 8 and 9 Procedures (a) and (c) electricity (Scope 2) G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) Page 47 7, 8 and 9 Procedures (a) and (c) G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity Page 47 7, 8 and 9 Procedures (a) and (c) The Company does not report amounts directly related to the initiatives, but rather, a comparative analysis of inventory of greenhouse gas emissions of the company over the years. However, Whirlpool develops several G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Page 47 7, 8 and 9 Procedures (a) and (e) initiatives to contribute to the reduction of energy consumption while their products are used and, consequently, the reduction of emissions, considering that this phase in the product life cycle produces most of emissions. Aspect: Effluents and waste G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination Page 47 7, 8 and 9 Procedures (a) and (e) * See the auditor’s report at page 65. Whirlpool Latin America | 2013/2014 Sustainability Report 57 gri Index Relation to the Global GRI INDICATORS Cross-reference (page) / Direct response Omissions and justifications External verification Compact principles Environmental Aspect: Effluents and waste Waste produced by Whirlpool’s industrial park — shown in the Chapter Waste management — is destined to third-party companies for treatment, G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method recycling, reuse, or co-processing to generate energy for cement companies. 7, 8 and 9 Procedures (a) and (e) These third-party companies comply with applicable laws as required by NBR ISO 14001, by which Whirlpool is certified. G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills There were no significant spills in Company’s operations in 2013 and 2014. 7 Procedures (a) and (c) Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel In 2013 and 2014 no waste was transported, imported, exported or treated G4-EN25 7 Procedures (a) and (c) Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of under the terms of the Basel Convention. transported waste shipped internationally Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of Company’s operations do not affect significantly G4-EN26 water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by 7 Procedures (a) and (c) water bodies. the reporting organization’s discharges of water and runoff Aspect: Products and services Extent of mitigation of environmental impacts of products G4-EN27 Pages 35 and 36 7, 8 and 9 Procedures (a) and (e) and services The Company does not disclose information on packing materials and products reclaimed because the volume is still incipient. However, in order to Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials G4-EN28 increase the volume of products and packing materials reclaimed, Whirlpool Procedures (a) and (e) that are reclaimed by category actively participates in discussions that stimulate and develop the National Program of Reverse Logistics. Aspect: Transport Significant environmental impacts of transporting products G4-EN30 and other goods and materials for the organization’s Page 47 7 and 8 Procedimentos (a) a (c) operations, and transporting members of the workforce * See the auditor’s report at page 65. Whirlpool Latin America | 2013/2014 Sustainability Report 58 gri Index Relation to the Global GRI INDICATORS Cross-reference (page) / Direct response Omissions and justifications External verification Compact principles Environmental Aspect: Overall Total environmental protection expenditures G4-EN31 Page 19 7 and 8 Procedures (a) and (e) and investments by type Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work Aspect: Employment Total number and rate of new employee hires and G4-LA1 Page 21 6 Procedures (a) and (c) employee turnover by age group, gender, and region Regardless of the type and duration of the employment contract, all Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not employees are eligible to benefit programs and training on education, health G4-LA2 provided to temporary or part-time employees, by major Procedures (a) and (c) and safety. The benefits include health plan, dental plan, private pension plan, operations meal voucher, life insurance, transportation voucher and Christmas’ gift. Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, G4-LA3 Page 22 Procedures (a) and (c) by gender Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work Aspect: Labor relations Minimum notice period regarding significant operational No notice period is defined in collective agreements, but the Company G4-LA4 changes including whether it is specified in collective maintains an open dialogue with its employees, through several means of Procedures (a) and (c) agreements communication, informing them of any changes in advance. Aspect: Health and safety at the workplace Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management–worker health and safety committees that G4-LA5 Page 22 Procedures (a) and (c) help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs * See the auditor’s report at page 65. Whirlpool Latin America | 2013/2014 Sustainability Report 59 gri Index Relation to the Global GRI INDICATORS Cross-reference (page) / Direct response Omissions and justifications External verification Compact principles Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work Aspect: Health and safety at the workplace Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost workdays, and G4-LA6 absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, Page 25 Procedures (a) and (e) by region and by gender The agreements between Whirlpool and trades unions that represent their employees cover health and safety topics, such as required personal Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements protective equipment (PPE), formal health and safety bodies, and necessary G4-LA8 3 Procedures (a) and (c) with trade unions infrastructure for health and safety maintenance. The agreements provide for a total of 13 employee protection measures, and all agreements cover health and safety topics. Aspect: Training and education Average hours of training per year per employee by G4-LA9 Page 23 Procedures (a) and (e) gender, and by employee category There is no specific program to prepare employees for retirement. Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that However, Whirlpool supports employability of employees by promoting G4-LA10 support the continued employability of employees and Procedures (a) and (c) their professional education and development, as reported in the Chapter assist them in managing career endings Employees. Percentage of employees receiving regular performance G4-LA11 and career development reviews, by gender and by Page 24 6 Procedures (a) and (e) employee category Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work Aspect: Diversity and equal opportunity Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, G4-LA12 Page 21 6 Procedures (a) and (c) age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity * See the auditor’s report at page 65. Whirlpool Latin America | 2013/2014 Sustainability Report 60 gri Index Relation to the Global GRI INDICATORS Cross-reference (page) / Direct response Omissions and justifications External verification Compact principles Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work Aspect: Supplier labor practices assessment Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using G4-LA14 Pages 26 and 27 1, 2, 4 and 5 Procedures (a) and (c) labor practices criteria Aspect: Mechanisms for reporting grievances about labor practices Number of grievances about labor practices filed, G4-LA16 addressed, and resolved through formal grievance No grievances were recorded in the period. 1, 2, 4 and 5 Procedures (a) and (c) mechanisms Social: Human Rights Aspect: Investments Percentage and total number of significant investment All suppliers must be aware of Whirlpool’s Supplier Code of Conduct, which G4-HR1 agreements and contracts that include human rights includes respect to human rights, and act according to its principles. For 1, 2, 4 and 5 Procedures (a) and (c) clauses or that have undergone human rights screening further information, refer to Chapter Suppliers. Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that G4-HR2 Page 24 1 and 2 Procedures (a) and (c) are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained Aspect: Non-discrimination Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective G4-HR3 No incidents of discrimination were recorded between 2013 and 2014. 1, 2 and 6 Procedures (a) and (c) actions taken Aspect: Child labor Operations identified as having significant risk for G4-HR5 incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute Pages 26 and 27 1,2 and 5 Procedures (a) and (c) to the elimination of child labor * See the auditor’s report at page 65. Whirlpool Latin America | 2013/2014 Sustainability Report 61 gri Index Relation to the Global GRI INDICATORS Cross-reference (page) / Direct response Omissions and justifications External verification Compact principles Social: Human Rights Aspect: Forced or compulsory labor Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures G4-HR6 Pages 26 and 27 1,2 and 4 Procedures (a) and (c) taken to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor Aspect: Security practices Percentage of security personnel trained in the All employees receive training in the Company’s code of ethics commitments, G4-HR7 organization’s policies or procedures concerning aspects of 1 and 2 Procedures (a) and (c) including the respect to human rights. human rights that are relevant to operations Aspect: Rights of indigenous and traditional peoples Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of Whirlpool’s operations do not involve indigenous peoples and, therefore, no G4-HR8 1 and 2 Procedures (a) and (c) indigenous and traditional peoples and actions taken incidents of violation of their rights were identified. Aspect: Supplier human rights assessment Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using G4-HR10 Pages 26 and 27 1, 2, 4 and 5 Procedures (a) and (e) human rights criteria Aspect: Mechanisms for reporting grievances about human rights Number of grievances about human rights filed, G4-HR12 addressed, and resolved through formal grievance No grievances were recorded in the period. 1, 2, 4 and 5 Procedures (a) and (c) mechanisms Social: Society Aspect: Local communities Percentage of operations with implemented local G4-SO1 community engagement, impact assessments, and Pages 30 to 33 Procedures (a) and (c) development programs * See the auditor’s report at page 65. Whirlpool Latin America | 2013/2014 Sustainability Report 62 gri Index Relation to the Global GRI INDICATORS Cross-reference (page) / Direct response Omissions and justifications External verification Compact principles Social: Society Aspect: Anti-corruption Total number and percentage of operations assessed G4-SO3 for risks related to corruption and the significant risks Page 13 10 Procedures (a) and (c) identified. Aspect: Anti-corruption In 2014, the Company organized 12 workshops on compliance and ethics, more Communication and training on anti-corruption policies G4-SO4 than 50 on-site training events about the Company’s 15 Compliance Policies and 8 10 Procedures (a) and (c) and procedures strategic workshops on compliance designed to the CEO and the vice presidents. Incidents of corruption confirmed and actions taken in In 2013 and 2014, incidents of corruption, as defined by the Law 12846 that G4-SO5 10 Procedures (a) and (e) response to these incidents provides for acts involving the government, were not identified. Aspect: Public policies Total value of political contributions by country According to its by-laws, Whirlpool is not allowed to make contributions and G4-SO6 Procedures (a) and (c) and recipient/beneficiary donations to political parties or candidates. Social: Product responsibility Aspect: Customer health and safety Percentage of significant product and service categories G4-PR1 for which health and safety impacts are assessed for Page 34 1,2 and 8 Procedures (a) and (e) improvement Total number of incidents of non-compliance with In 2013, the Company received two notices incurring fines about regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health and G4-PR2 standardization of plugs and sockets. In 2014, the Company was not notified Procedures (a) and (e) safety impacts of products and services during their life about standardization of plugs and sockets. cycle, by type of outcomes * See the auditor’s report at page 65. Whirlpool Latin America | 2013/2014 Sustainability Report 63 gri Index Relation to the Global GRI INDICATORS Cross-reference (page) / Direct response Omissions and justifications External verification Compact principles Social: Product responsibility Aspect: Product and service labeling Type of product and service information required by the organization’s procedures for product and service G4-PR3 information and labeling, and percentage of significant Page 34 Procedures (a) and (c) products and service categories subject to such information requirements In 2013 and 2014, Inmetro identified eight and ten incidents, respectively, Total number of incidents of non-compliance with related to certification problems. With regard to product labeling, Whirlpool G4-PR4 regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and Procedures (a) and (c) received five notices incurring fines in 2013. In 2014, nine notices were service information and labeling, by type of outcomes received, four of them incurring fines. G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction Page 36 Procedures (a) and (e) Aspect: Customer privacy Total number of substantiated complaints regarding In 2013 and 2014, no complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and G4-PR8 Procedures (a) and (c) breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data losses of customer data were recorded. Aspect: Compliance In 2013, the Company received 106 fines for non-compliance with laws and Monetary value of (significant) fines for non-compliance regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services, totaling G4-PR9 with laws and regulations concerning the provision and R$369,800. In 2014, a total of 421 fines were received, amounting to R$820,600. Procedures (a) and (e) use of products and services The amounts refer to fines paid to Procon agencies in 2013 and 2014. These amounts do not include reimbursements paid to consumers. * See the auditor’s report at page 65. Whirlpool Latin America | 2013/2014 Sustainability Report 64 Auditor’s report G4-33 Limited assurance report issued by independent auditors A limited assurance engagement conducted in accordance with NBC TO 3000 (ISAE 3000) consists mainly of questioning the management of Whirlpool To the Directors and Officers of and other professionals of the Company involved Whirlpool S.A. in the preparation of the information disclosed in São Paulo SP the 2013/2014 Sustainability Report and applying analytical procedures to obtain evidence that allows Introduction us to make a limited assurance conclusion about We have been engaged by Whirlpool S.A. to apply limited assurance procedures on the the sustainability information taken as a whole. A limited assurance engagement also requires sustainability information disclosed in Whirlpool’s Latin America (“Whirlpool” or “Company”) additional procedures when the independent auditor learns of issues which lead them to believe 2013/2014 Sustainability Report, related to the years ended December 31st, 2013 and 2014. that the information disclosed in the Sustainability Report 2013/2014 taken as a whole could present material misstatement. Responsibilities of Whirlpool’s Management The management of Whirlpool is responsible for preparing and adequately presenting the The selected procedures were based on our understanding of the issues related to the compilation, information in the 2013/2014 Sustainability Report in accordance with the Global Reporting materiality and presentation of the information disclosed in the 2013/2014 Sustainability Report, Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (GRI-G4) as well as the internal controls other engagement circumstances and considerations regarding areas and procedures associated determined necessary to ensure this information is free from material misstatement, resulting with the material sustainability information disclosed in the 2013/2014 Sustainability Report from fraud or error. where material misstatement could exist. The procedures consisted of: Independent auditors’ responsibility Our responsibility is to express a conclusion about the information in the 2013/2014 Sustainability a) planning: consideration of the materiality of aspects to Whirlpool’s activities, relevance of the Report based on the limited assurance engagement conducted in accordance with Technical information disclosed, amount of quantitative and qualitative information and operational Communication (TC) 07/2012 approved by the Federal Accounting Council and prepared in systems and internal controls that served as a basis for preparation of the information in the accordance with NBC TO 3000 (Assurance Engagements Other Than Audits and Reviews), issued 2013/2014 Sustainability Report. This analysis defined the indicators to be tested in detail; by the Brazilian Federal Accounting Council CFC, which is the equivalent to international b) understanding and analysis of the information disclosed related to the management of material standard ISAE 3000 issued by the International Federation of Accountants applicable to Nonaspects; Financial Historical Information. These standards require compliance with ethical requirements, including independence ones and also that the engagement is conducted to provide limited c) analysis of processes for the preparation of the 2013/2014 Sustainability Report and its structure assurance that the information in the 2013/2014 Sustainability Report, taken as a whole, is free and content, based on the Principles for Defining Report Content and Quality of the Global from material misstatement. Reporting Initiative GRI (GRI-G4); Whirlpool Latin America | 2013/2014 Sustainability Report 65 auditoR’S RepoRt d) evaluation of indicators and other non-financial information: judgments. Additionally, we did not examine data regarding prior periods to assess the adequacy of policies, practices and sustainability performance, nor future projections data. • understanding the calculation methodology and procedures for the compilation of indicators through interviews with managers responsible for preparing the information; Conclusion • application of analytical procedures on the quantitative information and questions about Based on the procedures carried out, described in this report, we have not identified any relevant qualitative information and their correlation with indicators disclosed in the 2013/2014 information that leads us to believe that the information in Whirlpool’s Latin America 2013/2014 Sustainability Report; Annual Report is not free of material misstatement, in accordance with the global Reporting Initiative Sustainability Reporting guidelines (gRI-g4), and with its source records and files. • analysis of evidence supporting the information disclosed; São paulo, June 05th, 2015 • visits to one of Whirlpool’s operational units and its head office for application of these procedures, as well as of items (b), (c) e (d); KPMG risk Advisory Services Ltda. e) plausibility analysis of the reasons for omissions of performance indicators associated with topics CRC 2Sp023233/o-4 and aspects identified as material through the Company’s materiality assessment; and f) comparison of financial indicators with the financial statements and/or accounting records. We believe the information, evidence and results we have obtained are sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our limited conclusion. Scope and limitations Eduardo V. Cipullo The procedures applied in a limited assurance engagement are substantially less extensive than Accountant CRC 1Sp135597/o-6 those applied in a reasonable assurance engagement. Therefore, we cannot ensure we are aware of all the issues that would have been identified in a reasonable assurance engagement, which aims to issue an opinion. If we had conducted a reasonable assurance engagement, we may have identified other issues and possible misstatements within the information presented in the Sustainability Report 2013/2014. nonfinancial data is subject to more inherent limitations than financial data, due to the nature and diversity of the methods used to determine, calculate or estimate this data. qualitative interpretations of the data’s materiality and accuracy are subject to individual presumptions and Whirlpool Latin America | 2013/2014 Sustainability Report 66 Acknowledgments Project coordination Whirlpool Latin America’s Communication and Sustainability Teams: Fernanda Nishikawa, Milton Mondardo Filho and Vanderlei Niehues. Support Adriel Santos, Alberto Sgrott, Alexandre Petry, Ana Paula Henrichsen, Ângela Souza, Anna Araripe, Athos Vicente, Carlos Eduardo Vieira Prestes, Christian Viaes, Cintia Sanocky Maistrovicz, Cláudia Monteiro, Cláudio Machado, Cleverson Zanella, Daniel Karam, Daniel Caldeira, Danilo Turbiani, Débora Paes, Elisa Möller, Enzo Chamma, Erica Zanotti, Fabiano Hecht, Fábio Falci, Fábio Pimentel, Fábio Zanella, Felipe Sciamana, Giovanni Campanella, Guilherme Nehring, Heloísa Granja, Inez Ribeiro, Ione Ribeiro, Jaqueline Batista, Jefferson Oliveira, Jocilene Oliveira, José Sampaio Almeida, José Valnei Silva, Kamila Marchi, Karlis Novickis, Kelly Galesi, Leda Böger, Luciana Aguiar, Maria Cláudia Ferreira da Cunha, Marcos Teixeira, Mariana Oliveira, Marianna Figueiredo, Marilia Biscalquin, Mario Gonçalves, Murilo Hablitzel, Nattacha Lima, Nelson Tesser, Patrícia Sobreira, Paula Barata, Paulino Hashimoto, Paulo Covre, Pedro Benevides, Priscila Wernke, Renata Lomônaco, Ronaldo Fernandes, Sayonara Moreira, Sheila Amaral, Thiago Agda Sousa, Vadis Bellini, Wanderly Limeira, Willian Souza. Consulting for GRI RICCA RI Editorial project — writing, revision, edition and translation RICCA RI Graphic design and multimedia design — online, photos and video RICCA RI This report is available for reading and downloading at sustentabilidade.whirlpool.com.br/en Whirlpool Latin America | 2013/2014 Sustainability Report 67
