Navigation Menu 2014 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction CEO Message 04 Doosan Credo 06 Doosan Group 08 Doosan’s Philosophy 09 Management Framework Company Profile 12 Introduction of Business 14 Business Model 16 Performance Summary 18 Governance 20 Vision and Strategy 22 Integrated Solutions Ethical Management 2014 Doosan Way 24 26 for a Better Life 2014 Highlights 28 Strategy and Performance Business Environment Analysis 32 Business Performance 34 Risk, Opportunity and Business Strategy 38 Upgrading Business Portfolio 40 Core Business Leadership 44 Upgrading Business System 48 Sustainable Management EHS (Environment, Health and Safety) 58 2014 Integrated Report of Talent Management 64 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Social Contribution 70 Doosan Day of Community Service 74 Customer Satisfaction 76 Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries Doosan Power Systems 80 Doosan Power Systems India 84 Doosan VINA 87 Appendix Performance Index 93 Stakeholders 123 Materiality Analysis 124 GRI Index 126 Audit Report 128 Assurance Statement 130 Navigation Menu About this Report Table of Contents 2014 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Overview Verification Additional Information CEO Message 04 In 2012, Doosan Heavy Industries & This report was verified by DNV This report has been published and Construction’s Sustainability Report GL, an independent assurance distributed in Korean and English. Doosan Credo 06 CEO Message 04 was first published that includes conagency, to ensure its reliability and Also, the PDF file can be downloadDoosan Group 08 tents on corporate social responsibility. improve its accuracy. Also, the fied from the homepage of Doosan Doosan Credo 06 Starting from2013, Doosan Heavy nancial data has been audited by Heavy Industries & Construction Doosan’s Philosophy 09 Doosan Group 08 Industries & Construction’s IntegratErnest & Young. Details regarding (www.doosanheavy.com). ed Report, which combines the verification and audit results are Management Framework Doosan’s Philosophy 09 Business Report and the Sustainavailable on pages 130~131. ability Report has been published Company Profile 12 Management Framework every year. This report was drawn Introduction of Business 14 up based on the integrated report Company Profile 12 framework of the International InteBusiness Model 16 Introduction of Business 14 grated Reporting Council and the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Performance Summary 18 Business Model 16 guideline in accordance with the Governance 20 Performance Summary 18 Core option of GRI. Vision and Strategy 22 Governance 20 Reporting Principle Ethical Management 24 Vision and Strategy 22 The quantitative data from the past 2014 Doosan Way 26 Ethical Management 24 three fiscal years are provided to analyze trends over time. This 2014 Highlights 28 2014 Doosan Way 26 report has been drawn up in the 2014 Highlights 28 order of environmental analysis Strategy and Performance and response strategy activities, Integrated Integrated Business Environment Analysis Strategy and Performance Performance, future prospects Composition Reporting 32 and plans, to provide better unBusiness Environment Analysis 32 Business Performance 34 derstanding about Doosan Heavy Business Performance 34 Industries & Construction’s busiRisk, Opportunity and Business Strategy 38 nesses and CSR activities. Also, Risk, Opportunity and Business Strategy 38 the stakeholders take a lot of interCreating Value Contents of Reporting Upgrading Business Portfolio 40 Upgrading Business Portfolio 40 ests in this report by conducting a Core Business Leadership 44 materiality analysis, while in-depth Business CSR Management Environment & Prospects Core Business Leadership 44 reports are provided on subjects Upgrading Business System 48 Vision & Strategy Upgrading Business System 48 with the biggest impact on sustainability management. Supporting Global Leader in Responsible and Responses Sustainable Management Power & Water Sustainable Management Sustainable Growth EHS (Environment, Health and Safety) 58 EHS (Environment, Health and Safety) 58 Reporting Scope and Period Future Plans This report contains status and Talent Management 64 Talent Management 64 performance of sustainability manSocial Contribution 70 Social Contribution 70 agement in domestic worksites and overseas subsidiaries of DooDoosan Day of Community Service 74 Doosan Day of Community Service 74 san Heavy Industries, and it also includes all of quantitative data of Customer Satisfaction 76 Customer Satisfaction 76 projects in Changwon Plant and other projects home and abroad. In Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries the case of domestic subsidiaries, Doosan Power Systems 80 Doosan Power Systems 80 only financial Performance have been included because reports Doosan Power Systems India 84 Doosan Power Systems India 84 are being made individually. Also, 2014 Integrated Report of Doosan VINA 87 if it is necessary according to the Doosan VINA 87 subject, the impacts and activities Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction that affect relevant stakeholders Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Appendix Appendix are included. The reporting period aims to share the information on sustainable Performance Index 93 is from January 1, 2014 to DecemPerformance Index 93 growth with its stakeholders through the Stakeholders 123 ber 31, 2014, while the information pertaining to the time after the re2014 Integrated Report that includes financial Stakeholders 123 Materiality Analysis 124 porting period may also be includand non-financial performance. Also, we are Materiality Analysis 124 ed where it can affect the stakeGRI Index 126 committed to delivering customer value and GRI Index 126 holder’s decision making. Audit Report 128 differentiated images pursued in the market Audit Report 128 as brand attributes. Assurance Statement 130 Assurance Statement 130 Navigation Menu We will fill the places that are not touched 2014 Integrated Report of by water, with our technologies. Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction CEO Message 04 Doosan Credo 06 Doosan Group 08 Doosan’s Philosophy 09 Management Framework Company Profile 12 Introduction of Business 14 Business Model 16 Performance Summary 18 Governance 20 Vision and Strategy 22 Ethical Management 24 2014 Doosan Way 26 Ranked as the world’s No.1 Company in the seawater desalination plant industry 2014 Highlights 28 Strategy and Performance Business Environment Analysis 32 Business Performance 34 Risk, Opportunity and Business Strategy 38 Upgrading Business Portfolio 40 Core Business Leadership 44 Upgrading Business System 48 We will fill the places that are cannot be reached Sustainable Management by light, with our technologies. EHS (Environment, Health and Safety) Talent Management 58 64 Social Contribution 70 Doosan Day of Community Service 74 Customer Satisfaction 76 Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries Doosan Power Systems 80 Doosan Power Systems India 84 Doosan VINA 87 Appendix Performance Index 93 Stakeholders 123 Materiality Analysis 124 GRI Index 126 Audit Report 128 Assurance Statement 130 Ranked as the world’s No.1 Company in the power plant industry 04 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction 05 Navigation Menu 2014 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction CEO Message CEO Message 04 Doosan Credo 06 Doosan Group 08 Dear Stakeholders, Esteemed Stakeholders, Doosan’s Philosophy 09 I would like to sincerely thank you all for the support you have shown We expect the global business conditions to remain continuously Management Framework our company, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction. difficult in 2015. To acquire new growth momentum, we plan to apply information & communications technology, as well Company Profile 12 As a company that specializes in power plants, our company as implement the ESS (Energy Storage System) and energy Introduction of Business 14 possesses world-class expertise in the fields of power and water, conversion. In particular, we will strive to develop the renewable Business Model 16 all of which are applied to raise the value of Earth. Additionally, in energy and gas-fired power plant markets. In addition, we are Performance Summary 18 order to ensure that the future generation lives a sustainable life, we strengthening our fundamental competitiveness by embedding Governance 20 are endeavouring to further develop advanced technologies and the Doosan Way and conducting the Team Doosan activities to Vision and Strategy 22 businesses and fulfill our social responsibilities as a corporate citizen, promote growth for the existing businesses, while also securing thereby expanding our presence as a global company. Ethical Management 24 market share and profitability for our key products, resulting in 2014 Doosan Way 26 Despite the global economic downturn in 2013, Doosan Heavy both quantitative and qualitative growth. Industries & Construction still managed to win contracts for highly 2014 Highlights 28 As our business grows, we are striving to fulfill our social significant projects like the Nghi Son 2 coal-fired thermal power responsibilities, while also achieving financial results. We aim to realise Strategy and Performance plant project in Vietnam worth KRW 1.8 trillion and the Karabatan a better society and pursue practical activities with our stakeholders. Business Environment Analysis 32 combined cycle power plant project in Kazakhstan. We also achieved This means ensuring transparency as a global company, developing Business Performance 34 meaningful results by signing contracts to supply key equipment to the competencies of our employees, achieving a work-life balance Risk, Opportunity and Business Strategy 38 the Shin-Kori Nuclear Power Plant Units 5 and 6 and Hwaseong and world-class safety & health, and participating in the Carbon Dongtan District 2 Community Energy System. By expanding our Upgrading Business Portfolio 40 Disclosure Project (CDP) as part of our green business practices. competitiveness in both domestic and overseas markets, we have Core Business Leadership 44 brightened the outlook for 2015. In addition, we conducted national This 2014 Integrated Report covers our business results and outlook Upgrading Business System 48 projects for the development of a large gas turbine, while bolstering and focuses on our goals in the area of social contribution. Doosan our position in Korea’s 1,000MW USC (ultra-supercritical) market, Heavy Industries & Construction will strive to develop further through Sustainable Management receiving recognition for the strengthening of our fundamental effective communication with its stakeholders. EHS (Environment, Health and Safety) 58 competitiveness and efforts to acquire future growth engines. Talent Management 64 We ask for your continuous support in helping us succeed in this In addition, we took a major leap forward in terms of our corporate notable effort. Thank you. Social Contribution 70 social responsibilities. The effective operation of the CSR Committee, Doosan Day of Community Service 74 which is composed of five subcommittees (Human Resources, Customer Satisfaction 76 Ethics Management, Shared Growth, EHS and Community) reinforced the policies and systems relating to human rights and Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries the supply chain. The upgrading of the EHS system helped to Doosan Power Systems 80 “Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction further improve our employees’ health and safety and conserve the Doosan Power Systems India 84 strives to supply power and water, environment. Meanwhile, we reorganised the systems to enhance Doosan VINA 87 two elements that are essential to the future competitiveness of local communities and held events like human civilization. At the same time, the Doosan Day of Community Service. About 3,000 employees Appendix we develop unique technologies and from 14 work sites in six countries around the world participated in Performance Index 93 solutions aimed at preserving a clean the event which was held on October 24, providing employees with Stakeholders 123 environment, which is a fundamental the chance to actively engage with the local communities. Materiality Analysis 124 foundation for the health and welfare of Geewon Park Because of these efforts, we achieved meaningful results such as GRI Index 126 future generations. In the process, we Chairman & Chief Executive Officer receiving external recognition for our CSR practices, including being Audit Report 128 hope to contribute to the betterment of incorporated in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) list, thereby Assurance Statement 130 mankind and our planet.” reaffirming our strong commitment to fulfill our social responsibilities. 06 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction 07 Navigation Menu 2014 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Doosan Credo CEO Message 04 Doosan Credo 06 Doosan Group 08 Doosan’s Philosophy 09 Our Vision Management Framework We aspire to be a Proud Global Doosan a leading innovator of products and services that improve the quality of life for people and communities around the world. Company Profile 12 We will achieve this by living the Doosan Credo. Guided by our Credo, we will drive our second 100 years of growth. Introduction of Business 14 Core Values Business Model 16 Doosan’s people are our greatest asset and the key to our future. Our customers are the reason Doosan exists. Performance Summary 18 They are at the heart of all our achievements. The true measure of Doosan’s success is customers' satisfaction and respect. Governance 20 Our continued and distinguished success will only be possible Our goal is to always deliver superior value than our competitors. Vision and Strategy 22 through developing and cultivating our talent. We achieve this by understanding our customers’ needs Our people possess great capacity, willingness and drive Ethical Management 24 and meeting or exceeding their expectations. to contribute to the Company. 2014 Doosan Way 26 They are relentless in enhancing their skills and capabilities. Embracing world-class technology and innovation is vital to our survival. 2014 Highlights 28 They embrace our Core Values and demonstrate these beliefs and principles in their daily behaviors. Tomorrow drives today at Doosan; we always look to the future instead of the past. Strategy and Performance We strive to understand, and stay ahead of change. Cultivating people is our highest priority and a shared responsibility. We continuously seek to improve our business model, products, services and methods. Business Environment Analysis 32 Attracting and recruiting the right talent, who understand and embrace our values, We celebrate and properly reward successful risk-taking, Business Performance 34 will be the foundation for developing our people. while also respecting valuable attempts that fail. Risk, Opportunity and Business Strategy 38 We believe people develop and grow through performance at work Doosan applauds the spirit of challenge over complacency. Upgrading Business Portfolio 40 and we give them the authority and responsibility that best match their capabilities. Our future success will be driven by seeking breakthrough ideas, knowledge, technologies and Through experience, people develop to their maximum potential. Core Business Leadership 44 resources regardless of their origin, either internal or external. Fair and immediate feedback and recognition are offered Upgrading Business System 48 as we believe this is central to self-development. Profit measures our success and drives our growth. Our people are given the opportunity to develop their strengths Sustainable Management Our profit must exceed our capital cost and address areas for improvement. As a result, Doosan people are proud of who they are and be sufficient to fuel our continuous growth and investment. EHS (Environment, Health and Safety) 58 and respected as business professionals. Our people understand how the work they do contributes to Doosan’s profit. Talent Management 64 Integrity and transparency are fundamental Doosan strengths. We recognize that long-term success is built by respecting the rights of our suppliers, Social Contribution 70 We make profit by creating value through fair and transparent activities. distributors and partners to earn fair profits. Doosan Day of Community Service 74 We acknowledge our mistakes and keep our promises. We never compromise our principles. Creating a socially responsible enterprise is our duty to society. Customer Satisfaction 76 We see business and society as a close partnership and an opportunity for mutual growth. Inhwa best expresses who we are and provides us with a unique competitive edge. Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries Doosan will be proactive in this partnership, We define Inhwa as teamwork in the truest sense of the word, Doosan Power Systems 80 contributing the time and resources required for success. grounded upon fairness and camaraderie. Our goal is to develop and grow alongside society, as a trusted and trustworthy partner. Doosan Power Systems India 84 By carefully following these virtues we have created One Doosan; Wherever we operate, we do so transparently and lawfully. Doosan VINA 87 a collective strength built on the contribution of a wide diversity of individuals. We aim to contribute to the development of talent in society. Inhwa means we maximize our organizational strength and potential through true teamwork built on defined, transparent rules of fair play. Our community service activities promote both corporate and social development. Appendix Selfish rivalries between individuals or departments have no place at Doosan Performance Index 93 and discrimination of any kind is not tolerated. We provide clean and safe working environments. Stakeholders 123 Inhwa means each individual contributes to the success of their colleagues and team, Doosan maintains all our facilities to the highest possible standards. resulting in both excellent team and individual Performance. This is the basis for superior productivity as well as being our responsibility to our people, their Materiality Analysis 124 Inhwa also means we are open; Doosan welcomes proactive ideas families, our customers and shareholders. GRI Index 126 and constructive criticism from everyone, regardless of seniority or position. Environmental protection is our duty and obligation Audit Report 128 Our unique practice of Inhwa extends beyond the internal organization and embraces the to every community where Doosan does business. Assurance Statement 130 entire Doosan community, from our families to our shareholders, affiliates and partners. We know this ultimately results in greater value creation. 08 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction 09 Navigation Menu 2014 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Doosan Group Doosan’s Philosophy CEO Message 04 Doosan Credo 06 Doosan Group 08 Doosan’s Philosophy 09 Continuous Changes and Growth for the Past Doosan’s Affiliates The Doosan Way represents our strong beliefs and philosophies 119 Years Doosan’s efforts are directed at creating a better foundation for life. Dooto become a ‘Proud Global Doosan’. Management Framework san is engaging in diverse areas of business, ranging from infrastructure Company Profile 12 Doosan has demonstrated the strength of its 119-year history, being the support businesses such as industrial facilities, machinery, equipment, to longest among Korean companies. Since Doosan took the first step in its Introduction of Business 14 consumer goods. legendary history in 1896 when Park Seung-Jik opened Korea’s first modern store in Baeogae (currently located in Jongno 4-ga, Seoul), we have achieved dynamic and fast change and growth. In 1946, the former CEO, Doosan Credo Business Model 16 ISB (Infrastructure Support Business) Performance Summary 18 Park Doo-Byung, renamed the store from Park Seung-Jik Store to Doosan The Doosan Credo is a set of stipulated principles representing Doosan’s business philosophies and unique way of doing business, which have served as the Store, which has grown mainly through beverages and alcohol business. foundation of our success for the past century. The Doosan Credo contains nine core values that guide our decisions and the way we do business. Through Governance 20 Doosan Heavy Industries & Doosan Engineering & Doosan Infracore Starting from the 1980s, we made a leap forward based on the abilities Construction Construction the realization of these values, Doosan accomplishes its ultimate goal. The Doosan Credo consists of Doosan’s ‘Vision’ and ‘Core Values’. Vision and Strategy 22 accumulated over the years. Doosan Engine Doosan DST Ethical Management 24 We entered into overseas market through businesses that included beer, construction, electronic, glass, machinery and trade. By actively impleAspiration 2014 Doosan Way 26 menting new businesses in related industries, we greatly expanded our Doosan Corporation 2014 Highlights 28 group’s business scope both horizontally and vertically. During the 2000s, Doosan’s ultimate goal is as the creation of a ‘Proud Global Doosan.’ Doosan explored new growth engine to become a leading global comDoosan Corporation Doosan’s ultimate goal is to create a 'Proud Global Doosan.' This means each of our employees and all of our shareholders will benefit from, and be proud of pany and made major changes to the company. We maximized business Electro-Materials Doosan Corporation Mottrol Doosan Corporation Glonet Strategy and Performance their association with Doosan. In other words, employees will take great pride in being a member of Doosan and each customer will become a proud consumer synergy through aggressive M&A and changed the infrastructure support Doosan Corporation Doosan Corporation Information & of Doosan’s high-quality products and services. Every shareholder will become a proud shareholder of a company that generates high profits through fair and Business Environment Analysis 32 Doosan Fuel Cell business (ISB) into a business structure focusing on consumer goods. Industrial Vehicle Communications just business operations. Business Performance 34 Since then, we acquired global companies with huge synergy effects with the existing business, including Babcock in the UK, Škoda Power in the Risk, Opportunity and Business Strategy 38 Czech Republic and Bobcat in the US, to strengthen our competitiveness CSB (Consumer & Service Business) and expand our position in overseas markets. Currently, we have business Core Values Upgrading Business Portfolio 40 sites in about 30 countries around the world, laying the foundation to beDoosan Capital Oricom Neoplux Doosan people practice the nine core values of the Doosan Credo everyday. Core Business Leadership 44 come a global company that create more than 60% of the group’s sales Doosan people practice the nine core values of the Doosan Credo every day. It is practiced everywhere we operate our business to build a Proud Global Upgrading Business System 48 from overseas markets. Doosan Feed & Livestock Doosan Tower Doosan Bears Doosan. These values guide the way we do business, the way we treat each other, and the way we work with all of our partners. Doosan aims to become a ‘Proud Global Doosan’ based on our ‘trust in people’. We are always striving to do our best to become a company that Doosan Cuvex Doosan Magazine Sustainable Management everyone involved can be proud of, to bring better life to mankind and evPeople Inhwa Profit EHS (Environment, Health and Safety) 58 eryone who works for us. Talent Management 64 Affiliated Organizations Cultivating People Customers Social Responsibility Social Contribution 70 Doosan’s Vision Doosan Yonkang Foundation Doosan Art Center DLI Doosan Day of Community Service 74 Doosan aims to become one of the global top 200 companies by 2020 Integrity and Transparency World-class Technology and Innovation Safety and Environment through the execution of people-centered management, the source of Customer Satisfaction 76 global competitiveness, and setting up a global standard business process. Financial Achievements of Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries Traits of Doosan People Doosan Group in 2014 Doosan Power Systems 80 A Company with Global Competitiveness (Unit : KRW million) Doosan Power Systems India 84 Joining the World’s Top 200 by 2020 Doosan VINA 87 Total Assets 31,369,300 Appendix Limitless Aspiration Cultivating People Inhwa Performance Index 93 Total Equity 8,902,341 Stakeholders 123 Materiality Analysis 124 Business philosophy Sales 20,468,238 GRI Index 126 Building business Audit Report 128 that considers talented processes that meet Open Communication Tenacity & Drive Prioritization and Focus Assurance Statement 130 people as the source of global competitiveness global standards Operating Profit 1,008,070 Navigation Menu 2014 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction CEO Message 04 Doosan Credo 06 Doosan Group 08 Doosan’s Philosophy 09 Management Framework Management Company Profile 12 Introduction of Business 14 Business Model 16 Framework Performance Summary 18 Governance 20 Vision and Strategy 22 Ethical Management 24 2014 Doosan Way 26 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is striving to become the Proud Doosan People fully trusted by 2014 Highlights 28 its stakeholders, by providing products and services that enhance the value of Strategy and Performance planet Earth through advanced management systems. Business Environment Analysis 32 Business Performance 34 Risk, Opportunity and Business Strategy 38 12 18 24 Company Profile Performance Summary Ethical Management Upgrading Business Portfolio 40 Core Business Leadership 44 14 20 26 Upgrading Business System 48 Introduction of Business Governance 2014 Doosan Way Sustainable Management 16 22 28 EHS (Environment, Health and Safety) 58 Business Model Vision and Strategy 2014 Highlights Talent Management 64 Social Contribution 70 Doosan Day of Community Service 74 Customer Satisfaction 76 Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries Doosan Power Systems 80 Doosan Power Systems India 84 Doosan VINA 87 Appendix Performance Index 93 Stakeholders 123 Materiality Analysis 124 GRI Index 126 Audit Report 128 Assurance Statement 130 Performance of Overseas 12 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Management Framework Strategy and Performance Sustainable Management Subsidiaries Appendix 13 Navigation Menu 2014 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Company Profile CEO Message 04 Doosan Credo 06 Doosan Group 08 Doosan’s Philosophy 09 ‘Technology to Raise Value’ Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction not only produces castings and Furthermore, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is working towards General Information (As of December 2014) Organization Chart Management Framework forgings that are basic industrial materials, but also produces nuclear and developing eco-friendly technology for future growth engines. We actively Company Profile 12 thermal power plants and seawater desalination facilities. These products took part in developing technology that reduces the generation of enviCompany Name Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction CEO Introduction of Business 14 are provided to plant builders at home and abroad to sustain a better future ronmentally hazardous substances, such as carbon dioxide, to not only Finance Div. for mankind. Furthermore, our acquisition of global power plant equipment produce circulated fluidized-bed boiler technology that discharges less CEO Geewon Park, Ji Taik Chung Business Model 16 manufacturers, such as Babcock of the UK, Škoda Power of the Czech Repollutants compared to the existing pulverized coal firing boiler and cuts Technology Research public, and Lentjes of Germany, enabled us to secure three core technoldown on fuel costs, but also makes continuous efforts to develop integrat22 DoosanVolvo-ro, Seongsan-Gu, Changwon, Institute Performance Summary 18 Head Office COO ogies related to boilers, turbines, and generators. We also operate global ed gasification combined cycle (IGCC), wine power generator, carbon capGyeongsangnamdo, Korea Governance 20 production networks for Doosan Vina in Vietnam and DPSI in India. ture & storage and oxy-fuel technology. Also, we are focused on securing the new growth momentum for exploring business models for developing Employees 8,388 persons Vision and Strategy 22 In addition, we have strengthened our position in the nuclear power plant industry as Korea’s only main equipment producer, while also expected to gas turbines and utilizing ICT. Nuclear BG Boiler BG Water BG Management Div. Ethical Management 24 A (corporate bond), Korea Ratings create lots of business opportunities in spite of the global water shortage as Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is aiming to become a global Credit Rating A2 (commercial paper), NICE Investors Service Turbine / Castings & 2014 Doosan Way 26 the world’s No.1 Company in seawater desalination. leader in power and water business by reinforcing the fundamental comEPC BG Generator BG Forgings BG petitiveness and developing future growth engines. * Including executives and irregular employees 2014 Highlights 28 Strategy and Performance Business Environment Analysis 32 Doosan Power Systems, UK Doosan Babcock, UK Business Performance 34 Global Network Doosan Engineering & Services, USA Doosan Enpure, UK Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is Doosan Heavy Industries America, USA Doosan Lentjes, Germany Risk, Opportunity and Business Strategy 38 Newington Office, USA Doosan Škoda Power, Czech performing business activities in the world Pittsburgh Office, USA Upgrading Business Portfolio 40 via local subsidiaries, branches, and affiliates Doosan HF Controls, USA located in Korea, Europe, Asia, and America. Doosan IMGB, Romania Core Business Leadership 44 We are continuously expanding our global Upgrading Business System 48 Global HQ, network to advance as a global company. Beijing Office, China Korea Frankfurt Office, Germany Doosan Heavy Industries Japan Sustainable Management Doosan Hydro Technology, USA Cairo Office, Egypt Shanghai Office, China EHS (Environment, Health and Safety) 58 Kuwait Office, Kuwait Taipei Office, Taiwan Talent Management 64 Riyadh Office, Saudi Arabia CSS VINA Social Contribution 70 Hanoi Office, Vietnam Manila Office, Philippines Doosan Day of Community Service 74 Middle East Operation Center, UAE Customer Satisfaction 76 Dubai Office, UAE Doosan Heavy Industries Vietnam Water Dubai Office, UAE Doosan Power Systems India (Doosan VINA) Abu Dhabi Office, UAE Delhi Office Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries Mumbai Office Bangkok Office, Thailand Chennai Office Doosan Power Systems 80 Santiago Office, Chile Jakarta Office, Indonesia Kolkata Office Doosan Power Systems India 84 Johannesburg Office, South Africa Doosan VINA 87 Appendix America Europe Middle East & Africa Asia Performance Index 93 Chile Santiago Office U.K. Doosan Power Systems UAE Dubai Office Korea Head Office & Changwon Plant Taiwan Taipei Office Water Dubai Office Seoul Office Stakeholders 123 USA Doosan Heavy Industries America Doosan Babcock China Shanghai Office Abu Dhabi Office Vietnam Doosan VINA Doosan Enpure Materiality Analysis 124 Doosan Hydro Technology Middle East Operation Center Hanoi Office Beijing Office Czech Doosan Škoda Power Saudi Arabia Doosan Power Systems Arabia CSS VINA GRI Index 126 Doosan Engineering & Service Indonesia Jakarta Office Republic Water Riyadh Office India Doosan Power Systems India Doosan HF Controls Riyadh Office Delhi Office Japan Doosan Heavy Industries Japan Audit Report 128 Germany Doosan Lentjes Egypt Cairo Office Mumbai Office Assurance Statement 130 Pittsburgh Office Frankfurt Office Philippines Manila Office Kuwait Water Kuwait Office Chennai Office Newington Office Romania Doosan IMGB South Africa Johannesburg Office Kolkata Office Thailand Bangkok Office Performance of Overseas 14 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Management Framework Strategy and Performance Sustainable Management Subsidiaries Appendix 15 Navigation Menu 2014 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Introduction of Business CEO Message 04 Green Energy Doosan Credo 06 As the world’s leading company specializing in energy business, Doosan Doosan Group 08 Heavy Industries & Construction is preparing for the future by developing new and renewable energy technology. We successfully developed Korea’s Doosan’s Philosophy 09 first 3MW class offshore wind power system, WinDS3000TM, and obtained Global Leader in Power & Water international certification from a renowned German certification agency, DEManagement Framework Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is striving to improve the quality WI-OCC, in 2011. This established the foundation for winning continuous of life for people around the world, by carrying out the Doosan Way that orders, including the 30MW class Tamla offshore wind power project as Company Profile 12 represents Doosan’s strong beliefs and philosophies and providing stable Korea’s first offshore wind power project, and the 24MW class Yeongheung Introduction of Business 14 supply of electricity and water that are essential to life. wind power complex phase 2 in 2012. In 2013, we obtained New Excellent Product certification on our 3MW wind power system from the Korean Business Model 16 Agency for Technology and Standards. In 2014, we won orders for supplying Power Plants Performance Summary 18 equipment to the 42MW Jeonnam land-based wind power project and the Coal-fired Power Plant 21MW Sangmyung land-based wind power project. In the future, we plan Governance 20 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has been participating in the conto expand our position in Korea, as well as accelerate our entry into overVision and Strategy 22 struction of various coal-fired power plants at home and abroad, while also seas markets like Southeast Asia. Also, as environmental regulations like the regulation of GHG emissions are strengthened, we will focus on developing Ethical Management 24 providing comprehensive engineering services, such as engineering, concarbon capture & storage technology and its commercialization. struction, construction supervision and commissioning of core equipment 2014 Doosan Way 26 and facilities, including boilers, turbines and generators. In particular, we 2014 Highlights 28 supplied core facilities and supplementary equipment for the construction Water Plants of Korea’s plants with maximum capacity like the coal-fired power plants in Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is the world’s No.1 business in the Strategy and Performance Taean, Yeongheung and Dangin. Currently, as the number one leading comseawater desalination business. It boasts three core source technologies pany in Korea’s coal-fired power plant industry, we developed our unique – MSF (Multi-Stage Flash), MED (Multi-Effect Distillation), and RO (Reverse Business Environment Analysis 32 technology for a highly-efficient and eco-friendly 1,000 MW USC (Ultra SuOsmosis) – for seawater desalination, to lead the world’s seawater desalinaBusiness Performance 34 per Critical) coal-fired power plant by winning orders for the Shinboryeong tion market. In 1978, we displayed our advanced technologies by earning the Farasan project in Saudi Arabia, as well as the world’s largest facility, the Risk, Opportunity and Business Strategy 38 plant’s units 1 and 2, while also supplying eco-friendly CFB (Circulating FluYanbu MED project in Saudi Arabia. Since 2012, we have been producing Upgrading Business Portfolio 40 idized Bed) boilers to Saemangeum industrial complex. Moreover, we are and shipping freshwater vaporizers to the production base of Doosan Vina recognized for our world-class technology by successfully fulfilling projects in Vietnam, to secure price competitiveness in overseas markets. In addition, Core Business Leadership 44 like the Kudgi power plant (800MWx3) and the Lara power plant (800MWx2) in 2012, we laid the foundation for entering into the water treatment market Upgrading Business System 48 in India, as well as receiving orders for the Mong Duong 2 plant, the Vinh Tan by acquiring the UK’s Enpure, featuring water and sewage treatment, sludge 4 and the Nghi Son 2 coal-fired power plant projects in Vietnam. treatment and energy recovery technologies. The Escondida seawater desalination plant project in 2013 was a significant landmark in that we won Sustainable Management Combined Cycle Power Plants new projects in Central and South America, beyond the Middle East. Based EHS (Environment, Health and Safety) 58 In accordance with growing combined cycle and cogeneration power plant on our No.1 position in the global seawater desalination business, Doosan markets, we are expanding the supply of gas and steam turbines. We took Heavy Industries & Construction expanded its competitiveness across the Talent Management 64 over the Czech Republic’s Škoda Power in 2009 to secure the original market to provide integrated water solution that covers all areas, including Social Contribution 70 technology for steam turbines and we are focusing on developing source seawater desalination and water treatment. Doosan Day of Community Service 74 technologies for gas turbines by capitalizing on in-house technical capabilities. We supplied core power generation facilities to combined cycle power Customer Satisfaction 76 Castings & Forgings plants in Seoul and Pocheon, and cogeneration power plants in Yangju, SeBy capitalizing on its world-leading facilities and technologies, Doosan jong-si, and the Saemangeum regions in Korea. Externally, we conducted Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries Heavy Industries & Construction manufactures and supplies mold steels large combined cycle power plant projects, such as the Jebel Ali M comthat are used as industrial materials in automobile and home appliance inDoosan Power Systems 80 bined cycle power plant in Dubai and the Qurayyah combined cycle power dustries, as well as equipment for shipbuilding and steel industries and core plant in Saudi Arabia. components for chemical, offshore, water power, thermal power and nucleDoosan Power Systems India 84 ar power plants. In particular, our superior technology of high-quality castDoosan VINA 87 Nuclear Power Plants ings & forgings products equipped with an integrated production system, As a leading supplier of major equipment of nuclear power plant in Korea, including manufacturing and processing, has been highly acknowledged at Doosan has the ability of engineering, procurement, manufacturing, conAppendix power plants around the world. Also, we enhanced our competitiveness in struction, and service to clients. Based on these strengths, we have providmaterials industry by continuously upgrading the production infrastructure, Performance Index 93 ed major equipment of nuclear power plants not only in domestic but also to invest in remelting facilities to produce high clean steel. Based on these Stakeholders 123 overseas including the US, China and the UAE. In 2014, Doosan supplied capabilities, we went beyond the domestic market to export to China, Jathe world’s first Korean-built nuclear reactor and steam generator of Korean pan, Germany, the US and Taiwan. By developing and supplying various Materiality Analysis 124 advanced nuclear power system (APR1400) at the first power plant under castings & forgings products that used to be imported before, we greatGRI Index 126 construction in the UAE. Also, we won orders for supplying major equipment ly contributed to the localization of materials in relevant industries and the of nuclear power plant to Shinkori units 5,6 and steam generator for replaceimprovement of export competitiveness. In recognition of our technology Audit Report 128 development of materials and international competitiveness, we possess a ment at Hanbit units 3,4, consolidate our position as the leading company in Assurance Statement 130 total of nine world-class products, including mold steels, crank shafts for manufacturing and service business area. ships, work rolls, and low pressure turbine rotor shafts. Performance of Overseas 16 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Management Framework Strategy and Performance Sustainable Management Subsidiaries Appendix 17 Navigation Menu 2014 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Business Model Business Model & 6-Capitals Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has technologies and facilities on power plants, desalination equipment that cover engineering, component production, installation and maintenance. Together with business models, we enhance the economic, social and environmental value through various activities, CEO Message 04 including planning, investments, support, etc., while also pursuing sustainable business activities that fulfill the corporate social responsibilities to the fullest. Doosan Credo 06 Doosan Group 08 Doosan’s Philosophy 09 Management Approaches and Performance for Top 6 Assets Value Chain Management Framework the Top 6 Assets Company Profile 12 Financial Financial Cash (equity, liability) that can be Production Activities The amount of each project is huge and the period from obtaining an Introduction of Business 14 used for product manufacturing, etc. order to getting paid is longer than in other industries, making financial management of cash flow very important. Business Model 16 Maintenance & Performance Engineering Castings & Forgings Equipment Manufacturing Construction Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction acquired and operated its Performance Summary 18 Improvement financial assets through a careful management of risks related to market, credit and exchange rate. Governance 20 See page 18, 50, 93-100 Vision and Strategy 22 Ethical Management 24 Manufactured Manufactured Tangible assets needed for product It is not important not only to make new investments on tangible assets 2014 Doosan Way 26 manufacturing, building, equipment, for manufacturing products, but also implement management and improvement activities to enhance productivity. Doosan Heavy Industries & 2014 Highlights 28 etc. Construction is taking the lead in global competitiveness equipped with the best production infrastructure. Strategy and Performance Turbine Rotors Boilers Generators Coal-fired Power Plants Performance Improvement of Plant & Equipment See page 12, 18, 42, 45 Business Environment Analysis 32 Business Performance 34 R&D Intellectual Intellectual Risk, Opportunity and Business Strategy 38 Intangible assets including patent, As the competition between industries is getting intensified, the importance of intellectual property is growing. Doosan Heavy Industries & Upgrading Business Portfolio 40 know-how, etc. Construction has actively managed its patents and licenses. Core Business Leadership 44 Upgrading Business System 48 Turbine Castings Steam Turbines & Gas Turbines Combined Cycle Power Plants, etc. Equipment Repair See page 19, 41, 45-47, 54 Sustainable Management EHS (Environment, Health and Safety) 58 Human Plant & Equipment Engineering Human Employees’ competency, The foundation of business infrastructure is outstanding human resources. Talent Management 64 experience, engagement, etc. Based on our corporate philosophy of human resource development, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has focused on developing Social Contribution 70 human resources, to maximize the value of human resources through the Doosan Day of Community Service 74 Doosan Way. Cask & Vessel Nuclear Power Plant Water Treatment & Plant Operation Equipment Wind Power Water Desalination Plants Customer Satisfaction 76 See page 19, 64-68 Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries Social Social Doosan Power Systems 80 Relationship with stakeholders, Corporate social responsibilities contributed directly to social development that went beyond the indirect impact on society. Doosan Heavy Industries Doosan Power Systems India 84 including local communities, etc. & Construction not only focused on human resources development, but also expanded the scope of social responsibilities to support the socially Doosan VINA 87 vulnerable and operated community-based programs. Appendix See page 19, 70-77, 109-115 Strategic & Support Activities, etc. Performance Index 93 Stakeholders 123 Natural Natural The business area of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction makes the Materiality Analysis 124 Natural environment, resources, Operation CommuniCustomer Supply best use of resources for human life. We strive to improve the value of ecosystem, etc. Strategy Ethics Finance HR EHS Community GRI Index 126 Innovation cation Support Chain planet Earth by minimizing environmental effects even during the process of manufacturing products and implementing activities. Audit Report 128 Assurance Statement 130 See page 19, 54, 55, 58-60, 116-122 Performance of Overseas 18 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Management Framework Strategy and Performance Sustainable Management Subsidiaries Appendix 19 Navigation Menu 2014 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Performance Summary CEO Message 04 Doosan Credo 06 Doosan Group 08 Doosan’s Philosophy 09 Financial Performance Non-Financial Performance Despite the global economic recession and construction slump, conOur sales decreased due to the construction of large-scale power plant In 2014, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction joined the UNGC (UN the advancement and scientification of social contribution activities. As a Management Framework solidated sales recorded KRW 18.1 trillion. Consolidated operating profit projects, including the Rabigh project in Saudi Arabia and the Raipur projGlobal Compact) promising to faithfully fulfill its role as a corporate citizen result, we received recognition at home and abroad that included being Company Profile 12 achieved KRW 888.2 billion, down KRW 69.9 billion (7.3%) compared to the ect in India, being almost completed. However, we maintained our perforby complying with ten principles that cover four areas, including the enviincorporated into DJSI Korea index and selected as excellent company in previous year, due to decrease in sales. mance for subsidiaries so that Doosan Engine achieved a huge increase ronment, labor, human rights and anti-corruption. climate change competitiveness. Introduction of Business 14 (19%) compared to the previous year, while overseas subsidiaries includBusiness Model 16 In terms of new orders, there was more than 30% increase compared to Also, we systematically operated the CSR Committee by making changThese efforts were the results of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction ing Doosan Babcock increased sales in the service business. Therefore, the previous year, including supplying main equipment to Shinkori units 5 es and improvements in five areas related to CSR, including Human Reeffectively utilizing tangible and intangible assets based on the Doosan even though Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction’s operation profit Performance Summary 18 and 6 (KRW 2.1 trillion) and the Nghi Son II coal-fired power plant in Vietsource, Ethics Management, Shared Growth, EHS, and Community, such Way. In the future, we will actively fulfill our role as corporate citizen to maindecreased, we maintained a stable profitability for overall operating profit Governance 20 nam (KRW 1.8 trillion), showing excellent performance in winning orders as establishing a management system to respect human rights and prohibit tain sustainable development for the company and society. as a result of our huge achievements for subsidiaries. Our operating margin for subsidiaries. discrimination, strengthening the education on fair trade for employees, esdecreased due to the effect of one-off costs, but we achieved an operating Vision and Strategy 22 tablishing the CSR guideline for suppliers, upgrading EHS, and achieving margin of more than 5% and about 44.4 billion as profit for the year, by Ethical Management 24 removing related effects. 2014 Doosan Way 26 2014 Highlights 28 Sales Operating Profit Strategy and Performance Selected as the outstanding company in climate change Business Environment Analysis 32 21,274 18,128 competitiveness Business Performance 34 Received ‘A’ rating in the ESG evaluation hosted by Korea 19,208 Joined the UN Global Compact Incorporated in the DJSI (Dow Jones Corporate Governance Service Risk, Opportunity and Business Strategy 38 Sustainability Index) Korea Received the grand prize in CSR as a Korean company investing in Vietnam Upgrading Business Portfolio 40 888 Core Business Leadership 44 958 Upgrading Business System 48 Sustainable Management 586 EHS (Environment, Health and Safety) 58 33,775 hours 860 cases 121 hours Talent Management 64 Annual volunteer hours of employees Accumulated number of domestic and Average training hours per employee overseas patent applications Social Contribution 70 Doosan Day of Community Service 74 Customer Satisfaction 76 Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 Doosan Power Systems 80 Doosan Power Systems India 84 100,800 KRW million 79,465 ton 21,600 tCO 2 Doosan VINA 87 Assets Liabilities Equity Tangible Assets Amount of Shared Growth Fund raised Amount of renewable raw materials used Amount of reduced GHG emissions Appendix 27,914 27,725 Performance Index 93 27,552 21,928 19,813 19,875 Stakeholders 123 7,912 7,677 Materiality Analysis 124 7,232 7,190 C S R 5,986 6,156 GRI Index 126 Announcement of setting the Audit Report 128 Human Rights Education CSR Guideline for suppliers Global EHS Assurance Statement 130 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 Implemented for all employees CSR support for suppliers Expanding overseas subsidiaries (Unit : KRW 1 billion, consolidated financial statements) Performance of Overseas 20 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Management Framework Strategy and Performance Sustainable Management Subsidiaries Appendix 21 Navigation Menu 2014 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Governance CEO Message 04 Doosan Credo 06 Doosan Group 08 Doosan’s Philosophy 09 Composition of the Board of Directors Operation of the Board of Directors Board of Directors Activities in 2014 Compensation System of the Board of Management Framework Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has a total of five persons on The Board of Directors is the supreme decision-making body for the deIn 2014, the Board of Directors of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Directors the Board of Directors. The directors are elected during the shareholders’ liberation and resolution of matters stipulated in the articles of association held 10 meetings. The Board of Directors deliberated and voted on 22 major Company Profile 12 Compensation for management are determined by the performance evalumeeting in accordance with relevant regulations. The three outside direcor relevant laws, matters entrusted from the shareholders’ meeting, and agenda items, including the agenda and convening of shareholders’ meetation covering not only financial Performance but also the level of achieving Introduction of Business 14 tors have all met the independence requirements. In order to enhance the important matters regarding the basic management principles and busiing, the enactment and amendment of important regulations, the business strategic targets, while the compensations for both executives and outside efficiency of management judgment and realize a responsible manageness operation. plans of affiliates, the approval of budgets and matters related to governance, Business Model 16 directors are paid within the limits approved at the shareholders’ meeting. In ment, the CEO is responsible for chairing the Board of Directors. The Audit The CEO or other director separately appointed by the Board of Directors with reports on quarterly business performance and group issues. 2014, the approved compensation limit by shareholders’ meeting was KRW Performance Summary 18 Committee, the Outside Director Recommendation Committee and the for this purpose, if any, shall convene all meetings of the Board of Directors, In addition, in order to improve the understanding of the Doosan Heavy 15 billion, with a total of KRW 3.65 billion. Internal Transaction Committee are operated under the Board of Directors. or a Board of Directors meeting can be convened within 10 days when Industries & Construction, we provided a shop tour program for members Governance 20 more than one third of the members state the purpose, agenda and desired of the Outside Director Recommendation Advisory Group to visit the head Vision and Strategy 22 Major Changes to the Board of Directors date. The BOD’s decision is determined by a majority attendance and a office and production facilities in Changwon. The attendance rate of the Shareholder Structure majority vote of attended directors, but voting rights of any individual with Board of Directors by outside directors in 2014 was 100%. 400 million shares will be issued by the company's articles of association. Ethical Management 24 March 29, 2014 The outside director, Hyungjoo Kim, completed his special stakes in our company are prohibited. In 2015, we plan to discuss the future direction and plan by reviewing our As of November 2014, capital increase of KRW 373 billion was made by term. 2014 Doosan Way 26 The Board of Directors deals with economic, social and environmental isCSR activities, along with reports on activities and Performance made by issuing preferred stocks of 13,203,540 shares. The method of capital inDecember 19, 2014 The executive director, Keysun Han, completed his crease was through allocation to third parties in increase of capital by ac2014 Highlights 28 sues comprehensively, and any company-related issues arising shall be the CSR Committee in 2014. These efforts will provide an opportunity to term. shared and discussed among members. The information on the composicarry out CSR activities from a company-wide perspective under the manquiring KDB-Trinity DHIC Private Equity Fund. Therefore, as of the end of December 19, 2014 The new CEO, Ji Taik Chung, was appointed tion and activities of the board are released through our website, to protect agement of the Board of Directors. 2014, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction issued a total of 119,361,796 Strategy and Performance the rights of shareholders and external shareholders. shares (common shares: 106,158,256 shares, redeemable convertible preBusiness Environment Analysis 32 ferred shares: 13,203,540 shares). Board of Directors Activities Business Performance 34 (As of December 31, 2014) The Composition of the Board of Directors (As of December 31, 2014) Operation of the BOD Risk, Opportunity and Business Strategy 38 Convening Date Agenda Detail Position Name Duty / Work Experience Doosan Corporation 36.82% Upgrading Business Portfolio 40 Unit 2012 2013 2014 Feb. 13, 2014 Approval of the 51st financial statements and business report Approval of the 2014 and medium-term business plan Individual and Others 26.74% Core Business Leadership 44 Executive Geewon Park CEO and Chairman of Doosan Heavy Industries & Number of meetings Times 11 13 10 Director Construction / CEO / Chairman of the BOD Approval of self-dealing with Doosan Corporation Upgrading Business System 48 Attendance rate of the % 89.8 84.2 100 Approval of signing joint investment agreement and land purchase Ji Taik Chung CEO of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction for constructing a training institute in Chunchun outside director Sustainable Management / COO Mar. 5, 2014 Approval of convening the 51st general shareholders’ meeting and Institutional Investors 19.36% Outside Kyungsoon Song Representative at Korea Expert Consulting Group its meeting purpose EHS (Environment, Health and Safety) 58 Director Cancellation of granting stock options Foreign Investors 10.95% Talent Management 64 Dongmin Cha Lawyer at Kim & Chang Law Firm Mar. 28, 2014 Appointment of the Chairman of the Board of Directors and Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction 6.13% the convening authority Social Contribution 70 Bokhyeon Baik Associate Professor of Business School at Seoul Appointment of the CEO * Ratio reflecting the redeemable convertible preference shares (RCPS) of 13,203,540 shares National University Doosan Day of Community Service 74 Election of the member of the BOD subcommittees Customer Satisfaction 76 Approval of subcontracts between DHI and Doosan VINA Protection of Minority Shareholders Apr. 29, 2014 Approval of a legal lawsuit in UAE regarding the CEO’s power of representation The portion of shares owned by minority shareholders is 26.71%, and DooPerformance of Overseas Subsidiaries san Heavy Industries guarantees the rights of the minority shareholder in Approval of self-dealing with Doosan Bears Doosan Power Systems 80 compliance with the rights of sole shareholders and minority shareholders. Jun. 2, 2014 Approval of establishment of a branch in Johannesburg, South Africa In order to listen to shareholders’ opinions, we hold the general shareholdDoosan Power Systems India 84 Board of Directors Approval of closing of a branch in Tampa in U.S. ers’ meeting annually to report on the business status, while also operating Jul. 25, 2014 Report of the first half business report for 2014 a written ballot system to protect the voting right of minority shareholders. Doosan VINA 87 Oct. 28, 2014 Report of the third quarter business report for 2014 Appendix Nov. 4, 2014 Appointment of executives Received a Grade of A from the Korea Approval of the convening of irregular shareholders’ meeting and Performance Index 93 Audit Committee Internal Transaction Committee Outside Director Recommendation Committee agendas of regular shareholders’ meeting Corporate Governance Service (KCGS) (Three outside directors) (Three outside directors) (Three outside directors) Stakeholders 123 Nov. 25, 2014 Issuance of the redeemable convertible preference shares Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction received a grade of A from the Audit accounting and finance Deliberate and approve any large-scale internal transactions Recommend outside director candidates to be Participation in capital increase of DHIAH Korea Corporate Governance Service (KCGS) in governance during the Materiality Analysis 124 in accordance with Article 11-2 of the Fair Trade Act appointed by the shareholders’ meeting Dec. 19, 2014 Appointment of the CEO ESG evaluation being conducted annually. In the future, we will strive to receive better evaluations by establishing more transparent governance. GRI Index 126 Decision on the method of granting the exercise of stock option Approval of self-dealing with Doosan Tower, Doosan Corporation Audit Report 128 and Oricom Assurance Statement 130 Appointment of the chief compliance officer for fair transactions Performance of Overseas 22 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Management Framework Strategy and Performance Sustainable Management Subsidiaries Appendix 23 Navigation Menu 2014 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Vision and Strategy CEO Message 04 Doosan Credo 06 Doosan Group 08 Doosan’s Philosophy 09 Vision and Management Strategy Strategy and Framework for CSR Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is making a concerted effort to realize its vision of ‘Global Leader in Power & Water’ by executing the ‘Doosan Credo’ Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction established a CSR strategy to set the direction of activities extending its social responsibilities as a corporate citizen Management Framework based on the ‘Doosan Way’. through active communication with stakeholders based on the principles of developing people, reliable operation and responsible engagement. In the future, Company Profile 12 we will strive to become a Proud Global Doosan by complying with a variety of global initiatives and standards and participating in company-wide CSR activities. Introduction of Business 14 Proud Global Doosan Business Model 16 Performance Summary 18 Vision Global Leader in Power & Water Governance 20 Doosan Way Vision and Strategy 22 CSR Goal Fortune World’s Most Admired Company in 2020 Ethical Management 24 The vision, ‘Global Leader in Power & Water’, connotes our commitment to evolving into a global leader in the global power and water 2014 Doosan Way 26 markets. We aim to continuously lead the global market by ensuring world-class technological power, cost competitiveness, sales revenue CSR Mission Supporting Responsible and Sustainable Growth 2014 Highlights 28 and profitability, human resources development, and corporate culture. CSR Pillars Developing People Reliable Operating Responsible Engagement Strategy and Performance Global Leader Power & Water Business Environment Analysis 32 CSR Dimension Human Resource Ethical Management Shared Growth EHS Community Business Performance 34 Establishing a company-wide CSR · Representing the main business areas Enabler Building a company-wide CSR promotion system Reinforcing of CSR communication Risk, Opportunity and Business Strategy 38 · Becoming a global top-tier player in all businesses performance management system ·S ecuring the exiting business profits and Upgrading Business Portfolio 40 · A leap towards the position as a global player exploring new businesses Demand of Society Global CSR Initiative : ISO 26000 / UN Global Compact / GRI Core Business Leadership 44 Upgrading Business System 48 Strategy Upgrading Business Portfolio Core Business Leadership Upgrading Business Systems Major CSR Directions and Areas Sustainable Management Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has classified the three CSR principles into five areas. In 2014, we conducted CSR activities according to various areas, including establishing a management system on respect for human rights and prohibition on discrimination, strengthening fair trade education for EHS (Environment, Health and Safety) 58 employees, setting the CSR Guideline for Suppliers, upgrading the EHS and establishing a system for social contribution activities. Talent Management 64 Global Leader in Power & Water Social Contribution 70 Human Resource Ethical Management Shared Growth EHS Community Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is making a concerted effort to realize its vision of ‘Global Leader in Power & Water’ by achieving both quantitative Doosan Day of Community Service 74 growth and qualitative growth based on three strategies, including upgrading business portfolio, upgrading core business leadership and upgrading business · Enhancing talent · Developing ethical · Making fair operations · Establishing preemptive and ·E  nhancing stakeholder systems. management management system habitual scientific safety management engagement Customer Satisfaction 76 · Developing a ‘Great · Developing and operating a system ·E  stablishing a strategic social Workplace’ sustainable supply chain · Developing world-class contribution system Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries · Strengthening overall healthcare programs ·S  trengthening activities to Upgrading Business Portfolio Core Business Leadership Upgrading Business Systems competitiveness of suppliers · Advancement and improve customer relationship Doosan Power Systems 80 scientification of green / services management system Doosan Power Systems India 84 Utilizing resources efficiently and maximizing Doosan VINA 87 Securing independent technology capability Changing from businesses focusing on fixed global business Performance by optimizing for core businesses and possessing future CSR Organization assets to high value-added technologies local subsidiary and production base Appendix eco-friendly energy technologies Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction held the CSR Committee twice a year with the COO as the Chairman. We established plans for the activities of five operation subcommittees on HR, ethical management, etc. and evaluated performance results, which is expected to be reported to the regular BOD meetings in the Performance Index 93 future. Also, we enhanced the business efficiency through the internal advisory group and advice from external professionals. Stakeholders 123 Materiality Analysis 124 COO GRI Index 126 Advisory Group Coordinator CSR Team Audit Report 128 Strategy Operation Innovation Assurance Statement 130 Legal Affairs Technology Planning Human Resource Ethical Management Shared Growth EHS Community Performance of Overseas 24 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Management Framework Strategy and Performance Sustainable Management Subsidiaries Appendix 25 Navigation Menu 2014 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Ethical Management CEO Message 04 Doosan Credo 06 Doosan Group 08 Doosan’s Philosophy 09 Ethical Management of Major Ethical Management Activities in 2014 Plans for Ethical Management Activities in 2015 Management Framework Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Established Code of Conduct Anonymous Suggestion Boxes for Whistle-blowing Cascading-type Education for the Code of Conduct As there is a huge change in economic and social trends, companies are In order to establish a healthy and sound practice internally and externally, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction carried out a survey for site / facDoosan Heavy Industries & Construction plans to provide cascading-type Company Profile 12 required to not only to create profits, but also ensure integrity and transparDoosan Heavy Industries & Construction established the Code of Contory employees on the areas of integrity and transparency for the core value education for the Code of Conduct with content on matters that require Introduction of Business 14 ency, achieve shared growth and fair trade with suppliers, and contribute to duct for its employees according to situations that might occur during their of the Doosan Credo. The result showed that it was difficult for site / factory caution during actual work duties, to realize a corporate culture that society. In this regard, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction established duties at work and cooperation with suppliers regarding purchasing, proemployees to make on-line reports or visit the division in charge of ethical complies with the Code of Conduct. We strive to harmonize the Code of Business Model 16 the ethical management system aiming to strengthen corporate competiduction and quality. Due to these efforts, we were able to ensure smooth management according to their job characteristics. Keeping this in mind, Conduct and employees’ awareness to embed the Code of Conduct, by Performance Summary 18 tiveness and enhance its value. communication within the organization, and respecting one another and we installed a total of 16 anonymous suggestion boxes for whistle-blowing implementing duties based on the Code of Conduct and inducing the auactively responding responses to quality issues. at the dressing room of plants with more than 30 persons by BG (Business tonomous implementation of the Code of Conduct. Governance 20 In July 2013, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction reorganized its Code of Conduct that has been implemented since 2000 into one based on the Group), so that they can report on violation of internal regulations, such Vision and Strategy 22 Doosan Way to act as a principle of employees’ task performance. Starting as relevant laws, the Doosan Way and the Code of Conduct, and other Established Specific Regulations for the Code of Conduct wrongful acts. Expanding the Ethical Management System Overseas Ethical Management 24 from July 2014, we set and announced the Operational Rules for the Code of Conduct. After reorganizing the Code of Conduct, Doosan Heavy Industries & ConDoosan Heavy Industries & Construction plans to carry out autonomous 2014 Doosan Way 26 Besides these, it is possible to make on-line reports on the Code of Construction established the Specific Regulations for the Code of Conduct ethical management activities that suit the characteristics of each business duct through the internal whistle-blowing center on Doosan’s homepage. In based on the Doosan Credo. The specific regulations consist of guidelines site and provide ethical education for employees at overseas business 2014 Highlights 28 2014, we received and handled a total of 23 cases through the anonymous Ethical Management System for creating a healthy corporate culture, implementing duties in a fair and sites. Also, we expanded the application of whistle-blowing system to oversuggestion boxes for whistle-blowing to prevent ethical risks in advance. transparent manner, and conducting duties for preventing bribery. Through seas business sites, so that ethical management can be well established Strategy and Performance these regulations, we can strictly and systematically implement ethical through the diversification of communication channels. management. Number of reports by whistle-blowing Business Environment Analysis 32 Business Performance 34 Ways to raise value of society, Establishing and Operating the Implementation System environment and company Major Contents of Specific Regulations for the Code of Conduct for Autonomous Ethical Management Risk, Opportunity and Business Strategy 38 Online 15 cases Offline 8 cases Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction plans to operate the Ethics SecreUpgrading Business Portfolio 40 1. Rules on healthy corporate culture tariat to enhance the awareness on ethical management and create a corCore Business Leadership 44 porate culture where the working-level organization that implements ethical · Prevention of sexual harassment, degradation of character, bullying, etc. Number of employees that took the Pledge management autonomously complies with the Code of Conduct. Also, in Upgrading Business System 48 Doosan Credo to make a second century on the strength of 2. Rules on integrity and transparency of Ethical Conduct (Unit : persons) order to implement the ethical management activities where relevant divisions participate and systematically carry out the Ethics Secretariat’s activgrowth for the past hundred years Sustainable Management ·R egarding rules on rights intervention, prevention of undue requests and ities, we plan to select and operate an ethical practice leader for each BG. accepting bribery, and family events. 2012 2013 2014 EHS (Environment, Health and Safety) 58 Ethical Management 7,270 7,310 7,446 3. Rules on forbidding bribery Establishing Prevention Management Systems Talent Management 64 ·F orbidding making promises, or declaring the intention to give favors to public Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction not only complies with the Code Social Contribution 70 Integrity and Transparency Social Responsibility servants. of Conduct, but also plans to establish a system for monitoring violations Number of employees that received Doosan Day of Community Service 74 4. R  ules on prohibiting conflicts of interests between the company and of the Code of Conduct by each BG and strengthen prevention activities anti-corruption education (Unit : persons) Doosan Way employees to prevent violations of the Code of Conduct in advance. Also, in order to Customer Satisfaction 76 promptly respond to risks that might occur during the implementation of ·P rohibition of taking concurrent positions, using company’s undisclosed 2012 2013 2014 duties, we plan to reinforce the prevention management system. Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries information at external lectures and choosing clients who have acquaintances in the Company. 1,059 1,911 2,168 Doosan Power Systems 80 Organization for Ethical Management 5. Rules on the company’s assets Doosan Power Systems India 84 ·P rohibition of unreasonable use of company’s funds and costs and protecting Number of employees of suppliers that Doosan VINA 87 tangible assets like plants and office supplies, as well as information assets like CEO trade secrets. received anti-corruption education (Unit : persons) Appendix 6. Rules on fair trade 2012 2013 2014 Performance Index 93 ·P rohibition of improper contacts and information sharing with competitors and CFO COO discrimination towards subsidiaries. 195 250 201 Stakeholders 123 7. Rules on proper internet use Materiality Analysis 124 ·P roper internet use within the scope required for duties, prohibition on GRI Index 126 Shared Growth damaging the company’s external reliability and access to harmful and illegal Internal Control Legal Affairs Audit Report 128 Audit Team Promotion CSR Team websites and complying with security matters. Team Team Team Assurance Statement 130 Employees Performance of Overseas 26 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Management Framework Strategy and Performance Sustainable Management Subsidiaries Appendix 27 Navigation Menu 2014 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction 2014 Doosan Way CEO Message 04 Doosan Credo 06 Doosan Group 08 Doosan’s Philosophy 09 All employees of the Doosan Group are committed to embracing the Doosan Way, which represents Implemented Activities to Internalize the Doosan Way Direction of the Doosan Way Initiatives in 2015 our corporate beliefs and philosophies, to become a ‘Proud Global Doosan’. The Doosan Way in Work and Behavior Management Framework After launching the Doosan Way, we derived company-wide initiatives and provides the foundation for accelerating our progress and creating a better future. With the Doosan 1) Self-diagnosis of the Doosan Way Activities for implemented activities for improving systems based on a positive-minded, Company Profile 12 Way, we aim to help our employees find meaning in their lives, build a people-centered corporation, Executive-led Organization mutual understanding and consensus. Through self-initiated activities, our and promote future-oriented growth. Introduction of Business 14 The self-diagnosis of the Doosan Way is the process of continuously imemployees put the Doosan Way into practice in their day-to-day work. In proving the activity level through the employees’ own diagnosis on their 2015, we strive to produce greater business results by incorporating the Business Model 16 activity level and communication with the employees. In 2014, the self-asDoosan Way into the key business processes executed by our employees and organizations, all the while reflecting upon our business methods with Performance Summary 18 sessments were conducted twice by about 89 executive-led organizations, once every half year (in April and October). The activity helped encourage the Doosan Credo in mind. To achieve this, we plan to focus on Smart Governance 20 the employees to make voluntary efforts to improve Doosan Way impleOffice activities, which involve the employees themselves taking action to improve work methods, thereby allowing us to concentrate on the truVision and Strategy 22 mentation, such as identifying the areas that require improvement through the process of sharing and reaching a mutual agreement. ly worthwhile work, and carrying out Team Doosan activities, as well as Ethical Management 24 streamlining the non-core business processes. 2) Code of Conduct by Function 2014 Doosan Way 26 In order to establish a sound Code of Conduct and practices based on the Team Doosan 2014 Highlights 28 Doosan Credo, we came up with the Do’s and Don’ts for Doosan People Based on the Doosan Credo, we plan to work as Team Doosan by intein line with the specific work conditions. We conducted it first on functions grating individual capabilities in all business areas as team works. Through like manufacturing, purchasing and quality assurance, which are functions these efforts, we will create sustainable business results, as well as facilitate Strategy and Performance that require frequent interaction with internal / external parties. By ensuring the development and fostering of both the organization and individuals. Business Environment Analysis 32 a mutual understanding and agreement had been reached, the employees were encouraged to exhibit a sense of ownership and to continuously comBusiness Performance 34 ply with these rules. Risk, Opportunity and Business Strategy 38 3) ‘Proud You & I’ Upgrading Business Portfolio 40 Highlights of the Doosan Way in 2014 ‘Proud You & I’ is a campaign aimed at promoting a positive corporate culCore Business Leadership 44 2nd Doosan Way Day Held Doosan Way Council Convened ture by encouraging employees to exhibit traits considered ideal for Doosan People. In 2014, a total of about 1,000 best practices were identified. Also, Upgrading Business System 48 On April 23, 2014, we held the 2nd Doosan Way Day with the executives, In 2014, the Doosan Way Council (DWC) was convened for a total of three in order to create a positive and cooperative corporate, a total of sixty best including the Chairman and CEO of Doosan Group, Yongmaan Park, and times to review the progress made on major agenda items concerning the practices were derived by having the organizations nominate each other Sustainable Management the CEO and BG heads of each subsidiary in attendance. The participants Doosan Way and to discuss the various issues and best practices identifor exemplary action. The campaign has now become the official commuPromotional banner image of Team Doosan reviewed the changes and accomplishments over the past year, shared fied from the process of embedding the Doosan Way. The DWC chaired EHS (Environment, Health and Safety) 58 nication channel for organizations to express appreciation to one another. the results of the Doosan Way Survey for the Site / Factory Employees, by Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Chairman and CEO, Geewon Smart Office and discussed the future implementation plans for the Doosan Way. During Park, was attended by the COO, BG / Division Heads and employees work4) Doosan Way Agenda We plan to conduct smart office activities that removes the overall work Talent Management 64 the first part of the event, we introduced changes that have been made to ing in the relevant departments. We shared updates on major activities The ‘Doosan Way Agenda’ is an activity aimed at bringing about gradual inefficiency and make improvements with voluntary employee participation. Social Contribution 70 implement the Doosan Way, such as the Doosan Way Time and a new HR conducted by each BG to strengthen collaboration within the organization, changes by getting the leaders and employees to jointly review whether or In particular, we will review the effectiveness of existing businesses being evaluation system (New DCM), while also holding a ceremony to present such as the results of the Doosan Way Survey for Site / Factory Employees not the work methods satisfy the Doosan Way. In 2014, a total of 82 orgaoperated and streamline the processes rather than implementing new acDoosan Day of Community Service 74 the Doosan Way Awards to employees who successfully demonstrated at home and abroad and the key initiatives derived from the Doosan Way nizations’ leaders and employees held discussions on ways to apply the tivities. The times saved through these efforts will be spent on cultivating Customer Satisfaction 76 the Doosan Way in their work. Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Survey for White Collar Employees. Doosan Way to their work, and were able to obtain results such as deriving individual competencies, so that individuals’ satisfaction level and the comreceived four Doosan Way Awards that included awards for the ‘Implemenvarious new ways of doing business. pany’s competitiveness are enhanced. tation of the World’s First Automated Hydraulic Test System’ and the ‘ManPerformance of Overseas Subsidiaries agement Office-Type Approach Method for Supporting Heavy Equipment’. Doosan Way Survey for Site / Factory Employees Doosan Power Systems 80 In the second part of the event, we shared Doosan Way best practices We conducted the Doosan Way Survey for Site / Factory Employees at exhibited by the leadership and held group discussions about the role of home and abroad over the course of around two weeks from February 5 Concept of Executive-led Organizations’ Doosan Way Initiatives Doosan Power Systems India 84 leaders in the following: establishing customer-oriented work processes, 14, 2014. This survey garnered huge interest from the site / factory employDoosan VINA 87 cultivating a culture that encourages innovation, creating a corporate culees, with a high participation rate of 92% being shown (5,956 out of 6,467 Initiatives Doosan Way Agenda ture that practices open communication, and properly implementing the respondents in total). It was conducted for the purpose of assessing the present condition of the Doosan Way implementation through employees’ Being results-oriented, such as Selecting initiatives agreed upon through the Appendix DCM and People Program. voices and to reflect this in the future Doosan Way implementation plans. solving problems and deriving solutions bottom-up approach method Performance Index 93 Based on the survey results, we came up with five initiatives to address core values that showed a low positive response rate. We managed the process Conducting gap analysis Producing Comparing the current work method with the Stakeholders 123 (based on business data) through Initiatives and performance through the Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction’s Business Results Agenda (Mindset Doosan way of doing business (internal / external) environmental study (Activities aimed Materiality Analysis 124 / Change Doosan Way Council (DWC). In the case of BGs and divisions, about thirty at strengthening + management GRI Index 126 initiatives were derived through analysis of the root causes of problems Deriving optimal solutions with business Changing Work activities) Implementing with employees’ high participation based on the survey results, and these were implemented by the relevant competitiveness) Methods experts’ participation Audit Report 128 organizations with the BG and division heads assuming ownership. Assurance Statement 130 Selection oriented around Process of creating business practices based on top-down style initiatives the consensus and agreement of employees Performance of Overseas 28 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Management Framework Strategy and Performance Sustainable Management Subsidiaries Appendix 29 Navigation Menu 2014 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction 2014 Highlights CEO Message 04 Doosan Credo 06 Doosan Group 08 Doosan’s Philosophy 09 Management Framework Company Profile 12 Introduction of Business 14 Business Model 16 Performance Summary 18 Governance 20 Vision and Strategy 22 Ethical Management 24 Internalized the Doosan Way to Established the Foundation for a Made Progress to Penetrate Water Acquired Fundamental Competitiveness 2014 Doosan Way 26 Provide the Activity Infrastructure Second Leap Forward for Nuclear Markets in Castings and Forgings Business 2014 Highlights 28 We facilitated the development of systems for Power Plants We showed our excellence through the We are promoting Castings & Forgings (CF) the advancement and scientification of work We won orders for replacing the main equipsuccessful trial run of the RO in Gijang, Buprojects, which mainly include introducStrategy and Performance duties and strengthening fundamental comment of Shinkori nuclear power plant units san, which is Korea’s first large seawater ing 17,000T Press and establishing forging petitiveness through the Doosan Way Coun5 and 6 and the steam generator of Hanvit desalination plant. Also, we displayed our plants, in order to secure supply capacity of Business Environment Analysis 32 cil, which expanded the scope of each BG / nuclear power plant unit 3 and 4, to once outstanding project management capability large-sized forged products such as equipBusiness Performance 34 division as well as company-wide. Through again strengthen our position as Korea’s through the world’s largest Ras Al Kair projments for the APR+, a next generation new Risk, Opportunity and Business Strategy 38 these efforts, we shared practical experiencleading nuclear power plant facility maker. ect in Saudi Arabia, by successfully producnuclear power plant. Also, we completed the es in daily operation and established activity Also, we promoted the excellence of Korean ing desalinated water about 20 days earlier technology development of USC (Ultra Super Upgrading Business Portfolio 40 infrastructure through embedding the Doolight-water reactor through successful prothan expected, reaffirming our no.1 position Critical) rotor, which is the core equipment Core Business Leadership 44 san Way, accelerating the progress of the duction and release of the Barakah nuclear in seawater desalination business. for eco-friendly highly efficient thermal power Doosan Way between various organizations. plant, while also successfully supplied equipUpgrading Business System 48 power plant unit 1, which was the first nuclear facility project exported overseas. ment to China and Shinboryeong # 1 and 2 projects and Yeosu thermal power plant # 1. Sustainable Management EHS (Environment, Health and Safety) 58 Talent Management 64 Social Contribution 70 Doosan Day of Community Service 74 Customer Satisfaction 76 Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries Doosan Power Systems 80 Doosan Power Systems India 84 Won Orders for Large Projects Accelerated the New Growth Confirmed the Competitiveness of Upgraded Business through ICT Fulfilled Corporate Social Enhanced the Human Resources Doosan VINA 87 at Home and Abroad Momentum Boiler and Wind Power Products By establishing the Software Center that will Responsibilities Development System Despite the continuous global economic reWe established the ATS (Advanced TurWe won orders for supplying equipment to act as a control tower for ICT, we internalWe systematically reinforced our compaThe ‘Growth Two Track’ system has been esAppendix cession, we won orders for large projects at bomachinery System) R&D Center to secure Shinboryeong thermal power plant units 1 and ized our RMS capability and established a ny-wide competency through fruitful actablished for systematic development of site / Performance Index 93 home and abroad to set the foundation for a new growth engine. With the establish2, using the engineering technique of Korea’s data management system. In addition, we tivities of the CSR Committee that covered factory employees, to produce the first Mana leap forward, including a KRW 1.8 trillion ment of the ATS R&D Center signaling the first 1,000MW class USC (Ultra Super Critical) continuously explored new business opporhuman rights, the environment, labor and aging Director among site / factory employees Stakeholders 123 Nghi Son II coal-fired power plant in Vietbeginning of large gas turbine technology, boiler, to once again displaying our excellent tunities and reinforced business competisupply chain. Also, we provided the Doosan since the company’s foundation, and selectMateriality Analysis 124 nam, the Karabatan combined cycle powwe began the self-development of highly technologies. Also, we signed a contract to tiveness by utilizing ICT, to lead employees Day of Community Service for about 3,000 ed 6 persons as internal Meister. Also, we GRI Index 126 er plant as the first order for Kazakhstan, efficient large gas turbines and the developsupply large wind power generators that will into the change management of ICT. employees at 14 business sites in six counexpanded diverse infrastructure to help with and the new city district energy facility in ment of Korean-type gas turbines on a full be established in Sangmyung land-based tries, to fulfill compassionate sharing with lopersonal growth and self-directed learning, Audit Report 128 Hwasung Dongtan 2. scale basis. wind farm in Jeju Island and Shinan-gun landcal communities. Doosan Vina, our local subincluding the learning credit system, electronic Assurance Statement 130 based wind farm in Jeonnam, receiving the sidiary in Vietnam, received the top award at library and educational portal. recognition for product competitiveness. the Korea-Vietnam CSR Award Ceremony. Navigation Menu 2014 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction CEO Message 04 Doosan Credo 06 Doosan Group 08 Doosan’s Philosophy 09 Management Framework Strategy and Company Profile 12 Introduction of Business 14 Business Model 16 Performance Performance Summary 18 Governance 20 Vision and Strategy 22 Ethical Management 24 2014 Doosan Way 26 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has established its management 2014 Highlights 28 strategy in line with changing business environment, including upgrading Strategy and Performance business portfolio, upgrading core business leadership, and upgrading Business Environment Analysis 32 business systems, to develop global competitiveness. Business Performance 34 Risk, Opportunity and Business Strategy 38 32 38 44 Upgrading Business Portfolio 40 Business Environment Risk, Opportunity and Core Business Analysis Business Strategy Leadership Core Business Leadership 44 Upgrading Business System 48 34 40 48 Business Upgrading Upgrading Sustainable Management Performance Business Portfolio Business System EHS (Environment, Health and Safety) 58 Talent Management 64 Social Contribution 70 Doosan Day of Community Service 74 Customer Satisfaction 76 Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries Doosan Power Systems 80 Doosan Power Systems India 84 Doosan VINA 87 Appendix Performance Index 93 Stakeholders 123 Materiality Analysis 124 GRI Index 126 Audit Report 128 Assurance Statement 130 Performance of Overseas 32 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Management Framework Strategy and Performance Sustainable Management Subsidiaries Appendix 33 Navigation Menu 2014 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Business Environment Analysis CEO Message 04 Doosan Credo 06 Nuclear Power Plants Doosan Group 08 The weakening trend of constructing nuclear power plants that arose after the Fukushima Doosan’s Philosophy 09 nuclear disaster seemed to have turned around Outlook for Installed Capacity of Outlook for Installed Capacity of Outlook for Installed Capacity of Global Coal-fired Power Plants Global Gas Power Plants Global Nuclear Power Plants in Asia and the Middle East. Recently, China anManagement Framework nounced the plan of constructing more than 60 (Unit : Gw) (Unit : Gw) (Unit : Gw) Company Profile 12 units of new nuclear power plants, while India and 2,031 2,168 2,019 1,901 the Middle Eastern countries also showed their 1,746 Introduction of Business 14 1,582 willingness to construct additional nuclear power Business Model 16 plants. In addition, advanced countries such as the US, excluding some European countries, are 490.7 Performance Summary 18 expected to maintain the trend of constructing 434.5 Governance 20 new nuclear power plants. This is expected to 378.3 continuously increase the opportunities to particVision and Strategy 22 2015 2020 2025 2015 2020 2025 2015 2020 2025 ipate in new nuclear power plant projects in the Source: HIS Cera Source: HIS Cera Source: T he World Nuclear Supply Chain Ethical Management 24 future. Outlook 2030 Report 2014 Doosan Way 26 2014 Highlights 28 Strategy and Performance Business Environment Analysis 32 Coal-fired Power Plants Business Performance 34 Due to the strengthening of environmental regRisk, Opportunity and Business Strategy 38 ulations for OECD countries and the stabilization of gas prices, the order volume of coal-fired Upgrading Business Portfolio 40 power plants generally decreased compared Castings & Forgings Core Business Leadership 44 to the outlook for 2013, but maintained the demand in non-OECD countries. In particular, The castings & forgings industry’s overall demand Upgrading Business System 48 non-OECD countries with an increasing trend had been dull because the global economic rein energy consumption per capita according covery remains slow, but some of the industries Sustainable Management to economic growth are expected to achieve have shown demand recovery, including the Sipat Coal-fired Power Plant in India medium and long-term growth. This is because increase in new demand for eco-friendly ships EHS (Environment, Health and Safety) 58 coal-fired power plants continue to act as base in shipbuilding industry and the growth of auTalent Management 64 unit generation equipped with economic feasitomobile / home appliance industries. We can bility in comparison with the conventional fuels, look forward to a continuous increase in busiSocial Contribution 70 resulting from stabilizing medium and long-term Fujairah Power and Desalination Plant in UAE ness opportunities since medium and long-term Doosan Day of Community Service 74 coal prices. growth is expected in power / offshore plants. Also, since the upstream industry for castings Customer Satisfaction 76 Gas Power Plants & forgings, including power / offshore plants, Outlook for Installed Capacity of Global Power Plants Gas power plants have continued to grow due is expanding the transformation into a highly Power Plant Markets to a decline in gas prices, and environmental Outlook for Global Water Business Water Plants Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries (Unit : GW) In 2014, the power plant industry made a slow(Unit : Billion USD) efficient, high capacity model, Doosan Heavy regulations. As a result of the US’s shale gas Due to the prolonged water shortages around Doosan Power Systems 80 er recovery than expected due to the moderWater Treatment Desalination Industries & Construction with outstanding techproduction and export, the global supply of the world and the strengthening of environmenate demand resulting from global economic nology can expect increased business opporDoosan Power Systems India 84 gas increased all around the world to lower tal regulations and policies, it is expected that 8,158 recession. However, since the coal-fired power 86.0 tunities in the next-generation market. and stabilize gas prices, which is expected to investments on desalination and water treatDoosan VINA 87 plant continues to act as base load generation 68.3 increase the demand for gas power plants that ment will gradually expand in North Africa and 7,166 in non-OECD countries, there was continued replace coal-fired power plants in accordance India, besides the existing regions in the Middle 6,269 demand from them. Also, new demand for gas 63.9 Appendix with the regulation of GHG emissions in the US East. By maintaining our position as the market power plants increased by stabilizing medium 54.5 and Europe. In line with this, the gas power plant leader in desalination business, we expect new Performance Index 93 and long-term gas prices through lower prices industry is expected to increase over the next orders for desalination projects and outstandand strengthened environmental regulations of Stakeholders 123 ten years by 437GW to record 2,019GW in 2025 ing performance in water treatment business the OECD countries. based on installed capacity. at the same time. Also, as the private markets Materiality Analysis 124 The power plant industry, including these deare growing mainly in Qatar and UAE of the Midmands for coal-fired power plants and gas In the Middle East, there are plans to construct GRI Index 126 dle East, we expect the opportunities for O&M power plants, is expected to increase from gas power plants instead of oil power plants ac17.5 (Operations & Maintenance) to increase in the Audit Report 128 6,269GW in 2015 to 8,158GW in 2019 based on cording to the policies for expanding oil export, 9.5 future. installed capacity. while in Southeast Asia, 20% of new power Assurance Statement 130 2012 2020 2025 plants for the future will be constructed as gas 2012 2019 Source: HIS Cera power plants. Source : Global Water Intelligence Performance of Overseas 34 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Management Framework Strategy and Performance Sustainable Management Subsidiaries Appendix 35 Navigation Menu Won Order for the Anin Thermal District Energy Facility in Hwasung Won Order for the First Power Plant 2014 Integrated Report of Power Plant in Gangneung Dongtan 2 New City in Kazakhstan Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Business Performance The Anin thermal power plant in Gangneung In August 2014, we signed a contract to supply In January 2015, Doosan Heavy Industries & (located in Anin-ri, Gangdong-myeon, Gangmain equipment to a district energy facility in Construction won the order to construct its first neung-si, Gangwon) is a USC power plant with Hwasung Dongtan 2 New City worth KRW 380 power plant in Kazakhstan, laying the foundahigh power generation efficiency that has the billion with the Korea District Heating Corporation for entering into Central Asia’s power plant CEO Message 04 same capacity as 1,000MW class. tion. The construction of the Hwasung Dongtan market. A 310MW class Karabatan combined 2 district energy facility is to build an 800MW cycle power plant worth KRW 340 billion will Doosan Credo 06 In 2014, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction was selected as the priority negotiation class combined heat and power plant on a site be constructed in the economic zone of Atyrau Doosan Group 08 partner in a competitive bid, instead of a Japof about 79,500m² at the industrial complex in Province in the northern part of the Caspian Dongtan-myeon, Hwasung-si, Gyeonggi-do. Sea. It is expected to be completed by FebDoosan’s Philosophy 09 anese company, to successfully win the order in 2015. Also, we were selected as the prioriDoosan Heavy Industries & Construction was ruary of 2018 through the method that covers ty negotiation partner for the Goseong green selected as a contracting party in an internathe whole process, including production, instalManagement Framework project (1,000MW class, located in Doekho-ri, tional competitive bid, competing with German lation and commissioning. The Central Asian Company Profile 12 Hai-myeon, Goseong-gun, Gyeongnam), to have and Japanese companies, to supply two units countries, including Kazakhstan, are planning a favorable position in the bid to win an order for of gas turbines and two units of steam generto construct 23GW power plant by 2020. ThereIntroduction of Business 14 the 1,000MW class thermal power plant project ators through the EPC method, which will be fore, this order will lay the foundation for Doosan Business Model 16 where additional orders are expected for three completed by December of 2017. Additionally, Heavy Industries & Construction to enter into units in the future. Based on these achievein April 2015, we signed a contract to construct the Central Asian market. Performance Summary 18 ments, we were able to bolster our position in a district energy facility in Hwasung Dongtan 2 Governance 20 exporting 1,000MW model to overseas marNew City worth KRW 160 billion. As a result, ‘WinDS3000TM’ Selected as a Worldkets, including Southeast Asia. along with the contract to supply main equipVision and Strategy 22 class Product ment used in the Hwasung Dongtan 2 district Ethical Management 24 energy facility, including two units of gas turThe 3MW wind power plant system, WinDbines and two units of steam generators, we S3000TM, was selected as the 2014 world2014 Doosan Way 26 also had a construction contract, enabling us class product by the Ministry of Trade, Industry 2014 Highlights 28 to implement the whole process that included & Energy. In 2011, WinDS3000TM was Asia’s the engineering of combined cycle power plant, first to acquire an international certification as 3MW land-based and offshore power plant Strategy and Performance production and supply of core components, construction, and long-term services. Through system. Safety and durability has been greatly Business Environment Analysis 32 these contracts, we once again received recimproved to endure typhoons and warm currents, and operating costs can be reduced as a Business Performance 34 ognition for our competitiveness in integrated technology possessing both independent engiresult of prompt maintenance since it has been Risk, Opportunity and Business Strategy 38 neering and construction abilities, to secure a developed through independent technology. The year 2014 will be remembered as not Contract Supplying Main Equipment In particular, the production period of core faUpgrading Business Portfolio 40 cilities for nuclear power plant required more favorable position in winning orders for the doThrough these efforts, Doosan Heavy Industries showing as much recovery as expected to Shinkori Nuclear Power Plant & Construction not only received recognition for than four years because the nuclear reactor and mestic district energy facility in the future. Core Business Leadership 44 for the power plant and water business Units 5 and 6 technology that can create future value, but also the steam generator needed to have advanced take a step towards integrated solutions for a Upgrading Business System 48 due to the global economic recession. In August 2014, Doosan Heavy Industries & engineering and manufacturing technologies Construction signed a contract to supply main in order to endure high temperature and high better life. Nevertheless, Doosan Heavy Industries equipment to Shinkori nuclear power plant units Sustainable Management pressure. Also, the turbine generator that will & Construction signed a supply contract 5 and 6 worth about KRW 2.3 trillion with the be supplied is a core facility that requires high EHS (Environment, Health and Safety) 58 with Shinkori nuclear power plant units Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power (KHNP). In accorlevel ability to produce materials and advanced dance with this contract, Doosan Heavy Indusprocessing technology. Talent Management 64 5 and 6, while also winning orders tries & Construction supplied main equipment, Social Contribution 70 for the Nghi Son 2 project in Vietnam including turbine generators, and the Nuclear Steam Supply System (NSSS), including nuclear Won Order for the Nghi Son 2 Project Doosan Day of Community Service 74 at the end of 2014. In addition, the reactors and steam generators, that are used in In December 2014, Doosan Heavy Industries & engineering of large-scale gas turbines Customer Satisfaction 76 nuclear power plant, by engineering and manuConstruction signed the contract for the Nghi as a national project was implemented facturing them through independent technoloSon 2 project worth about KRW 1.8 trillion. The gy. Shinkori nuclear power plant units 5 and 6 Nghi Son 2 coal-fired power plant is 1,330MW Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries on a full scale, bolstering our position are two units with a power generation capacity class (665MWx2) to be constructed in Thanh Doosan Power Systems 80 in Korea’s 1,000MW USC markets by of 1,400MW class, to be constructed in ShinkoHoa region, which will be completed by July of being selected as the priority negotiation ri nuclear power plant complex in Shinam-ri, 2019 through the method that covers the whole Doosan Power Systems India 84 Seosaeng-myeon, Ulju-gun, Ulsan, Korea. It is process, including engineering, manufacturing Doosan VINA 87 partner for Goseong Green Power in expected to be completed by March of 2021 and commissioning. After having won the order Gangneung. Besides these, we made and March of 2022, respectively. Shinkori units for the Vinh Tan 4 thermal power plant worth 5 and 6 have been developed independently by Appendix efforts to strengthen our fundamental KRW 1.6 trillion at the end of last year, we are the domestic technical team, which will be apalso now constructing power plants, enabling Performance Index 93 competitiveness and secure future growth plied with the Korean standard nuclear reactor us to expand our position in Vietnam’s power engine, by applying our ICT technology to model of APR1400 (Advanced Power Reactor Stakeholders 123 plant market. the power plant industry. 1,400) already supplied to Shinkori units 3 and 4. Materiality Analysis 124 Since the power generation capacity has been improved from the previous model of 1,000MW GRI Index 126 class for OPR1,000 (Optimized Power Reactor Audit Report 128 1,000) to 1,4000MW class, it is characterized as having greatly improved safety. Assurance Statement 130 Anin Thermal Power Plant in Gangneung Hwasung Dongtan 2 New City District Energy Facility Performance of Overseas 36 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Management Framework Strategy and Performance Sustainable Management Subsidiaries Appendix 37 Navigation Menu Water Business Castings & Forgings Business 2014 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction The sales of the water business recorded KRW Due to the delay in global economic recovery, 575.6 billion, down KRW 206 billion (26.3%) the sales of castings & forgings business recompared to the previous year. This is because mained at a similar level in the same period of the sales of large-scale water projects have dethe previous year at KRW 364.8 billion, but the creased, such as the Ras Al Khair project. profitability fell a little compared to the previous CEO Message 04 In 2015, we will maintain market leadership in year because of the intense competition in the castings & forgings market. Doosan Credo 06 the existing seawater desalination market from the water sector, while also reinforcing our posiIn 2015, based on the smooth recovery of the Doosan Group 08 tion in the market and diversifying our business castings & forgings sector’s upstream industry, Doosan’s Philosophy 09 by expanding the O&M business for water treatincluding shipbuilding, automobile and home ment and plants at the same time. appliance, it is forecasted that sales will increase compared to the previous year. In particular, Management Framework We will lead the seawater desalination plant market by utilizing our market presence in the business opportunities for new products with Company Profile 12 main market of the Middle East, to actively carthe completion of technologies will be expanded, such as materials for high-efficient powIntroduction of Business 14 ry out activities to win orders and continuously develop technologies, and we will accelerate er plants, while we will satisfy the world-class Business Model 16 the diversification of seawater desalination plant quality level by strictly implementing activities for the stabilization of quality. Also, we will step up Performance Summary 18 market mainly in India and Chile. Also, we plan to continue to expand the water treatment marour efforts to increase sales by expanding overGovernance 20 Yeongheung Thermal Power Plants (Units 5 and 6) ket in collaboration with Doosan Enpure in the seas network and strengthening our sales competency. Through these efforts, we will restore Vision and Strategy 22 UK and to acquire independent technology, while participating in the plant O&M market that can our profits and increase order volume through Ethical Management 24 Analysis and Outlook of Power Generation Service Market secure stable revenue. technology competitiveness and diverse sales Due to the increased demand from the expanactivities, to strengthen our position as a leader 2014 Doosan Way 26 Business Areas sion of outworn facilities around the world, it is in the global castings & forgings industry. 2014 Highlights 28 Power Generation Sector forecasted that the annual average of the marIn 2014, the sales and operating profit of the ket size will be KRW 38 trillion. In particular, not Strategy and Performance power generation sector decreased KRW 986.7 only the maintenance of components and the billion (14.95%) and KRW 196.7 billion (37.33%), construction for improving performance, but Business Environment Analysis 32 respectively, to record KRW 5.6 trillion and also the opportunities of service industry relatBusiness Performance 34 KRW 330.3 billion each compared to the same ed to gas business will be expanded, including period of the previous year. Even though sales add-on and repowering. Doosan Heavy IndusRisk, Opportunity and Business Strategy 38 increased from the main equipment of Shinkori tries & Construction plan to continuously exUpgrading Business Portfolio 40 nuclear power plant units 5 and 6 and Shinhaul pand their service industry by diversifying high units 1 and 2, sales decreased because convalue-added industry, including add-on and Core Business Leadership 44 struction has been almost completed for largerepowering, and expanding the existing service Upgrading Business System 48 scale power plants, including the Rabigh and sales channel focused on Korea, India and the the Raipur plants. Middle East to North America. Sustainable Management Coal-fired Power Plant Market Nuclear Power Plant Business It is expected that the trend of constructing new EHS (Environment, Health and Safety) 58 It is forecasted that new orders for a capacity of 166GW will continue for the next five years nuclear power plants in China from Asia, the Talent Management 64 in Korea, India and Southeast Asia, with projMiddle East and Europe will continue. In order to have a higher chance of becoming a global Social Contribution 70 ects continuously favoring high efficiency and high capacity. In line with these market conleader in the nuclear power production industry, Doosan Day of Community Service 74 ditions, we are working on the USC later units we will strengthen our customized sales activities to meet the needs of the target countries. Customer Satisfaction 76 for the domestic market, while also expanding Moreover, we strive to win new orders for nucleYanbu 2 Seawater Desalination Plant in Saudi Arabia our position in the overseas coal-fired power plant market of 660~800MW (50Hz) in Southar power plants in China by reinforcing our sales Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries east Asia and India, based on the Performance activities for projects that plan to construct a Doosan Power Systems 80 made by GHECO-One and Cirebon. new power plant of more than 60 units in China. Doosan Power Systems India 84 Combined Cycle Power Plant Market Doosan VINA 87 As a result of the shale gas boom, it is forecasted that new orders for a capacity of 227GW will continue for the next five years mainly in Appendix North America, Europe and the Middle East. Performance Index 93 In line with this, we expanded our gas turbine business in the CCPP (Combined Cycle PowStakeholders 123 er Plant) markets of Korea and the Middle East Materiality Analysis 124 in cooperation with MHPS (Mitsubishi Hitachi Power Systems). By diversifying cooperation GRI Index 126 with other OEMs, we also plan to expand opAudit Report 128 portunities to win orders for small and medium-sized steam turbines for CCPP. Assurance Statement 130 Rabigh 2 Thermal Power Plant in Saudi Arabia Performance of Overseas 38 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Management Framework Strategy and Performance Sustainable Management Subsidiaries Appendix 39 Navigation Menu 2014 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Risk, Opportunity and Business Strategy CEO Message 04 Doosan Credo 06 Doosan Group 08 Doosan’s Philosophy 09 Along with the global economic recession, the competition between companies Management Framework Risk Opportunity Strategy Implementation Direction Specific Activities has become more intensified. Through Company Profile 12 the analysis on business condition, Introduction of Business 14 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Business Model 16 identified risk and opportunity factors Upgrading Business Portfolio Performance Summary 18 Diversification of Markets Diversification of Markets · Acquired new technologies · Implemented medium and long-term to reflect them in business strategies. strategic tasks for acquiring gas turbine · Decreased demand for coal· E xplored new businesses related Governance 20 As a result, we established strategic · Increased demand for power plants technologies fired power plants due to stricter in Africa and desalination / water · Secured growth momentum to ICT · Established an ATS (Advanced Vision and Strategy 22 directions and specific activities focusing environmental regulations, including treatment facilities in Central and through the diversification of Turbomachinary Systems) R&D Center Ethical Management 24 on our business strategies, including · Entered into new markets business portfolio in the US the regulation on CO2 emissions, etc. South America 2014 Doosan Way 26 upgrading business portfolio, upgrading · Established a Remote Monitoring core business leadership and upgrading · The trend of nuclear phase-out after · The trend of privatization of Service Center (RMSC) for power plants 2014 Highlights 28 business systems, to make continuous the Fukushima nuclear disaster overseas electricity infrastructure · Established a new branch in South Africa to enter into the African market and Strategy and Performance modification and enhancement through · Increased demand for reprocessing and increased needs for improving made partnership with local companies Business Environment Analysis 32 a periodic analysis process. Through and resource recovery of highlythe operation of outworn thermal in Morocco these efforts, we will become a leading enriched salt and minerals that power plants Business Performance 34 global company that overcame the are by-products of seawater · Continuous demand for coal-fired Risk, Opportunity and Business Strategy 38 current difficulties, by promptly dealing desalination power plants to act as base load · Acquired low-quality coal combustion Upgrading Business Portfolio 40 Core Business Leadership · Developed high-efficient, technologies with the changes in business conditions unit in non-OECD countries Core Business Leadership 44 · Developed high-capacity USC CFB (Ultra and continuously improving business high-capacity boilers · Rapid growth of renewable power Super Critical Circulating Fluid) boilers Upgrading Business System 48 Changes in Customer and · Achieved sustainable growth competitiveness. · Established the turbine line-up · Developed combustion technology for Market Environments plant markets resulting from the fall reducing NOx by securing a top-tier level of Sustainable Management of LCOE1) and policy support · Improved the production efficiency · Developed the Korean standard thermal · Improved technology and price competiveness within the existing of nuclear power and developed power of 500MW R&M model EHS (Environment, Health and Safety) 58 competitiveness of the competitors business areas · Operated the new production method for core manufacturing technologies Talent Management 64 in China and emerging countries Changes in Customer and nuclear power · Strengthened competencies for · Established a computer system for Social Contribution 70 · Increased possibility of technology Market Environments integrating production information R&D Doosan Day of Community Service 74 disputes related to patents due to · Stabilized through lowered oil and · Strengthened the competitiveness of base technology Customer Satisfaction 76 increased in intellectual property gas prices · Implemented national policies · Continuous growth of gas power Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries Increased Demand for plant markets resulting from the Doosan Power Systems 80 Upgrading Business Systems · Internalized the Smart Office · Implemented Phase 3 to establish the Social Responsibilities effect of environmental regulations Smart Office Doosan Power Systems India 84 system and policies of various countries · E xpanded the scope of patent · The scope of corporate social Doosan VINA 87 · Internalized the Doosan Way · Upgraded the intellectual property management responsibilities has expanded · Customers’ needs changing · Held the Patent Subcommittee through enhancing systems and management including the supply chain according to the development of · Implemented 4 strategies for shared Appendix processes growth (strengthening competitiveness, ICT technologies · Established a partnership system Performance Index 93 · Increased need to deal with joint overseas expansion, financial of virtuous cycle Stakeholders 123 global initiatives and strengthen support, strengthening communication) · Managed quality risks · Internalized the Doosan Quality environment-related laws Materiality Analysis 124 Excellence activities · Improved energy efficiency and · Responded actively to the GHG emission GRI Index 126 responded to climate change trading scheme Audit Report 128 1) LCOE : Leveled Cost of Electricity 2) USC CFB : Ultra Super Critical Circulating Fluidized Bed Assurance Statement 130 Performance of Overseas 40 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Management Framework Strategy and Performance Sustainable Management Subsidiaries Appendix 41 Navigation Menu 2014 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Upgrading Business Portfolio CEO Message 04 Doosan Credo 06 Doosan Group 08 Doosan’s Philosophy 09 Management Framework Company Profile 12 Introduction of Business 14 Business Model 16 Performance Summary 18 Governance 20 Vision and Strategy 22 Ethical Management 24 2014 Doosan Way 26 2014 Highlights 28 Strategy and Performance Business Environment Analysis 32 Business Performance 34 Major Performance and Goals Risk, Opportunity and Business Strategy 38 Implementation Tasks Performance in 2014 Plans for 2015 Implementation Goals for 2015 Upgrading Business Portfolio 40 Core Business Leadership 44 · Conducted engineering for large-scale gas turbines In order to secure growth engines Acquired New Technologies We are in the process of developing technology for decontamination of spent steam generators Upgrading Business System 48 through the diversification of business Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is in collaboration with SMEs, which is the previimplementing medium and long-term strate·D evelop large-scale gas turbines through ·B asic engineering for large-scale gas portfolio in 2014, Doosan Heavy ous stage of nuclear decommissioning busiSustainable Management · Signed MOU with Korean Western Power gic tasks for acquiring gas turbine technology, national policies turbines Industries & Construction implemented its ness. Moreover, we are striving to secure the which is the core equipment of gas power genEHS (Environment, Health and Safety) 58 Secured New ability to conduct an independent business by Technologies business by focusing on three strategic eration in accordance with the outlook for the · Established an ATS actively developing the technology for securing Talent Management 64 medium and long-term gas development. In (Advanced Turbomachinery System) R&D Center areas, including acquiring gas turbine the base technology for nuclear decommisparticular, in 2014, we implemented the largeSocial Contribution 70 technologies, exploring new businesses sioning. · Established the foundation for engineering the · Select the Korean cask model scale gas turbine engineering, while also signing ·B egin the technology development of Doosan Day of Community Service 74 casks of spent nuclear fuel and secured the nuclear ·B egin the development of related to ICT and entering into new a MOU with the Korea Western Power to prove In addition, we are working towards reinforcing Korean cask model decommissioning technology base technology for nuclear decommissioning · Get orders for old steam generators the independent model, which is expected to our competency for base technology to explore Customer Satisfaction 76 markets. new technologies and new businesses. Doobe the final development. We also reinforced our competency for developing gas turbines san Heavy Industries & Construction analyzed the trend of energy innovative companies and Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries · Established a Remote Monitoring Service Center by establishing an ATS (Advanced Turboma(RMSC) for power plants · Establish a network for RMS experts chinery Systems) R&D Center and expanding breakthrough technologies, to publish a TI (TechDoosan Power Systems 80 related office to the US. Also, in order to enter nology Intelligence) Report through continuous Explored New ·S trengthen remote monitoring service monitoring of technology trends, by selecting Doosan Power Systems India 84 Businesses Related · Adopted the remote monitoring service for domestic into the markets of casks for spent nuclear fuel thermal power plants competency for power plants and nuclear decommissioning, we are developseven areas that have a huge effect on the busiDoosan VINA 87 to ICT ing technologies by taking into consideration ness. Regarding emerging technologies from · Develop SW exclusively for RMS the seven areas, we conducted a prior study · Signed MOU on technology agreement with government policies, market conditions and Appendix Korea East-West Power customer needs. In the case of cask business, on new technologies and new businesses interwe plan to apply to domestic nuclear power nally and reviewed the feasibility of commercialPerformance Index 93 plants by developing an independent model ization and established strategies for securing Stakeholders 123 · Established a new branch in South Africa that meets customer needs in advance. technology. As a result, we identified and imple· Acquire additional market entries mented tasks for developing new technologies, Materiality Analysis 124 ·S pecify and implement strategies ·S ign partnerships with local companies including new cycle, energy storage and virtual for entering into the African market GRI Index 126 Explored New and specify programs · Entered into partnerships with power plant. Markets local companies in Morocco Audit Report 128 ·R einforce customized sales activities to export ·S pecify the business in Saudi Arabia and Assurance Statement 130 · Signed MOU with local companies in Saudi Arabia get additional orders from Vietnam and additional Korean nuclear power plants China Performance of Overseas 42 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Management Framework Strategy and Performance Sustainable Management Subsidiaries Appendix 43 Navigation Menu Coverage Plans for the African Region 2014 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Morocco / Casablanca (Establishing Partnership) CEO Message 04 · Morocco, Tunisia, Western Africa Cairo Doosan Credo 06 Casablanca Egypt / Cairo (Operating Existing Branches) Doosan Group 08 · Egypt, Libya, Algeria Doosan’s Philosophy 09 Management Framework Company Profile 12 Lagos Introduction of Business 14 Nigeria / Lagos (Additional Review In 2015) Business Model 16 · Nigeria, Ghana Performance Summary 18 Governance 20 Vision and Strategy 22 Johannesburg Ethical Management 24 Explored New Business Areas Explored New Markets nesburg to invade the South African market, South Africa / Johannesburg (Establishing New Branches In 2014) 2014 Doosan Way 26 Related to ICT while also establishing partnership with local · South Africa, Botswana, Namibia, Zimbabwe Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction secompanies in Morocco to secure medium and 2014 Highlights 28 The convergence with ICT (Information and lected target regions and countries based on long-term business opportunities for water and Communication Technology) requires having a each country’s policy and market analysis, to wind power businesses and to strengthen the Strategy and Performance big data of information related to the engineercontinuously establish plans for new market eninfluence of coal-fired power generation busiing, construction and operation of plants, and try. Preparation for entering into a new market ness in advance. Also, in order to export more Business Environment Analysis 32 utilizing it to establish the foundation for improvis conducted by analyzing the market and polKorean nuclear power plants overseas, we acBusiness Performance 34 ing products and exploring new businesses. We icy of the country expected to be entered into, tively supported the Korean government, the are currently in the process of meeting challengand then establishing a plan for market entry Korea Electric Power Corporation (KEPCO) and Risk, Opportunity and Business Strategy 38 es to ensure future growth. through consulting with experts on the applicable country. In 2014, we came up with a plan the Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power, to implement Implementation Direction of In the water market, as the ratio of orders for Upgrading Business Portfolio 40 In 2014, we established a Remote Monitoring customized sales activities that meet the needs Upgrading Business Portfolio in 2015 IWP (Independent Water Project) increases, we for market entry after conducting an in-depth Service Center (RMSC) for power plants to of different countries of major markets, including plan to actively participate in the IWP market, Core Business Leadership 44 analysis on the African region, which has gained Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction provide the foundation for improving the perSaudi Arabia and Vietnam. In 2014, we signed a while also promoting the package business by lots of interest internationally. In particular, many strives to develop the future growth engine by Upgrading Business System 48 formance of power generation by utilizing reMOU with two local companies in Saudi Arabia, completing the development of core technolocountries in the African region possess the identifying and pursuing new business oppormote monitoring service, while also acquiring a while also completing the pre-feasibility study gies for each process. Also, we plan to actively similarity of developing fast, but we recognized tunities in various fields, including businesses Sustainable Management new reference by expanding and adopting the on the construction of a nuclear power plant in explore market entries by identifying regions that there are different characteristics for each related to ICT. In particular, we are making efremote monitoring service to thermal power Vietnam. with a high growth potential in the wastewater EHS (Environment, Health and Safety) 58 country and made market entry in stages by forts not to miss the opportunity to enter into plants. Also, we signed a MOU on technology treatment market, as well as establishing the selecting the core region like South Africa and the gas power generation market that is rapidly Talent Management 64 agreement with Korea East-West Power, and foundation for water treatment business. Morocco as a regional hub. As part of these growing next to the renewable market from a we are currently in the process of installing a In addition, we will continuously develop and Social Contribution 70 efforts, we established new branches in Johanmedium and long-term perspective. In the case system to provide the remote monitoring service make investments to secure the business abilto the Dangjin thermal power plant. Through of gas turbines, it is a core component of gas Doosan Day of Community Service 74 power generation, which is a high value-addity related to ICT. In 2014, we introduced the this remote monitoring service for power plants, remote monitoring service to thermal power Customer Satisfaction 76 we can safely operate the power generation ed industry with high unit prices compared to Process of Segmenting and Selecting Target Countries for Africa plants, while we plan to establish a network of facilities, as well as promote the upgrading of the volume, as well as a technology-intensive industry that is possible only with technologiRMS experts and develop related S / W to proPerformance of Overseas Subsidiaries product engineering technology by using the vide a more upgraded RMS. information for plant operation. It is evaluated as Promising Country for Growth in Attractiveness of Business Condition cal foundation that has been accumulated over Doosan Power Systems 80 Infrastructure by Country several years. By securing core technologies From the perspective of new markets, we plan a win-win case where both sides can benefit. Also, we improved optional functions compared Selected a country that has the Excluded countries that are difficult to and developing large-scale gas turbines, Dooto take more concrete measures to enter into Doosan Power Systems India 84 general infrastructure or ensures future enter into because of too small GDP or san Heavy Industries & Construction will not the African market that we have been impleto our competitors by developing steam turbine Doosan VINA 87 economic growth. serious corruption. only sell new turbines in the gas power genmenting until now. Along with the additional fast start-up optimizer and exploring additional eration market, which is expected to grow in review of the market, we will explore ways of optimizer, to create differentiated value. the future, but also keep the balance of supply actual commercialization, including establishAppendix STEP 1 Process of Selecting STEP 2 and demand for hot gas parts from operating ing partnership with local companies. Target Countries Performance Index 93 facilities and create opportunities in the maintenance market. Stakeholders 123 STEP 3 Materiality Analysis 124 GRI Index 126 Excluded countries that have limited business opportunity between the target countries derived from Step 2. Audit Report 128 · Power : Excluded countries that have limited business opportunity based on the outlook of power plant order and fuel mix. Assurance Statement 130 · Water : Excluded countries that have little needs for water business because of abundant water resources. Performance of Overseas 44 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Management Framework Strategy and Performance Sustainable Management Subsidiaries Appendix 45 Navigation Menu 2014 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Boiler BG Core Business Leadership Recently, the needs for low-quality coal boilers has increased in the boiler business, which is why we came up with plans to acquire such a CEO Message 04 model as soon as possible. Also, in order to ensure a competitive advanDoosan Credo 06 tage in boiler efficiency, we completed the deDoosan Group 08 velopment of the technology for reducing NOx. Through these efforts, we plan to develop a Doosan’s Philosophy 09 high-efficient combustion system that maximizes the combustion efficiency of boilers and apManagement Framework ply it to domestic projects. In particular, in order to deal with the environmental issues surroundCompany Profile 12 ing NOx emissions and respond to the needs to Introduction of Business 14 change to biomass fuel, we developed the low NOx biomass burner, which is a technology that Business Model 16 can greatly reduce NOx emissions. Performance Summary 18 Turbine / Generator BG Governance 20 In accordance with the efforts made to establish Vision and Strategy 22 the turbine line-up in the turbine / generator business, we have completed the development of the Ethical Management 24 Korean standard thermal power model of 500MW 2014 Doosan Way 26 R&M. In line with this, it is expected that a total of 20 units will be applied in the domestic R&M market 2014 Highlights 28 where new orders are expected after 2016, including Taean units 1~4. Also, as the development of Strategy and Performance the technology for reducing steam loss (Inter Stage Seal) has been completed, we were able to secure Business Environment Analysis 32 Due to the bridging of the technology Implementing Activities to a competitive advantage by improving turbine efBusiness Performance 34 gap with the competitors of emerging Strengthen Fundamental ficiency. Major Performance and Goals countries, including China, and the Competitiveness by Business Area Risk, Opportunity and Business Strategy 38 Water BG Implementation Tasks Performance in 2014 Plans for 2015 Implementation Goals for 2015 strengthening of interests and regulations Nuclear Power BG In the water business, we maintain dominance Upgrading Business Portfolio 40 We worked towards the advancement and scion the environment, it has become in technology compared to competitors, by Core Business Leadership 44 ·D  evelop technologies for improving the entizing of production systems to produce the · Developed combustion technology for reducing NOx reliability of USC (Ultra Super Critical) developing the RO preprocessing technology, more important to secure fundamental major equipment for nuclear power plants. By Upgrading Business System 48 boilers which is a differentiated area of RO technolocompetitiveness. Doosan Heavy Industries operating in a new production method (work gy. Also, we secured price competitiveness ·D  evelop the model for anthracite station), we improved productivity and reduced Developed · Developed the Wet Limestone FGD1) ·E  xpand market share through strengthening downshot boilers & Construction established medium and at a top-tier level globally by reducing the RO Sustainable Management High-Efficient, the fundamental competitiveness of the defect rate, to shorten the APR1400 RV lead CAPEX through activities conducted to upgrade High-Capacity equipment, including boilers and steam long-term tasks for major business areas time and the SG lead time. EHS (Environment, Health and Safety) 58 engineering and purchasing. Moreover, accordBoilers · Developed low-quality coal combustion boilers turbines · Develop the seawater FGD technology and strived to enhance its fundamental We also maintained our production competing to the growth of the O&M market, we plan Talent Management 64 itiveness at a top-tier level by technology deto establish the medium and long-term targets · Developed low NOx biomass burners to reduce NOx competitiveness, as well as reinforced Social Contribution 70 velopment completion of core manufacturing for reducing RO OPEX and conduct activities to emissions · Develop the APC RPM2) various activities, such as developing process of each product. Moreover, besides strengthen competitiveness in line with the naDoosan Day of Community Service 74 competencies for R&D and managing developing core manufacturing technology, we tional policies for upgrading ICT and processes. plan to provide total solution of major equipment Customer Satisfaction 76 · Developed the Korean standard thermal power of intellectual property. Castings & Forgings BG 500MW R&M model · Commercialize the 60Hz 1,000MW ST model for nuclear power plants by developing the serEstablished the ·C  ommercialize after the completion of In order to strengthen the fundamental compet· Commercialize the 50Hz 350MW ST model vice technology for operating nuclear power Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries Turbine Line-Up development · Completed the development of technology for · Commercialize the 60Hz 500MW R&M model plants. itiveness of castings & forgings business, we reducing steam loss (Inter Stage Seal) made investment starting from 2014 to introDoosan Power Systems 80 EPC BG duce a 17,000 ton press, and currently investDoosan Power Systems India 84 · Implement five tasks including the EPC BG focuses its activities on securing price, ments are made with the goal of operating by · Shortened the APR1400 RV lead time and the SG · Identify additional tasks for developing core development of Laser peening technology function and delivery competitiveness. We de2016. Through these efforts, we will secure a Doosan VINA 87 Improved the Production Efficiency of Nuclear lead time manufacturing technologies for relieving residual stress in Raeactor rived design ideas that reduce costs through competitive advantage in ultra-sized materials. Power and Developed Pressure Vessel Head value engineering, while also acquired price Also, in order to secure manufacturing competAppendix Core Manufacturing · Implement five tasks including the · Completed developing a total of 11 technologies, ·D  evelop service technologies for operating competitiveness by applying these ideas to new itiveness, we plan to optimize our operation by Technologies technology development for replacing Performance Index 93 including 6 nuclear reactors and 5 steam generators nuclear power plants projects. Also, we conducted activities to enupgrading the MES (Manufacturing Execution Steam Generators hance functions based on various case studies, System). In addition, due to the international isStakeholders 123 while also implemented activities to shorten desues on reducing CO2, we completed develop· Strengthened the synergy between R&D · Complete the development of technology Materiality Analysis 124 livery times for coal-fired power plants in 2013, ing technologies for 17 types of new products, organizations and the R&D network at home and · Implement national policies for commercializing 1,000MW USC (Ultra Strengthened abroad Super Critical) thermal power generation followed by activities to shorten delivery times including USC (Ultra Super Critical) rotor, which GRI Index 126 Competencies for combined cycle power plants in 2014. In the are core components to deal with the increasfor R&D ·S  trengthen the competitiveness of base · Develop the technology for manufacturing Audit Report 128 · Participated or supervised 16 national policies ferrite seamless tube materials for highfuture, we will further strengthen our price and ing demand for high-efficiency power plants. technology function competitiveness by reducing costs, as We plan to further accelerate the progress for Assurance Statement 130 efficient power generation boilers (USC) 1) FGD : Flue-Gas Desulfurization well as applying the optimal design plans to new securing a new growth engine for the future by 2) APC RPM : Air Pollution Control Reference Product Model projects. continuously monitoring market needs. Performance of Overseas 46 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Management Framework Strategy and Performance Sustainable Management Subsidiaries Appendix 47 Navigation Menu Securing the Core Business Present Status of the R&D Organization Implementation Direction for Core 2014 Integrated Report of Leadership for R&D Business Leadership in 2015 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Strengthening the Competitiveness of KOREA Country City Research Field In order to deal with the growth slowdown and Base Technology Seoul intensified competition of coal-fired power generDoosan Heavy Industries & Construction is strivKorea Seoul IGCC1) ation market following the strengthening of enviKOREA ronmental regulations, Doosan Heavy Industries CEO Message 04 ing to secure the base technology capability and Yongin Yongin Base Technology, & Construction plans to make active investment acquire differentiated business competitiveness Wind Turbine to maintain its existing position in the market. Doosan Credo 06 by making R&D investments in five areas. In particular, we made major changes to Doosan Group 08 Thermal & Mechanical Engineering Changwon Combustion, CCS2), CFD, strengthen the system to win orders in 2014, by Currently, we are in the process of developing KOREA APC, Material, Mechanical, Doosan’s Philosophy 09 Changwon PFA3), Process, Dynamics appointing a new COO (Chief Operating Officer) the technology for improving the function and Analysis and reestablishing a marketing organization. operation of power generation system, with Management Framework Through these efforts, we plan to promote the plans to acquire additional technologies for prequalitative and quantitative growth of existing Company Profile 12 dicting the lifecycle and vibration diagnosis of business to expand market share for major ICT-based plants. Introduction of Business 14 Country City Research Field products, while also securing high profitability UK Material & Manufacturing Engineering compared to the past. Business Model 16 Renfrew GERMANY We are strengthening the material engineering UK Crawley Boiler OEM Technology Dusseldorf In addition to high-efficient and high-capacity, capability, including establishing the database Performance Summary 18 Renfrew CCS, Materials, CFD, Fuel there is a continuous need in the market for for power generation materials and evaluating eco-friendly power generation facilities. In order Governance 20 Analysis & Material Corrosion, lifecycle, while also reinforcing the development UK Combustion, etc to deal with these needs, Doosan Heavy Indusof new technologies in manufacturing innovation CZECH Yeongheung Thermal Power Plants (Units 1-4) Vision and Strategy 22 Birmingham tries & Construction will strengthen its manufacPlzen and new materials, such as acquiring additional Birmingham DAF4) & DMF5) Technology turing competency and securing original techEthical Management 24 technologies for HSC / GT materials and coating UK Implemented National Projects nology. Also, we plan to lay the foundation for 2014 Doosan Way 26 and developing 3D printing and nano materials. Crawley Czech Plzen Steam Turbine Technology achieving sustainable growth by reinforcing the Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is curcompetitiveness from the operating perspec2014 Highlights 28 Electrical Engineering Germany Dusseldorf CFB Boiler / APC / WTE rently conducting or participating in 16 national Technology tive, including reducing costs and innovating We are developing control logic in connection projects that are worth a budget of KRW 398.5 operations process. Strategy and Performance with the development of power plant simulators billion. The participation in national projects not and large-sized GT, while also expanding the only improves the technology competitiveness Implementation Direction of Business Environment Analysis 32 development of new technologies by applying at the national level and provides the opportuBase Technology R&D Business Performance 34 ICT technologies, including frequency tracker, Strengthened the Synergy between We are identifying technology development nity to be more competitive, but also offers the prediction diagnosis and VPP. R&D Organizations tasks that are needed in accordance with the opportunity to establish a global supply chain foThermal & Mechanical Engineering Risk, Opportunity and Business Strategy 38 In March 2014, in order to share the company’s direction of developing technologies agreed becusing on SMEs and an industry-academic coChemical Engineering · Develop the technology for improving system Upgrading Business Portfolio 40 strategic direction and the direction for techtween site / factory executives, so that we can operation system, such as developing high-effiWe are striving to acquire optimized technolofunctions and operations nology development and strengthen the coopshare the trend of latest technologies and busicient large-sized gas turbines for power plants. gies for operating the water O&M, while also ex·D  evelop the technology for optimizing thermal Core Business Leadership 44 eration between R&D organizations, Doosan nesses and achieve the BG aspiration. Moreploring new areas like non-metallic materials and performance and structure Heavy Industries & Construction’s Corporate over, we strengthened the commercialization Upgrading Business System 48 strengthening competencies for the next-generPresent Status of National Projects ·D  evelop the technology for lifecycle / vibration R&D Institute held a Technology Road Show for of tasks by gathering opinions from divisions, diagnosis based on ICT ation water technologies, including FO (Forward overseas subsidiaries, including Škoda Power, and also established a road map for an intePeriod of Type of Sustainable Management Osmosis) and ECT (Electric Chemical TechnolMaterial & Manufacturing Engineering Lentjes, DPS and Babcock. At the technology grated base technology across the company Name of Project Development Participation ogy). ·D  evelop HSC / GT materials and coating technologies EHS (Environment, Health and Safety) 58 road show, overseas subsidiaries got a clear to strengthen the synergy of base technology Developing the technology for commercializing 1,000MW USC (Ultra Super Critical) between BGs. ‘10.09 ‘15.08 Supervised by ·S  ecure the material engineering competency Software understanding of our overall R&D strategic dithermal power plants Talent Management 64 ·D  evelop the technology for the application of 3D We are establishing a system to managing data rection and role. Strengthened the R&D Network at The 2nd Stage of IGCC ‘11.02 ‘16.11 Supervised by printing heavy industry Social Contribution 70 on operating power plants and expanding the Also, we plan to establish the foundation for scope of data collection and analysis, while also Home and Abroad Developing the high-quality technology for steam generator tubes in nuclear power Electrical Engineering sustainable development by exploring ideas to ‘11.07 ‘17.06 Participating Doosan Day of Community Service 74 Doosan Heavy Industries and Construction plants striving to expand the RMS (Remote Monitoring reduce costs for various activities in the value · Develop TPP simulators and large-sized GT System) and develop specialized application for strengthened the network for cooperating with Developing the hot work tool steel for molding automotive parts ‘11.06 ‘16.05 Supervised by control logics Customer Satisfaction 76 chain and strengthening the competitiveness advanced research institutions related to new the core equipment of power plants. Developing the technology for the application of high frequency bending to improve ·U  pgrade the plant I&C engineering from an operating perspective. technologies, including ESS, CFD (Computa‘12.10 ‘15.09 Participating the soundness of environmental fatigue in nuclear plant piping ·E  xplore future technologies, including frequency Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries tional Fluid Dynamics), GT materials / coating tracker, etc. Establishing a system for the application of SPACE code for nuclear power plants 1) IGCC : Integrated Gasification Combined Cycle / aeroelastic areas, by joining various indus‘13.01 ‘15.12 Participating Chemical Engineering Doosan Power Systems 80 2) CCS : Carbon Capture & Storage (3rd stage of developing the code for nuclear power plant engineering) try-academic cooperation programs, including 3) PFA : Plant Feedback Analysis Developing the manufacturing technology of ferrite seamless tubes for high-efficient ·F  uel synthesis / conversion (SNG) technology linked Doosan Power Systems India 84 4) DAF : Dissolved Air Flotation Stanford, MIT, STONYBROOK, EPRI (Electric ‘13.06 ‘15.07 Participating to IGCC 5) DMF : Dual-media Filter power generation boiler (USC) Power Research Institute), and Guide Consor·D  evelop the technology for operation optimization of Doosan VINA 87 tium. Also, we strive to achieve open innovation Developing the engineering technology for TM-ICI elements ‘13.06 ‘18.05 Participating water O&M Number of R&D Tasks Amount of R&D Investments (Improvement / New Technology / Future Business) by strengthening the function of exploring new Developing the core protection / monitoring system for export ‘13.06 ‘16.05 Participating ·D  evelop new technologies for next-generation water Appendix businesses and technologies through human (FO, ECT) Developing the technology for safety system / controller to deal with CCF (Unit : KRW 100 million) (Unit : Number of tasks) resources development and advance technolo(Common Cause Failure) ‘13.11 ‘16.10 Participating Performance Index 93 Advanced Technology gy sensing. Also, we reinforced the cooperation Evaluating the core manufacturing technology for RCP seals and safety performance ‘13.06 ‘17.05 Supervised by ·P  M for the project on exploring the future and Stakeholders 123 1,773 1,829 183 1,568 164 (76 / 81 / 26) with diverse research institutions and universistrengthening the synergy (77 / 68 / 19) Developing the high-efficient large-sized gas turbine for power plants ‘13.07 ‘18.06 Supervised by Materiality Analysis 124 119 ties by moving our Corporate R&D Institute to Suji, Gyeonggi-do, and also expanded open Developing the technology for commercializing decontamination and Software (57 / 53 / 9) decommissioning of spent steam generators ‘13.09 ‘16.08 Supervised by GRI Index 126 innovation like technology seeding by utilizing ·E  stablish the data management system and expand the equipment obtained from the outside to esDeveloping and studying blade technology applied with carbon fiber for the scope of data collection / analysis Audit Report 128 ‘13.12 ‘16.09 Supervised by large-sized blades ·P  romote the RMS and develop specialized tablish a systematic cooperation according to Assurance Statement 130 applications for core equipment various research areas. Developing the technology for upgrading the seawater desalination plant process ‘14.12 ‘19.12 Participating ·S  ecure the intelligence / connectivity solution in RO (Reverse Osmosis) 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 * Based on separate financial statement Performance of Overseas 48 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Management Framework Strategy and Performance Sustainable Management Subsidiaries Appendix 49 Navigation Menu 2014 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Upgrading Business Systems CEO Message 04 Doosan Credo 06 Doosan Group 08 Doosan’s Philosophy 09 Management Framework Company Profile 12 Introduction of Business 14 Business Model 16 Performance Summary 18 Governance 20 Vision and Strategy 22 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Smart Office In addition, the supporting organization conEthical Management 24 tinuously implemented activities to identify and is innovating the existing work systems Since 2011, we have been implementing the resolve inefficient issues from the aspects of 2014 Doosan Way 26 Smart Office to eliminate the inefficient duties to meet the business environment and systems, policies and infrastructure. Due to the and utilize the time saved to develop employ2014 Highlights 28 the changed conditions of the age. results of these activities, we saved an average ees’ individual capabilities and get recharged. of about an hour per employee for inefficient Through these activities, we have taken The Smart Office consists of four areas, includStrategy and Performance time used, which expanded the perception that ing upgrading competency, improving the way a step closer to achieving the goals fair evaluation and compensation are given. Business Environment Analysis 32 of working, improving the operation of policies of the Doosan Way to enhance the Also, our policies for managing individual capaand human resources, and enhancing working Business Performance 34 bilities increased the level of satisfaction on the productivity of our employees and fulfill environments and infrastructure. In 2014, we Major Performance and Goals entered into phase 3 to get the results of the company’s management of individual career Risk, Opportunity and Business Strategy 38 the corporate social responsibilities to and the caring of superiors. However, the sysImplementation Tasks Performance in 2014 Plans for 2015 Implementation Goals for 2015 activities conducted for the past four years. Upgrading Business Portfolio 40 meet the characteristic of business, while tems and processes for cooperation have been We improved the system so that it can act as found to be a bit inefficient. Therefore, we plan Core Business Leadership 44 · Improve inefficient duties (improvement also securing differentiated business a momentum in developing organizational and to come up with improvement plans for the fu· Selected and implemented improvement tasks ·A  dvancement and scientizing of the of inefficient documentation, etc.) individual capabilities in connection with individUpgrading Business System 48 · Improve productivity in connection with competitiveness. ture and implement them. in the way of working in the organization way of working ual job competency and DCM evaluation. Also, Internalized the activities by group we selected improvement tasks for the way of Smart Office System ·E  stablish portal-based working working by organization and conducted a diagSustainable Management ·E  nhance the business efficiency in connection environment · Conducted analysis on the Smart Office activities nosis on the Smart Office activities. EHS (Environment, Health and Safety) 58 with the IT system · Improve business productivity through EIM (Enterprise Information Management) Talent Management 64 Social Contribution 70 · Operated the CSR Committee mainly with ·E  xpand the authorization and scope of The Implementation System of Smart Office ·R  eport to the Board of Directors five subcommittees CSR Committee’s activities Doosan Day of Community Service 74 Risk Management Developing individual job Establishing and implementing plans to systematically Customer Satisfaction 76 ·P  revent quality failures / risks and strengthen Upgrading Competencies develop competencies by taking into consideration · Reduced the quality failure costs (1.66%) and ·P  revent quality failures / risks in competencies activities to prevent recurrence individual levels conducted the RCA on the significant quality advance and establish a system to ·R  ealize performance by resolving fundamental Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries problem (88%) prevent recurrence Upgrading organizational Establishing and implementing plans to upgrade duties quality issues capabilities for strengthening organizational capabilities Doosan Power Systems 80 · Implemented the fundamental quality issues / risk ·R  einforce quality competitiveness through ·E  stablish prediction risk targets that Doosan Power Systems India 84 Quality Failures / takes into consideration characteristics Implementing activities to remove inefficient duties solving tasks and reduced the rate of quality failure advanced prevention and fundamental Improving the Way of Removing inefficient Risk Management by BG and implement activities to issues voluntarily through a bottom-up method through reDoosan VINA 87 costs (1.66%) solutions Working organization prevent recurrence Promoting and expanding by exploring ways to work Appendix Upgraded the ·A  nalyze patents with high risks of Smart work · Established a new GIP team to strengthen patent smartly compared to the current working method Intellectual Property ·E  xplore patents focused on strategies strategic disputes within the new Performance Index 93 management Management business / new technology Enhancing the Operation Reestablishing policies / Implementing efficient duties by improving policies, Stakeholders 123 of Policies and Human Resources regulations / systems internal regulations and the HR system Materiality Analysis 124 ·A  chieve the goal of 52,000TJ for · Maintained A grade for the CDP’s climate change energy consumption GRI Index 126 Improved Energy Providing the working environments from the aspects ·R  educe the greenhouse gas of Improving the Working Establishing the IT Efficiency and ·S  ave energy costs and reduce GHG emissions of the IT system to overcome the restrictions of space 10,000 tCO2 Environments and infrastructure Audit Report 128 Responded to by continuously enhancing energy efficiency and time ·E  stablish a scenario and a consultative Infrastructure Climate Change · Selected as an Excellent Company for climate Assurance Statement 130 change competitiveness group internally for emission trading Improving working environments to facilitate system Working space communication between employees and enhance employee satisfaction Performance of Overseas 50 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Management Framework Strategy and Performance Sustainable Management Subsidiaries Appendix 51 Navigation Menu Risk Management Credit Risk Roadmap of Quality Innovation Activities 2014 Integrated Report of In order to manage credit risk, Doosan Heavy Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is Industries & Construction is conducting trans2016~2017 striving to achieve business continuity and staactions with clients that have more than a cerbility through risk management. In particular, we 2014~2015 Established a tain level of credit rating, while also establishmature quality culture managed not only traditional financial risks, but ing and operating policies and procedures to Achieved performances based also strengthened the management of various · Establishment of the voluntary CEO Message 04 strengthen the credit of financial assets. When on the DQE system quality innovation activities for the non-financial risks, to establish the foundation signing a contract with a new client, we use the 2012~2013 · Prevention of quality failures and PJT implementing organization Doosan Credo 06 for sustainable growth. information provided by the credit rating agency risks and strengthened activities to · Acquisition of the quality Financial Risk Management and the financial information disclosed to evaluAdopted the DQE system prevent reoccurrence competitiveness at a global top-tier Doosan Group 08 ate the credit rating of the client. Based onthese · Strengthening of competitiveness level The purpose of financial risk management is to Doosan’s Philosophy 09 ·E  stablishment of the Process & System by resolving fundamental quality enhance the efficiency of financing and improve items of evidence, we decide on the maximum of the Doosan Quality Excellence issues the financial structure to create stable and concredit and are provided with collaterals or payactivities Management Framework tinuous management Performance even though ment guarantees. Also, we re-evaluate the cred· Improvement of the perception of quality there are various financial risks like market risk, it rating of our clients regularly and review the and expansion of the scope of failures Company Profile 12 credit risk and liquidity risk. maximum credit to readjust the level of collat·E  stablishment of a system for managing Introduction of Business 14 erals. Regarding financial assets with delayed quality issues in advance Foreign Exchange Risk recovery, we take appropriate measures by Business Model 16 Due to sales activities conducted internationidentifying the present status of delayed recovally, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Performance Summary 18 ery of money regularly and come up with recovContract & Negotiation Operation of the Quality Gates (QG) is exposed to the risk of foreign exchange flucery plans. The top come risks that have a huge effect Governance 20 tuation from various currencies. Therefore, the A. Contractual Risks : Risks related to the comon Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction’s foreign exchange risk management is conductQuality Risk Management pensation of delay, performance guarantee, Vision and Strategy 22 project success include financial, contractued in accordance with the regulation on forBased on the result of analyzing past risks, we and nonconformance. al, planning and implementation risks, which Ethical Management 24 eign exchange risk management. We reduce found out that lots of the risks occurred from B. Project Requirement Risks : Risks related to account for 70% of the volatility of the overall the foreign exchange risk by first offsetting the quality-related issues (including the area of the request for excessive quality and delay of 2014 Doosan Way 26 performance. In this regard, we adopted the amount exposed to foreign exchange fluctuaexpanding quality). These quality defects not approval. QG to focus on managing these four risks and Monetary assets and liabilities indicated in foreign currency (Unit : KRW 1 million) 2014 Highlights 28 tion through the natural hedge to deal with curonly take away the credibility from customers, worked on improving the Performance. The rency affecting export and import. Meanwhile, but also aggravate the profitability of projects. Planning Risks QG is a decision-making tool for major stages in the case of the amount exposed to remaining Therefore, Doosan Heavy Industries & ConStrategy and Performance Classification USD EUR JPY GBP Other1) Total A. Cost Estimation Risks : Risks related to the of the project as a guideline for strategic risk foreign exchange fluctuation, we hedge the risk struction is implementing activities to predict increase of raw material costs, engineering evaluation and management. By operating the Business Environment Analysis 32 through the transaction of derivatives, including Financial assets 1,958,448 314,100 2,846 61,882 183,389 2,520,665 risks in advance and implement activities to preerrors, and omission of work scope. QG, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction forward exchanges, in accordance with the regFinancial liabilities 3,135,018 806,002 128,050 42,678 74,409 4,186,157 vent recurrence through the innovation of work Business Performance 34 B. Schedule Risks : Risks related to the delay in established an objective standard for evaluatulation on foreign exchange risk management. methods based on the asset failures from the ing projects, while also setting up a system for Risk, Opportunity and Business Strategy 38 1) Other currencies are foreign currencies excluding USD, EUR, JPY and GBP and the amount converted into KRW schedule arising from the lack of production past. monitoring and managing the risks at all stages Interest Rate Risk period and suspension of work (strike, delivUpgrading Business Portfolio 40 Interest rate risk is the risk that interest income DQE (Doosan Quality Excellence) ery errors, etc.) of the project. Also, we shared the knowledge Effect of the interest rate fluctuation on the gain and income before income taxes (Unit : KRW 1 million) and interest cost from deposits or borrowings In 2012, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construcand experience of risk management within the Core Business Leadership 44 might fluctuate in accordance with the fluctuation The end of the current term The end of the previous term Execution Risks organization and utilized them to improve the tion started the quality innovation activities on a Upgrading Business System 48 of future market interest rate. The goal of DooClassification full scale by establishing the DQE program with accuracy of cost estimation. Increase of 100bp Decrease of 100bp Increase of 100bp Decrease of 100bp A. Project Integration Risks : Risks related to the san Heavy Industries & Construction’s interest the cooperation of external professional instilack of ability for coordination and resolving CSR Risk Management Sustainable Management rate risk management is minimizing uncertainties Gain and income before income taxes -40,808 40,808 -41,287 41,287 tutions. In 2013, we focused on establishing a problems, lack of communication within the Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is and financial costs resulting from the fluctuation system based on the DQE activities, while startorganization, and lack of cooperative relaEHS (Environment, Health and Safety) 58 managing various risks by operating the CSR of interest rate. To achieve this, we are managing ing from 2014, we focused on realizing actual tionships with clients and contractors. Committee through 5 subcommittees for HR, Talent Management 64 the interest rate risk in advance, including miniresults by establishing a system for continuity Repayment plan on the nominal value of financial debts by year (Unit : KRW 1 million) B. Engineering Risks : Risks related to errors ethical management, shared development, EHS mizing external borrowings by utilizing the internal and strengthening execution. Social Contribution 70 occurring because of lack of engineering exand community. Each subcommittee establishreserve fund, reducing the percentage of borrowAmount of principal on the contract Project Risk Management perience. es the risk analysis and management plan every Doosan Day of Community Service 74 ings with high interest rates, improving short and Classification Book value Total Less than 1 year Less than 2 years Less than 5 years Exceeding 5 years Since the project size is big and the project peC. Purchasing / Manufacturing Risks : Risks reyear and implements the improvement activities long-term borrowing structure, maintaining the Customer Satisfaction 76 riod lasts a long period according to the characlated to the occurrence of quality issues and systematically. appropriate ratio for fixed-rate borrowings and Financial debts 15,657,720 15,701,611 8,743,750 2,745,686 2,458,749 1,753,426 floating-rate borrowings, monitoring the trends of teristics of business, Doosan Heavy Industries production errors due to selecting a low-priced Interest costs 1,083,603 413,774 231,105 329,747 108,977 & Construction is implementing non-financial supplier. Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries domestic and foreign interest rates regularly, and risk management focused on projects. The risk Classification of Area of Risk Management establishing a response plan. Total 15,657,720 16,785,214 9,157,524 2,976,791 2,788,496 1,862,403 D. Construction Risks : Risks that might occur Doosan Power Systems 80 management is conducted under the responsiSub-committee from safety accidents. Doosan Power Systems India 84 Liquidity Risk bility of the project management team of releHuman Human rights protection, prevention Since there is a time gap between the beginning vant BG for each project. E. Commissioning / Performance Risks : Risks reResource of discrimination, compliance with Doosan VINA 87 and end of a single project takes a long time, Analysis on age of trade receivables and other receivables (excluding deposits) (Unit : KRW 1 million) lated to lack of problem-solving ability and lack labor laws, etc. Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is exType of Project Risks of maintenance ability during commissioning. Ethical Prevention of corruption, posed to the liquidity risk that might arise from Receivables evaluating the financial assets individually and collectively Geological Risks Management management of transparent Appendix Lessons Learned (L / L) System management, legal compliance, etc. the difficulties of meeting the obligations related Classification Total As part of the risk prevention management, Performance Index 93 Less than 0-3 Exceeding 3 Exceeding 6 Physical risks like topography, geological condiShared Risk management of suppliers’ to financial debts. Therefore, we predict the fimonths and less months and less Exceeding 1 year Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is months tions and infrastructure and political, social and Development supply chain, compliance of fair Stakeholders 123 nancial receipts and disbursements from sales than 6 months than 1 year operating the Lessons Learned (L / L) System environmental risks of the country in which the trade, etc. activities, investment activities and financial to prevent the recurrence of risks that had ocMateriality Analysis 124 Trade receivables 1,438,132 149,873 154,335 2,336,631 4,078,971 project is being conducted. EHS Response to climate change, water activities beforehand by regularly establishing curred in the past. We are striving to prevent resources management, safety and a financial balance plan, to respond to the maLoans and account 463,001 78,114 69,675 1,387,391 1,998,181 Financial Risks GRI Index 126 risks by accumulating and sharing various exhealth management, management of receivables turity structure of financial assets and liabilities. periences of success and failure experienced emergency situations, etc. Audit Report 128 Risks related to the conditions of performance Through these efforts, we have maintained and Uncollected 7,855 461 1,769 107,189 117,274 from implementing projects through the L / L Community Customer management (evaluation income bond, foreign exchange fluctuation, fund liquidiAssurance Statement 130 secured the size of liquidity required in advance System, which has been set up through the of satisfaction level, etc.), community ty, and the client’s credit issues. support, external reputation to manage the liquidity risk that might occur in Total 1,908,988 228,448 225,779 3,831,211 6,194,426 management’s strong commitment. the future. management Performance of Overseas 52 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Management Framework Strategy and Performance Sustainable Management Subsidiaries Appendix 53 Navigation Menu Pursuing Shared Development Programs and Performance of Shared Joint Overseas Expansion 2014 Integrated Report of with Suppliers Development We support the PQ (Pre-Qualification) approvDoosan Heavy Industries & Construction Strengthening the Competitiveness of al for overseas project with domestic suppliers Philosophy of Shared Development participating, while also promoting suppliers’ Suppliers The shared development with suppliers minioverseas expansion by supporting their parWe provided professional consulting on busimizes the risks that might occur from the relaticipation at power generation exhibitions held ness innovation and a management advisory tionships with suppliers to effectively implement abroad. Also, we support suppliers to improve CEO Message 04 support group for suppliers to strengthen their sustainability management. In line with this, their global competitiveness by participating in competitiveness and allow them to develop Doosan Credo 06 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has overseas large-scale projects with domestic on their own. Also, we upgraded the producincluded suppliers in their business strategies suppliers. Doosan Group 08 tivity through the quality improvement activibased on a system of ‘Virtuous Cycle Partties where our masters participated, while also Strengthening Communication Doosan’s Philosophy 09 nership’ for suppliers, including strengthening operating the Performance Sharing Bureau to technology capabilities and upgrading business We are actively implementing activities to implement a performance sharing system to systems. strengthen communication with suppliers to Management Framework identify tasks like localization, productivity enachieve shared development. By holding dishancement and cost reduction. In addition, Company Profile 12 cussion meetings with suppliers, we reinforce we operated the Safety & Health Coordination our relationships with suppliers and select the Introduction of Business 14 Group to support the acquisition of risk evaluamost outstanding suppliers based on their cation certification and the KOSHA (Korea OccuBusiness Model 16 Strategies for Shared Growth pabilities, to award them every year. In addition, pational Safety and Health Agency)’s health and Compliance Activities we listen to actual difficulties faced by suppliPerformance Summary 18 safety assessment system for suppliers, as well In order to realize a fair and ethical corporate ers by having our management visit suppliers as supported the participation at job fairs so Governance 20 Establishing a system of in person, holding group discussion meetings culture, Doosan Heavy Industries & Constructhat suppliers can hire talented people. Promotion of the CSR Culture of Conducted a Satisfaction Survey on Vision ‘Virtuous Cycle Partnership’ for shared for each BG, and regularly gathering opinions tion has introduced the CP (Compliance ProVision and Strategy 22 development with suppliers Fostering and Training Suppliers’ Employees from suppliers through the Win-Win Call Center. Suppliers Shared Growth for Suppliers gram) since 2004 to comply with relevant laws Established Suppliers’ CSR Guideline In order to identify the satisfaction level of shared Ethical Management 24 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is In 2014, we held discussion meetings with supand regulations. Organizations responsible for utilizing their independent technology, human pliers 31 times in all. In order to enhance the suppliers’ perception growth and fair trade for suppliers that signed a the CP include the chief compliance officer and 2014 Doosan Way 26 Enhancing the global competitiveness by establishing a system of resources and physical resources to operate on social responsibility management, we esshared growth agreement, we conduct a satthe compliance staff of each BG, and the CP Goals Creating a Shared Development tablished the CSR Guideline for suppliers. The isfaction survey on shared growth every year. 2014 Highlights 28 ‘Virtuous Cycle Partnership’ for shared training programs that enhance the job comprogram is faithfully implemented according to development with suppliers petency of suppliers’ permanent employees Ecosystem newly drawn up ‘CSR Guideline for Suppliers’ The result of the survey is used to establish a the seven key factors of the CP. Industrial Innovation Move contains contents that support the suppliers’ customized shared growth program. In 2014, Strategy and Performance and new employees. By providing professionAlso, we are striving to prevent the risks of Support for Industrial Innovation Move is a program that has social responsibilities and asking for their imple181 companies out of 204 suppliers responded Joint Overseas al training programs required for suppliers, we sub-contractors violating laws by adding a legal Business Environment Analysis 32 Competitiveness expanded from a productivity innovation move mentation, as well as reflecting the standard soto the survey, showing a result of 89.35 points Enhancement Expansion are actually strengthening our competitiveness compliance category in the MBO evaluation of for SMEs into an economy-wide move based on cial responsibilities announced in the principles in the survey result, an increase of 5.3% comBusiness Performance 34 Strategies and contributing to the development of the napurchasing executives and holding training proStrengthening of mutual cooperation between large companies of the UNGC (UN Global Compact) and the ISO pared to 2013. Financial Support tion’s key industries. We plan to also hold ongrams with feedback from monitoring sub-conCommunication Risk, Opportunity and Business Strategy 38 and SMEs. It aims to create an environment of (International Organization for Standardization). site training programs to maximize the synergy tractors. Besides this, we monitor the level of shared development ecosystem with the 2nd Upgrading Business Portfolio 40 of training. In 2014, we held such programs for Reflected Suppliers’ CSR Evaluation compliance for internal transactions. We revised and 3rd tier suppliers and various innovation Suppliers’ CSR Evaluation Categories Performance of Financial Supports for Suppliers 1,533 permanent workers and 5,920 new emthe CP Manual and distributed it to all purchasCore Business Leadership 44 activities are implemented throughout the comCategories ployees of suppliers. We encourage suppliers to participate in CSR Evaluation Contents ing teams by reflecting the laws on fair trade and pany through field diagnosis, including process, Upgrading Business System 48 activities by reflecting the CSR evaluation catCategories sub-contractors that have been enacted and Financial Support management and production technology. To egories used during the supplier registration amended after 2010. 4.8 billion In order to support the financial costs of supachieve this, we contributed KRW 500 million Safety · Are the employees provided with a Total of KRW evaluation and a comprehensive evaluation on safe work site that complies with all In 2014, we strengthened online and offline Sustainable Management pliers, we operate a variety of systems. There since the end of 2013. Direct support to 24 companies is a direct support system that directly lends the capability of suppliers, including safety, envisafety-related laws and regulations? training and field education for different job duEHS (Environment, Health and Safety) 58 Support for the Operation of the Machinery ronment, fair trade, and social criticism. Environment · Are the employees provided with ties related to fair trade, while also reported to operating funds to suppliers free of interest Industry Shared Growth Promotion a safe work site that complies with the Board of Directors about the present staTalent Management 64 and a combined support system that supports Implemented Suppliers’ Social Contribution Foundation (MGF) all environment-related laws and low-interest loans to suppliers by establishing tus of operating the CP in accordance with the Social Contribution 70 We are striving to expand the shared growth Activities regulations? the Shared Growth Fund with financial institunotification attached to the Monopoly RegulaDoosan Heavy Industries & Construction has 79.2 billion focused on the 1st tier suppliers to the 2nd and Fair Trade · Is there a Compliance Program (CP) tion and Fair Trade Act. In the future, we plan to Doosan Day of Community Service 74 tions. We also expanded the ratio of cash payTotal of KRW 3rd tier suppliers under the cooperation of the conducted volunteer work together with suppliadopted? comply with the Fair Subcontract Transactions ment settlement to resolve the financial difficulty ers on the Doosan Day of Community Service to Society · Violation of labor / human rights laws Customer Satisfaction 76 Support to 50 companies of Machinery Industry Shared Growth Promotion Act by improving the systems and re-establishof suppliers. encourage suppliers to fulfill their social respon(minors, involuntary labor, etc.) the Shared Growth Fund Foundation (MGF). After sending experts from · Corruption / non-ethical (bribery, ing the classification system of large companies various fields to conduct field diagnosis, we carsibilities. We made the commitment to contribPerformance of Overseas Subsidiaries entertainment, embezzlement, etc.) and SMEs in accordance with the amendment ry out various projects to remove the weaknessute to local communities together through vari· Leakage of technology and of the Fair Subcontract Transactions Act, such Doosan Power Systems 80 Performance of Support Provided for es of suppliers. To achieve this, we supported ous activities like painting murals and harvesting information as reflecting the requirement and restrictions of Suppliers’ Joint Overseas Expansion the improvement of facilities for 240 companies sweet persimmons. Doosan Power Systems India 84 · Other social troubles the Act. by making a contribution of KRW 600 million Doosan VINA 87 115 companies every year. Adoption of the Settle System for Appendix Support of 137 cases Support for the Training and Education of Co-prosperity Suppliers’ Employees in 2014 7 Key Factors of the CP Performance Index 93 Support of the PQ for overseas clients Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is providing settlement costs to the suppliers at the Stakeholders 123 lower tier by accepting the electronic accounts Announcing the Appointing the Compliance Producing and Materiality Analysis 124 2.23 million receivables issued by the 1st and 2nd suppliers. CEO’s commitment Officer through the decision distributing the CP US$ Signed contracts worth US$ 110,000 Also, in the case where the 2nd tier supplier gets a discount on receivables from the 1st tier suppli7,453 persons to the CP by the BOD manual GRI Index 126 Number of persons who Audit Report 128 with overseas companies to lay the er, we reduce the financial costs of suppliers by participated from 255 companies foundation for entering into overseas allowing them to be applied with an interest rate Operating the training Assurance Statement 130 (for a year) Building a monitoring Applying Penalties on markets programs (more than 2 Managing documents based on the credit rating of large companies. system violations hours semi-annually) Performance of Overseas 54 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Management Framework Strategy and Performance Sustainable Management Subsidiaries Appendix 55 Navigation Menu Upgrading Intellectual Property (IP) Upgrading Intellectual Property (IP) Management Performance of Carbon Emissions in 2014 Carbon Reduction Strategies 2014 Integrated Report of Management Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction As the global competition intensifies, the need Achieved Top Tier Level of Carbon Management Upgrading the Operating System Maximization of the IP Value* 5,278 TJ to acquire core technologies that are differentiated from competitors has increased, while the ’17 Allocated Carbon Emissions and Achieved the Energy Reduction Goals importance of protecting intellectual property · Analyzed patents of major products and identified Energy Consumption CEO Message 04 has been greatly emphasized. Therefore, Doostrategic patents Established the target Implemented carbon Developed Responded actively to san Heavy Industries & Construction expand· Strengthened patent acquisition to dominate in new · Expanded the identification of strategic patents management system reduction activities professionals carbon disclosures Doosan Credo 06 business in all business areas ed and reorganized divisions related to IP and · Established a sensing system for future promising Patent purchase and disposal Doosan Group 08 collected long-term plans to manage them, as technology ·E  stablished a patent monitoring system well as protecting technological know-how and · Established an integrated operating system for the IP Analysis of competitor trend of patents and R&D Doosan’s Philosophy 09 Managed the Lifecycle of Carbon Through Various Communication Channels 283,422 tCO -eq efficiently managing licenses required for IP. In of overseas subsidiaries addition, we strive to develop technologies and · Reflected the IP Gate within the TI System Internalized Energy Efficiency Activities Through Voluntary Employees Participation Management Framework 2 human resources through cooperation with var* IP : Intellectual Property GHG Emissions Established the target Implemented carbon Responded actively to Company Profile 12 ious research institutions. Developed management system reduction activities for carbon disclosure by Introduction of Business 14 Strengthened Cooperation with Response to Climate Change professionals Strengthened Patent Management based on GEMS energy efficiency stakeholders Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is Domestic and Overseas Research GHG Emissions Trading System and Business Model 16 · Operated the emissions · Implemented carbon · Developed an agent for · Disclosed carbon striving to identify the IP of core technologies Institutions and Expanded Technology GHG Reduction Strategies trading process (operated reduction activities for trading GHG emissions information (climate change Performance Summary 18 and expand overseas patents mainly for major Seeding Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is acby consultative group) energy efficiency · Fostered a professional to index, etc.) products to increase the scope of patent manDoosan Heavy Industries & Construction stren· Established the target ·O  perated performance manage energy and GHG ·E  xpanded low carbon and Governance 20 tively responding and complying with the laws agement on overseas projects. To achieve this, gthened the cooperation with domestic and management and carbon assurance process and green purchasing on GHG emissions trading system that will be Vision and Strategy 22 emission warning systems established efficiency we established a Global IP team and estaboverseas research institutions by utilizing the implemented nation-wide. We participated in by BGs management system Ethical Management 24 lished a support system and concentrated on CTO Fund and striving to develop technology the pilot project for emissions trading conductidentifying the IP of overseas subsidiaries. Also, seeding and human resources. In 2014, we ined by the Korea Environment Corporation and 2014 Doosan Way 26 we enhanced the quality of patent applications vested a total of KRW 3 billion for cooperation learned about the methods used in the system. Implementation Strategies on GHG and Organizational Structure of the TFT for by operating a Patent Subcommittee, while we with overseas researchers (KRW 870 million), Energy in 2015 Improving Lighting Environment 2014 Highlights 28 Also, we set up a consultative group and a scealso established a sensing system for future internal F / S tasks (KRW 1.3 billion), and technario internally for the emissions trading system, Since 2012, Doosan Heavy Industries & Conpromising technologies to proactively and agnology seeding and HR development (KRW 830 so that our employees can respond to it professtruction has worked on reducing GHG emisStrategy and Performance PJT Champion gressively manage patents, instead of adopting million). Since then, we also plan to continuously sionally. In order to respond to climate change, sions and improving energy efficiency through the passive patent management method like we cooperate and identify tasks by utilizing a budBusiness Environment Analysis 32 we established the goal of reducing GHG emisvarious activities for improving energy intensity EHS Executive did earlier. get of about KRW 4 billion. sions of 403,000tCO2, a 7.6% reduction comby enhancing energy consumption structure. Business Performance 34 pared to the 2020 BAU. In 2014, we reduced When replacing LED lights at plants, there were Established a Licensing Team TFT Team Head Risk, Opportunity and Business Strategy 38 GHG emissions of 21,600tCO2 by replacing difficulties because the plant’s ceiling is more We established a division to be in charge of liRationalization of Energy Efficiency LED lights at plants and changing to high-effithan 40M high and it required welding and Energy Environment Upgrading Business Portfolio 40 censing that allows us to set up an aggressive Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is cient heater pumps. grinding work. However, we developed and Team and strategic response system. Various acstriving to enhance energy efficiency through Core Business Leadership 44 applied LED lights suitable to heavy industries tivities are conducted, including reviewing the innovation activities for strengthening fundaSelected as an Excellent Company for through tests conducted on function, illuminaUpgrading Business System 48 feasibility of loyalties paid for using the patent mental competitiveness, while also establishClimate Change Competitiveness tion measurement, and installation environment. and establishing a response strategy following ing a future-oriented low energy consumption Since 2012, Doosan Heavy Industries & ConCompany-wide BG Implementation contract termination for major licenses. In 2014, In 2015, we plan to actively respond to the fuImplementation Team Team Sustainable Management structure based on ICT technologies and imstruction has implemented various activities to we reviewed the appropriateness of paying loyture environmental changes by developing an plementing activities by working-level employstrengthen climate change competitiveness, Business Report Product Screening EHS (Environment, Health and Safety) 58 alties in five cases and signed 45 technology agent for GHG emissions trading system, while ees to reduce the waste of energy. To achieve such as establishing a roadmap for medium and Reliability Test Construction agreements. also expanding the installation of high-efficient Talent Management 64 this, we achieved the rationalization of energy long-term strategies to reduce GHG emissions. Schedule Management Performance Verification LED lights customized to heavy industries to efficiency through activities conducted between As a result, we were selected as an Excellent Social Contribution 70 all plants. Also, we will actively reduce energy 2012 and 2014. We reduced energy consumpCompany for Climate Change Competitiveness by turning the current structure for supplying Doosan Day of Community Service 74 tion of 400TJ (KRW 6.6 billion) in 2014 through by the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy for air-conditioning and heating to offices into a sigshield loss, waste heat recovery, combustion two consecutive times in machinery, following Customer Satisfaction 76 nificantly improved structure. efficiency optimization, compressed air presthe year 2012. Also, we were selected as the sure control, high-efficient pumps and standby best group for carbon management, which is Present Status of Activities for Improving Lighting Environment Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries power cut-off systems. chosen by the CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project) in Korea. Moreover, we actively implemented Doosan Power Systems 80 activities to strengthen climate change competDoosan Power Systems India 84 itiveness by responding to the changes in marPresent Status of Activities ket environments and the regulation on GHG Performance of the 1st LED Doosan VINA 87 · Implementation method: Operated by TFT in stages starting emissions based on the KCCI (Korea Climate 1st Application of LED Replacement with selecting product specification (Company-wide+BG) Lights (2014) 30% Change Index). In addition, we established a · Way of implementation: Operated through verification process Appendix 240 roadmap for medium and long-term strategies in stages and improved the energy consumption strucPerformance Index 93 Present Status Test on Verification of Expansion ture, as well as hired energy environment proof Plants’ 100% -66% 100 Technology function before performance of Verification Stakeholders 123 installation of fessionals to be in charge of GHG to maximize Lights, etc. evaluation (certified before pilot installation performance the efficiency of duties related to climate change agency) installation at plants Materiality Analysis 124 34% response. GRI Index 126 Metal, etc 70% Metal, etc LED Metal, etc LED (Expected to be replaced with LED lights in 2015) Results of the 1st replacement Audit Report 128 Reducing electricity bills Plant illumination · Shown a significant improvement in the illumination of Assurance Statement 130 work sites and energy reduction as a result of the 1st LED replacement Navigation Menu 2014 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction CEO Message 04 Doosan Credo 06 Doosan Group 08 Doosan’s Philosophy 09 Management Framework Sustainable Company Profile 12 Introduction of Business 14 Business Model 16 Management Performance Summary 18 Governance 20 Vision and Strategy 22 Ethical Management 24 2014 Doosan Way 26 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is working towards sustainable growth through communication 2014 Highlights 28 and cooperation with its stakeholders, including customers, employees and local communities, Strategy and Performance by fulfilling the role of contributing to society and the environment as a corporate citizen. Business Environment Analysis 32 Business Performance 34 Risk, Opportunity and Business Strategy 38 58 70 76 Upgrading Business Portfolio 40 EHS (Environment, Social Customer Health and Safety) Contribution Satisfaction Core Business Leadership 44 Upgrading Business System 48 64 74 Talent Doosan Day of Sustainable Management Management Community Service EHS (Environment, Health and Safety) 58 Talent Management 64 Social Contribution 70 Doosan Day of Community Service 74 Customer Satisfaction 76 Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries Doosan Power Systems 80 Doosan Power Systems India 84 Doosan VINA 87 Appendix Performance Index 93 Stakeholders 123 Materiality Analysis 124 GRI Index 126 Audit Report 128 Assurance Statement 130 Performance of Overseas 58 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Management Framework Strategy and Performance Sustainable Management Subsidiaries Appendix 59 Navigation Menu Pollutant Management 2014 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Reduction of Air Pollution Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is managing air pollution at a stricter criteria set at 40% of legally permitted standard. In particular, EHS we manage large-sized facilities, such as our CEO Message 04 steelmaking factory’s electric furnace, which are Doosan Credo 06 controlled at a lower emission level than the al(Environment, Health and Safety) lowed emission standard by 30%. Additionally, Doosan Group 08 if a new pollutant is discovered during the total Doosan’s Philosophy 09 inspection of pollution level conducted regularly for the production process, we will find out Management Framework about the permission and approval and supplement the facilities. Moreover, in order to reduce Company Profile 12 fine dusts, we will make improvements on 11 Introduction of Business 14 air quality facilities by investing KRW 18 billion. Among them, we completed improvement on Business Model 16 7 facilities (KRW 6 billion). In 2015, we plan to Performance Summary 18 complete the improvement on 4 environmental facilities that are currently undergoing improveGovernance 20 ments, including the steelmaking factory’s elecVision and Strategy 22 tric furnace and dust collector. Ethical Management 24 Reduction of Water Pollution 2014 Doosan Way 26 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is also 2014 Highlights 28 conducting the total inspection of pollution level Implemented Green from business activities and collecting pollutregularly for water pollution to find out whether Strategy and Performance ants that occur as much as possible. Moreover, or not there is an additional pollutant occurring. Major Performance and Goals Management in order to fulfill our social responsibilities, we If a new pollutant is discovered from the inspecBusiness Environment Analysis 32 Recently, there have been concerns about the are striving to implement them by establishing tion result, we strictly manage the pollutant like Implementation Tasks Performance in 2014 Plans for 2015 Implementation Goals for 2015 seriousness of the Earth’s environmental issues, the framework for green management. Business Performance 34 we did with air pollutants, by checking on the reincluding the depletion of natural resources and lated permission and approval and supplementRisk, Opportunity and Business Strategy 38 · Develop additional activities, including replacing · Achieve the energy consumption of the pollution of the natural environment, which Use Energy Efficiently · Established a roadmap for energy efficiency activities ing the facilities. In 2014, the inspection result LED lights at plants, etc. 5,200TJ resulted in emphasizing the importance of inEfficient Use of Resources Upgrading Business Portfolio 40 of 17 water pollutants, including COD, SS and · Reduce GHG emission of more than dustries to take responsibility. The performance Energy Efficiency N-H, showed that they were at a lower level than Core Business Leadership 44 · Responded to GHG emissions trading system · Establish the EWS (Early Warning System) of green management has become a key factor 10,000tCO2 In order to reduce energy costs and reinforce the legally permitted standard by 20%. in evaluating the company’s competitiveness. fundamental competitiveness by using efficient Upgrading Business System 48 · Improve chemical storage facilities and foster · Enhanced hazardous chemicals management system · Develop additional professional managers Response to skilled managers Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has energy, Doosan Heavy Industries & ConstrucEnvironmental Risk systematically implemented green management tion has continuously implemented a compaRecycling Wastes Sustainable Management · Prevent any spills or accidents and invest · Achieve zero accidents of spills on rainwater recycling that pursues both economic and environmental ny-wide activity for energy rationalization since Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction changed · Established a rainwater recycling plan (fundamental prevention) EHS (Environment, Health and Safety) 58 · Set up an integrated system for environmental · Operate an integrated environmental effects at the same time, to efficiently use the re2012. As a result, we achieved the result of savthe regulation on wastes and landscape reinformation information system stably sources acquired from nature as much as posing the energy use of 400TJ in 2014. In 2015, we mains, such as waste foundry sand and general Talent Management 64 sible and improve the reuse and recycling rates. set up a target of 5,200TJ for energy consumpdust, so that they are recycled instead of being · Expand the safety talks across the company Social Contribution 70 · Introduced the Safety Talks · Expand the implementation of safety talks Also, we are taking the lead in environmental tion, while also planning to conduct additional incinerated like before. As a result, the recycling · Identify best practices of safety culture and Established the Culture conservation and showing interests in the ecoactivities like replacing LED lights at plants. rate continued to increase to achieve recycling Doosan Day of Community Service 74 hold a sharing meeting of Safety Talks · Implemented safety activities to lead worker · Establish the culture of discussions and promote involvement field workers to participate in the EHS activities · Produce an English version of the system conservation activities being conducted rate of 85% for wastes, which exceeded the introductory evacuation video Reuse of Waste Resources Customer Satisfaction 76 in the surrounding areas of the work sites, by initial target of 80% by recycling an amount of Established an minimizing the occurrence of pollutants arising Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is re· Acquired the certification of the risk assessment for · Implement and strengthen the development · Acquire / maintain suppliers’ KOSHA 61,000 tons out of a total waste generation of Autonomous Safety ducing not only the use of steel as the major raw Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries each of 36 subcontract companies plan for suppliers certifications (24 companies) 72,000 tons. In 2015, we set a target to achieve System for Suppliers material through eco-friendly production, but recycling rate of more than 87%. Doosan Power Systems 80 · Established an emergency response manual for each · Identify potential high risks and · Establish a response system for each BG / Green Management System also striving to recycle used steel. The recycling Established an Emergency Response crisis situation establish a response plan plant and hold training (more than 50 times) rate of recovered steel internally was 35.6% in Doosan Power Systems India 84 System through · Upgrade the firefighting / disaster 2014, and we plan to continuously increase the Prevention of Soil Contamination Practical Training · Conducted an emergency situation drill for major fire · Establish the DOOSAN Fire Code recycling rate of recovered steel from recovering Doosan VINA 87 prevention management system Efficient Use of Management of To comply with the Soil Environment ConserResources Pollutants scrap iron in useless assets. vation Act, Doosan Heavy Industries & ConOperated a Comprehensive · Conducted a comprehensive safety management struction carry out environmental inspections Appendix Safety Management System service · Strengthen the security for overseas employees · Promote the I-SOS service Reuse of Water Resources for Overseas Employees on facilities that are exposed to soil contaminaPerformance Index 93 The importance of water resources has grown tion. We inspect new or closing facilities on soil as days go by, with reports on Korea being a Stakeholders 123 Key Figure contamination once a year, and if contamination country with high water risk among OECD Green Management is discovered, we conduct the soil precise incountries. In order to protect water resources, Materiality Analysis 124 vestigation and purification on any contaminatContents 2012 2013 2014 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction saved GRI Index 126 ed facility. In 2014, the result of soil inspection 25,700 tons of water by using recycling slag Wastewater recycling 8,760 tons 25,380 tons 25,900 tons showed that the amount of TPH and BTEX was Audit Report 128 coolants, while also saving 180 tons of water Recycling rate of wastes 77% 78% 85% 30% or less than the legal standard, while the Fulfilled Environmental annually by reusing rainwater discharge. In the Assurance Statement 130 Environment-related costs KRW 2,639 million KRW 2,322 million KRW 5,363 million Response to Risks result of above storage tank spill inspection also Responsibilities future, we will make continuous efforts aiming to satisfied all of the inspection criteria. Hours of safety and health training for employees 86,472 hours 87,228 hours 88,836 hours reduce KRW 170 million of water costs annually. Performance of Overseas 60 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Management Framework Strategy and Performance Sustainable Management Subsidiaries Appendix 61 Navigation Menu Response to Environmental Risk Water Response Strategies Fulfilled Environmental Safety & Health Implementation Strategies 2014 Integrated Report of Responsibilities Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Reduction of GHG Emissions According to the data announced by the PopuIn order to prepare for the GHG emissions tradlation Action International (PAI) under the UN in Green Purchasing ing system being implemented nation-wide and 2003, the Republic of Korea recorded 1,450m3 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction activeto reduce the environmental risk, we are taking for the amount of water available per capita, 1 Safety Talks Established an Emergency Response System ly implemented green purchasing as part of its measures to actively respond to them, by parto rank 129th out of 153 countries in the world through Practical Training green management practice, to fulfill corporate · Safety Talks CEO Message 04 ticipating in the pilot project for GHG emissions and classify Korea as a water stressed country. · Established an emergency response manual social responsibilities and reduce the environ· Utilized as video for work sites trading. In the future, we will set up an automatic In order to actively resolve the water shortage · Carried out the first-aid training for all employees Doosan Credo 06 mental impact as much as possible. In 2011, we problem, Doosan Heavy Industries & ConstrucEst · Implemented a comprehensive crisis response warning system that allows us to take measures established the green purchasing guideline to a blis Doosan Group 08 EHS Activities with the he training beforehand when there is a concern of exceedtion established a roadmap for medium and practice green purchasing, and we also signed 2 da th n · Secured the global security system Doosan’s Philosophy 09 ing the amount of GHG allocations, while also long-term reduction and set up an emergena voluntary agreement on green purchasing Participation of Workers m ro System fe t y Ta l k s 1 Sa a onse gr striving to reduce GHG emissions of more than cy response system in case of a water supply with the Korean government to continuously Pr esp · Conducted risk assessment o stoppage, to be prepared for the effect that g y R rainin 10,000tCO2. increase the purchase of eco-friendly products. · Held an accident simulation with workers are Management Framework nc al T water shortage has on running our operation. th C ge tic In 2014, our green purchasing amounted to ap· Provided the right to demand extra safety and the Established an Autonomous Safety System Company Profile 12 Enhanced Hazardous Chemical er Prac He a l e We stored 16,500m3 of water in 3 large-sized proximately KRW 1.8 billion. colleague safety card reh rs for Suppliers Em gh Management System water tanks, which allows us to supply water · Managed the EHS Academy Programme Introduction of Business 14 ·A  cquired risk assessment certifications 3 mp ve To faithfully comply with the Act Concerning Regisinternally for 5.5 days when there is a situation Protection of Ecosystem u Ac Operated a Co or O ·E  stablished an infrastructure to adopt safety & Business Model 16 tration, Evaluation, etc. of Chemical Substances of water supply being stopped. Also, in order to Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is ti t i o v i t ie s health system (KOSHA 18001) Man f and the Chemicals Control Act, Doosan Heavy reduce water use from a medium and long-term striving to minimize the impact on the ecosysno w Performance Summary 18 agement System Industries & Construction developed an adOperated a Comprehensive Safety 3 f W i th perspective, we reused rainwater, improved the tem that might occur from implementing conns orkers vanced inventory for chemical substances that efficiency of facilities using a lot of water, enstruction projects. We continue to implement Management System for Overseas Workers i ea ve S EH i S pa Governance 20 s W afet 2 c can manage chemical substances without any inhanced cooling facilities and actively replaced our activities to preserve ranunculus kazusenork y a rti · Implemented a comprehensive safety management Es ers t he P er Health Care Program Vision and Strategy 22 formation being omitted, enabling the monitoring ab s i outworn drain pipes, to be well prepared for wasis from the highway construction project in service t lis pl h ed up ·O  perated a health program with family Ethical Management 24 of the present status of all chemical substances ter shortages and supply interruptions. Incheon. Also, in order to protect phyllospadix · Established an EHS integration procedure for an fo rS Aut o nom stem participation being used. Also, we ensured close management iwatensis, phyllospadix japonica and zostera construction sites ous Safety Sy 2014 Doosan Way 26 ·C  reated smoke-free work sites on the field by fostering 12 professional managers marina in the waters of the comprehensive in·P  rovided medical care support to overseas work sites Roadmap for Reducing Water Use (Unit : m3) 2014 Highlights 28 of chemical substances, including 7 professional dustrial complex development project in Sam· Secured the global security system managers for chemical substances and 5 percheok, which is a construction site for the Sam· Achieved zero accidents of world-class standards sons participating in the training program. cheok Green Power project, we replanted and Strategy and Performance 2014 preserved 24,000 species of phyllospadix and Prevention of the Source of Accidents Business Environment Analysis 32 2016 Reuse of Rainwater 520 species of zostera marina in the coasts of Due to Leakages of Pollutants Nagok-ri, Bukmyeon, Uljin-gun, Gyeongbuk. Business Performance 34 Since Doosan Heavy Industries & ConstrucImprovement of 2018 Cooling Facilities In addition, in celebration of the Marine Day tion’s Changwon Plant is located close to the every year, we conduct purification activities Safety & Health Strategies EHS Activities with the Participation Operated the EHS Academy Risk, Opportunity and Business Strategy 38 Replacement of We are operating the EHS Academy that proWetland at Masan Bay, it is expected to have 2020 Outworn Drain Pipes Doosan Health Industries & Construction recof Workers for underwater and coastal environment to vides courses for different job positions and Upgrading Business Portfolio 40 a serious effect on the water ecosystem of the protect the wetland at Masan Bay, together ognizes that the safety of work sites as its reBased on the culture of Safety Talks, we allow After 2020 times, ensuring all employees from field workWetland at Masan Bay and its neighboring ensponsibility and obligation to the society, which workers to identify the risks on their own and Core Business Leadership 44 with Gyeongnam Government, Changwon City ers to leaders recognize and carry out their role vironments if a large-scale accident occurs due 2,400 2,500 2,700 3,000 Hall, Seongsan-gu Office, Kyungnam University is why the EHS activities led voluntarily by workmake improvements on duties identified as beUpgrading Business System 48 to leakages of pollutants. Therefore, we are properly. In 2014, we held various programs, and local private organizations. Moreover, we ers as participants are being implemented. ing a risk factor. Regarding high-risk duties, we currently installing emergency floodgates to including an experience training program where frequently removed branches and weeds that place a check list on the work site so that workprepare for such leakage and spill accidents, the Meister from six areas of jobs personally edSustainable Management piled up at our internal rainwater drain outlets to ers can make confirmation with their own eyes. while also being prepared by installing emulsiprevent them from flowing into the sea. In 2014, Safety & Health Activities Also, we provide education during the Tool Box ucated about jobs that have high accident risks, EHS (Environment, Health and Safety) 58 fying sprayer in major rainwater pathways, trithe EHS leadership course and the course for about 350 persons participated in our underand Performance Meeting (TBM). We make sure workers start developing internal lecturers for EHS. Talent Management 64 ple oil fences, waste collectors, and automatic water purification activities conducted twice in their duties after inspecting key areas beforeemulsifying sprayer in the final rainwater outlet. Established the Culture of Safety Talks hand, allowing them to take part by recognizing In particular, in the case of the EHS leadership Social Contribution 70 May and October, to remove 50 tons of waste Additionally, in order to fundamentally prevent Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction recogand removing the risk factors on their own. In course, 93% of the participants responded that in total. the limitation of the existing system where there nizes the importance of the EHS, which is why it helped them get a better understanding about Doosan Day of Community Service 74 addition, based on a thorough investigation on were vulnerable times like during the holidays the Safety Talks are held to create the culture accidents due to near misses, we make coltheir responsibility and role as the plant (team) Customer Satisfaction 76 and night times, we established a system to of putting the value of EHS as top priority in leagues to re-enact them to prevent the rrecurmanager, and greatly contributed in improving prevent leakages and spills by utilizing our own all decision-making processes, by internalizing rence of similar accidents and conduct behavthe EHS mind with good responses from employees regarding the experience safety training Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries water treatment technology, as well as aiming to the awareness on safety through discussions ioral observation. In the case of duties without achieve zero spill accidents in the future. about safety-related subjects before meetings. safety ensured, we provide the right to demand with the Meister from various fields taking part. Doosan Power Systems 80 We also made and show an introductory video extra safety that starts work after removing In the future, we plan to encourage voluntary Doosan Power Systems India 84 about the evacuation method to our visitors in risks. Also, we operate various systems led by participation of the management in EHS activContingency Plan for Water Supply Interruptions case of emergency situations, as well as notiworkers to prevent safety accidents, such as ities through workshops, as well as benchmark Doosan VINA 87 fying about our EHS management philosophy. operating the colleague safety card system by advanced companies and develop standardGL height of 30m GL height of 35m In addition, in order to include field workers in establishing 13 categories of the Golden Safety ized textbooks to internalize the EHS role and Appendix 3,000 tons Natural Supply of Emergency Water Tanks Rules that must be kept at work sites and havcapability required by supervisors and field Purification of water Pressure 3,500 tons of the improvement activities themselves and inA (3Bar) water tanks ing colleagues to look after one another. In the workers at their workplaces. Performance Index 93 Plant Dual Line 10,000 tons of tanks Natural Able to run normal operation ternalize them as safety habits, we film them Accommodation Pressure future, we will manage and analyze our data by (Bansong) water tanks & Main Building (3.5Bar) for 4 days actually working on video and conduct risk asStakeholders 123 [suspension of water supply in stages] issuing the colleague safety cards for each BG Water sessments to come up with improvement plans · Water suspension for 2 days: cleaning, and plant. Materiality Analysis 124 Supply Plant Area landscape plants, etc. by discussing with colleagues to identify risk Interruptions Water storage tank · Water suspension for 4 days: cooling factors. GRI Index 126 Purification (volume of 13,000 tons) purpose, shower room, toilet, etc. A Supplied from the In case of inability to operate 10,000 tons Plant · Water suspension for 5 days: general Audit Report 128 Chilseo and Daesan of water supply facility (Chilseo, operation, water pressure purpose, airpurification plants ·A ble to supply to the plant area from conditioning and heating, dormitory, etc. Assurance Statement 130 Daesan) in Dansu-si (within the Bansong purification plant  nderground water, U 1 hour) (Not available for accommodation area) MED (600 tons / day) Performance of Overseas 62 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Management Framework Strategy and Performance Sustainable Management Subsidiaries Appendix 63 Navigation Menu Established an Autonomous Safety Operated a Comprehensive Safety of Libya project, we recognized the danger of the Established an EHS Emergency 2014 Integrated Report of System for Suppliers Management System for Overseas political situation during our regular monitoring Response System through Practical Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction of international situation, to call back all of our In order to actively implement safety & health Workers Training employees and 435 persons from our suppliers activities by strengthening the employees’ Implemented a Comprehensive Safety Established an Emergency Response through prompt decision-making of the manawareness on safety and health, we have to enManagement System for Overseas agement. Manual hance the safety & health awareness of suppliCEO Message 04 Workers Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has ers that implement business activities in various Established the EHS Integrated Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is striving conducted risk analysis on various situations Doosan Credo 06 fields. Therefore, Doosan Heavy Industries & Procedure for Construction Sites to provide a healthy and safe working environto ensure a prompt and systematic response in Construction is strengthening suppliers’ safety In line with the continuous expansion of overDoosan Group 08 ment for employees who are working abroad, the emergency response infrastructure in case & health awareness through systematic training seas projects, Doosan Heavy Industries & which increased annually as the company deof any emergency situation occurring, while also Doosan’s Philosophy 09 and guidance. In 2014, 36 suppliers acquired Construction re-established the global EHS veloped into a global company. As part of these improving the completion of a detailed manual risk assessment certifications to be exempted management system, and also overcame the efforts, in order to improve the system for manthat includes a response scenario appropriate of approximately KRW 83 million of occupationlimitations of geographical location and condiManagement Framework aging overseas business trips and employees for these situations. Through these efforts, we al health and safety insurance fees, and we also tions and implemented healthy EHS managesent abroad, we provided a comprehensive completed establishing 20 types of emergency Company Profile 12 held training programs for employees in charge ment practices. safety service membership of 24 hours for our responses and came up with a manual for each of the system to prepare for suppliers’ KOSHA Introduction of Business 14 employees working abroad provided by a medTo achieve this, we reorganized the EHS work category as well as a summary version. Also, certifications and helped improve the capabiliical and security support service provider, Interprocedures and regulations for domestic and in order to take action that follow the manual in Business Model 16 ties of employees in charge at 24 suppliers. case of an emergency situation occurring, we Implemented a Comprehensive Operated Health Care Program national SOS. As a result, all employees going overseas construction projects. The EHS inAlso, we specifically applied our safety regulaEmergency Response Training Performance Summary 18 on overseas business trips or sent abroad can tegrated procedure is applied uniformly to all made a specific action plan for each BG. Implemented the Family Participation tions when signing outsourcing or purchasing As emergency responses to prepare for disasreceive an on-line medical and security service construction projects, with content on important Health Program Governance 20 contracts with suppliers, including the EHS matters required for the construction project and Improved the First Aid Capability of All ters emerged as an important issue across the Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is 24 hours-anytime and anywhere. special contract and the EHS management diEmployees nation, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Vision and Strategy 22 to operate our head office’s EHS system. Each striving to manage the employees’ health to enrections for suppliers, to help improve the supProvided Medical Support to Overseas Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is conimproved the emergency response capability by standard of the procedure is based on the relsure that they lead a healthy life. In particular, Ethical Management 24 pliers’ awareness on safety and health issues. Work Sites ducting a CPR (Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation) holding a comprehensive training with the parevant Korean laws and international standard due to the increase of people in their 50s, we Many overseas work sites have poor medical education focused on practice so that all emticipation of the government, private sector and 2014 Doosan Way 26 In the future, we plan to operate a mutual coopacts. developed a health care program with aquarsystems compared to that of Korea. Doosan ployees can take prompt and appropriate meathe military. By utilizing the emergency response eration program that reflects the needs of our obic, low-salt menu and exercise. As a result, 2014 Highlights 28 Heavy Industries & Construction is providing Achieved Zero Accident at the sures in case of an emergency situation. We manual, we held our own emergency response suppliers and analyze the weak points of safety the number of persons with chronic diseases medical service support to not only the employWorld-Class Standard held the CPR education sessions for approxitraining more than 70 times for BGs and plants. and health issues to support the suppliers make decreased to 667 persons in 2014, which is a Strategy and Performance ees working at overseas work sites, but also to In 2014, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construcmately 97% (1,743 persons) of employees a total As a result, we had training with the simulation improvements. decrease of 20 persons compared to the prethe employees of suppliers. In 2014, we sent tion had not a single case of serious accidents of 8 times especially for the construction project of actual situations, such as a building collapsBusiness Environment Analysis 32 vious year. medical staff to the Mong Duong 2 project in that occurred at domestic and overseas conworkers who mainly work at the Seoul office. ing due to terror attacks, firefighting and saving lives, for 24 relevant institutions, including fire Also, we held an explanatory session on the DooBusiness Performance 34 Vietnam and the Ain Sokhna project in Egypt. struction projects, and achieved approximately Also, 59 employees completed the lecturer stations, military units, police task forces and san Family Better Health to ensure continuous In particular, in the case of Mong Duong 2 proj54% of reduction for the LTIR (Lost Time Injury development course at a professional instituRisk, Opportunity and Business Strategy 38 the Korea Electric Power Corporation (KEPCO), management of households with a chronic disect, we provided emergency medical support Rate) based on the US’s OSHA standard. Also, tion and acquired the qualification as internal and about 1,300 employees from the HQ. In the ease patient. It received good responses from the Upgrading Business Portfolio 40 to help out with the rapidly increasing infectious according to the 2013 Announcement on the lecturers. In addition, we installed Automated future, we will hold emergency training in cross participating families because of various first aid disease and minimized damages caused by inConverted Accident Rates of Korea’s Top 100 External Defibrillator (AED) at Changwon plant, Core Business Leadership 44 forms for each BG and make mutual evaluations instructions, such as practical cooking demonfectious disease through preventive measures. Construction Companies’ announced by the Seoul office, Top Team vehicles and the Doosan and benchmark them, to further strengthen our strations by home-health medical specialists and Upgrading Business System 48 Ministry of Employment and Labor, we recordFamily nursery facilities, so that quick responses Secured the Global Security System emergency response capability. cooking consultants at the affiliated hospital run ed 0.08% for domestic construction projects are possible in case of a cardiac arrest of an emDoosan Heavy Industries & Construction aim by the company regarding food that are good for and achieved the best result out of the top 50 ployee or a family member. Sustainable Management to create a safe working environment that conpreventing brain cardiovascular diseases, and construction companies ranked according to siders protecting the safety of all employees BCM (Business Continuity Management) Manual CPR education. In the future, we will implement EHS (Environment, Health and Safety) 58 the appraised value of domestic construction working abroad, including suppliers, as its top care activities that are customized to the individability. Among the overseas construction projTalent Management 64 priority. In this regard, we established a security ual characteristics of employees, by utilizing the ects, we received the Golden Hard Hat Award Classification Training Category Training Contents plan in accordance with the integrated security brain cardiovascular diagnosis program. Social Contribution 70 for the Mong Duong 2 project in Vietnam and Response · Emergency Management Team (HQ) · Emergency training (Company-wide BCM) management process focused on MENA (Midachieved 40 million hours of zero accident for Doosan Day of Community Service 74 Organization · Emergency Operation Team (By BGs / work sites) HQ training through emergency notification system Created Smoke-Free Work Sites Accident Rate of Construction Projects in 2014 dle East and North Africa) to prepare for dangerthe Rabigh project in Saudi Arabia. The year & Reporting · Emergency Management Team (HQ / work sites) Situation recognition by setting situations and hold In order to create safe and clean work sites and ous situations that might occur. Customer Satisfaction 76 2014 was a year of further strengthening our System · Report after recognizing the situation reporting system training 0.08 improve the health of employees and their fami2013 In addition, we operated an evacuation plan at competitiveness in the global market by being People · Emergency notification, emergency report · Training for emergency notification system (e-mail) lies, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is all overseas construction sites and branches, so acknowledged for the world-class manage· Emergency contacts · Self-training in teams through emergency contacts Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries 0.08 implementing a move to create smoke-free work that we can take appropriate measures in case ment performance in EHS. · Emergency evacuations · Emergency training and scenarios developed based on 2014 · Emergency rescues the manual (including internal suppliers) sites. By restricting the access to smoking and Doosan Power Systems 80 of emergency situations. In particular, in the case constantly promoting no-smoking, we reduced Converted accident rate of · Internal safety for suppliers Doosan Power Systems India 84 domestic construction projects1) Asset · Handled documents and actual assets taken · Managed the ledger for managing documents and the ratio of smokers, and also put up no-smok(Announcement of Ministry of out as top priority actual assets ing banners and posters at major restaurants Doosan VINA 87 Contents of the Comprehensive Safety Management Service for Overseas Workers Employment and Labor, June 2015) · Handled discarded documents · Supplemented and managed the manual on discarded including the employees’ restaurant and oper· Removed dangerous substances documents ated a no-smoking class where experts personService Contents · Provided basic fire prevention including · Provided scenarios and emergency training for the Appendix ally visited the smokers (or the production site). 2013 0.0135 Medical / health support Provided daily and emergency medical advice and interpretation service 24 hours through medical and health experts firefighting, etc. · Protected core fixed assets and work sites · Closed down of work sites production BG · Provided scenarios and emergency training focused on the BG action plan In the future, we will install smoking booths to create safe and healthy work sites, as well as Performance Index 93 0.0077 Stakeholders 123 Exclusive website Provided medical and health information and automatic e-mail warning service by nation · Responded to IT stoppages and cyber terrors · Held training on action plan and reporting on completion conduct activities to sign no-smoking pledges 2014 Materiality Analysis 124 · Held training on data back-up in case of IT stoppage and write memorandums to identify employees Accident rate of overseas Membership apps Provided the latest issues and advices through smart phones by nation due to cyber terrors who are smoking. construction projects (LTIR2)) GRI Index 126 On-line education Implemented on-line storytelling education focused on actual cases regarding dangers that one Operation · Signed contracts with major stakeholders · Held emergency training based on the action plan might face anytime overseas · Made emergency transfer and stored raw · Held joint training for the Integrated Purchasing Team, Audit Report 128 materials and subsidiary materials Logistics Operation Team and between BGs 1) C  onverted accident rate: [ (Number of deaths X 5) + Number of Identified the Identified the location to provide information about the destination of business trip, and in case of · Operated for emergencies in case of a logistics · Held emergency training for the facility technology team Assurance Statement 130 injured / Number of regular employees] X 100 location of being exposed to danger, checking on personal safety through e-mail and SMS with a local warning paralysis in the metropolitan area in case of the utility supply stoppage 2) L  TIR : Lost Time Incident Rate, U.S. OSHA overseas workers system provided. · Responded to the utility supply stoppage = Total No. of Lost Time Accidents × 200,000 / Total Man-hours worked Performance of Overseas 64 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Management Framework Strategy and Performance Sustainable Management Subsidiaries Appendix 65 Navigation Menu 2G Strategy 2014 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Recruited Professionals in Various Fields through Talent Management CEO Message 04 Successful Business Doosan Credo 06 Implementation Doosan Group 08 2G Strategy In order to strengthen the global competitiveness in technology and R&D and secure future Doosan’s Philosophy 09 growth engine, Doosan Heavy Industries & Growth of People Growth of Business Construction reinforced the recruiting of outManagement Framework standing talented persons at home and abroad. Company Profile 12 In 2014, we visited major universities in the central and eastern part of the US to hold a campus Introduction of Business 14 recruiting activity for selecting talents that fits Business Model 16 our R&D vision and conditions. Implementation Direction of Present Status of Employees To recruit outstanding researchers and engiPerformance Summary 18 Talent Management As of the end of 2014, the total number of Doosan neers in Korea, we held the Youth Energy Tech Governance 20 Heavy Industries & Construction’s employees is Forum for people with master’s degree and Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction be8,388 persons (7,448 regular employees, 940 doctor’s degree who conducted researches Vision and Strategy 22 lieves that talented people are the most valunon-regular employees). There are 404 female related to the business areas of Doosan Heavy Ethical Management 24 able asset for its growth and development. The employees, which is a lower ratio compared to Industries & Construction, and we also shared selection and development of outstanding talthe male employees due to the business charthe industry-university researches, technology 2014 Doosan Way 26 ents act as a driving force behind a company’s Major Performance and Goals growth, and the company’s growth in return acteristics, but we recognize that the diversity development results and visions. 2014 Highlights 28 of human resources is very positive from the Implementation Tasks Performance in 2014 Plans for 2015 Implementation Goals for 2015 provides opportunities to employees to bring perspective of organizational competitiveness, out the people’s growth. Therefore, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction selected new which is why we continuously increased the Strengthened the HR Strategy and Performance · Produced and distributed a guide book on leader’s talent ·C  onduct job competency evaluation and establish development for fostering employees the utilization system and experienced employees through a strict hiring of female employees. Also, we hired 200 Infrastructure Based on Business Environment Analysis 32 employees in the persons with disabilities cateStrengthened the · Established a job competency system for R&D and ·E  stablish the job competency system for overseas  trengthen the HR infrastructure ·S screening process every year. To develop talgory and 187 employees from among patriots’ Talent Management Business Performance 34 engineering organization and established / implemented subsidiaries and establish / implement the utilization ents in a virtuous cycle, we are implementing HR Infrastructure by completing setting up the job & veterans’ and bereaved families through a Established the Job Competency Risk, Opportunity and Business Strategy 38 Based on Talent the utilization plan plan competency evaluation system the 2G strategies (Growth of People, Growth of special employment drive. Evaluation System Development ·E  stablished and implemented the HR operation mechanism ·S  elect sojourning employees to develop global and upgrade the HR system Business). Upgrading Business Portfolio 40 for systematic development of experts by function experts and enhance the development program All of our employees have developed into leadTo strengthen employees’ competitiveness and Core Business Leadership 44 · Conducted the learning credit system · Manage changes resulting from adopting the HRIS ers and experts in the organization through a expertise, we changed from our HR operation systematic and continuous development that system based on job position, to a system foUpgrading Business System 48 · Increased the job training opportunity (engineering / started since the time they were newly hired in cused on job duties and established the HR ·U  pgrade the job training system for sales and production / quality, etc.) through the reorganization of marketing to strengthen order competitiveness accordance with the 2G strategies. infrastructure for developing job professionals. Improved the training systems ·D  evelop training directly Sustainable Management Also, we established and operated the LeaderAs part of these efforts, we established the FC Development System linked to enhancing business · Establish the evaluation system and strengthen job (Functional Competency) system for job duties EHS (Environment, Health and Safety) 58 and Education Quality · Established the self-initiated learning culture competency for application at work sites to strengthen performances and establish the ship College to strengthen the leadership and to Reinforce Business training evaluation system for problem-solving capabilities and the Profesrelated to engineering and R&D, accounting for the verification of training results Talent Management 64 Capabilities promoting training quality most of our employees. As a result, Doosan · Implemented training for overseas branches to increase ·U  pgrade the development system for overseas sional College to reinforce the job expertise, to Heavy Industries & Construction was able to Social Contribution 70 training opportunities for overseas employees workers provide reasonable compensations based on Performance through MBO, which is the annual collect important data for establishing a plan for Doosan Day of Community Service 74 · Recruited to acquire outstanding overseas R&D · Increase recruiting with master’s degree and doctor’s performance evaluation system. strengthening functional competency and reRecruited employees degree to secure gas turbine and R&D employees ·S  ecure and develop the cruiting human resources. In the future, we plan Customer Satisfaction 76 Professionals in Various Fields for · Held the 2014 Youth Energy Tech Forum · Secure the R&D leadership pipeline R&D employees to acquire to complete the establishment of the FC system Successful Business fundamental competitiveness for all of our domestic employees and plan to Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries Implementation · Reinforced the value proposition to recruit domestic R&D employees · Hire professionals to run new businesses expand it to overseas subsidiaries. Doosan Power Systems 80 · Increased and strengthened training related to human ·H  old meetings with different classes and implement Doosan Power Systems India 84 Reorganized the HR rights and established an organization on human rights program to strengthen human rights Implemented the Learning Credit System According · Extended the retirement age and introduced a wage peak system · Improve the fringe benefit to improve employees’ welfare  romote employee satisfaction ·P System Doosan VINA 87 to Changes in through the reorganization of HR Employment system Learning Credit is a system for completing es·E  nhance the HR system in accordance with the Environment · Implemented a retiree support system sential credits based on ‘self-initiated learning Appendix amendment of Tax Act, including the DC related to (Outplacement Program) performance-based payment, etc. culture’, which sets the annual target of miniPerformance Index 93 mum credits that all employees have to meet. Key Figure The aim is to develop the Doosan People Stakeholders 123 equipped with leadership and job expertise by Materiality Analysis 124 Contents 2012 2013 2014 classifying the areas of targets into leadership Average number of training courses completed per employee 4.4 courses 6.4 courses and professional. Whenever we establish an GRI Index 126 Average learning hours per employee 51.39 hours 65.25 hours 112 hours annual DP (Development Plan), all employees Audit Report 128 have to autonomously set up an annual learning Number of learning clubs installed 251 clubs plan and utilize the learning credits, so that we Assurance Statement 130 Number of times work-site seminars held 684 times can support a more systematic self-learning in Average learning hours per overseas employee 2 hours 23 hours the future. Performance of Overseas 66 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Management Framework Strategy and Performance Sustainable Management Subsidiaries Appendix 67 Navigation Menu Talent Development System Implemented the Cross-Function Established and Operated the Created a Happy Workplace 2014 Integrated Report of Training for Better Understanding Two Track Training Processes Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction We increased the number of employees subEstablished a System for ject to the leadership education that reflects To ensure employees with humanities and soIn order to develop internal site / factory employStrengthening the Employees’ the inherent characteristics of Doosan Credo cial science background get better understandees, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction and Doosan People and the management eding about businesses and technologies, we established and operated the two track training Human Rights ucation to internalize the problem-solving caprovide the Engineering for Commercial training processes, which is Korea’s first growth route Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction reCEO Message 04 pabilities and business insights, while also upthat allows them to learn about basic concepts for developing site / factory employees to supspects the human rights of various stakeholdgrading the job training system for developing of engineering and the Economics for Engineer plement the weaknesses of the existing system. ers, including customers, suppliers and doDoosan Credo 06 job professionals. In line with this, all employees training that improves the economic thinking Through these efforts, we fully supported the mestic and overseas employees, as a global Doosan Group 08 established differentiated development plans for employees with engineering background. Meister of various fields by providing equal opcompany, while also complying with rules and for each individual according to their strengths Through these two training courses, we reinportunities to all employees regardless of their regulations on protecting human rights to realize Doosan’s Philosophy 09 and capability levels and participated in diverse forced mutual communication capabilities that job duties. As a result, we appointed the first the value of the Doosan Way. As part of these educational courses that suit their growth route. helped our employees to go beyond their field Managing Director among the site / factory emefforts, we established a Human Rights ComManagement Framework of their majors. ployees in 2014. mittee internally, to prevent the infringement of human rights internally by notifying about Company Profile 12 Reorganized the Job Training respecting human rights and the process of Introduction of Business 14 System Expanded Training for Employees Developed Training Courses by reporting any discrimination. In the case of an Working Abroad Job Position infringement of human rights occurring, we conBusiness Model 16 We established the Job Training Academy for all value chains to strengthen all employees’ job In order to improve the capabilities of employTo strengthen the functional competencies duct immediate investigation and take follow-up Performance Summary 18 competencies, while setting up a learning sysees working abroad related to global business, of site / factory executives, we established a measures. Also, we are striving to improve the human rights of our employees by setting up a Governance 20 tem in three stages based on years of service Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction conlearning system in three stages based on the and job positions, including basic, advanced ducted customized training based on the charcompetencies required for different years and system to protect victims that might occur from Vision and Strategy 22 and expert courses. Through the re-organizaacteristics of work sites. We held local training job positions, including basic, advanced and the non-disclosure principle and the confidentiality agreement during the investigation. Ethical Management 24 tion of the system, employees were able to freeprograms that included the STEPS training for expert courses. Through the re-organization of ee grievances. We have also further expanded Employee Welfare Support System 2014 Doosan Way 26 ly apply and listen to job training courses that improving the problem-solving capabilities and the system, the employees were able to freethe scope of sexual harassment prevention edmeet their own levels and needs. the talent development leadership training for ly apply for and attend job training that meets Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction acImplemented Human Rights ucation into gender equality and human rights. tively reflected the employees’ requests and the 2014 Highlights 28 enhancing leadership capabilities in Vietnam, their levels and needs. India and Dubai. Also, we produced and disEducation to Honor Global Initiatives In order to realize the value of the Doosan Way, social changes to expand the existing welfare Currently, we operate basic courses on three job tributed an on-line training program in the form for Human Rights we focused on preventing internal infringements support, while also improving the quality of life Strategy and Performance duties, including welding, processing and quality of human rights and achieving unity that arises of CD and USB to introduce job duties and Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction adfor employees by establishing a new welfare assurance, with plans to gradually expand the Business Environment Analysis 32 company products, as well as English used at heres to the Labor Standards Act, International from the ignorance on human rights; we exsystem. advanced and expert courses in 2015. Also, we panded the mindset education on human rights construction sites. In addition, we improved Labor Organization (ILO) policies, the principles Business Performance 34 increased the development system established that had been implemented only on sexual haself-development and job competencies by esfor the existing job levels to strengthen junior deof the UN Global Compact (UNGC), and prohibRisk, Opportunity and Business Strategy 38 tablishing the E-library system without any reits forced labor and child labor. Additionally, we rassment earlier. velopment, while also planning to develop and striction on time and space for employees. prohibit any discrimination based on age and The education consists of three areas, includUpgrading Business Portfolio 40 operate training programs for retirees who lacked these competencies in comparison to others. gender in recruitment, promotions, wages, and ing the concept on human rights, the program Core Business Leadership 44 Talent Development System welfare to create a stable working environment. on respecting human rights and sharing related Healing Center Upgrading Business System 48 We will launch company-wide management examples, which is held 40 times for all employOperated Internal Universities measures in three sectors – human rights, prohiees. ·직무 스트레스, 대인관Total, 가족관Total, 각종 중독 등에 대해 외부 전문가를 통한 전문적인 상담 실시 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction’s Talent Development System bition of discrimination, and treatment of employ·기존의 법률, 재테크 등 전문 분야 상담을 통합하여 종합상담센터 설치 및 운영 Sustainable Management We support employees in site / factory employees to complete training so that they can deEHS (Environment, Health and Safety) 58 Doosan Leadership College Doosan Professional College velop into professionals with outstanding talents that are required on the site. To achieve this, we Talent 의료 지KRW 확대 Management·의료보조금 적용 질환 확대 64 Developing Leaders Embedded with the Doosan Way Developing Experts with Fundamental Competitiveness operate the Doosan Heavy Industries DepartSocial Contribution·난임 (불임)부부 시술 비용 지KRW 70 ment as a four-year course by establishing an Reporting Process for Respecting Human ·장애자녀 재활치료 지KRW 확대 Orientation Program Foundation Program internal university through an agreement signed Rights and Prohibiting Discrimination Major Welfare System for Employees Doosan Day of Community Service ·정년퇴직자 종합검진 프로그램 지KRW 74 with the Changwon National University in 2014. Customer Satisfaction 76 Anchor Program Expert Program To ensure the efficiency of the course, we invited 근무Environment 개선 Buildup Program Global Program Faculty Program Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction’s emReceive Report · Supported backpacking · Provided financial support for housing ployees as outside professors, while appointing Support for (European and American region) Housing and and life necessities Performance of Overseas ·식단가 인상 Subsidiaries · Contact with the internet portal and HR employee in Work-Life · Provided 2 weeks of summer vacation · Supported consultation service for Biz . Management Program Essential Program the professors at the Changwon National UniFinancial ·식당 증 / 신축 (예정) charge Balance and 1 week of year-end vacation Support real estate Doosan Power Systems 80 versity as our postdoc researchers. · Supported fees for the Fitness Center · Provided financial support for moving to another workplace Doosan Power Systems India 84 The internal university’s course is conducted · Supported infant nursery facilities Two Track Training Process Childcare Doosan VINA 87 every other year and the employees who take Fact Finding and Investigation · Supported school expenses for middle Support the course are supported with 50% of tuition and high schools and universities · Supported operation expenses Job Position Field Management Site / Factory Employees fees, as well as scholarships provided for aca· Supported employees working at · Linked to Chung-ang University Appendix demically outstanding students. In 2014, a total overseas projects Hospital’s hotline Technology Managing Director Review and Report on Results Family DOO · Invited employees’ families to overseas · Provided medical service benefits Performance Index 93 of 57 persons took the course at the internal sites where employees work Technology Director Meister Program through partner hospitals like dentists Plant Head university after passing an entrance examina· Convened the HR Committee if it is necessary to · Implemented the Family DOO · Increased diseases that are subject to Stakeholders 123 tion, including 27 persons for the new employdiscuss about disciplinary action policy volunteer activities Medical healthcare subsidies (newly installed) Technology Senior Deputy General Manager Controller ee course and 30 persons for the transferred · Provided psychology consultation from Support · Supported operation expenses for Materiality Analysis 124 Expert infertile couples (newly installed) Technology Deputy General Manager Senior Members course. outside experts, including job stress, GRI Index 126 family relationships, etc. (newly installed) · Increased support for rehabilitation of · Established and operated a comprehensive disabled children (newly installed) Technology Manager Follow-up Measures Others consultation center for the fields of legal · Supported a comprehensive medical Audit Report 128 affairs and investment techniques, etc. check-up program for retired persons Technology Assistant Manager ·E xecuted the results and received the reporter’s feedback · Improved working environments by (newly installed) Assurance Statement 130 · Came up with a white paper to prevent reoccurrence raising menu prices and extended and Employee and published it on the portal constructed restaurants (newly installed) Performance of Overseas 68 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Management Framework Strategy and Performance Sustainable Management Subsidiaries Appendix 69 Navigation Menu 2014 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Special Story CEO Message 04 Doosan Credo 06 Two Track System of Growth for Site / Factory Employees Doosan Group Doosan’s Philosophy 08 09 Management Framework Company Profile 12 Appointed the First Site / Factory Introduction of Business 14 Executive in the Same Field Business Model 16 In June 2014, Sangwon Lee who is the Plant Performance Summary 18 Manager of Turbine 2 Plant was promoted from General Manager to Managing Director, Governance 20 making him the first case of being promoted Vision and Strategy 22 Extension of Retirement Age Co-prosperity between as an executive after having worked as a site / factory employee in the same field. The ManEthical Management 24 Due to the increased needs of employees to exLabor and Management aging Director graduated from high school tend the retirement age as a result of changes 2014 Doosan Way 26 in the aging society, as well as the amendment Labor-Management Relations Based Labor-Management Council for in 1979 and went straight to work at Doosan of the Act on Prohibition of Age Discrimination on Mutual Prosperity Open Communication Heavy Industries & Construction where he 2014 Highlights 28 in Employment and Aged Employment, we inDoosan Heavy Industries & Construction reworked for 35 years in the field of producing Labor-management relations based on trust creased the retirement age from 56 to 60 startviewed major issues related to production sites turbine parts for generation plants. During his Strategy and Performance can contribute to enhancing productivity by ing from 2014 with the agreement of more than and employees through the Labor-Manageyears of service, he received the Presidential increasing the satisfaction level of employees, Business Environment Analysis 32 half of our employees. Also, we introduced a ment Council and enhanced the employees’ Award thrice and the Bronze Tower Order of while also contributing to social development by wage peak system to lessen the wage burden welfare by resolving the difficulties of members, Industrial Service Medal, while also being seBusiness Performance 34 reducing social costs resulting from conflicts. that might arise from the extension of the retiresuch as improving working environment. The lected as the Meister for contributing in the Therefore, Doosan Heavy Industries & ConRisk, Opportunity and Business Strategy 38 ment age. regular meeting is held every quarter, and in localization of core components and the enstruction is striving to improve the profits of both order to actively respond to issues that arise in hancement of quality. Upgrading Business Portfolio 40 labor and management relations, by deciding the field, we share information between labor Support for Retirees on labor conditions and resolving major issues Core Business Leadership 44 and management working-level staff, as well as with both sides participating, aiming to establish In order to ensure a highly satisfying life after regularly collecting opinions and making adjustUpgrading Business System 48 cooperative labor and management relations. employees retire, Doosan Heavy Industries ments. “There is a common notion that a person & Construction introduced and implementAutonomous Resolution of Issues on The agenda discussed at the regular Lawho received an award or was promoted Sustainable Management ed the retirement pension plan consisting of Ordinary Wages bor-Management Council is submitted after to a higher position is a special person. the Defined Benefit (DB) Plan and the Defined In order to smoothly resolve major issues arisgoing through prior review and consultation EHS (Environment, Health and Safety) 58 However, I am an ordinary person who Contribution (DC) Plan. Also, we are operating ing from the labor-management relations, we among the relevant staff. The decisions about is no more outstanding than others, and Selected 6 Persons as Meister Talent Management 64 the Outplacement Program to educate about use various labor-management consultative the agenda are made at the council where the Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction gave I firmly believe that you will be rewarded change management for retired employees and channels to autonomously resolve them, such matters related to management and decisions the title of Meister to six persons who are leadSocial Contribution 70 for the efforts made and faithfully carrying pre-retirees. We invited outside experts to proas operating the wage negotiation and the Lamade are shared. Through these efforts, we ing experts in their field and working hard at “When I heard that I was chosen as a out your duty with continuous self-develDoosan Day of Community Service 74 vide consultation on re-employment and busibor-management Enhancement Committee sepresolved about 30 cases at the regular Lathe production site. The Meister is the most opment. The promotion as a Technology candidate for BG Meister, the first thing ness start-ups and psychological consultations. arately. In particular, we started the collective bor-Management Council and working-level outstanding expert in technology at the comCustomer Satisfaction 76 Managing Director was a recognition of that I thought was ‘Am I really qualified?’ bargaining in early May regarding the ordinary meetings, including improvements made for the technical ability and know-how that I pany and selected through a strict screening and then I felt thankful and thought ‘I wage issues, which had been the top priority home-returning bus support in 2014. In the fuhave accumulated in the field, which was process. We conduct an objective evaluation Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries should work harder in the future’. task as well as the biggest issue of the collective ture, we will continue to discuss about ways to very meaningful since it can provide a of work performance and an assessment Contents of the Outplacement Program bargaining for 2014. We reached an agreement improve working hours and reorganize the wage I communicated with my colleagues based Doosan Power Systems 80 dream and vision for my juniors who work made by colleagues to measure the techthrough diverse channels, including negotiation system to establish cooperative labor-manageon my life philosophy of ‘Work hard, enjoy Doosan Power Systems India 84 in the field. I think that I need to work even nology expertise and select candidates with tables, regular communications between labor ment relations. self-development and leadership added to it. life and give back when you can’, and I harder as a role model for my juniors.” Doosan VINA 87 Reemployment Track and management working-level talks and meetAfterwards, we choose the final candidates did my best in my position at work, which Sangwon Lee gave me the honor of becoming the Meisings between the negotiation representatives, through working-level verification, technology · Provided consulting on job information, reemployment (Managing Director, training and employment method which had been held a total of 48 times over assessment and final interview with the COO. ter. In the future, I will communicate with Appendix Turbine 2 Plant Manager) about eight months. As a result, we reached my colleagues and juniors about all the Performance Index 93 an autonomous agreement between labor and Name Job Position Field Experience know-hows that I accumulated over the Business Start-up Track management through improving the wage sysMancheol Technology Deputy Welding 27 years years and pass on my knowledge and Stakeholders 123 Cho General Manager ·P  rovided business start-up mentoring, mock business tem at the end of December. experience with an open heart.” HeungJae Technology Senior Welding 33 years Materiality Analysis 124 start-up, ideas and on-site experience opportunities Lee Deputy General Manager Mancheol Cho Youngbae Technology Deputy Can 29 years GRI Index 126 Kim General Manager Manufacturing (Worked for 27 years Established the CTC (Career Transition Center) Gwangwoo Technology Deputy Lee General Manager Machine Assembly 30 years in the field of welding) Audit Report 128 Daehyung Technology Deputy Equipment 32 years ·P rovided PC, printers, phones, fax machines, research Cho General Manager Operation Assurance Statement 130 center, resting space, etc. Younggwan Technology Senior Nondestructive 32 years Kim Deputy General Manager Testing Performance of Overseas 70 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Management Framework Strategy and Performance Sustainable Management Subsidiaries Appendix 71 Navigation Menu 2014 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Social Contribution CEO Message 04 Doosan Credo 06 Doosan Group 08 Doosan’s Philosophy 09 Management Framework Company Profile 12 Social Contribution Introduction of Business 14 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction proBusiness Model 16 vided a blue print to enhance the community’s Performance Summary 18 future competitiveness to become a respected company, while also striving to build Doosan’s Governance 20 social contribution identity that is proud of being Vision and Strategy 22 the Doosan People. Ethical Management 24 2014 Doosan Way 26 2014 Highlights 28 Social Contribution System Social Contribution System Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction impleStrategy and Performance mented strategic social contribution activities Business Environment Analysis 32 in three areas of ‘Cultivation of talent’, ‘Support Major Performance and Goals for the underprivileged’, ‘Closer to local comBusiness Performance 34 munities’ in accordance with three corporate Implementation Tasks Performance in 2014 Plans for 2015 Implementation Goals for 2015 sed a Risk, Opportunity and Business Strategy 38 are are principles of ‘Business Oriented’, ‘Community a ort ltiv pp the Focused’, and ‘Employee Engagement’. Upgrading Business Portfolio 40 a in e s s O rien Su tale tion cu us te for ed · Repositioned social contribution activities and nt of ort leg pp rivi ·S  et up a global reporting system Fo Core Business Leadership 44 B d Directed Our established the system ·E  stablish a global integrated social Cu Su derp Social Contribution Social un Direction of Social Contribution contribution system Activities · Established social contribution strategies for our ·E  stablish the DPSI social contribution Contribution Upgrading Business System 48 subsidiaries in Europe and Vietnam strategies for India System Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has om implemented many social contribution activities e Sustainable Management C d mu us aimed at developing talented people based on ·E  stablish the performance nit y Foc ·E  xpanded the target and scope of volunteer activities ·S  trengthen program execution abilities measurement process the people-oriented Doosan Group philosophy. EHS (Environment, Health and Safety) 58 Diversified Our Closer to The company’s efforts until now have been ·C  onduct a satisfaction survey local communities Talent Management 64 Social Contribution · Held theme programs for local childcare centers · Evaluate and improve them programs by theme focused on expanding our social contribution Programs activities by fostering talents, supporting the soSocial Contribution 70 ·H  old two times in the first and Basic area · Implemented the Doosan Day of Community Service · Internalize program operation cially needy and operating Community-Based second half of the year Doosan Day of Community Service 74 Programs under the new mission of setting a blueprint that enhances the local communities’ Customer Satisfaction 76 · Implement plans to increase the ·H  old regular meetings for leaders future competitiveness. · Expanded the volunteer activities for weekdays participation of site / factory employees of the site / factory employees Promoted and Implementation Direction of Our Social Contribution Activities Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries Enhanced Our Social Contribution · Increased the promotion of social contribution · Expand social contribution incentives · Implement the internal reward policy Implementation of Advanced and Doosan Power Systems 80 Participation and Process Establishing identity of our social contribution to earn respect of local communities and Structured CSR Programs  einforce the utilization of social ·R · Improve the social contribution Goal encourage all Doosan employees to raise self-esteem by helping others and build a blueprint Doosan Power Systems India 84 · Improved social contribution process Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is contribution information system information system to a better future aiming to implement practical and systematic Doosan VINA 87 social contribution activities that reflects the Representative Social contribution activities that are customized Key Figure Activities according to growth stages of talents business characteristics and local communiAppendix ties’ needs and promotes employees’ voluntary participation. To achieve this, we established Performance Index 93 Contents 2012 2013 2014 Business Oriented Community Focused the direction of our CSR initiatives as being to Stakeholders 123 Enhancing the company's core values Encouraging diverse stakeholders to participate implement more advanced and structured soNumber of cases of volunteer activities 584 cases 608 cases 605 cases based on talented management in solving social issues of local communities Materiality Analysis 124 Direction cial contribution activities. starting from 2014, Number of participants 2,811 persons 3,153 persons 3,721 persons while also adopting a system for diversifying GRI Index 126 Employee Engagement and promoting our social contribution proRate of participation 41% 44% 52% Execution of social contribution activities by employees Audit Report 128 grams, and selecting and implementing three Total hours of volunteer works 24,206 hours 28,031 hours 33,775 hours Major Support for the core tasks for improving the process of our soAssurance Statement 130 Cultivation of talent Community based programs cial contribution activities. Activities underprivileged Volunteer hours per person 3.77 hours 4.28 hours 5.17 hours Performance of Overseas 72 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Management Framework Strategy and Performance Sustainable Management Subsidiaries Appendix 73 Navigation Menu Closer to Local Communities 2014 Integrated Report of Performance of Major Social Contribution Activities for ‘Cultivation of Talent’ Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction are imDoosan Heavy Industries & Construction plementing social contribution activities to take Program Major Contents Performance interest in the social issues in local communities and to resolve fundamental problems. We deLinked with the Changwon Office of ·P  articipated by about 400 elementary and ‘Job Film Festival’ for Youth velop programs by communicating with diverse Education middle school students from Changwon Career Exploration stakeholders in local communities to enhance Support for Youth Career Exploration · Provided opportunity for career exploration CEO Message 04 our brand image and improve the satisfaction ·P  rovided benefits to 1,300 children of 58 Doosan Credo 06 Doosan Heavy Industries & Theme Programs for Local Implemented 7 Theme Experience local childcare centers in Changwon level of beneficiaries, as well as promoting the Activities, including History, Ecosystem, Construction’s Social Contribution participation of our employees. Childcare Centers Society / Science, etc. · Published experience activities for Saturday Doosan Group 08 classes held at outskirts of village Activities Doosan’s Philosophy 09 Support for school development fund and · Achieved early admission of 75 persons to Established Sisterhood Ties Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction are research activities to develop outstanding prestigious universities in Korea Creating Shared Value (CSV) with Changwon Science local talents in natural science and · Selected outstanding schools for sustainable enhancing the future competitiveness and corHigh School Management Framework Recently, along with ‘Corporate Social Responengineering fields growth in 2014 porate value of local communities by strategisibilities (CSR)’, we are actively discussing ‘Cre·1  15 persons for the accumulated number Company Profile 12 cally implementing social contribution activities. Academic-Industrial of hired persons from the Doosan Class To achieve this, we are implementing our social ating Shared Value (CSV)’. CSV is a concept that Customized Technology Education for 4 Collaboration ‘Doosan High Schools and 4 Vocational Colleges in 2014 Introduction of Business 14 contribution activities focused on major areas, takes into consideration creating economic and Class’ ·A  dded Aloysius Technical High School including the program for cultivating talents, social value from the early stages of business in Busan Business Model 16 the program for supporting the underprivileged management, which promotes sustainable Support for School Support for School Textbooks for Child ·D  onated 11,568 textbooks and Performance Summary 18 including children, youngsters, the elderly, the growth by introducing the concept of CSV to Textbooks Welfare Facilities 1,814 children benefited disabled, women, and the community-based overseas companies or social contribution ac·C  ollected 1,321 school uniforms and Governance 20 tivities. Doosan Heavy Industries & ConstrucVolunteer Activities to Collect School supported laundry expenses program for resolving community issues based Donated School Uniforms Vision and Strategy 22 Established Direction of Our Social employees’ talent sharing activities. In addition, tion defined its own CSV and plan to pursue soUniforms and Sponsor Laundry Expenses ·S  upported scholarship for children from on stakeholder engagement. low-income families Contribution Activities in order to increase the employees’ participacial contribution activities that are different from Ethical Management 24 Through the repositioning of the existing social tion in social contribution activities, we are imCultivation of Talent : other companies by integrating it into business plementing the weekday volunteer services, as 2014 Doosan Way 26 contribution activities, Doosan Heavy Industries Youth Energy Project strategies and social activities in 2015. & Construction classified them into three areas of well as implementing the system for promoting The Youth Energy Project aims to develop the Performance of Major Social Contribution Activities for ‘Support for the Underprivileged’ 2014 Highlights 28 concentration, support and basics and focused social contribution, including encouraging new younger generation into competent, well-roundon talent development, while also establishing a volunteers, providing mileage system for voluned and self-reliant individuals. All programs inProgram Major Contents Performance Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction’s Strategy and Performance new direction for implementing basic activities teers, giving certifications of volunteer hours, cluded in the Youth Energy Project are customDefinition of CSV ·S  upport provided to 71 child welfare and implementing an internal reward system. Established Sisterhood Supported Subsidies for Operating Child Business Environment Analysis 32 that supported the neglected class and contribized to suit the growth stages of talents. Doosan facilities Relationship with Child Welfare Facilities and Donated Child Selfuted to local communities at the same time. In Heavy Industries & Construction is operating ·H  elped stabilize the operation of facilities Enhanced Our Social Social contribution program that requires the Welfare Facilities Supporting Fund and provided educational benefits Business Performance 34 addition, in order for overseas work sites to fulthe project to help strengthen the basic capaparticipation of all value chains that pursues fill their social responsibilities as global citizens, Contribution Process bilities of children and youngsters as part of creating economic value (profit) by utilizing the ·P  articipated by 60 children from 15 local Risk, Opportunity and Business Strategy 38 In order to efficiently manage and implement the efforts to cultivate future talents, and is also company’s core competencies, while at the same Dream-high (Kum-Kum-Dda) Supported Child Orchestra Affiliated to childcare centers we established social contribution strategies social contribution activities, we are enhancing time pursuing the increase of social value (social Orchestra Local Childcare Center ·H  eld the Seoul Youth Orchestra’s Upgrading Business Portfolio 40 for subsidiaries in the European region in 2013 offering other diverse programs, such as develCoaching School our social contribution process. As part of these demand and issues resolved). and established social contribution strategies for opment of outstanding talents in the fields of Participated in the Korea Mecenat Core Business Leadership 44 efforts, we are reporting on social contribution natural science and engineering and technical Sponsoring Mecenat Doosan Vina in Vietnam in 2014, to systematize Association’s Program Between Company ·S  ponsored Seoul City Youth Orchestra activities and effectively managing the perforActivities Upgrading Business System 48 the existing social contribution activities and extraining programs for the unemployed. In 2015, and Art mance by utilizing the social contribution inforwe plan to operate the program of career sepand the scope of activities. In 2015, we plan to Supported Life Necessities Delivered Life Necessities and Made ·D  elivered 600 sets of life necessities to mation system. Also, we revised the operation lection for youngsters that supports youngsters Bread for Low-Income Families through Sustainable Management establish the global social contribution system Core Competencies Social Demand for Low-Income Families 600 low-income households in Changwon guideline for social volunteer groups containing to find out about different careers and imprints ‘Dasarang Dream’ Program together with establishing the social contribution EHS (Environment, Health and Safety) 58 information on operating the social contribua correct impression about natural science and ·1  6 households in Gyeongsangnam-do, strategies of DPSI in India. Repair of House, Inspection of Electric tion fund and the volunteer service process, as Power & Water, Clean House Programs including Husapo Village in Miryang, social engineering on a trial basis. Eco-friendly, climate Wiring, Papering, Painting, etc. Talent Management 64 Eco-friendly business, welfare facilities, etc. Diversified Our Social Contribution well as specified the operation system of the change, shared growth, volunteer groups. In addition, we implemented Support for the Underprivileged engineering-based etc. ·D  elivered 800 boxes of kimchi and 300 Social Contribution 70 Programs and Introduced the technology, etc. Kimchi Sharing Event Kimchi Sharing Event for Low-income boxes of life necessities to low-income activities for strengthening the competencies Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is purHouseholds in Changwon Doosan Day of Community Service 74 Promotion System households in Changwon City Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction exof leaders and supporters, such as holding the suing social contribution activities based on the social volunteer groups workshops. Moreover, participation of employees and stakeholders Customer Satisfaction 76 panded the scope of social contribution activities and beneficiaries and reflected the needs of we have not only contributed to enhancing soinstead of social contribution activities that only Performance of Major Social Contribution Activities for ‘Closer to Local Communities’ employees and local communities’ stakeholdciability, team work, righteous emotion, but also make donations. To achieve this, we plan to exPerformance of Overseas Subsidiaries ers. We included a variety of neglected class, reduced operational expenditure, by running pand programs with social welfare people in loProgram Major Contents Performance Doosan Power Systems 80 including the elderly, the disabled, women and experience programs of seven themes: history, cal communities, while also reflecting the stakemulti-cultural families, in the scope of our social ecosystem, social / science studies, city tours, holder’s requests and diversifying the scope of · Installed Experience Items on Doosan Power Systems India 84 Renewal of the Changwon Support for the Improvement of Exhibition traditional plays, crafts, nature experience since employees’ volunteer activities to increase their Technologies for Power Generation and contribution activities, while also expanding our Science Center Items at Changwon Science Center Doosan VINA 87 2014. Water Business participation. Guidance Activities on the Prohibition ·A  watchdog for protecting youth from of Employment and Alcohol Sales to Appendix Youth Protection Campaign hazardous environments held 27 times Youth Energy Project’s Major Programs Youngsters at Adult Entertainment District annually with 287 participants in Changwon Performance Index 93 ·H  elped out with labor 12 times with Primary school students Middle school students High school students University students The Youth One-company, Established Sisterhood Relationships with Stakeholders 123 1,084 participants Seven Farming Villages 7 Agricultural Villages, including Misan ·P  urchased special products worth KRW · Theme programs for local · ‘Job Film Festival’ for Youth ·S  upport programs for science · Academic-Industrial · Vocational training and Sisterhood Ties Village in Hanam, Gyeongnam 60 million in five occasions Materiality Analysis 124 childcare centers Career Exploration high schools collaboration (Doosan Class in employment support for job · Scholarships for students with Environmental Purification Conducted Purification Activities in 7 ·H  eld 16 times with 815 participants in GRI Index 126 · Matching school expenses for ·O  peration of ‘Doosan Class’ in vocational colleges) seekers Rivers, Mountains and Seas in Seoul, Changwon, Mt. Cheonju, Gwangryeo outstanding academic performance Activities low-income families from low-income families meister / vocational high schools · Technology study contest and Yongin and Gyeongnam Stream, etc. Audit Report 128 · Donation of school textbooks · Donation of school uniforms ·S  cholarships for students visits to advanced overseas · Implemented 7 programs connecting 5 · Matching school expenses for countries Assurance Statement 130 · Sponsorship to Dream-High with outstanding academic Activities Connecting Social Campaign for Respecting Life, Project for and 4 social welfare facilities in Changwon low-income families (Kumkum-Dda) Orchestra performance from low-income Welfare Facilities Vitalizing Changwon City, etc. and Seoul, respectively · Donation of school textbooks families ·H  eld 26 times with 555 participants Performance of Overseas 74 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Management Framework Strategy and Performance Sustainable Management Subsidiaries Appendix 75 Navigation Menu 2014 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction In order to fulfill corporate social responsibilities and enhance the future competitiveness of local communities, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction held the ‘Doosan Day of Community Service’, which consists of 77 diverse programs participated in by about 3,000 employees from 14 work sites in 6 regions conducted at the same time on October 24, 2014. Through this event, we implemented various volunteer activities based on our social contribution system, such as ‘Cultivation of talent’, ‘Support for the underprivileged’, ‘Closer to local communities’. Starting from 2015, we plan to integrate the activities CEO Message 04 that had been carried out by each subsidiary to ensure efficient operation, while also coming up with a program that can be implemented together with local Doosan Credo 06 communities to continue our sharing regularly twice a year in the first and second half of the year. Doosan Group 08 Doosan’s Philosophy 09 U.K. Germany Management Framework Czech Republic America Company Profile 12 Introduction of Business 14 Business Model 16 Performance Summary 18 Held at the same time on October 24, 2014 Korea Governance 20 Vision and Strategy 22 Middle East India Ethical Management 24 2014 Doosan Way 26 Vietnam 2014 Highlights 28 6 numbers 14 numbers 3,000 persons 77numbers Strategy and Performance Business Environment Analysis 32 Participating Global Work Sites Participating Diverse America 44 persons Business Performance 34 Region Employees Programs Doosan HF Controls ·P  articipated in talent donation (STEM) activities for Risk, Opportunity and Business Strategy 38 local elementary school (Lewisville TX) Upgrading Business Portfolio 40 Doosan Heavy Industries America Core Business Leadership 44 · Participated in joint local environmental purification activities, including local environmental group (MEVO) Upgrading Business System 48 Doosan Hydro Technology ·D  onated clothes and life necessities to local Sustainable Management charity organizations (FMC, Florida Medical Clinic Foundation of Carin) EHS (Environment, Health and Safety) 58 Talent Management 64 Social Contribution 70 Doosan Day of Community Service 74 India 310 persons Czech Republic 164 persons Customer Satisfaction 76 Doosan Škoda Power Doosan Power Systems India · Maintenance of local facilities in Pilsen and Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries ·P  articipated in volunteer service for the participated in environmental purification activities environmental enhancement and goods donation for the main stadium of Doosan Arena Doosan Power Systems 80 to BVM School and Government Blind School Doosan Power Systems India 84 Doosan VINA 87 Appendix U.K. 525 persons UAE 31 persons Performance Index 93 Middle East Operation Center Stakeholders 123 Doosan Babcock · Participated in 13 programs, including Wear it ·P  articipated in blood donation by employees at Materiality Analysis 124 Middle East OC, JBL M project and suppliers Pink (breast cancer campaign), goods support for Germany 52 persons GRI Index 126 Korea 1,764 persons Vietnam 110 persons abandoned dog rescue, etc. Doosan Lentjes 3 persons Doosan Enpure Saudi Arabia Audit Report 128 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Doosan VINA · Maintenance of elementary schools, purification of · Participated in Wear it Pink activities, such as Rhine River in Dusseldorf, supporting food rescue · Participated in 39 programs conducted in many regions like Changwon, Seoul, and Suji, such as children traffic ·P  articipated in activities for improving the an event of raising the fund for a breast cancer Doosan Power Systems Arabia Assurance Statement 130 safety campaigns, creating a healthy Yangjaecheon (Stream) and volunteer activities for farming villages together educational and growth environments of Binh to low-income class and participated in activities · Implemented compliance campaign for Vehicles research institute, etc. supporting lectures on local languages with suppliers, etc. Thuan as elementary school with sisterhood ties Performance of Overseas 76 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Management Framework Strategy and Performance Sustainable Management Subsidiaries Appendix 77 Navigation Menu Customer Satisfaction Number of days for handling inquiries to Activities for Pro-actively Improving 2014 Integrated Report of provide prompt responses to customers Customer Value Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Customers are the reason why companies exist and the driving force behind a company’s Besides listening to customer’s opinions and sustainable business activities. Therefore, it 12 days providing technical support, Doosan Heavy is very important to improve customer’s value 8 days Industries and Construction provides aggresand satisfaction level, while also maintaining sive-type of services to enhance customer Customer Satisfaction CEO Message 04 friendly relationships through mutual commuvalue. The ‘program on field trips to Changwon nication. Therefore, Doosan Heavy Industries Plant inviting clients’ is for the new employees Doosan Credo 06 & Construction is implementing customer-oriand middle-management of our clients, aiming Doosan Group 08 ented business activities based on the spirit of to create a positive image about Doosan Heavy the Doosan Way. We have unified our customer Industries & Construction and establish friendly Doosan’s Philosophy 09 2013 2014 contact points to Customer Supporter, and we and mutual relationships. Also, we have been are systematically enhancing customer satisfacencouraging active participation and improved Management Framework tion by operating an exclusive team for customefficiency from our clients by holding the ‘techCompany Profile 12 er support and establishing an official communology exchange meetings’. It is conducted in nication channel at the head office as well as cident. Also, we are implementing differentiatthe forms of seminars and debates. Doosan Introduction of Business 14 customer channels by region. ed customer support activities by operating an Heavy Industries & Construction provides inBusiness Model 16 emergency operation team for power supply formation on new technologies and technology during the winter and summer. In addition, we trends to customers, while customers share inPerformance Summary 18 Efforts for Improving Customer formation about improvements made in facilities provide on-line technical support by operating Governance 20 Satisfaction and various operational data, to resolve inforthe C.C.C. (Customer Call Center) to respond to Conducted Customer Satisfaction Surveys emergency situations at power plants. mation imbalance with customers and establish Vision and Strategy 22 To improve customer satisfaction, Doosan Heavy a partnership in the power market. In 2014, we focused on providing prompt and Ethical Management 24 Industries & Construction established and is opIn addition, there is an increase in agreements accurate customer support to achieve the result erating a model for regular (medium and longsigned, related to technical and operational 2014 Doosan Way 26 of cutting down the time taken to give respond term) customer satisfaction survey and a model support with power generation companies, and 2014 Highlights 28 from 12 days in 2013 to 8 days in 2014, through for annual (short-term) customer satisfaction R&D conducted on and national policies jointly efforts made in improving communication besurvey. The regular customer satisfaction suron improving the efficiency and increasing the tween relevant organizations and changing Strategy and Performance vey is conducted on all power plants in a period volume of power generation facilities to achieve awareness about customers. Also, we provided of 3 years, while the annual customer satisshared growth with our suppliers. In the future, Business Environment Analysis 32 140 cases of technical support by supporting faction survey is conducted on new domestic we plan to add a larger number of power generMajor Performance and Goals power plants that have been operated for 6-12 lifecycle management on items being supplied, Business Performance 34 as well as supporting 25 cases of power plant ation companies that receive our technical supImplementation Tasks Performance in 2014 Plans for 2015 Implementation Goals for 2015 months after completing construction. port, including technology exchange meetings, Risk, Opportunity and Business Strategy 38 suspension through prompt services provided In particular, in the case of the annual customer to customers. and widen our activities to have more contact Upgrading Business Portfolio 40 satisfaction survey, we derive and implement points with our customers. Also, in order to get Improved Customer · Completed improvement tasks from the regular ·E  stablish model for annual customer  stablish VOC-based model and ·E Came Up with CS White Paper customer-oriented improvement tasks after a better understanding of our customers, we will Core Business Leadership 44 Satisfaction customer satisfaction survey satisfaction survey conduct survey (2 times) analyzing and listening to actual on-site VOC Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction esincrease activities for friendly relationships from Upgrading Business System 48 (Voice of Customer), ensuring objectivity by tablished the ‘CS White Paper’, and shares it a non-business perspective by inviting our cliconducting individual interviews through outto provide direction of duties and benchmark ents to field trips at our power plants. · Increase power generation companies subject ·H  old technical exchange meetings · Held technical exchange meeting (2 times) side consulting firms. We derive implementation best practices, by recording various cases that Sustainable Management to technical exchange meetings (2 times) tasks from the result of the customer satisfacmight occur during the process of implementing Contents of ‘Field Trips to Changwon Plant for Our Clients’ EHS (Environment, Health and Safety) 58 Strengthened ·S  horten the number of days for handling tion survey and connect them with aimed at duties related to quality assurance that aimed · Shorten the number of days for handling inquiries to at achieving customer satisfaction. It consists Talent Management 64 Technical Support inquiries to provide prompt responses to  andle responses in less than 7 days ·H achieving Target Date of to Customers provide prompt responses to customers (8 days) customers of preventing customer complaints and cost Implementation Social Contribution 70 Established Prompt Response System impacts in advance, wrong cases of work imVisits of the Korea South-East Power’s 2014.06 · Established and operated the C.C.C. In order to prepare for large accidents resulting plementation, and types of cases related to New Employees (1st and 2nd) 2014.08 Doosan Day of Community Service 74 ·P  romote and operate the C.C.C. ·P  romote to power generation companies (Customer Call Center) from power generation facilities, Doosan Heavy defective orders, for free of charge. Based on Visits of Yeongheung Thermal Power 2014.11 Plant’s Middle-Management (1st~3rd) Customer Satisfaction 76 Industries & Construction provided measures this, we are improving customer satisfaction levfor recovering equipment and conducting acciel and appropriately dealing with our customers · Held field trip for our client’s new employees at ·H  old field trips to new employees · Increase our clients dent prevention diagnosis to support measures regarding issues related to quality assurance. Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries Changwon plant (2 times) (3 times) Contents of ‘Technical Exchange Meeting’ Established Friendly to be taken in case of a customer’s facility acDoosan Power Systems 80 Relationship with Our Target Date of Clients · Signed MOU for developing site / factory employees ·S  ign MOU for technical cooperation in nuclear (1 case) and MOU for technical cooperation with energy TG with the Korea Hydro & Nuclear Implementation Doosan Power Systems India 84 ·S  ign 2 MOU for technical cooperation Korea East-West Power-Doosan Heavy 2014.07 electricity group company (2 cases) Power Doosan VINA 87 Industries & Construction Korea Western Power-Doosan Heavy 2014.11 Industries & Construction Appendix Key Figure Contents of Technical and Operational Performance Index 93 Support Agreements with Power Stakeholders 123 Contents 2012 2013 2014 Generation Companies Materiality Analysis 124 Number of days for handling inquiries to provide prompt responses to customers 12.8 days 12.8 days 8.2 days Target Date of Implementation GRI Index 126 Provided prompt support for business trips 72 cases 658 cases 1,185 cases MOU on Technical Cooperation with 2014.04 the Korea South-East Power Audit Report 128 Provided emergency support for technical advice to customers 107 cases 181 cases 628 cases MOU on Technical Cooperation with 2014.07 the Korea Midland Power Assurance Statement 130 Made visits for technical support and held seminars for customers 22 cases 73 cases 325 cases MOU on Talent Development with 2014.07 the Korea Southern Power Navigation Menu 2014 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction CEO Message 04 Doosan Credo 06 Doosan Group 08 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is Doosan’s Philosophy 09 striving to become a proud Doosan in the Management Framework Performance of Company Profile 12 world in accordance with the Doosan Way Introduction of Business 14 Business Model 16 Overseas Subsidiaries by establishing business synergies with its Performance Summary 18 Governance 20 subsidiaries around the world. Vision and Strategy 22 Ethical Management 24 Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries 2014 Doosan Way 26 2014 Highlights 28 80 84 87 Doosan Doosan Power Doosan VINA Strategy and Performance Power Systems Systems India Business Environment Analysis 32 Business Performance 34 Risk, Opportunity and Business Strategy 38 Upgrading Business Portfolio 40 Core Business Leadership 44 Upgrading Business System 48 Sustainable Management EHS (Environment, Health and Safety) 58 Talent Management 64 Social Contribution 70 Doosan Day of Community Service 74 Customer Satisfaction 76 Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries Doosan Power Systems 80 Doosan Power Systems India 84 Doosan VINA 87 Appendix Performance Index 93 Stakeholders 123 Materiality Analysis 124 GRI Index 126 Audit Report 128 Assurance Statement 130 80 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries 81 Navigation Menu 2014 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction CEO Message 04 Doosan Credo 06 Doosan Group 08 Doosan’s Philosophy 09 Management Framework Doosan Power Systems Company Profile 12 Introduction of Business 14 Business Model Business Model 16 DPS unites the capabilities of Doosan Lentjes and Doosan Babcock Performance Summary 18 in advanced steam generation, waste-to-energy and nuclear with the global leadership of Doosan Škoda Power in the design and Governance 20 manufacture of turbines. Supported by our global service capaVision and Strategy 22 bilities, this winning combination gives Doosan Power Systems the capability to provide efficient and cost-effective solutions that create Ethical Management 24 Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries Financial Performance (Unit : KRW 1 million) real value for our customers and their assets around the world. 2014 Doosan Way 26 “Doosan Power Systems unites the rich heritage of 2014 Highlights 28 Doosan Babcock, Doosan Lentjes and Doosan Škoda 2012 2013 2014 Corporate Governance Glasgow Power in advanced steam generation, nuclear, waste-to(Doosan Sales 1,390,493 1,268,091 1,420,117 DPS’s Board of Directors consists of a total of six members, comStrategy and Performance energy, and turbine design and manufacture.” Babcock) prising two from local management and three from the Korean Operating Profit 61,006 58,118 82,010 Business Environment Analysis 32 management, to discuss significant business matters and make key Total Assets 1,577,973 1,715,088 1,497,386 decisions. The CEO holds the concurrent position as the chairman Business Performance 34 Ratingen of the Board of Directors. The regular Board of Directors meeting is (Doosan Total Liabilities 979,874 1,199,410 1,049,009 Risk, Opportunity and Business Strategy 38 held once a month, and when necessary, it is convened through a Lentjes) Crawley Pilsen Total Equities 598,099 515,678 448,377 video conference. Upgrading Business Portfolio 40 (DPS, Doosan Babcock) (Doosan Škoda Core Business Leadership 44 Power) Major Products and Services Name Major Experience and Job Position Upgrading Business System 48 Company Introduction DPS combines expertise in the areas of engineering, design, manMyongdong Ryu CEO Doosan Power Systems SA DPS was established in 2010 as a holding company of subsidiaries Doosan Lentjes ufacturing, project execution and asset integrity management of the Kwangseob Jung DPS SA CFO Sustainable Management located in the European region. It provides shared services, Doosan Lentjes is a global provider of processes and technologies three subsidiaries; Doosan Babcock, Doosan Škoda Power and Jitaik Chung DHIC-COO EHS (Environment, Health and Safety) 58 including corporate social responsibility, communications, finance for energy production from renewable and fossil fuels. The comDoosan Lentjes. etc., for conducting the businesses of Doosan Babcock in the UK, pany’s specific areas of expertise include circulating fluidised bed Myeongho Jang DHIC-CFO Talent Management 64 Doosan Škoda Power in the Czech Republic, and Doosan Lentjes boilers, key technologies for the generation of energy from waste, DPS Major Products and Services Daejin Choi DHIC-VP / Corporate Strategy Social Contribution 70 in Germany. DPS also actively implements marketing and sales and flue gas cleaning systems. Doosan Lentjes’ technologies have strategies for the power generation markets in Europe and the been pioneering energy solutions for 90 years and convert over 9 (As of June, 2015) Doosan Day of Community Service 74 Americas. million tonnes of waste into energy every year. Area Products and Services Customer Satisfaction 76 Doosan Babcock Green Energy Circulating Fluidized-Bed Technology Analysis of Business Environments Doosan Babcock is a specialist in the delivery of engineering, (CFB) In the case of coal-fired thermal power plants, the overall order volPerformance of Overseas Subsidiaries Vision ume decreased due to the strengthened environmental regulations aftermarket and upgrade services to the thermal power, nuclear, oil Waste to Energy (WtE) and gas, petrochemical and process sectors. Using best-in-class and the stabilization from lower gas prices. However, the demand Doosan Power Systems 80 Air Pollution Control Technology from non-OECD countries has been maintained and it is forecast to technical expertise and an industry-leading project management Doosan Power Systems India 84 capability, the company builds, maintains and extends the life of Power Plant EPC Nuclear Power Plant grow from a medium to long-term perspective. Gas power generacustomer assets worldwide. tion is forecast to increase with new demands as a result of the staDoosan VINA 87 Thermal Power Plant bilization of lower gas prices and the strengthening of environmental Doosan Škoda Power Power Plant Facilities Combustion Systems regulations. In the case of nuclear power generation, it is expected Appendix Doosan Škoda Power designs and manufactures turbo-generator Secondary NOx Control to continuously increase due to the opportunities for participation systems that deliver maximum efficiency, durability and reliability for in new nuclear power plants in developed countries including the Performance Index 93 the power generation industry as well as a wide range of industrial Steam Turbines DPS combines the experience and expertise of US, but excluding China, India, the Middle East and some European Stakeholders 123 applications, including manufacturing, petrochemicals, and Turbines countries where the business environment has been weakened folDoosan Babcock, Doosan Lentjes and Doosan Škoda Materiality Analysis 124 municipal waste and biomass incineration plants. The company lowing the Fukushima nuclear disaster. Power in engineering, design, manufacturing and project Heat Exchanger has been been setting new standards in steam turbine technology GRI Index 126 for over a century. execution putting our customers at the forefront of efficient Remodeling and Upgrading of Biomass Conversion Business energy production. Power Plants Strategy Audit Report 128 Maintenance of Power Plants Closure, Remodeling and Upgrading As a subsidiary of Doosan Heavy Industries, Doosan Power SysAssurance Statement 130 tems' strategy is based on the group's 2G philosophy which is the Decommissioning, etc. growth of business by growth of people. 82 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries 83 Navigation Menu 2014 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction CEO Message 04 Doosan Credo 06 Doosan Group 08 Doosan’s Philosophy 09 Management Framework Sponsoring to Glasgow Club Bellahouston in the UK Selected as the Company Operating Outstanding Engineer Development Training Program Company Profile 12 Introduction of Business 14 Business Model 16 Performance Summary 18 Sustainability Management Governance 20 Performance and Future Plans Vision and Strategy 22 Ethical Management Local Communities Ethical Management 24 In 2014, Doosan Babcock included the Code of Ethics in the CorAs part of the Doosan Day of Community Service, employees of Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries porate Social Responsibility (CSR) policy to enhance the ethics and Doosan Babcock, Doosan Škoda Power and Doosan Lentjes 2014 Doosan Way 26 morals of business management and develop one concrete framesuggest charities to be supported on the day. In order to increase 2014 Highlights 28 work for handling all areas operated by the company. Also, in order employee awareness about breast cancer and raise funds for the to implement sustainability management, Doosan Škoda Power charity, Doosan Babcock held the Wear It Pink event with employStrategy and Performance Business Performance and Future Plans established the Code of Conduct for business activities based on ees who could not participate in the voluntary work to wear pink-cothe ten principles of the UN Global Compact to conduct business loured clothes at work and recommended that they donate £2 each. Business Environment Analysis 32 Doosan Babcock Doosan Škoda Power activities in an ethical and transparent manner. As a result, a donation of £10,000 was made to a cancer science Doosan Babcock has been a major supplier to the nuclear indusDoosan Škoda Power strengthened its position as a supplier of research institute at Glasgow University. Business Performance 34 try for more than 65 years and is engaged in procurement, engismall and medium-sized steam turbine generators (STG) and IST Environment Doosan Babcock is operating an engineer development training Risk, Opportunity and Business Strategy 38 neering and construction along with plant maintenance and asset equipment locally through continuous orders from Europe and In 2014, Doosan Babcock received ISO 14001:2004 certification programme to support the UK government and the Engineering support of nuclear power stations. The company is also expanding South America despite the global economic recession. Also, Dooby operating the environmental management system. Doosan Upgrading Business Portfolio 40 Construction Industry Training Board (ECITB). Through these efa comprehensive consulting service (Asset Integrity Management) san Škoda Power achieved a good performance in STG for conBabcock reported on the quantitative greenhouse gas (GHG) emisforts, over 200 engineers have benefited so far. In addition, a doCore Business Leadership 44 to conduct equipment diagnosis, maintenance planning and opcentrated solar power purposes for the first time, to diversify the sions and updated and managed its annual data after achieving nation of £4,500 was made to the Glasgow Gymnastics Club in the erations. In addition, in the thermal sector, Doosan Babcock unbusiness portfolio and increase accessible business areas. In adISO 14064 in 2011. In particular, Doosan Babcock recorded 14,000 Upgrading Business System 48 UK, to support uniform and equipment costs for the UK national dertakes boiler retrofit and upgrades to improve the efficiency and dition, Doosan Škoda Power improved performance and achieved CO2e of GHG emissions that came from fossil fuels used on the site, team athletes participating at the 2015 LA Special Olympics World function of the power plant. good results by applying technologies that completed development to reduce the emissions by 16% compared to 2013. Doosan BabGames. Sustainable Management In the future, Doosan Babcock plans to expand the retrofit busiin PJT through continuous R&D investment, which improved comcock also, set a target of reducing a further 20% by 2020. ness opportunities in North America, which is expected to grow petitiveness in winning orders. To improve energy efficiency, Doosan Babcock established a central Future Plans EHS (Environment, Health and Safety) 58 due to the strengthening of new environmental regulations, and In the future, Doosan Škoda Power plans to increase STG solutions storage facility with the Vickers energy management system which DPS plans to set the top seven strategic themes for improving enTalent Management 64 achieve stable growth through reinforcing the risk management of that can respond to diverse fuel mixes and continuously strengthen reduces about 30% of gas consumption and heat loss. They also vironment, health and safety (EHS) in connection with core busithe boiler business. There are plans to increase the Middle East oil, the competitiveness of underlying products, while also increasing installed a boiler using wood as the main source of fuel to conduct ness strategies in the future and carry these out in stages. The Social Contribution 70 gas and petrochemical orders for increasing the volume of service performance in the existing markets, mainly in Europe and South a feasibility survey on utilizing it for craft services business. Most of EHS improvement strategies will be implemented in the direction Doosan Day of Community Service 74 businesses and to strengthen the UK and Eastern Europe’s MRO America, and expanding market share and coverage by developing the Doosan Babcock facilities was replaced with manual infrared of strengthening the EHS and making continuous improvement of business through early partnering with clients, which is also exnew markets through sales to major customers. lighting to reduce power consumption. Moreover, Doosan Babcock EHS. There will be active participation in the Doosan Day of ComCustomer Satisfaction 76 pected to increase the high-profit diagnosis consulting business. selected the appropriate waste treatment company to thoroughly munity Service held twice a year to coordinate diverse volunteer manage waste and raised employees’ awareness to minimize waste services and support local communities. Moreover, indexes will be Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries Doosan Lentjes generation, to achieve zero landfill waste volume from the Renfrew developed to measure the social contribution activities and perforDue to the forecast that the CFB market will grow mainly in India, facility in 2014. mances for local communities, allowing the performance of CSR Doosan Power Systems 80 Turkey, Vietnam, Indonesia and South Africa, Doosan Lentjes is reactivities in a systematic and practical way. In addition, Doosan Babcock is contributing to the environment by Doosan Power Systems India 84 sponding to the changes in market environments such as starting providing an eco-friendly engineering solution to customers. They Doosan VINA 87 the development of the 600MW class USC circulating fluidized-bed provide products and services that can reduce emissions and are (CFB) boiler through cooperation with the Boiler R&D Centre. Also, working to maximize efficiencies and functions of power plants. Doosan Lentjes has expanded cooperation in environmental busiAppendix ness and strengthened competitiveness through upgrading engiHealth & Safety neering. In addition, Doosan Lentjes has explored new growth enPerformance Index 93 Doosan Škoda Power is striving to improve productivity and provide gines by entering into new markets and developing an incineration a safe working environment for employees. As part of this commitStakeholders 123 generation package resulting from market segmentation. ment, in 2014 they conducted training on creating a safe working Materiality Analysis 124 In the future, Doosan Lentjes will increase sales in Doosan Heavy site, preventing fire and taking precautionary measures against othIndustries & Construction’s Boiler Business Group core markets in er risks. Around 1,200 employees participated in the training. As GRI Index 126 Southeast Asia, South America and India, as well as increase orders a result of continuous and systematic health and safety activities, Audit Report 128 for Lentjes’ CFB and air pollution control products. Also, there are Doosan Škoda Power achieved the OHSAS 18001 (Occupational plans to provide technical support for the Boiler Business Group Health and Safety Assessment Series) certification, and Doosan Assurance Statement 130 and upgrade the CFB boiler model. Babcock won the Sword of Honour Award hosted by the British Safety council for also implementing the health and safety activities. 84 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries 85 Navigation Menu Corporate Governance 2014 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction DPSI Board of Directors comprises of 7 Board Members. Out of these 7, 4 members are Executive Directors and 3 are Nominee Directors. All the 4 Executive Directors are actively engaged in the day to day business operations of the Company based on ‘The Doosan Way.’ The Nominee Directors are periodically informed and consultCEO Message 04 ed about the business of the company. Besides the technicalexpertise, most of the Board members have knowledge and expertise in Doosan Credo 06 the applicable areas, including Strategy, Finance, Sales and MarketDoosan Group 08 ing, Production, Project Management etc. Doosan’s Philosophy 09 Name Job Position and Major Experience Management Framework Chang Seob Son Managing Director & CEO / Doosan Power Systems India Company Profile 12 Project Management Power & Water Plants Construction Jong Seok Park Strategy Director / Strategy, Sales & Marketing Introduction of Business 14 Cheol Soo Son CFO, Director / Cost Management Business Model 16 Dukhee Jeong Manufacturing Head, Director / Boiler Production Control Performance Summary 18 Ji Taik Chung Nominee Director (DHIC-COO) Governance 20 Myeongho Jang Nominee Director (DHIC-CFO) Sipat Coal-fired Power Plant in India Daejin Choi Nominee Director (DHIC) Vision and Strategy 22 (As of June, 2015) Ethical Management 24 Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries 2014 Doosan Way 26 “Doosan Power Systems India (hereinafter referred to as “DPSI”) Business Strategy 2014 Highlights 28 is contributing to the Indian power market by successfully Analysis of Business Environments executing power plants by leveraging our advanced technology The Modi Government’s decisive win in 2014 has paved the way Strategy and Performance and efficient project management capabilities. Doosan has been for India’s rapid economic growth. Global investors are optimistic the pioneer in bringing the Super-critical technology to India Delhi Business Environment Analysis 32 on the Indian economic prospects and are forecasting re-starting by successfully commissioning the first Super-critical boilers of the Indian economic growth up-swing. Infrastructure is clearly Business Performance 34 (660MW & 800MW) in India. Doosan has differentiated itself in Kolkata one of the big thrust areas of the current Government and severMumbai Risk, Opportunity and Business Strategy 38 the Indian power market by delivering on-time sophisticated al policy initiatives to kick-start infrastructure projects have been power solutions. At DPSI, we aim at going beyond the mere initiated. Stalled projects are being provided speedier clearances, Upgrading Business Portfolio 40 Chennai tax benefits etc. to enhance investor interest in the power sector. legal obligation of the Indian CSR law and work towards Major Products and Services Core Business Leadership 44 Government’s flagship program ‘Make in India’ intends to roll out developing the local communities and making them self-reliant DPSI is evolving into a comprehensive power plant solutions comUpgrading Business System 48 a red carpet welcome and replace the existing red tape to attract thereby infusing a sense of pride amongst our employees.” pany based on the proprietary Boiler Technology owned by DHIC industrialists for making India a global manufacturing hub, to help and worldclass manufacturing facility at Chennai. DPSI provides create jobs and boost the economic growth. The power sector is Sustainable Management comprehensive power plant solutions including EPC solutions for Company Introduction Vision gearing up to meet the Government's ambitious target of ‘Power for EHS (Environment, Health and Safety) 58 power generation, manufacturing the main equipment for boilers All’ by 2019. India’s per capita electricity consumption is less than DPSI, with its advanced power technologies and world class Boiler independently and executing R&M for enhanced efficiency and life one-third of China’s. With India set to overtake China as the most Talent Management 64 manufacturing facility at Chennai, provides integrated power plant extension of power plants. Vision To become a leading company in India’s power plant business populated country as early as 2028, the power sector offers vast EPC solutions to the promising Indian power market. by providing the best value to our customers Social Contribution 70 future growth potential. However, in the short term, focused GovDPSI was formed in 2011 by consolidating all the Doosan Heavy ernment’s efforts are needed to solve the chronic issues like poor Business Model Doosan Day of Community Service 74 Industries & Construction (herein after ‘DHIC’) owned subsidiaries in financial health of discoms, inadequate fuel etc. which are hamperIndia. Further, the merger of DPSI and Doosan Chennai Works was Goal Integrated Power Plant Solution Provider DPSI provides end-to-end solutions from engineering to installation ing the growth of the entire power sector value chain. Customer Satisfaction 76 completed in 2012 which strengthened the capability of DPSI as an and commissioning of power plants with the proprietary state-ofintegrated power EPC solutions provider across the entire power the-art technologies owned by DHIC. This unhindered technology Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries Acquiring Business Strategy generation value chain. Core Securing Fundamental Competitiveness through access, along with Doosan Power business group’s synergies, fully Values complements DPSI’s indigenous expertise across the power genDPSI strives to strengthen its fundamental competitiveness to be Doosan Power Systems 80 Competitiveness for DPSI accumulated indigenous expertise in India eration value chain. ready for the India’s power market revival in the coming few years. Doosan Power Systems India 84 Establishing DPSI’s Fundamental Competiveness Doosan VINA 87 EPC Financial Performance (Unit : KRW 1 million) · Reinforcing DPSI’s fundamental competitiveness utilizing synergies across · Provides a Turnkey service from beginning to endengineering, procurement, Doosan Power business group for building integrated power plant execution Appendix manufacturing, installation and commissioning for Thermal power plants. capability. Performance Index 93 2012 2013 2014 Excellent Execution Boiler Manufacturing Stakeholders 123 Sales 232,538 661,482 582,712 · Reflecting India’s unique strengths and resources for advancement of project Materiality Analysis 124 · DPSI offers full line-up of small to large Boilers for thermal power plants. execution. Operating Profit (1,809) 39,389 23,501 GRI Index 126 EHS and CSR Total Assets 473,428 498,648 519,031 Service (R&M) Audit Report 128 · Enhancing the EHS mindset, conducting regular monitoring, holding safety Total Liabilities 355,373 380,247 390,883 · DPSI has a comprehensive range of renovation, modernization, upgradation education, implementing pilot training programs, etc. Assurance Statement 130 and life extension capabilities to optimize plant performance and energy · Enhancing future sustainability by supporting local communities and operating Total Equities 118,055 118,401 128,148 Mundra Coal-fired Power Plant in India efficiency as an EPC provider. the CSR Committee. 86 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries 87 Navigation Menu 2014 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction CEO Message 04 Doosan Credo 06 Doosan Group 08 Doosan’s Philosophy 09 Sustainable Performance Management Management Framework Established the CSR Committee Doosan VINA Company Profile 12 DPSI has established a Board Level CSR Committee which enBusiness Performance and Future Plans sures the overall planning and implementation of the CSR activities. Introduction of Business 14 In order to ensure maximum employees participation in the CSR Business Performance Business Model 16 activities, we have constituted a CSR Operational Committee”, Against this challenging environment caused not only by the insufcomprising of representatives from each department. This working Performance Summary 18 ficient supply of coal and financial issues of power generation comlevel committee motivates voluntary participation and enhances the Governance 20 panies but also fierce competition, DPSI’s profits have declined as transparency of our CSR operations. compared to the previous year. DPSI is keenly following the GovernVision and Strategy 22 ment’s efforts to solve the deep-rooted structural issues impeding EHS Activities In 2014, DPSI reinforced its capabilities on EHS by identifying the Ethical Management 24 the power sector prospects. However, DPSI has been getting excelEHS duties and localizing the EHS processes required at the ChenPerformance of Overseas Subsidiaries lent feedback from its clients and building up a reliable reputation in 2014 Doosan Way 26 the Indian power market by successfully executing large-scale pownai plant. With active participation of the local employees, the com“Doosan VINA supplies large-scale Boilers and Heat Recovery 2014 Highlights 28 er plant projects. This is largely the fruits of our tireless efforts to depany-wide EHS capabilities have improved resulting in the overall streamlined EHS processes with robust check lists for all on-site Steam Generators (HRSG) for power plants, Seawater Desalination liver highly efficient power plants in a timely manner which promises inspections. Plants that can resolve the global water shortage, Material Handling an even brighter future by building mutual trust between DPSI and Strategy and Performance our esteemed clients. In April 2015, we successfully achieved the Also, DPSI has standardized the EHS procedures and established Systems (MHS) for the transfer of materials, and the mega scale Petrochemical Processing equipment in use around the world. Business Environment Analysis 32 synchronization with the grid for Unit#1 of GMR's first Super-critical annual and weekly plans for EHS activities to systematically conduct power plant (2x685MW) at Raipur, Chattishgarh. Moreover, DPSI is the ‘Plan-Do-Check-Act’ in all activities. Doosan VINA aims to develop into a company that enhances the Business Performance 34 currently executing the first Bulk Order from NTPC for supply of 5 life and living standard of people and communities by offering Quang Ngai Contribution to Local Communities Risk, Opportunity and Business Strategy 38 boilers (total capacity 5x800MW) (3 units at Kudgi in Karnataka and fundamentally competitive products and services through a 2 units at Lara in Chattisgarh). Also, DPSI is continuously exploring In 2014, DPSI has focused on enhancing the educational environUpgrading Business Portfolio 40 ment for the underprivileged children. DPSI Gurgaon office has process of continuous improvement, investments in technology, new business opportunities in the neighboring SAARC (South Asian been financially supporting BVM School for many years. On Teachtraining and talent development.” Core Business Leadership 44 Association for Regional Cooperation) countries like Sri Lanka and Bangladesh, etc. er’s Day (Sept. 5, 2014), we felicitated the BVM school teachers for Upgrading Business System 48 their hard work and organized a creative craft’s workshop for chilCompany Introduction dren. During the first ever, Doosan Day of Community Service in Future Plans Oct., 2014, our 130 employee volunteers put in their heart & soul to Doosan VINA was established in May of 2009, and currently has Vision Sustainable Management renovate and improve the school facilities and environment. They about 2,500 employees producing and supplying large-scale inIn 2015, we are focusing on 2 key pillars: EHS (Environment, Health and Safety) 58 cleaned the floors, painted the walls, created beautiful art-work, setdustrial projects and power generation plants to countries around · Ensuring ‘Quality, Cost and Delivery’ (QCD) in on-going projects to enUpgraded Business Systems Talent Management 64 up a library & games center. the world. Doosan VINA is Vietnam’s number one company in the hance fundamental competitiveness by internalizing project execution field of heavy industry and has produced more than US$ 1 billion in lessons learnt and preventing issues recurrence At Chennai, 180 employees and workmen renovated the educationSocial Contribution 70 products since 2009. In addition to continuing to grow in produc·O  ptimized global capacity by al facilities of the century old Victory Memorial Blind School with · Independent production + Doosan Day of Community Service 74 · Improve profitability through operational excellence tion volume, Doosan VINA has also pushed to increase its technical securing local production base their hard-work and commitment, which benefited over 200 visually restricted local outsourcing competency, acquiring its ASME Nuclear Supplier certification in overseas impaired people. · Focused on domestic vendors / Customer Satisfaction 76 2014, which was a first in South East Asia. transaction-based purchase ·G  lobal Sourcing / Sustainable Performance Management Corporate Social Responsibility is also a major focus and to date Partnership-based purchase Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries and Future Plans Future Plans the company has invested over $5 million in CSR activities. Recently DPSI is committed to building a sustainable business, creating a DPSI firmly believes that sustainable performance management will those efforts have been recognized with the Grand Prize in the 4th Doosan Power Systems 80 · Maximize manufacturing capacity to achieve medium and long-term visions long term value for its stakeholders, working in partnership with its unlock long term stakeholder value not just for our business but also CSR Awards Ceremony for Korean Businesses in Vietnam. · Strengthen manufacturing capability through cost competitiveness Doosan Power Systems India 84 clients and having a positive social and economic impact on the for our local communities and the environment. · Establish global business implementation capability communities where it operates. In order to establish a sustainable Doosan VINA 87 DPSI enhanced the EHS procedures to establish safe and clean management system, DPSI is eliminating inefficiencies and thereby working environment with efficient EHS activities. Also, DPSI estabbuilding a robust foundation of our fundamental competitiveness lished an annual EHS plan to reinforce the EHS execution through Appendix combining tangible and short-term gains to yield longer term comclose communication with the relevant stakeholders. Financial Performance (Unit : KRW 1 million) Performance Index 93 petitive advantage. Also, DPSI aims at going beyond the mere legal DPSI plans to continuously improve the educational environment for obligation of the Indian CSR law and work towards implementing Stakeholders 123 the under privileged children and gradually expand our efforts for 2012 2013 2014 dedicated volunteer services to the under privileged people in the other educational institutions. Materiality Analysis 124 local communities. Through these activities, employees can expeSales 217,886 269,374 227,864 rience a sense of joy in helping others as well as actively supportAlso, DPSI plans to strengthen the ‘Cleanliness & Plantation Drive’ GRI Index 126 Operating Profit (11,981) (38,191) (2,699) ing the self-reliance and rehabilitation of the socially marginalized in connection with the Indian Government's ‘Swachh Bharat Abhiyan’(Clean India Campaign). Total Assets 398,504 441,289 375,364 Audit Report 128 communities. The core focus areas of DPSI’s CSR programs are education, healthcare & sanitation, access to drinking water, skill Moreover, DPSI will explore and implement new CSR initiatives in Total Liabilities 277,064 367,337 299,800 Assurance Statement 130 development, disaster relief, community development, access to cooperation with major stakeholders and customers to ensure well Total Equities 121,440 73,952 75,563 energy and protection of the ecosystem. organized continuous CSR activities in the coming years. 88 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries 89 Navigation Menu 2014 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction CEO Message 04 Doosan Credo 06 Doosan Group 08 Doosan’s Philosophy 09 Management Framework Company Profile 12 Introduction of Business 14 Business Model 16 Performance Summary 18 Mong Duong II Coal-fired Power Plant in Vietnam Governance 20 Vision and Strategy 22 Business Strategy Ethical Management 24 Major Products and Services Analysis of Business Environments Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries 2014 Doosan Way 26 Power generation equipment and facilities (boilers, HRSG, etc.) Due to the continuing global economic recession, it is forecasted that the demand for power generation and seawater desalination 2014 Highlights 28 -W  ater plant equipment and facilities, including complete seawater facilities around the world will not improve significantly and the Business Performance and Future Plans desalination systems and more. prediction is for a slow growth period in the short-term. However, Business Performance Strategy and Performance Facilities for transport of materials, including port cranes, etc. Doosan VINA has aggressively pursued new markets to attract new Petrochemical facilities and large-scale industrial structures, etc. customers and secure new orders from large industrial companies In October 2014, Doosan VINA successfully completed the third Sustainability Management Performance Business Environment Analysis 32 stage of Saudi Arabia’s Yanbu desalination project (20MIGD x 4 in Vietnam, the region and globally. These strategies are now bearunits) which is the world’s largest MED desalination plant. and Future Plans Business Performance 34 ing fruit and Doosan VINA has won orders for a Rubber Tired Gantry Business Model Crane (RTGC) from Danang Port and two Rail Mounted Quayside Doosan VINA has also supplied four 800 MW HRSG units: two for Performance of Sustainability Management Risk, Opportunity and Business Strategy 38 Doosan VINA plays an important role linking Doosan Heavy IndusCranes from the Nghi Son Refinery & Petrochemicals project in the Kudgi India Power Plant Project and two for the Intergen Mexico Implemented the Community-based CSR Activities Upgrading Business Portfolio 40 tries & Construction’s global production system to Vietnamese inNorthern Vietnam. Power Plant Project. The company also expects to hand over the Through Community-based CSR activities in January 2014, Doosan dustry. The company produces power generation boilers, Heat ReMong Duong II (MDII) project (600MW x 2) in Vietnam by the end VINA delivered multivitamins to 1,667 Quang Ngai children who sufCore Business Leadership 44 covery Steam Generators (HRSG), seawater desalination systems, of June 2015 which was Doosan VINA’s first Power Plant order in fered from poor nutrition. This ongoing project is a cooperative effort Strategy Upgrading Business System 48 large-scale cranes and equipment for the transfer of material and Vietnam. In addition to MDII, Doosan VINA has been busy producing with Doosan VINA, Internourish and the Community Health Cencargo containers, as well as Chemical Processing Equipment and Doosan VINA is an overseas production base for the parent comtons of high tech boilers components and structural steel for the ter and in July 2014, Doosan VINA conducted a medical volunteer facilities for refineries and other applications. Doosan VINA is being pany as well as a registered national Company. Doosan VINA has Vinh Tan IV power project (600MW x 2). service for local communities with Chung-ang University. Through Sustainable Management developed based on a vision to expand our production scale while played an active role in the Vietnamese power sector ever since These and other massive infrastructure projects have confirmed these efforts, Doosan VINA checked the health of 2,000 residents EHS (Environment, Health and Safety) 58 strengthening our technical capability. commencing operations in 2009. Today we can see that our efforts Doosan Vina’s presence on the global stage and its mastery of: in Quang Ngai and provided medical supplies to the needy. Anothto partner with domestic and international companies in the secer initiative for the poor is “Love Porridge” delivering meals to the Talent Management 64 Power plant, Desalination, Material Handling and Chemical Protor are paying dividends in terms of increased power coming online cessing technology. needy. The company also sponsors blood donation programs held Social Contribution 70 Corporate Governance and the domestic ability of the nation. Since 2010 we’ve designed, by the Red Cross in Quang Ngai. Meanwhile, Doosan VINA donatPhase two of the company’s growth involves talent development Doosan Day of Community Service 74 Doosan VINA’s Board of Directors consists of eight people. The engineered, manufactured, and have, or are in the process of coned medical equipment to the general hospital in Binh Son through and skill enhancement which will keep us innovative, competitive board includes the Business Group heads from Doosan Heavy structing: Mong Duong II, Vinh Tan IV and Song Hau I thermal power a “Health Equipment Donation” program. Doosan Vina employees Customer Satisfaction 76 and advance our technological edge. A large part of this initiative Industries & Construction and Doosan VINA’s local management plants. Doosan VINA’s future plans call for a strengthening of our loalso carried out various volunteer work for the neglected people centers on Doosan VINA implementing lean transformation activities including the CEO and the CFO. In order to protect the rights of its cal presence and our development as an independent operation cawho live on Ly Son Island, which is off the coast in Quang Ngai Provand engaging all employees in the Operational Excellence program. Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries stakeholders the Doosan VINA board operates based on the Doopable of providing complete turnkey infrastructure engineering and ince. Employees also collected old clothes together with Chung-ang san Way with a focus on transparency and open sharing of opinions production that will enable us to be a top global production player, University and raised money for a CSR fund. One other big event Doosan Power Systems 80 that are related to the company’s operation. supplying world-class equipment to customers around the world. Future Plans is the Doosan Day of Community Service, building toilets, building Doosan Power Systems India 84 As a global production base, Doosan VINA will maintain close a football pitch, and other facilities at Binh Thuan Primary School. Strategic Activities for Strengthening Local Presence cooperation with the head office of Doosan Heavy Industries & Doosan VINA also provided opportunities for Vietnam’s archery athDoosan VINA 87 Name Major Experience and Job Position Construction, while also focusing on exploring new markets and letes to receive training in Korea through cooperation with the Korea Hwangjik Lee Head of Boiler Business Group, DHIC · Implementing CSR activities customized to local situations customers. In particular, starting from 2014, Doosan VINA expects Archery Association. Appendix Seokwon Yoon Head of Water Business Group, DHIC ·E  stablishing long-term relationships good results from Southeastern Asian countries like Singapore and Contributed to Creating a Safe and Performance Index 93 ·C  ontributing to industrial development and localization of Vietnam Malaysia where marketing activities have been launched to win orHoseon Shin Head of CPE Business Group, DE&C (HR development and technology transfer) ders. To achieve this, Doosan VINA plans to strengthen production Clean Local Communities Stakeholders 123 Hangha Ryu CEO of Doosan Vina competitiveness and increase business opportunities by ensuring To be a good citizen of the community and fulfill the role of an Expanding the Capacity to Supply Components and eco-friendly company, Doosan VINA manages the emission control Materiality Analysis 124 quality and delivery and enhancing cost competitiveness. Also, Hyuk Kim Head of operational excellence, DHIC Securing Competitiveness Doosan VINA plans to establish a concrete EPC business base in of air and water pollutants to be 60% better than the legal standard, GRI Index 126 Jongmun Lee DHIC Controller Vietnam’s power generation market that is expected to amount to while exceeding recycling requirements by 68%. The company also · Increasing professional items sponsors programs to control insects, diseases and other pests in Audit Report 128 Byunghui Lee CFO of Doosan Vina (facilities for transport of materials, BOP products, etc.) about 30GW by 2020. In the future, Doosan VINA ‘s operations in Asian countries will expand by securing additional business capathe area. Assurance Statement 130 Sungan Oh Director of CPE Doosan Vina ·D  eveloping engineering and estimation capabilities ·G  rowing marketing professionals and their capabilities bilities and cutting-edge technology and through the development And finally “Safety First” is a way of life and training and education is (As of June, 2015) of outstanding local talent. a continuous effort both at work and at home. Navigation Menu 2014 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction CEO Message 04 Doosan Credo 06 Doosan Group 08 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is aiming Doosan’s Philosophy 09 to become a proud Doosan in the world by providing Management Framework Company Profile 12 products and services that enhance the quality of Introduction of Business 14 Business Model 16 life and ensuring trust in its relationships with all Performance Summary 18 Governance 20 stakeholders, as well as implementing all business Vision and Strategy 22 Ethical Management 24 activities honestly and transparently. Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries 2014 Doosan Way 26 2014 Highlights 28 Strategy and Performance Business Environment Analysis 32 Business Performance 34 Risk, Opportunity and Business Strategy 38 Upgrading Business Portfolio 40 Core Business Leadership 44 Upgrading Business System 48 Sustainable Management EHS (Environment, Health and Safety) 58 Talent Management 64 Social Contribution 70 Doosan Day of Community Service 74 Customer Satisfaction 76 Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries Doosan Power Systems 80 Doosan Power Systems India 84 Doosan VINA 87 Appendix Performance Index 93 Stakeholders 123 Materiality Analysis 124 GRI Index 126 Audit Report 128 Assurance Statement 130 Performance of Overseas Management Framework Strategy and Performance Sustainable Management Subsidiaries Appendix 93 Navigation Menu Economy 2014 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Consolidated Statements of Financial Position As at December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012 CEO Message 04 Doosan Credo 06 Doosan Group 08 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Co., Ltd. and its subsidiaries (Unit : Korean won in units) Doosan’s Philosophy 09 December 31, 2012 (Restated) December 31, 2013 (Restated) December 31, 2014 Management Framework Appendix Assets Company Profile 12 Current assets 12,627,550,766,857 11,174,222,538,459 10,812,341,341,836 Introduction of Business 14 Cash and cash equivalents 1,827,151,710,134 942,761,662,374 1,297,560,213,962 Business Model 16 Short-term financial instruments 506,615,552,152 777,857,734,507 591,481,515,302 Performance Summary 18 Short-term investments in securities 737,414,980 11,917,827,393 31,385,470,088 Governance 20 Trade receivables 3,031,553,045,628 2,776,055,294,417 2,521,793,239,668 Vision and Strategy 22 Due from customers for contract work 1,940,352,326,496 2,341,388,036,045 2,078,028,129,655 Ethical Management 24 Other receivables 341,450,741,211 399,665,688,714 331,073,026,441 2014 Doosan Way 26 Prepayments 794,144,278,612 570,231,903,673 623,678,714,210 2014 Highlights 28 93 124 128 Prepaid expenses 146,652,903,966 119,671,338,313 97,716,964,385 Performance Index Materiality Analysis Audit Report Short-term loans 837,731,019,204 617,545,492,572 541,593,602,039 Strategy and Performance Derivative financial assets 354,728,817,195 123,034,100,744 37,340,410,136 Business Environment Analysis 32 123 126 130 Firm commitment assets 107,997,479,515 22,095,293,873 64,068,051,449 Business Performance 34 Stakeholders GRI Index Assurance Statement Inventories 2,457,347,033,791 2,205,794,006,937 2,331,909,520,735 Risk, Opportunity and Business Strategy 38 Other current assets 255,871,786,785 243,191,832,090 264,712,483,766 Upgrading Business Portfolio 40 Non-current assets classified as held-for-sale 25,216,657,188 23,012,326,807 Core Business Leadership 44 Non-current assets 15,286,735,635,860 16,551,257,576,292 16,739,565,170,467 Upgrading Business System 48 Long-term financial instruments 75,285,948,214 87,452,362,744 84,712,208,686 Long-term investments in securities 290,193,237,660 200,132,851,400 187,942,074,247 Sustainable Management Share of investments in associates and joint ventures 292,433,512,472 312,921,350,015 226,744,904,296 EHS (Environment, Health and Safety) 58 Long-term loans 48,274,213,572 519,007,967,286 719,430,932,517 Talent Management 64 Property, plant and equipment 6,155,696,699,059 7,231,823,590,854 7,190,139,774,839 Social Contribution 70 Intangible assets 6,874,439,247,325 6,924,583,095,371 6,863,345,310,432 Doosan Day of Community Service 74 Investment property 107,949,380,800 69,939,577,561 68,163,327,038 Customer Satisfaction 76 Derivative financial assets 199,116,083,882 119,236,994,110 27,913,927,369 Firm commitment assets 79,903,845,589 31,003,113,369 56,626,716,041 Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries Guarantee deposits 238,632,413,669 245,391,277,932 309,024,141,234 Doosan Power Systems 80 Deferred tax assets 873,122,345,096 752,356,463,180 944,406,898,458 Doosan Power Systems India 84 Other non-current assets 51,688,708,522 57,408,932,470 61,114,955,310 Doosan VINA 87 Total assets 27,914,286,402,717 27,725,480,114,751 27,551,906,512,303 Liabilities and equity Appendix Current liabilities: 12,318,358,781,593 10,572,273,744,543 11,132,072,630,704 Performance Index 93 Trade payables 2,224,232,748,347 2,285,172,690,453 2,691,130,566,041 Stakeholders 123 Short-term borrowings 2,999,325,344,770 2,401,143,971,677 2,967,464,808,128 Materiality Analysis 124 Asset-backed loan 176,000,000,000 270,000,000,000 397,347,705,208 GRI Index 126 Other payables 763,759,191,711 630,132,663,407 720,622,823,183 Audit Report 128 Advanced receipts 556,114,414,351 429,706,500,550 361,265,911,412 Assurance Statement 130 Due to customers for contract work 2,083,288,925,907 1,658,024,496,845 1,120,201,735,582 Performance of Overseas 94 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Management Framework Strategy and Performance Sustainable Management Subsidiaries Appendix 95 Navigation Menu Economy Economy 2014 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Consolidated Statements of Financial Position Consolidated Statements of Profit or Loss As at December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012 As at December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012 CEO Message 04 Doosan Credo 06 Doosan Group 08 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Co., Ltd. and its subsidiaries (Unit : Korean won in units) Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Co., Ltd. and its subsidiaries (Unit : Korean won in units) Doosan’s Philosophy 09 December 31, 2012 (Restated) December 31, 2013 (Restated) December 31, 2014 December 31, 2012 (Restated) December 31, 2013 (Restated) December 31, 2014 Management Framework Withholdings 113,889,650,876 68,062,469,620 116,998,812,277 Revenue 21,274,062,812,939 19,208,173,507,456 18,127,522,740,877 Company Profile 12 Accrued expenses 586,014,813,354 510,816,836,799 488,643,525,511 Cost of sales 17,787,819,506,967 16,021,590,971,115 15,045,185,645,865 Introduction of Business 14 Current tax liabilities 65,703,887,865 186,279,450,215 69,207,517,934 Gross profit 3,486,243,305,972 3,186,582,536,341 3,082,337,095,012 Business Model 16 Current portion of long-term debt 2,018,642,000,291 1,535,151,584,309 1,631,163,514,293 Selling and administrative expenses 2,900,091,789,400 2,228,510,805,119 2,194,098,255,309 Performance Summary 18 Derivative financial liabilities 268,445,755,314 119,688,709,263 185,685,205,347 Operating profit 586,151,516,572 958,071,731,222 888,238,839,703 Governance 20 Firm commitment liabilities 236,352,740,530 190,652,648,109 65,365,984,651 Finance income 1,345,876,981,803 1,056,743,438,486 922,702,760,511 Vision and Strategy 22 Other provisions 145,335,178,277 147,587,636,606 137,223,875,500 Finance costs 2,096,948,090,856 1,770,132,965,167 1,775,057,342,066 Ethical Management 24 Other current liabilities 81,254,130,000 139,854,086,690 179,750,645,637 Other non-operating income 129,647,790,218 144,397,423,635 139,848,397,991 2014 Doosan Way 26 Non-current liabilities 9,609,467,737,926 9,241,412,168,643 8,742,832,161,667 Other non-operating expense 388,739,909,559 271,371,858,594 281,984,541,568 2014 Highlights 28 Debentures 3,100,748,522,158 2,887,157,633,453 3,009,799,381,248 Share of loss in associates and joint ventures (81,033,575,314) (47,619,865,974) (79,859,494,061) Long-term borrowings 4,044,460,065,199 4,287,909,733,652 3,597,626,371,249 Profit for the year before tax (505,045,287,136) 70,087,903,608 (186,111,379,490) Strategy and Performance Long-term asset-backed loan 130,800,000,000 42,677,714,962 Income tax expense (benefit) (602,520,873,742) 51,425,077,676 (100,636,032,310) Business Environment Analysis 32 Long-term other payables 61,118,730,424 47,405,256,022 51,247,058,484 Profit for the year 97,475,586,606 18,662,825,932 (85,475,347,180) Business Performance 34 Employee benefits liabilities 1,141,540,892,075 930,390,792,822 1,020,609,311,678 Attributable to: Risk, Opportunity and Business Strategy 38 Deposits received 252,132,774,869 255,307,344,867 223,675,032,387 Equity holders of the parent 42,572,800,059 69,223,510,612 (94,675,179,547) Upgrading Business Portfolio 40 Derivative financial liabilities 171,685,644,785 86,766,639,332 128,730,391,781 Non-controlling interests 54,902,786,547 (50,560,684,680) 9,199,832,367 Core Business Leadership 44 Firm commitment liabilities 163,628,819,304 76,128,783,708 26,648,783,925 Earnings per share: Upgrading Business System 48 Deferred tax liabilities 64,013,819,102 173,871,721,051 82,460,285,676 Basic, profit for the period attributable to ordinary 478 772 (1,082) equity holders of the parent Other provisions 271,489,891,568 270,763,381,188 237,747,776,849 Sustainable Management Diluted, profit for the period attributable to ordinary 478 772 (1,082) Other non-current liabilities 207,848,578,442 225,710,882,548 321,610,053,428 equity holders of the parent EHS (Environment, Health and Safety) 58 Total liabilities 21,927,826,519,519 19,813,685,913,186 19,874,904,792,371 Talent Management 64 Equity Social Contribution 70 Equity attributable to owners of parent 3,818,743,081,490 4,726,636,500,447 4,659,419,568,882 Doosan Day of Community Service 74 Issued capital 529,281,335,000 530,791,280,000 596,808,980,000 Customer Satisfaction 76 Capital surplus 1,388,235,128,479 1,521,655,341,205 1,828,284,636,585 Other components of equity (130,898,969,345) (13,188,236,134) (101,795,674,821) Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) (275,358,393,813) 324,556,819,190 220,918,859,061 Doosan Power Systems 80 Retained earnings 2,307,483,981,169 2,362,821,296,186 2,115,202,768,057 Doosan Power Systems India 84 Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 2,167,716,801,708 3,185,157,701,118 3,017,582,151,050 Doosan VINA 87 Hybrid equity instruments 508,259,603,649 508,259,603,649 508,259,603,649 Other non-controlling interests 1,659,457,198,059 2,676,898,097,469 2,509,322,547,401 Appendix Total equity 5,986,459,883,198 7,911,794,201,565 7,677,001,719,932 Performance Index 93 Total liabilities and equity 27,914,286,402,717 27,725,480,114,751 27,551,906,512,303 Stakeholders 123 Materiality Analysis 124 GRI Index 126 Audit Report 128 Assurance Statement 130 Performance of Overseas 96 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Management Framework Strategy and Performance Sustainable Management Subsidiaries Appendix 97 Navigation Menu Economy Economy 2014 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income or Loss Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity As at December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012 As at December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012 CEO Message 04 Doosan Credo 06 Doosan Group 08 Doosan’s Philosophy 09 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Co., Ltd. and its subsidiaries (Unit : Korean won in units) Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Co., Ltd. and its subsidiaries (Unit : Korean won in units) Issued capital Capital surplus Other components Accumulated other Retained earnings Non-controlling Total equity Management Framework December 31, 2012 (Restated) December 31, 2013 (Restated) December 31, 2014 of equity comprehensive interest income (loss) Company Profile 12 Profit for the year 97,475,586,606 18,662,825,932 (85,475,347,180) As at January 1, 2012 (As stated) 529,217,335,000 883,636,599,252 (197,869,705,823) 2,321,193,932 3,553,289,725,308 26,332,871,815 4,796,928,019,484 Introduction of Business 14 Other comprehensive income (296,594,523,474) 845,763,847,903 (339,645,498,514) Changes in accounting policies 511,088,058,066 57,026,761,426 (108,327,441,457) (1,211,545,026,339) 1,717,546,932,286 965,789,283,982 Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss in (10,006,389,197) 1,012,330,726,069 (110,653,424,631) Business Model 16 As at January 1, 2012 (Restated) 529,217,335,000 1,394,724,657,318 (140,842,944,397) (106,006,247,525) 2,341,744,698,969 1,743,879,804,101 5,762,717,303,466 subsequent periods: Performance Summary 18 Profit for the year 42,572,800,059 54,902,786,547 97,475,586,606 Remeasurement of the net defined benefit liabilities (10,006,389,197) 141,473,301,425 (110,461,283,972) Remeasurement of the net defined benefit (10,060,296,359) 53,907,162 (10,006,389,197) Governance 20 Net gain on revaluation of land 870,857,424,644 (192,140,659) liability, net of tax Vision and Strategy 22 Items that may be reclassified to profit or loss in (286,588,134,277) (166,566,878,166) (228,992,073,883) Net change in fair value of available-for-sale (30,526,891,363) (842,124,506) (31,369,015,869) subsequent periods: financial assets Ethical Management 24 Effective portion of change in fair value of (25,517,456,062) 50,372,290,290 24,854,834,228 Net change in unrealized fair value of available-for-sale (31,369,015,869) (19,947,267,764) 1,496,857,115 cash flow hedges 2014 Doosan Way 26 financial assets Equity adjustments in equity method (2,416,210,760) (600,739,863) (3,016,950,623) 2014 Highlights 28 Effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow 24,854,834,228 (50,657,406,284) (3,822,332,135) investments hedges Net loss on translation of overseas operations (110,891,588,103) (166,165,413,910) (277,057,002,013) Strategy and Performance Equity adjustments in equity method (3,016,950,623) (3,131,825,306) (2,626,931) Total comprehensive income (169,352,146,288) 32,512,503,700 (62,279,294,280) (199,118,936,868) Business Environment Analysis 32 Net gain (loss) on translation of overseas operations (277,057,002,013) (92,830,378,812) (226,663,971,932) Dividends (66,773,221,500) (101,023,939) (66,874,245,439) Business Performance 34 Total comprehensive income (loss), net of tax (199,118,936,868) 864,426,673,835 (425,120,845,694) Stock option exercised 64,000,000 1,562,517,420 2,193,164,502 3,819,681,922 Attributable to: Changes in share of subsidiaries (12,874,058,540) (13,087,890,301) (25,961,948,841) Risk, Opportunity and Business Strategy 38 Equity holders of the parent (136,839,642,588) 728,097,030,565 (277,122,175,008) Conversion of preferred stock 20,802,910,754 (31,377,902,976) (10,574,992,222) Upgrading Business Portfolio 40 Issueance of hybrid equity instruments 508,259,603,649 508,259,603,649 Non-controlling interests (62,279,294,280) 136,329,643,270 (147,998,670,686) Core Business Leadership 44 Others (8,052,046,259) (178,041,664) 22,423,505,454 14,193,417,531 Upgrading Business System 48 As at December 31, 2012 529,281,335,000 1,388,235,128,479 (130,898,969,345) (275,358,393,813) 2,307,483,981,169 2,167,716,801,708 5,986,459,883,198 Sustainable Management As at January 1, 2013 529,281,335,000 1,388,235,128,479 (130,898,969,345) (275,358,393,813) 2,307,483,981,169 2,167,716,801,708 5,986,459,883,198 EHS (Environment, Health and Safety) 58 Profit for the year 69,223,510,612 (50,560,684,680) 18,662,825,932 Talent Management 64 Remeasurement of the net defined benefit 58,821,074,484 82,652,226,941 141,473,301,425 liabilities, net of tax Social Contribution 70 Net change in fair value of available-for-sale (16,948,721,673) (2,998,546,091) (19,947,267,764) financial assets Doosan Day of Community Service 74 Effective portion of changes in fair value of (39,443,253,772) (11,214,152,512) (50,657,406,284) Customer Satisfaction 76 cash flow hedges Equity adjustments in equity method (2,759,877,145) (371,948,161) (3,131,825,306) investments – debit Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries Net gain on translation of overseas operations (75,377,416,616) (17,452,962,196) (92,830,378,812) Doosan Power Systems 80 Net gain on revaluation of land 734,444,482,209 137,232,466 136,275,709,969 870,857,424,644 Doosan Power Systems India 84 Total comprehensive income 599,915,213,003 128,181,817,562 136,329,643,270 864,426,673,835 Doosan VINA 87 Dividends (66,782,821,500) (66,782,821,500) Disposal of treasury shares 138,453,881,054 117,261,964,907 255,715,845,961 Appendix Increase of paid-in capital 1,503,445,000 11,110,458,550 12,613,903,550 Performance Index 93 Stock option exercised 6,500,000 1,680,183,612 2,373,021,858 4,059,705,470 Capital increase by issuing new shares of (15,873,883,811) (893,975,027) 900,683,691,982 883,915,833,144 Stakeholders 123 subsidiaries Materiality Analysis 124 Transaction of treasury shares by subsidiaries (430,635,167) (11,337,366,949) (11,768,002,116) GRI Index 126 Dividends from hybrid equity instruments (6,061,681,045) (7,477,714,955) (13,539,396,000) Others (1,519,791,512) (1,030,278,527) (757,353,938) (3,307,423,977) Audit Report 128 As at December 31, 2013 530,791,280,000 1,521,655,341,205 (13,188,236,134) 324,556,819,190 2,362,821,296,186 3,185,157,701,118 7,911,794,201,565 Assurance Statement 130 Performance of Overseas 98 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Management Framework Strategy and Performance Sustainable Management Subsidiaries Appendix 99 Navigation Menu Economy Economy 2014 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows As at December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012 As at December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012 CEO Message 04 Doosan Credo 06 Doosan Group 08 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Co., Ltd. and its subsidiaries (Unit : Korean won in units) Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Co., Ltd. and its subsidiaries (Unit : Korean won in units) Doosan’s Philosophy 09 Issued capital Capital surplus Other components Accumulated other Retained earnings Non-controlling Total equity of equity comprehensive interest December 31, 2012 December 31, 2013 December 31, 2014 Management Framework income (loss) Operating activities: Company Profile 12 As at January 1, 2014 530,791,280,000 1,521,655,341,205 (13,188,236,134) 324,556,819,190 2,362,821,296,186 3,185,157,701,118 7,911,794,201,565 Cash generated from operating activities: Introduction of Business 14 Profit (loss) for the year (94,675,179,547) 9,199,832,367 (85,475,347,180) Remeasurement of the net defined benefit (78,809,035,332) (31,652,248,640) (110,461,283,972) Profit (loss) for the year 97,475,586,606 18,662,825,932 (85,475,347,180) Business Model 16 liabilities, net of tax Adjustments 1,835,842,591,112 1,777,624,103,190 1,830,501,922,424 Performance Summary 18 Net change in fair value of available-for-sale 1,225,076,566 271,780,549 1,496,857,115 financial assets Working capital adjustments (858,986,178,316) (924,436,130,462) (345,912,328,229) Governance 20 Effective portion of changes in fair value of 22,759,131,454 (26,581,463,589) (3,822,332,135) 85,375,600,491 65,650,972,160 55,528,847,058 cash flow hedges Interest received Vision and Strategy 22 Equity adjustments in equity method (285,147,403) 282,520,472 (2,626,931) Interest paid (1,215,366,405,655) (700,940,713,445) (618,203,026,965) Ethical Management 24 investments – debit Dividends received 6,455,014,353 5,624,266,779 1,558,270,393 2014 Doosan Way 26 Net loss on translation of overseas operations (127,258,420,339) (99,405,551,593) (226,663,971,932) Income taxes paid (278,022,274,592) (91,747,497,840) (234,189,415,047) Net loss on revaluation of land (78,600,407) (113,540,252) (192,140,659) 2014 Highlights 28 Total comprehensive income (103,637,960,129) (173,484,214,879) (147,998,670,686) (425,120,845,694) Net cash flows provided by operating activities (327,226,066,001) 150,437,826,314 603,808,922,454 Dividends (74,134,313,250) (74,134,313,250) Strategy and Performance Increase in paid-in capital 66,017,700,000 306,661,174,818 372,678,874,818 Investing activities: Business Environment Analysis 32 Stock option 3,833,716,128 (1,152,593,529) 2,681,122,599 Proceeds from disposal of short-term financial instruments 72,576,472,947 139,897,985,814 288,798,834,598 Business Performance 34 Dividends of the subsidiaries (28,418,000,000) (28,418,000,000) Proceeds from disposal of short-term investments in securities 4,151,170,000 47,109,274,754 73,071,978,911 Risk, Opportunity and Business Strategy 38 Transactions of treasury shares by (6,431,255,653) (85,639,596,240) 10,360,243,563 (81,710,608,330) subsidiaries Collection of short-term loans 318,523,712,594 119,408,535,287 181,531,790,623 Upgrading Business Portfolio 40 Acquisition of investments in subsidiaries (1,461,576,738) (3,301,762,262) (4,763,339,000) Proceeds from disposal of long-term financial instruments 2,524,467,359 9,611,466,277 4,431,747,297 Core Business Leadership 44 Capital increase by issuing new shares of (70,366,602) (56,319,012) 126,685,614 subsidiaries Proceeds from disposal of long-term investment in securities 8,669,434,807 93,255,887,013 6,911,704,798 Upgrading Business System 48 Issuance of convertible bonds by subsidiaries 1,407,042,703 262,245,117 1,669,287,820 Collection of long-term loans 1,496,624,257 27,494,654,224 78,556,516,994 Others 1,228,983,986 (297,353,168) 1,393,708,586 2,325,339,404 Proceeds from disposal of investments in associates and joint ventures 6,474,033,289 Sustainable Management As at December 31, 2014 596,808,980,000 1,828,284,636,585 (101,795,674,821) 220,918,859,061 2,115,202,768,057 3,017,582,151,050 7,677,001,719,932 Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 110,572,135,345 109,620,267,563 14,126,457,253 EHS (Environment, Health and Safety) 58 Proceeds from disposal of intangible assets 4,766,666,227 4,424,797,402 3,555,188,974 Talent Management 64 Proceeds from disposal of investment property 1,518,996,937 56,475,398,106 1,486,728,579 Social Contribution 70 Proceeds from disposal of non-current assets classified as held-for-sale 12,500,000,000 4,872,000,000 9,665,880,000 Doosan Day of Community Service 74 Changes in scope of consolidated subsidiaries 4,687,791,850 Customer Satisfaction 76 Acquisition of short-term financial instruments (242,935,163,970) (426,032,782,232) (95,207,452,344) Acquisition of short-term investments in securities (39,282,339,734) (65,228,155,478) Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries Increase in short-term loans (333,653,422,966) (389,349,882,306) (104,582,725,328) Doosan Power Systems 80 Acquisition of long-term financial instruments (17,444,235,809) (22,234,079,904) (1,117,551,401) Doosan Power Systems India 84 Acquisition of long-term investment in securities (67,555,363,527) (28,438,447,392) (20,269,579,917) Doosan VINA 87 Increase in long-term loans (1,364,792,000) (22,196,476,852) (293,311,264,050) Acquisition of investments in associates and joint ventures (13,272,284,877) (72,999,741,669) (268,400,000) Appendix Acquisition of property, plant and equipment (697,165,619,586) (401,455,378,897) (372,668,244,664) Performance Index 93 Acquisition of intangible assets (255,380,170,910) (262,340,746,210) (260,695,999,999) Stakeholders 123 Acquisition of investment property (911,530,557) Materiality Analysis 124 Net cash flow used in investing activities (1,091,471,373,172) (1,048,383,347,463) (544,738,511,865) GRI Index 126 Audit Report 128 Assurance Statement 130 Performance of Overseas 100 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Management Framework Strategy and Performance Sustainable Management Subsidiaries Appendix 101 Navigation Menu Economy Economy 2014 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (cont'd) As at December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012 CEO Message 04 Doosan Credo 06 Doosan Group 08 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Co., Ltd. and its subsidiaries (Unit : Korean won in units) 1.2 Analysis of business performance Doosan’s Philosophy 09 December 31, 2012 December 31, 2013 December 31, 2014 Management Framework Sales by business area (Unit : KRW 1 million) Financing activities: Company Profile 12 Net increase in short-term borrowings 152,061,921,672 580,935,632,821 Classification 2013 2014 Variation Rate of change Introduction of Business 14 Proceeds from short-term bonds 117,000,000,000 30,000,000,000 Power generation 6,599,256 5,612,553 (986,703) (14.95%) Business Model 16 Proceeds from asset backed loans 330,000,000,016 620,000,000,000 1,028,000,000,000 Water 781,660 575,621 (206,039) (26.36%) Performance Summary 18 Issuance of debentures 1,580,757,793,885 1,155,801,483,500 649,688,561,247 Industry 159,500 139,259 (20,241) (12.69%) Governance 20 Proceeds from long-term borrowings 1,478,984,400,000 1,330,355,765,610 2,842,390,469,873 Castings & Forgings 362,514 364,831 2,317 0.64% Vision and Strategy 22 Proceeds from disposal of treasury shares 299,918,800,070 Construction 582,211 571,734 (10,477) (1.80%) Ethical Management 24 Proceeds from disposal of treasury shares by subsidiaries 3,963,729,410 Wholesale and retail sales, etc. 124 (124) 0% 2014 Doosan Way 26 Capital increase by issuing new shares 372,678,874,818 Doosan Infracore 7,736,676 7,687,803 (48,873) (0.63%) 2014 Highlights 28 Capital increase by issuing new shares of subsidiaries 530,535,202,054 883,915,833,144 Doosan Engine 740,964 885,782 144,818 19.54% Stock option exercised 2,133,180,000 43,160,000 Doosan Engineering & 2,245,269 2,289,940 44,671 1.99% Strategy and Performance Construction Net decrease in short-term borrowings (17,005,645,675) Business Environment Analysis 32 Total sales 19,208,174 18,127,523 (1,080,651) (5.63%) Repayment of current portion of long-term debt (2,428,799,578,047) (2,336,435,388,570) (2,030,330,435,447) Business Performance 34 * Based on net sales excluding internal sales Repayment of assets backed loans (388,559,277,489) (656,800,000,000) (829,350,000,000) Risk, Opportunity and Business Strategy 38 Repayment of debentures (167,447,660,442) (310,174,143,523) (137,771,678,621) Market share by product Upgrading Business Portfolio 40 Repayment of long-term borrowings (10,840,288,898) (982,493,058,161) (1,990,867,314,625) Core Business Leadership 44 Dividends paid (66,773,221,500) (66,782,821,500) (74,134,313,250) Area Classification 2012 2013 2014 Note Upgrading Business System 48 Dividends paid by the subsidiaries (101,023,939) (17,862,000,000) (28,418,000,000) Power Nuclear Domestic 100% 100% 100% · Domestic: Based on main Acquisition of additional shares in subsidiaries (3,699,999,990) (4,763,339,000) generation equipment of the Korea Electric Thermal power Domestic 14.90% Sustainable Management facilities Power Corporation (KEPCO) and the Acquisition of treasury shares by subsidiaries (11,768,002,116) (85,674,337,740) boilers Overseas1) Coal Boilers 20.30% 16.50% 16.50% Korea Hydro and Nuclear Power EHS (Environment, Health and Safety) 58 · Overseas : MacCoys Database Net cash flows provided by financing activities 1,011,951,447,312 4,013,982,789 326,347,849,486 Talent Management 64 Turbines Domestic 14.90% 100% 100% Overseas1) Steam 3.50% 3.40% 3.40% Social Contribution 70 Other net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents: Turbines Doosan Day of Community Service 74 Net foreign exchange difference (2,986,646,302) 9,541,490,600 (30,619,708,487) Gas Turbines 0.60% 1.10% 1.10% Customer Satisfaction 76 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (409,732,638,163) (884,390,047,760) 354,798,551,588 Water Desalination / Overseas2) 80% 24% Based on large PJT of more than water treatment 12 MIGD around the world Cash and cash equivalents as at January 1 2,236,884,348,297 1,827,151,710,134 942,761,662,374 facilities Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries Cash and cash equivalents as at December 31 1,827,151,710,134 942,761,662,374 1,297,560,213,962 Industrial Transport facilities Domestic3) 36.10% 62.50% Doosan Power Systems 80 facilities Overseas3) Doosan Power Systems India 84 Castings & Castings 21.10% 26.60% 25.90% Compared to accessible domestic Doosan VINA 87 Forgings market size Forgings 45.40% 48.30% 53.10% Crank Shaft 96.20% 98.40% 95.90% Appendix Mold & tool steel 57.80% 57.80% 58.10% Performance Index 93 Work Roll 68.50% 67.50% 68.10% Stakeholders 123 Construction Market share 0.48% 1.87% 0.49% Based on the Construction Materiality Analysis 124 Association of Korea data GRI Index 126 1) Overseas market share is based on the McCoys Report, while the Chinese market that has been closed was excluded. Also, the market share of the current term was not disclosed during the report period, so that the market share of the previous term was used again. Audit Report 128 2) The market share of large-scale PJT that is more than 12 MIGD in the GCC region until 2012 is included, and starting from 2013, the market share of large-scale JTP that is more than 12 MIGD around the world is included. 3) No domestic orders for transport facilities in the current term, and no overseas orders as well. Assurance Statement 130 Performance of Overseas 102 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Management Framework Strategy and Performance Sustainable Management Subsidiaries Appendix 103 Navigation Menu Economy Economy 2014 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction CEO Message 04 Doosan Credo 06 Doosan Group 08 1.4 Pension (G4-EC3) Doosan’s Philosophy 09 Present status of sales by region (Unit : KRW 1 million) Retirement Pension System Management Framework Item 2012 2013 2014 Company Profile 12 Domestic 7,951,859 7,855,614 7,982,925 Classification Unit Contents Introduction of Business 14 America 2,898,032 2,683,294 3,083,606 Starting date of retirement pension 2012.12.14 Business Model 16 Asia 3,119,586 3,020,160 2,467,163 Operational amount of retirement pension (DB) KRW 3,592 Performance Summary 18 1,812,193 100 Middle East 4,219,728 2,932,514 million Governance 20 Europe 2,944,656 2,612,451 2,742,411 Number of persons subscribed (DB) persons 7,094 Vision and Strategy 22 Others 140,202 104,141 39,225 Number of persons subscribed (total) persons 7,094 Ethical Management 24 Subtotal 21,274,063 19,208,174 18,127,523 2014 Doosan Way 26 * Based on net sales excluding internal sales 1.5 Ratio of the basic starting salary by gender (G4-EC5) 2014 Highlights 28 1.3 R&D Strategy and Performance Ratio of the basic starting salary by gender in comparison with the minimum salary of the region where the main work site is located Business Environment Analysis 32 R&D costs (Unit : KRW 1 million) Classification Unit Contents Note Business Performance 34 Classification Unit 2012 2013 2014 Legal minimum salary KRW 5,210 Based on 2014 Risk, Opportunity and Business Strategy 38 Accounting management Capitalization (intangible KRW 1 218,603 240,173 238,528 New employees’ salary KRW 17,515 No difference in salary between male and female, based on university Upgrading Business Portfolio 40 assets) of development million graduate engineers’ salary, based on 226 working hours per month. costs Core Business Leadership 44 R&D costs (expenses) KRW 1 269,922 289,910 295,176 Upgrading Business System 48 million 1.6 Ratio of local high-ranking management (G4-EC6) Total R&D costs KRW 1 488,525 530,083 533,704 Sustainable Management million Ratio of high-ranking management employed locally at major work sites EHS (Environment, Health and Safety) 58 Sales KRW 1 21,274,063 19,208,174 18,127,523 million Talent Management 64 Classification Number of total workers abroad (number of persons) Number of local managers (number of persons) Ratio of locally hired managers (%) Ratio of R&D costs / sales % 2.30% 2.76% 2.94% Social Contribution 70 DPS 48 3 6.3 Doosan Day of Community Service 74 DPSI 1,352 3 0.2 Customer Satisfaction 76 Present status of technology patents Doosan VINA 2397 7 0.3 Babcock 3,841 14 0.4 Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries Classification Unit 2012 2013 2014 Lentjes 236 2 0.8 Doosan Power Systems 80 Number of cases of IP registration (domestic) cases 68 50 141 Škoda Power 1315 11 0.8 Doosan Power Systems India 84 Number of cases of IP registration (overseas) cases 5 6 9 Doosan VINA 87 Number of cases of IP registration (total) cases 73 56 150 Number of technology patents registered for new business cases 21 16 64 Appendix (domestic) Number of technology patents registered for new business cases 4 4 6 Performance Index 93 (overseas) Stakeholders 123 Number of technology patents registered for new business cases 25 20 70 (total) Materiality Analysis 124 Number of accumulated domestic and overseas patents cases 654 710 860 GRI Index 126 Audit Report 128 Assurance Statement 130 Performance of Overseas 104 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Management Framework Strategy and Performance Sustainable Management Subsidiaries Appendix 105 Navigation Menu Labor Labor 2014 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction CEO Message 04 Doosan Credo 06 Doosan Group 08 2.1 Present status of employment (G4-LA1 & 12) 2.2 Ratio of employees joined labor union and labor management council (G4-11) Doosan’s Philosophy 09 Classification Unit 2012 2013 2014 Classification Unit 2012 2013 2014 Management Framework By employment Regular employees persons 7,270 7,310 7,448 Number of total employees (subject to joining) persons 4,405 4,285 4,240 Company Profile 12 Irregular employees persons 1,445 1,393 940 Number of persons that joined labor union and laborpersons 2,315 2,196 2,241 Introduction of Business 14 management council Total persons 8,715 8,703 8,388 Business Model 16 Percentage of persons that joined labor union and labor% 52.6% 51.2% 53% By age (permanent Twenties persons 1,506 1,393 1,245 management council Performance Summary 18 positions) Thirties persons 1,952 2,153 2,398 Governance 20 Forties persons 2,235 2,136 2,101 Vision and Strategy 22 2.3 Percentage of employees who returned to work and long-service after leave, by gender (G4-LA3) Over fifties persons 1,577 1,628 1,704 Ethical Management 24 Total persons 7,270 7,310 7,448 Classification Unit 2012 2013 2014 2014 Doosan Way 26 By job Office jobs Executives persons 175 184 155 position Number of employees who availed maternity leave persons 24 34 46 2014 Highlights 28 (permanent Director, Senior Manager persons 681 768 793 Number of workers who returned to work after maternity leave persons 24 34 45 positions) Deputy General persons 2,051 2,010 2,156 Strategy and Performance Manager, Manager Number of employees who are still employed over one year persons 7 21 21 after return from maternity leave Business Environment Analysis 32 Assistant Manager, persons 899 1,037 1,144 Senior Staff Percentage of return to work after maternity leave % 100 100 98 Business Performance 34 Employee persons 1,203 1,066 947 Percentage of long-service of more than one year after % 44.4% 83.3% 87.50% Risk, Opportunity and Business Strategy 38 maternity leave Total persons 5,009 5,065 5,195 Upgrading Business Portfolio 40 Site / Factory Technology Director persons 25 37 44 Employees Core Business Leadership 44 Technology Senior persons 224 242 274 2.4 Minimum notification period for changes in management (G4-LA4) Deputy General Manager Upgrading Business System 48 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction notifies the labor union about major changes in the management, such as reduction of manpower, merger, transfer, Technology Deputy persons 511 655 676 take over, etc., and stipulates them in collective agreement after sufficient discussion. Also, in case of a dismissal, it should be notified to the employee conGeneral Manager cerned at least 30 days in advance. Sustainable Management Technology Manager persons 869 680 632 EHS (Environment, Health and Safety) 58 Technology Assistant persons 289 307 335 Talent Management 64 Manager Social Contribution 70 Employee persons 343 324 292 Doosan Day of Community Service 74 Total persons 2,261 2,245 2,253 Customer Satisfaction 76 Socially marginalized class Female persons 554 515 404 Disabled people persons 199 193 200 Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries National veterans persons 191 188 187 Doosan Power Systems 80 Total persons 944 896 791 Doosan Power Systems India 84 (Based on December 31, 2014) Doosan VINA 87 Appendix Performance Index 93 Stakeholders 123 Materiality Analysis 124 GRI Index 126 Audit Report 128 Assurance Statement 130 Performance of Overseas 106 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Management Framework Strategy and Performance Sustainable Management Subsidiaries Appendix 107 Navigation Menu Labor Labor 2014 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction CEO Message 04 Doosan Credo 06 Doosan Group 08 2.5 Accident rate (G4-LA6) 2.6 Average training hours received every year per employee (G4-LA9) Doosan’s Philosophy 09 Accident rate Classification Unit 2012 2013 2014 Management Framework Office jobs Number of trainees persons 5,009 5,065 5,195 Company Profile 12 Classification Unit 2012 2013 2014 Number of training hours Hours 51.39 65.25 121 Introduction of Business 14 Manufacturer Changwon Plant % 0.2 0.18 0.16 per person Business Model 16 Supplier % 0.06 0.13 0.07 Site / Factory Employees Number of trainees persons 2,261 2,245 2,253 Performance Summary 18 Construction Domestic Construction % 0.12 0.08 0.08 Number of training hours Hours 14.4 11.8 15.1 per person Governance 20 Overseas Construction 0.0077 0.0135 0.0077 Educational performance of Total training hours Hours 37,858 46,063 51,877 Vision and Strategy 22 1) Data on the accident rate of overseas construction is the LTIR (Lost Time Incident Rate) based on the US OSHA standard, which is not indicated in %. Technology Training Institute 2) D  omestic construction is based on the converted accident ratio announced by the Ministry of Employment and Labor in June 2015. Ethical Management 24 Converted accident rate: [ (Number of deaths X 5) + Number of injured / Number of regular employees] X 100 3) The accident rate of Changwon plant for 2013 and the accident rate of domestic and overseas construction for the last three years have been adjusted to the changed scoring criteria 2014 Doosan Way 26 Safety and health training for domestic and overseas construction projects 2014 Highlights 28 Zero accident hours of construction projects (*Based on December 31, 2014) Domestic Overseas Classification Unit Strategy and Performance 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 Classification Unit 2012 2013 2014 Business Environment Analysis 32 Number of personnel who completed basic training persons 32,905 35,599 31,999 56,583 Domestic Yongin Administration Town, Korea Hours 2,820,000 Business Performance 34 Number of personnel who completed special training persons 21,875 15,835 26,003 25,698 Main facilities for Singori Nuclear Power Hours 2,730,000 3,640,000 Risk, Opportunity and Business Strategy 38 Plants (#3 and #4) Total number of personnel who completed Safety training persons 54,780 51,434 58,002 82,281 Residential and commercial complex in Hours 1,000,000 1,910,000 Hours of Basic training Hours 68,654 73,696 63,998 76,168 Upgrading Business Portfolio 40 Heungin-dong, Korea Hours of Special training Hours 43,750 21,165 31,979 27,299 Core Business Leadership 44 Wonju-Gangneung rail construction 3-2 Hours 127,000 Total Hours of Safety training Hours 112,404 94,861 95,977 103,467 Upgrading Business System 48 Overseas Rabigh (Saudi Arabia) Hours 30,000,000 40,000,000 Ras Al Khair (Saudi Arabia) Hours 4,000,000 16,023,378 24,000,000 Sustainable Management Jedda RO (Saudi Arabia) Hours 3,000,000 Regular safety and health training for manufacturing business EHS (Environment, Health and Safety) 58 Yanbu (Saudi Arabia) Hours 1,500,000 2,000,000 Talent Management 64 Classification Unit 2012 2013 2014 JBL M (UAE) Hours 40,000,000 Social Contribution 70 Raipur (India) Hours 10,000,000 Site / Factory Employees (participants) persons 2,353 2,390 2,420 Doosan Day of Community Service 74 Mong-Duong 2 (Vietnam) Hours 5,000,000 10,000,000 Office jobs (participants) persons 2,750 2,489 2,563 Customer Satisfaction 76 Ain Sokhna (Egypt) Hours 3,000,000 8,500,000 Total (participants) persons 5,102 4,879 4,983 7,508,390 Site / Factory Employees (training hours) Hours 56,472 57,360 58,080 Noibai-Laocai Expressway (Vietnam) Hours Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries Kudgi (India) Hours 6,000,000 Office jobs (training hours) Hours 33,000 29,868 30,756 Doosan Power Systems 80 Al Khalij (Libya) Hours 3,000,000 Total (training hours) Hours 89,472 87,228 88,836 Doosan Power Systems India 84 Doosan VINA 87 2.7 Percentage of workers that received regular review on work performance and career development (G4-LA11) Appendix Classification Unit 2012 2013 2014 Performance Index 93 Regular Percentage of workers that received % 100% 100% 100% Stakeholders 123 employees regular performance assessment among permanent employees Materiality Analysis 124 Irregular Percentage of workers that received % 100% 100% 100% GRI Index 126 employees regular performance assessment among temporary employees Audit Report 128 Assurance Statement 130 Performance of Overseas 108 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Management Framework Strategy and Performance Sustainable Management Subsidiaries Appendix 109 Navigation Menu Labor Ethical Management 2014 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction CEO Message 04 Doosan Credo 06 Doosan Group 08 2.8 Total number of cases accepted, discovered and resolved through the official system for handling employee 3.1 Percentage of employees who received training and employees’ training hours on human rights policies and Doosan’s Philosophy 09 grievances (G4-LA16) procedures related to business (G4-HR2) Management Framework Classification Unit 2012 2013 2014 Classification Unit 2014 실적 Company Profile 12 Number of reports on labor practices raised through the official channel in 2014 cases 146 132 31 Total number of employees persons 8,388 Introduction of Business 14 Number of reports resolved during the reporting period out of the reports raised cases 101 107 19 Total number of training hours on human rights Hours 10,713 Business Model 16 through the official channel in 2014 Number of employees who received human rights education persons 7,189 Performance Summary 18 Percentage of employees who received human rights education % 87% Governance 20 Others 1. Performance of emergency training in 2014 (firefighting) Vision and Strategy 22 3.2 Percentage of security agents who received training on human rights policies and procedures related to business Ethical Management 24 Classification Performances in 2013 Performances in 2014 (G4-HR7) 2014 Doosan Way 26 Joint training with plant / team and the internal fire department 20 times 41 times Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has placed security agents in order to prepare for emergency situations, and also conducted training on CPR, fire Internal fire department’s tactical training 39 times 31 times prevention, including human rights education. 2014 Highlights 28 Joint training by private Not implemented 1 times Strategy and Performance Government and military Classification Unit 2012 2013 2014 Business Environment Analysis 32 Total 59 times 73 times Total number of security agents persons 82 78 75 Business Performance 34 Number of security agents who received human rights persons 82 78 75 education Risk, Opportunity and Business Strategy 38 Others 2. System for talent management Percentage of security agents who received human rights % 100% 100% 100% Upgrading Business Portfolio 40 education Core Business Leadership 44 Area Contents of activities Upgrading Business System 48 Strengthened Job · Operated the MBO for performance assessment system 3.3 Notification and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures (G4-SO4) Competencies · Established the development plan reflecting the CDP (Career Development Program) · Established the FC (Functional Competency) system Sustainable Management · Operated the BIG School (Business Intelligence School and the STEPS (Strategic Thinking Enhancement through Problem Solving) Classification Unit 2012 2013 2014 EHS (Environment, Health and Safety) 58 · Operated the learning credit system Percentage of employees who completed anti-corruption % 15% 26% 29% · Implemented the training for understanding cross-function Talent Management 64 education · Implemented customized training for employees working abroad Number of suppliers that held anti-corruption education persons 201 250 201 Social Contribution 70 · Established the E-library system Doosan Day of Community Service 74 Developed Site / · Operated the TMS (Technology Management School) program Factory Employees · Operated the two track training process Customer Satisfaction 76 · Operated the training courses by job stage 3.4 Identified anti-corruption cases and measures taken on them (G4-SO5) · Operated the internal university Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries · Implemented the overseas recruiting Classification Unit 2012 2013 2014 Doosan Power Systems 80 Compliance with · Provided education on gender equality and human rights Number of identified anti-corruption cases cases 13 9 9 Human Rights · Established an internal Human Rights Committee Doosan Power Systems India 84 · Notified the reporting process on respecting human rights and prohibited discrimination Number of workers who received disciplinary action or cases 8 5 7 were dismissed due to corruption Doosan VINA 87 · Implemented mindset education on human rights Improved Quality of Life · Implemented the retirement pension plan and the retiree support program Appendix · Operated the employee welfare support program 3.5 Violations of laws and regulations and progress of lawsuit (G4-SO7, SO8) · Extended the retirement age and implemented the wage peak system Performance Index 93 · Provided one year of maternity leave after child birth and 90 days of leaves before and after legal child birth In 2014, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction (the “Company”) is on trial because the prosecution indicted the Company for the bid rigging of a construction project ordered by the Stakeholders 123 Korea Gas Corporation. In September 2014, the Company was fined by the Fair Trade Commission on charge of the bid rigging of Honam High Speed Railway, where we are currently Co-prosperity between · Operated the Labor-Management Council Labor and Management · Autonomous agreement on ordinary wage issues appealing for the cancellation of the fine imposed. For further details, please refer to the 2014 Business Report. Materiality Analysis 124 GRI Index 126 Audit Report 128 Assurance Statement 130 Performance of Overseas 110 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Management Framework Strategy and Performance Sustainable Management Subsidiaries Appendix 111 Navigation Menu Customer Satisfaction Management Customer Satisfaction Management 2014 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction CEO Message 04 Doosan Credo 06 Doosan Group 08 4.1 Quality activities for customer satisfaction (G4-PR1) 4.2 Customer satisfaction activities (G4-PR5) Doosan’s Philosophy 09 Present status of quality certifications Number of processing days to client inquiry Management Framework Company Profile 12 Classification Unit 2012 2013 2014 Classification Unit 2012 2013 2014 Introduction of Business 14 KEPIC Produced: MN, SN, EN persons 7 7 7 Average processing days to client inquiry Days 12.8 11.8 8.2 Business Model 16 (Korea Electric Power Industry Code) Construction : MN, SN, EN, MH Performance Summary 18 ASME (The American Society of Mechanical N, NPT, NS, N3, NA, Site Number of 7 7 7 Technical support to customers Governance 20 Engineers) Nuclear NA, Site NPT certifications Vision and Strategy 22 ASME Non-Nuclear U, U2, S, A, PP, H, R Number of 7 7 7 Classification Unit 2012 2013 2014 certifications Ethical Management 24 Rapid after services to sites cases 72 658 1,185 ISO (International Organization for 9001, 3834-2, 14001 Number of 3 3 3 2014 Doosan Way 26 Standardization) certifications Urgent technical advice cases 107 181 628 PED (Pressure Equipment Directive) H-Module, H1Module Number of 2 2 2 2014 Highlights 28 Technical advice cases 16 67 240 certifications Management visits to sites cases 62 75 206 Others OHSAS, Shipping Number of 25 26 26 Strategy and Performance Registers etc certifications Business Environment Analysis 32 Total 51 52 52 Activities of providing and sharing information Business Performance 34 Risk, Opportunity and Business Strategy 38 Classification Unit 2012 2013 2014 Performance of voluntary equipment inspection program Upgrading Business Portfolio 40 Technical support visits and customer training seminars cases 22 73 325 Core Business Leadership 44 Overseas conference and domestic / overseas conference cases 17 36 (estimated) 84 Classification Unit 2012 2013 2014 presentations Upgrading Business System 48 Inspection performed cases 701 692 711 Road Show, new product briefings cases 40 70 (estimated) 150 Number of improved actions cases 397 385 321 Sustainable Management Target facilities: crane, pressure vessel, press, shearing machine, lift EHS (Environment, Health and Safety) 58 Talent Management 64 Social Contribution 70 Doosan Day of Community Service 74 Customer Satisfaction 76 Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries Doosan Power Systems 80 Doosan Power Systems India 84 Doosan VINA 87 Appendix Performance Index 93 Stakeholders 123 Materiality Analysis 124 GRI Index 126 Audit Report 128 Assurance Statement 130 Performance of Overseas 112 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Management Framework Strategy and Performance Sustainable Management Subsidiaries Appendix 113 Navigation Menu Corporate Philanthropy Corporate Philanthropy 2014 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction CEO Message 04 Doosan Credo 06 Doosan Group 08 5.1 Development of local communities (G4-SO1) 5.3 Social contribution activities Doosan’s Philosophy 09 Performance of volunteer works 5.3.1 Domestic social contribution activities Management Framework Company Profile 12 Classification Unit 2012 2013 2014 Name of company Major activities Name of activity Specific activities Introduction of Business 14 Number of Cases of Activities Times 584 608 605 Doosan Heavy Cultivation Sisterhood Relationships with We support the school development fund (scholarship, R&E activities, university admission consultation, Business Model 16 Total volunteer hours Hours 24,206 28,031 33,775 Industries & of talent Changwon Science High School purchase of special books, etc.) to develop outstanding talent in natural science and engineering, hold Construction field trips to the company and provide special lectures on career exploration from Technology Research Performance Summary 18 Volunteer hours per person Hours 3.77 4.28 5.17 Institute’s executives. Governance 20 Held the Doosan Class We support technical Meister lecturers, textbook production and on-site practice through customized through Academic-Industrial technical education, while also operating the Doosan Class at the Sudo Electric Technical High School, Vision and Strategy 22 5.2 Development and effect of investments on infrastructures and services (G4-EC7) Collaboration Busan Automotive High School, Changwon Machine Technical High School, Changwon Campus of Korea Ethical Management 24 Polytechnic, Daegu Yeungjin College and Inha Technical College. 2014 Doosan Way 26 Social contribution costs and hours Youth Career Exploration In order to support youth career exploration, we held a ‘Job Film Festival’, which is a contest of job films for elementary and middle school students and we provided scholarships to the winners. 2014 Highlights 28 Classification Unit 2012 2013 2014 Theme Experience Programs We implemented 7 theme experience activities, including history, the ecosystem, society / science, city tour, traditional play, crafts experience and natural object experience, for 58 local childcare centers, Strategy and Performance Social Indirect costs, including social contribution operating 44 55 128 including Changwon. contribution costs, etc Business Environment Analysis 32 costs Direct costs, including donations, etc. 14,570 15,013 13,049 Donating Textbooks We donated textbooks to 77 childcare welfare facilities, to improve the learning abilities of children and Business Performance 34 youngsters from the neglected class. Total 14,614 15,068 13,177 Risk, Opportunity and Business Strategy 38 Domestic social contribution costs 13,384 15,031 12,300 Scholarships for Low-income We supported scholarships to 140 middle and high school students from low-income families attending KRW Families schools in Changwon City. Upgrading Business Portfolio 40 Overseas social contribution costs 1 million 1,230 37 877 Matching Private Educational We supported private educational expenses of KRW 40,000 per person by selecting 278 elementary and Core Business Leadership 44 Total 14,614 15,068 13,177 Expenses for Low-income middle school students from low-income families. Families Upgrading Business System 48 Cash 13,258 14,806 11,849 Spot goods 1,356 262 1,328 Support for the Sisterhood Relationships with We supported facility operational subsidies and child donations for 77 childcare welfare facilities in Sustainable Management Total 14,614 15,068 13,177 underprivileged Childcare Welfare Facilities Changwon city. EHS (Environment, Health and Safety) 58 Social Total annual hours of social contribution Hours 24,206 28,031 33,775 Dream-high (Kum-Kum-Dda) We supported the expenses for the child orchestra that belong to local childcare centers and provided the contribution Orchestra opportunity to perform at the Doosan Family Concert. Talent Management 64 hours Number of total annual participants in social contribution persons 2,811 3,153 3,721 Annual social contribution hours per person Hours 3.77 4.28 5.17 Donated Life Necessities to We implemented the ‘Dasarang Dream’ program that donates life necessities to low-income families in Social Contribution 70 Low-income Families Changwon City in collaboration with the Gyeongnam Branch of the Korea National Red Cross. Doosan Day of Community Service 74 Clean House Program We supported house repair, electrical wiring, papering, etc. for the low-income class, childcare welfare Customer Satisfaction 76 Social contribution costs by field facilities and the senior citizens who live alone through our regular volunteer works of ‘Technology Volunteer Corps’ of sharing talents. Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries Classification Unit 2012 2013 2014 Kimchi Sharing Event We invited multi-cultural households in Changwon to the kimchi sharing event jointly held by labor and management to donate kimchi and life necessities to the low-income class. Doosan Power Systems 80 Talent development KRW 1 million 11,601 12,812 8,245 Activities in Connection with We visited social welfare facilities for the elderly, the disabled and females through our regular volunteer Doosan Power Systems India 84 Support for the underprivileged KRW 1 million 1,335 1,229 2,104 Social Welfare Facilities works, to conduct various volunteer works like cleaning facilities and giving baths, etc. Community-based KRW 1 million 1,678 1,027 2,828 Doosan VINA 87 Closer to local Support for Policy Projects in We supported Changwon Science Center’s renewal project and the project for creating the corporate love Total KRW 1 million 14,614 15,068 13,177 communities Changwon City garden. Appendix Youth Protection Campaign We established a watchdog to protect the youth from hazardous environments, a professional Performance Index 93 Employees’ volunteer hours by field volunteer group, to conduct activities that prohibit alcohol sales and employment of youngsters in adult entertainment regions in Changwon in collaboration with Changwon City and welfare centers. Stakeholders 123 Classification Unit 2012 2013 2014 One-company, Seven-villages We implemented exchange activities by establishing sisterhood ties with 7 rural community villages, Materiality Analysis 124 Sisterhood Ties including Husa-po village in Miryang in Gyeongnam, such as helping out at farming area, purchasing Talent development Hours 9,337 9,015 8,857 special products and inviting to field trips at the company. GRI Index 126 Support for the underprivileged Hours 8,321 7,828 12,198 Audit Report 128 Environmental Purification We conducted environmental purification activities like purifying underwater in port of Masan in Changwon Community-based Hours 6,548 11,188 12,720 Activities and implemented one-company, one-stream campaign (Masan’s Mt. Cheongju, Gwangryeo Stream) Assurance Statement 130 Total Hours 24,206 28,031 33,775 Performance of Overseas 114 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Management Framework Strategy and Performance Sustainable Management Subsidiaries Appendix 115 Navigation Menu Corporate Philanthropy Supplier 2014 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction CEO Message 04 Doosan Credo 06 Doosan Group 08 6.1 Present status of our suppliers (G4-12) Doosan’s Philosophy 09 5.3.2 Social contribution activities of overseas subsidiaries Supply network of organization Management Framework Name of company Name of activity Specific activities Company Profile 12 Classification Unit 2012 2013 2014 Doosan Babcock Wearing it Pink We raised donations for the breast cancer campaign at an event participated by employees from all regions in the Introduction of Business 14 UK, as well as sold cakes with the aim of raising awareness about breast cancer. Regular Trading Companies numbers 1,163 1,147 1,071 Business Model 16 Repair of Facilities for the Elderly Nursing We purified the neighboring environments and papering of Accord Hospice and sent e-mails to raise donations from Homes about 2,000 contributors. *Definition of suppliers: A company that had trading relationships with Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction, with more than twice the number of transactions and with more than KRW 100 million in total for annual average transaction Performance Summary 18 amount. Governance 20 Helped with Cleaning Neighboring We contributed to local communities by sweeping fallen leaves in the neighboring streets and papering the outside Environments of buildings. 6.2 Shared growth program with suppliers Vision and Strategy 22 Visited Welfare Facilities We conducted activities for gardening and papering of learning centers for terminal cancer patients. Ethical Management 24 Performance of shared growth Gardening for Children from the Neglected We made gardens for schools with mainly children from the neglected class to provide a beautiful educational 2014 Doosan Way 26 Class environment for them. 2014 Highlights 28 Classification Unit 2012 2013 2014 Gardening We created gardens for daughters and families that suffer from childhood cancer. Amount of shared growth fund raised KRW 100 648 1,158 1,008 Strategy and Performance Youth Job Experience We provided job experience opportunities for youngsters to experience various skills required for site/factory million employees. Business Environment Analysis 32 Performance of consortium operated for national human persons 7,888 7,770 7,453 Facility Maintenance for Children from the We conducted the papering of bedrooms for Tudor House, which is a facility for the disabled children, and the resources development (number of completed persons) Business Performance 34 Neglected Class Rocking Horse Orphanage, so that children can live in a better environment. Performance of consortium operated for national human numbers 19 25 24 Risk, Opportunity and Business Strategy 38 resources development (number of courses) Environmental Enhancement of the We implemented environmental enhancement activities like papering and interior designs by visiting the supporters’ Supporters’ Organization for the Disabled organization for the disabled. Number of suppliers that participated in field trip programs numbers 29 94 21 Upgrading Business Portfolio 40 Improved the Environment of Supporters’ We provided papering works by visiting the office of Whitehaven, which is a supporters’ organization that helps the Number of persons for fair trade education persons 540 1,609 2,113 Core Business Leadership 44 Organization for the Neglected Class in neglected class in local communities. Upgrading Business System 48 Local Communities Supported Schools in Local Communities We donated life necessities to Yorkshire Air Ambulance and donated food to Selby Food Bank, while also conducted Sustainable Management and Sponsored Food and Life Necessities environmental purification activities at schools in local communities. EHS (Environment, Health and Safety) 58 Supported Children Hospice Facilities We collected life necessities for the children and their families who are being protected by the children hospice. Talent Management 64 DBEP Implemented Environmental Purification We implemented environmental purification activities by visiting schools located in local communities to paint walls Activities for Schools in Local and do papering. Social Contribution 70 Communities Doosan Day of Community Service 74 Doosan Lentjes Contribution Activities for Local We cooperated with Ratinger Tafel to donate and delivered food and conducted the papering of Paul-Maar Customer Satisfaction 76 Communities elementary school, while also collected wastes from the Rhine River. Doosan Enpure Wear it pink We participated in raising donations at international charity events for breast cancer researches and held events like Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries playing games and making breads. Doosan Power Systems 80 Doosan VINA Repair of Elementary School Facilities in We installed toilets and lecture halls, remodeled soccer stadium and conducted environmental purification activities Local Communities for the elementary school in Binh Thuan by 110 employees, to provide a better educational environment for children. Doosan Power Systems India 84 Doosan VINA 87 DPSI Repair of Elementary School Facilities in We installed library and classroom, held dentist treatment camp and conducted papering and cleaned for the BVM Local Communities School in Gurgaon region, to improve the educational environment of children. Appendix Repair of School Facilities for the Visually We visited the school for the visually impaired children in Chennai and established the infrastructure so that children Impaired Children can drink clean water and conducted a program to raise the awareness on the traffic safety of children. Performance Index 93 DHIA Environmental Purification Activities of We prevented serious environmental problems together with the environmental volunteer group, Mahwah Stakeholders 123 Neighboring Regions Environmental Volunteers Organization (MEVO), by collecting wastes and scrap irons and recycling them. Materiality Analysis 124 HFC Provided Educational Support for Children We implemented various activities to provide better understanding to the children, including science, technology, GRI Index 126 from the Neglected Class mathematics (STEM), so that they can develop into scientists, technicians and IT experts in the future, enabling children from the neglected class to escape from the grip of poverty. Audit Report 128 Middle East OC Blood Donation Event We participated in the blood donation camp held at the Blood Donation Center located in Dubai, including 25 Assurance Statement 130 persons from our suppliers, the Middle East OC and JBL M. Performance of Overseas 116 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Management Framework Strategy and Performance Sustainable Management Subsidiaries Appendix 117 Navigation Menu Environment Environment 2014 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction CEO Message 04 Doosan Credo 06 Doosan Group 08 7.1 Weight or volume of raw materials used (G4-EN1) 7.3 Total water withdrawal by source (G4-EN8) Doosan’s Philosophy 09 Steel manufacturing plant Classification Unit 2012 2013 2014 Management Framework Surface water including water flow from wetlands, ton 20,767 Company Profile 12 Classification Unit 2012 2013 2014 river, lake and sea (domestic) Introduction of Business 14 Non-renewable raw Amount of raw and subsidiary materials used ton 237,298 140,975 161,873 Surface water including water flow from wetlands, ton 32,920 river, lake and sea (overseas) Business Model 16 materials Amount of steel ton 218,185 196,892 223,520 Groundwater (domestic) ton 2,910 3,442 3,328 Performance Summary 18 Total ton 455,483 337,867 385,393 Groundwater (overseas) ton 14,600 Governance 20 Recycled raw materials Recycling of recovered steel ton 93,301 82,876 79,465 Water supply of cities or other water supplies (domestic) ton 1,400,000 1,550,000 1,147,525 Vision and Strategy 22 Total ton 93,301 82,876 79,465 Water supply of cities or other water supplies (overseas) ton 190,000 250,000 179,062 Ethical Management 24 Total ton 548,784 420,743 464,858 Total ton 1,592,910 1,803,442 1,398,202 2014 Doosan Way 26 *Including domestic and overseas construction and manufacturing fields 2014 Highlights 28 7.2 Energy consumption of the organization (G4-EN3) Strategy and Performance Classification Unit 2012 2013 2014 Note Business Environment Analysis 32 Total Fuel consumption TJ 2,301 2,003 2,066 Business Performance 34 Electricity consumption TJ 3,312 3,132 3,212 Risk, Opportunity and Business Strategy 38 Head office Fuel consumption TJ 2,291 1,987 2,042 Upgrading Business Portfolio 40 Electricity consumption TJ 3,210 3,044 3,132 Core Business Leadership 44 Seoul Office Fuel consumption TJ 6 15 16 Upgrading Business System 48 Electricity consumption TJ 38 43 49 Daedeok R&D Center Fuel consumption TJ 2 Sustainable Management Electricity consumption TJ 53 31 11 EHS (Environment, Health and Safety) 58 DC Center Fuel consumption TJ 2 1 7 Talent Management 64 Electricity consumption TJ 8 14 21 Social Contribution 70 Domestic construction Fuel consumption TJ 16 sites Doosan Day of Community Service 74 Electricity consumption TJ 54 Customer Satisfaction 76 Overseas construction Fuel consumption TJ 280 sites Electricity consumption TJ 73 Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries * Including data from domestic and overseas construction sites since 2014, and reevaluation and adjustments made on past data in accordance with on-site integrated management domestically and internationally. Doosan Power Systems 80 Doosan Power Systems India 84 Doosan VINA 87 Appendix Performance Index 93 Stakeholders 123 Materiality Analysis 124 GRI Index 126 Audit Report 128 Assurance Statement 130 Performance of Overseas 118 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Management Framework Strategy and Performance Sustainable Management Subsidiaries Appendix 119 Navigation Menu Environment Environment 2014 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction CEO Message 04 Doosan Credo 06 Doosan Group 08 7.4 GHG emissions (G4-EN15) 7.5 Reduction of GHG emissions (G4-EN19) Doosan’s Philosophy 09 Amount of GHG emissions Classification Unit 2012 2013 2014 Management Framework Improvement of heat facilities tCO2e 109 2,911 2,291 Company Profile 12 Note (including domestic and Classification Unit 2012 2013 2014 overseas construction sites) Improvement of operational methods tCO2e 1,882 8,317 6,545 Introduction of Business 14 Direct GHG emissions (Scope1) tCO2e 123,000 109,499 105,736 Adoption of high-efficient facilities tCO2e 33 3,745 2,946 Business Model 16 Indirect GHG emissions (Scope2) tCO2e 160,000 147,869 156,062 Optimization of combustion tCO2e 344 12,477 9,818 Performance Summary 18 Mobile combustion tCO2e 1,000 1,389 3,743 Others tCO2e 8,368 Governance 20 Process emissions tCO2e 16,000 15,767 17,881 Vision and Strategy 22 Total Total amount of emissions tCO2e 300,068 274,524 283,422 308,823 7.6 Emissions of major air pollutants, including NOx, SOx and others (G4-EN21) Ethical Management 24 Amount of direct emissions tCO2e 139,115 122,343 127,360 146,083 2014 Doosan Way 26 Amount of indirect emissions tCO2e 160,953 152,181 156,062 162,740 Classification Unit 2012 2013 2014 Note 2014 Highlights 28 Head office Total amount of emissions tCO2e 294,521 269,196 278,063 Domestic NOx ppm 0.0184 Amount of direct emissions tCO2e 138,616 121,327 125,968 Strategy and Performance SOx ppm 0 Amount of indirect emissions tCO2e 155,905 147,869 152,096 Business Environment Analysis 32 POPs (Persistent Organic Pollutant) in water pg-TEQ / L 3.933 0.204 0.989 Measurement once a year Seoul Office Total amount of emissions tCO2e 2,187 3,075 3,410 POPs (Persistent Organic Pollutant) in air ng-TEQ / Sm3 0.0905 Measurement of Business Performance 34 Amount of direct emissions tCO2e 316 983 1,018 once / 2 years Risk, Opportunity and Business Strategy 38 Amount of indirect emissions tCO2e 1,871 2,092 2,393 Dust (Compared to legal standards) % 21 20 20 Upgrading Business Portfolio 40 Daedeok R&D Total amount of emissions tCO2e 2,693 1,526 545 COD (Compared to legal standards) % 17 16 14 Center Core Business Leadership 44 Amount of direct emissions tCO2e 106 SS (Compared to legal standards) % 3 3 3 Upgrading Business System 48 Amount of indirect emissions tCO2e 2,587 1,526 546 Overseas NOx ppm 92.66 DC Center Total amount of emissions tCO2e 480 716 1,404 SOx ppm 66.69 Sustainable Management Amount of direct emissions tCO2e 25 23 376 Dusts (Compared to legal standards) % 37 38 EHS (Environment, Health and Safety) 58 Amount of indirect emissions tCO2e 455 693 1,029 COD (Compared to legal standards) % 25 16 0 Talent Management 64 Domestic Total amount of emissions tCO2e 3,889 SS (*Compared to legal standards) % 16 4 0 construction Social Contribution 70 sites Amount of direct emissions tCO2e 1,045 Doosan Day of Community Service 74 Amount of indirect emissions tCO2e 2,844 Customer Satisfaction 76 Overseas Total amount of emissions tCO2e 21,512 construction Amount of direct emissions tCO2e 17,678 sites Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries Amount of indirect emissions tCO2e 3,834 Doosan Power Systems 80 *Including data from domestic and overseas construction sites since 2014, and re-evaluation and adjustments made on past data in accordance with on-site integrated management domestically and internationally. Doosan Power Systems India 84 Doosan VINA 87 Appendix Performance Index 93 Stakeholders 123 Materiality Analysis 124 GRI Index 126 Audit Report 128 Assurance Statement 130 Performance of Overseas 120 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Management Framework Strategy and Performance Sustainable Management Subsidiaries Appendix 121 Navigation Menu Environment Environment 2014 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction CEO Message 04 Doosan Credo 06 Doosan Group 08 7.7 Total discharge by water quality and destination (G4-EN22) 7.8 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method (G4-EN23) Doosan’s Philosophy 09 Data related to wastewater discharge Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Management Framework Company Profile 12 Classification Unit 2012 2013 2014 Classification Unit 2012 2013 2014 Note (including domestic and Introduction of Business 14 overseas construction sites) Work site Final wastewater discharge Wastewater treatment ton Discharge amount Discharge amount Discharge amount method Business Model 16 Note (including Recycled ton 51,825 50,630 60,337 74,496 Deokdong sewage treatment Physical-Chemical ton 202,598 128,027 135,004 domestic and Performance Summary 18 overseas construction Incineration ton 1,406 1,126 1,101 2,073 plant in Changwon sites) Landfill ton 10,047 9,481 5,226 53,675 Governance 20 Domestic Construction Neighboring streams Physical-Chemical ton 73,288 Others ton 26,879 26,879 Vision and Strategy 22 Overseas Construction Neighboring streams Septic tanks ton 274,308 Wastes at work sites Recycled ton 637 649 586 627 Ethical Management 24 Total amount of discharge ton 202,598 128,027 482,600 (designated) Incineration ton 639 552 423 504 2014 Doosan Way 26 * Including data on domestic and overseas construction sites starting from 2014 Landfill ton 3,283 3,523 4,000 7,864 2014 Highlights 28 Data on wastewater recycled amount Others ton 3,494 Total ton 67,837 65,961 71,673 169,612 Strategy and Performance Classification Unit 2012 2013 2014 Business Environment Analysis 32 Work sites ton Recycled amount Recycled amount Recycled amount Business Performance 34 Performance of waste recycled (*standard: Korea Environment Corporation’s Allbaro System) Changwon Plant ton 8,760 25,380 25,900 Risk, Opportunity and Business Strategy 38 Domestic Construction ton 14,232 Upgrading Business Portfolio 40 Classification Unit 2012 2013 2014 Total ton 8,760 25,380 40,132 Core Business Leadership 44 Domestic Changwon Plant ton 52,462 51,729 60,923 Upgrading Business System 48 Construction ton 12,958 Data on wastewater quality Overseas Subsidiary ton 477 512 Sustainable Management Construction ton 35,957 37,482 1,243 Classification Unit 2012 2013 2014 EHS (Environment, Health and Safety) 58 Total ton 88,896 89,273 75,124 COD mg / l 14.89 14.37 12.87 Talent Management 64 SS mg / l 2.67 2.64 2.74 Social Contribution 70 N-H mg / l 0.67 1.35 0.73 Recycling rate of wastes Doosan Day of Community Service 74 Cr mg / l 0.03 0.004 0.001 Customer Satisfaction 76 Classification Unit 2012 2013 2014 Zn mg / l 0.061 0.049 0,013 Recycling rate of waste % 77% 77.7% 85% Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries Pb mg / l 0.044 0.017 0.001 Fe mg / l 0.081 0.025 0.021 Doosan Power Systems 80 T-N mg / l 10.08 5.675 4.053 Doosan Power Systems India 84 T-P mg / l 0.455 0.205 0.022 Doosan VINA 87 Appendix Performance Index 93 Stakeholders 123 Materiality Analysis 124 GRI Index 126 Audit Report 128 Assurance Statement 130 Performance of Overseas 122 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Management Framework Strategy and Performance Sustainable Management Subsidiaries Appendix 123 Navigation Menu Environment Stakeholders 2014 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction CEO Message 04 Doosan Credo 06 Doosan Group 08 Others 1. Pollutant leakages and transport wastes (G4-EN24, 25) Doosan’s Philosophy 09 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction defines shareholders, customers, employees, suppliers, local communities, the government and related agencies Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction always pays attention to the pollutant leakages that might occur easily from industrial characteristics, and there were and competitors as major stakeholders and aims to be in active communications with stakeholders. In the future, we shall strive to actively reflect stakeholders’ no cases of leakages reported during the last three years. Also, there is no import or export of wastes. opinions in our business activities by diversifying communication channels and expanding the target of communication, to establish the foundation for sustainManagement Framework able development of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction. Company Profile 12 Others 2. Complying with environmental laws (G4-EN29) Introduction of Business 14 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has no records of restrictions for violating environmental laws and related regulations during the last three years. Communication Channel Business Model 16 Shareholders Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is communicating with shareholders · Investment relations (IR) 7.9 Total expenditures and investments on environmental protection (G4-EN31) Performance Summary 18 through various activities, including investment relations (IR), conferences · Conference Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction does not neglect waste treatment to protect the environment, and also makes continuous investments on green · Overseas NDR Governance 20 purchasing and green technology development. on business plans and performance reviews, to identify the needs and Vision and Strategy 22 expectations and reflect them in the company’s business activities. Ethical Management 24 Total environment-related costs 2014 Doosan Way 26 Customers Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction maintains active communication · Road Show Classification Unit 2012 2013 2014 · Technology briefings 2014 Highlights 28 with customers through full cooperation and support in all processes, Entrusted waste treatment KRW 1 million 1,159 1,033 2,618 · VOC including product development, production, installation, operation and postStrategy and Performance Waste analysis KRW 1 million 4 3 2 management, and strives to enhance customer satisfaction level. Business Environment Analysis 32 Entrusted waste recycling KRW 1 million 285 291 607 Profits from waste disposal KRW 1 million 1,186 993 1,227 Business Performance 34 Employees Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is striving to improve development, · Industrial Safety and Other expenses KRW 1 million 5 2 909 Risk, Opportunity and Business Strategy 38 Health Committee work environments and welfare systems through consultation with employees Total KRW 1 million 2,639 2,322 5,363 · Labor-Management Council Upgrading Business Portfolio 40 and placing talent management as the top priority for strategic tasks to achieve Core Business Leadership 44 sustainable growth. Upgrading Business System 48 Costs of green purchasing and purchasing of eco-friendly products Suppliers The competitiveness of suppliers is directly linked to Doosan Heavy Industries · Win-Win Call Center Sustainable Management Classification Unit 2012 2013 2014 & Construction’s competitiveness. Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction EHS (Environment, Health and Safety) 58 Total Purchasing KRW 1 million 31,009 27,800 29,031 implements various activities with the goal of establishing the ‘virtuous cycle Talent Management 64 Purchasing of eco-friendly products KRW 1 million 2,649 2,129 1,779 partnership’ to achieve shared growth with suppliers. Social Contribution 70 Ratio of green purchasing % 8.54% 7.66% 6.13% Doosan Day of Community Service 74 Total KRW 1 million 33,658 29,929 30,810 Local Community Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction implements various activities and · Consultative group Customer Satisfaction 76 scholarships to develop local communities where work sites are located. Also, · Social welfare corps Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries we employ outstanding local talents, while developing local universities through Doosan Power Systems 80 academic-industrial cooperation. Doosan Power Systems India 84 Government Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction employ national tasks through close · Overseas seminars Doosan VINA 87 cooperation with relevant governmental agencies to conduct R&D. Also, we are · Exhibition participation Appendix actively taking part in government policies by complying with systems and laws Performance Index 93 related to projects. Stakeholders 123 Materiality Analysis 124 Competitors Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction not only considers competing · IR presentations by quarter GRI Index 126 companies as competitors but as potential partners, and also takes it as an · Media data · Company visits Audit Report 128 opportunity to achieve mutual growth through many communications. Assurance Statement 130 Performance of Overseas 124 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Management Framework Strategy and Performance Sustainable Management Subsidiaries Appendix 125 Navigation Menu Materiality Analysis 2014 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction CEO Message 04 Doosan Credo 06 Doosan Group 08 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction selects and reports on issues that need communication with stakeholders through this Integrated Analysis of the Result of Materiality Issues Doosan’s Philosophy 09 Report in accordance with the GRI Guideline and IR Framework. Economic Issue Management Framework From the economic aspects, the importance of ‘risk management’ and ‘exploring future growth engine’ increased compared to the previous year, while Company Profile 12 Process of Materiality Analysis ‘securing original technology’ was not selected as material issue that had been a material issue for the previous year. Due to the increased uncertainty about external market environments, the importance of risk management to manage these uncertainties and the opinions about implementing busiIntroduction of Business 14 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction’s process of materiality analysis consists of four stages. nesses to achieve sustainable growth were reflected. Business Model 16 In the stage of forming an issue pool, the material issues are identified by considering the significance and influence that have impact on stakeholders. Social Issue Performance Summary 18 Also, various external investigations are conducted, including the global standard analysis of sustainable management, analysis of media reports on Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction for 2014, and issues identified on the sustainability management of competitors. Also, internal investigations From the social aspects, ‘eradication of anti-competitive behaviors’, ‘strengthening of safety and health activities’, ‘innovation of corporate culture’ were Governance 20 are conducted by gathering stakeholders’ opinions indirectly through Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction’s internal reports, analysis of disclosures newly selected issues. This is the reflection of many social incidents that occurred in 2014, as well as the need for innovation internally within the orgaVision and Strategy 22 and interviews with persons in charge of external contact points. Based on the investigation results, a total of 32 issues related to Doosan Heavy Indusnization due to the difficulties of external business environments. Ethical Management 24 tries & Construction’s sustainable growth were identified. Environmental Issue 2014 Doosan Way 26 In the second stage, material issues are identified by taking into consideration the significance and influence that could impact Doosan Heavy Industries From the environmental aspects, the previous year’s green management had changed from a comprehensive issue into a material issue that is specific 2014 Highlights 28 & Construction and stakeholders, while also setting the priority according to issue by collecting external experts’ opinions. like efficient use of energy. In this regard, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction identified environmental factors that need management after estabIn the third stage, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction’s management opinions are taken into consideration to select the material issue. Through lishing a system for implementing environmental management. Strategy and Performance this material analysis process, the issues that are considered to be important in the 2015 Integrated Report are a total of 12 issues. Business Environment Analysis 32 Analysis of Evaluating Responses Lastly, a total of 12 issues were reviewed as a result of the materiality analysis and additional evaluations made on each issue. According to the evaluBusiness Performance 34 ation results, continuous efforts are made to meet the stakeholder’s expectations, including establishing the improvement tasks on activities that need Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction evaluated and analyzed the level of activities recognized by employees regarding the selected issues through Risk, Opportunity and Business Strategy 38 improvement at the CSR Committee and evaluating the progress on activities. materiality analysis. There are company-wide activities well implemented for employees, including social contribution, safety and health, eradication of Upgrading Business Portfolio 40 anti-competitive behaviors, and efficient use of energy. However, it was evaluated that there needs to be more activities on increasing R&D investments, Core Business Leadership 44 Process of Materiality Analysis improving working environments, implementing risk management, and diversifying markets. Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction will improve the performance of actual activities and enhance the sustainability of the company by analyzing and improving the causes identified from various categories Upgrading Business System 48 evaluated as lacking. 3rd stage 4th stage Sustainable Management 1st stage 2nd stage Decide on the final selection after Review of present status and Derive a pool of issues Prioritize issues EHS (Environment, Health and Safety) 58 the review of management reflection of management strategy Talent Management 64 Matrix of Materiality Analysis Major Issues and Report Pages Social Contribution 70 Doosan Day of Community Service 74 Economy Society Environment Order of priority Name of theme Related aspect Report pages Customer Satisfaction 76 1 Ethical Management Compliance 24, 25 Impact 2 Risk Management Economic Performance 50, 51 Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries 1 3 Strengthening Product Competitiveness Product and Service Labeling 40-47 Doosan Power Systems 80 4 Expanding R&D Investments Economic Performance 44-47 Doosan Power Systems India 84 2 3 7 5 Exploring Future Growth Engines Economic Performance 40-47 4 Doosan VINA 87 6 6 Green Management Materials, Energy, Water, Emissions, Effluents and Waste 58-60 11 5 9 7 Social Contribution Activities Indirect Economic Impacts 70-75 Appendix 8 Supplier Environmental Assessment Performance Index 93 Supply Chain Management Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices 8 52, 53 Stakeholders 123 (Mutual Cooperation, etc.) Supplier Human Rights Assessment Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society Materiality Analysis 124 10 Impact 9 Response to Climate Change Emissions 54, 55 GRI Index 126 10 Eradicating Anti-Competitive Behaviors Anti-competitive Behavior 24, 25, 53 12 Audit Report 128 11 Implementing Market Diversification Economic Performance 42, 43 Assurance Statement 130 Relevance Relevance 12 Enhancing Work Environments Training and Education, Diversity and Equal Opportunity 27, 49, 61-63 * Size of circle : the performance is higher as the size of circle is bigger and the evaluation score of response on material issues Performance of Overseas 126 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Management Framework Strategy and Performance Sustainable Management Subsidiaries Appendix 127 Navigation Menu GRI Index 2014 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction CEO Message 04 Doosan Credo 06 Doosan Group 08 Doosan’s Philosophy 09 General Standard Disclosures Page Specific Standard Disclosures Page Management Framework Strategy and Analysis Economic Performance DMA 38-39 Company Profile 12 G4-1 CEO Message 4 EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 18, 55, 93-100 EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization's activities due to climate change 38 Introduction of Business 14 Organizational Profile G4-3 Name of the organization 13 EC3 Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan obligations PDF Report 103 Business Model 16 G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services 14, 15 EC4 Financial assistance received from government Not applicable Performance Summary 18 G4-5 Location of the organization’s headquarters 13 Indirect Economic Impacts DMA 70-75 Governance 20 G4-6 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries where either the organization has significant operations or 12, 13 EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported 70, PDF Report 112 Vision and Strategy 22 that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts 70, PDF Report 112 G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form 13 Ethical Management 24 Energy DMA 54-55, 58-60 G4-8 Target markets (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers and beneficiaries) 12, 13 EN3 Energy consumption within the organization PDF Report 116 2014 Doosan Way 26 G4-9 Scale of the organization 13 EN6 Reduction of energy consumption 54, 59 2014 Highlights 28 G4-10 Total number of employees by employment contract, region, and gender PDF Report 104 Wastewater and Wastes DMA 59, 60 G4-11 Ratio of employees joined labor union and labor management council PDF Report 105 EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method PDF Report 120, 121 Strategy and Performance G4-12 Organization’s supply chain PDF Report 115 EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills No leakage identified Business Environment Analysis 32 G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’s size, structure, ownership, or its supply chain Not applicable Compliance DMA 58, 60 Business Performance 34 G4-14 Organization’s precautionary approach or principle 46-47 EN29 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations No violation of laws and regulations identified Risk, Opportunity and Business Strategy 38 G4-15 External principles or initiatives that the company complies with 19 G4-16 Memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and national or international advocacy organizations 19 Supplier Environmental Assessment DMA 53 Upgrading Business Portfolio 40 Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries EN33 Significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 53 Core Business Leadership 44 G4-17 Organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents 12, 13 Occupational Health and Safety DMA 81-83 Upgrading Business System 48 G4-18 Process for defining the report content and the aspect boundaries 102, 103 LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of work related fatalities, PDF Report 106 by region and by gender G4-19 Material aspects identified in the process for defining report content 102, 103 Sustainable Management Training and Education DMA 64-69 G4-20 Aspect boundary within the organization 102, 103 EHS (Environment, Health and Safety) 58 LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender and employee category 64, PDF Report 107 G4-21 Aspect boundary outside the organization 102, 103 LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing 68 Talent Management 64 G4-22 Effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements 102, 103 career endings Social Contribution 70 G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope and aspect boundaries 102, 103 LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender and employee category PDF Report 108 Doosan Day of Community Service 74 Stakeholder Engagement Diversity and Equal Opportunity DMA 64-69 G4-24 A list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 101 Customer Satisfaction 76 LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age group, minority group PDF Report 104 G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 101 membership, and other indicators of diversity Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices DMA 53 Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries G4-26 Organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group 101 G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to 101 LA15 Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor practices in the supply chain and actions taken 53 Doosan Power Systems 80 those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting Supplier Human Rights Assessment DMA 53 Doosan Power Systems India 84 Report Profile HR11 Significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 53 Doosan VINA 87 G4-28 Reporting period Backside of the Cover Public Policy DMA 53 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report Backside of the Cover 0 KRW, No donations made to SO6 Total value of political contributions by country and recipient/beneficiary Appendix G4-30 Reporting cycle Backside of the Cover political parties and politicians Anti-competitive Behavior DMA 53 Performance Index 93 G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents Back cover G4-32 The ‘in accordance’ option the organization has chosen 104 SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes PDF Report 109 Stakeholders 123 G4-33 Organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report 126, 127 Compliance DMA 24-25, 53 Materiality Analysis 124 Governance SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations PDF Report 109 GRI Index 126 G4-34 Governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest governance body 20, 21 Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society DMA 53 Audit Report 128 Ethics and Integrity SO10 Significant actual and potential negative impacts on society in the supply chain and actions taken 53 Assurance Statement 130 G4-56 Organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics 24 Product and Service Labeling DMA 76-77 PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 77, PDF Report 111 Performance of Overseas 128 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Management Framework Strategy and Performance Sustainable Management Subsidiaries Appendix 129 Navigation Menu Audit Report 2014 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Independent auditors’ report Management’s assessment on internal control over financial reporting CEO Message 04 Doosan Credo 06 Doosan Group 08 To the Board of Directors and Stockholders March 19, 2015 The Board of Directors and Internal auditor (Audit Committee) of March 19, 2015 Doosan’s Philosophy 09 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Co., Ltd. Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Co., Ltd. Management Framework Company Profile 12 We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial statements of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Co., Ltd. (the “Company”) and its I, as the internal control over financial reporting officer (“ICFR Officer”) of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Co., Ltd. (“the Company”), subsidiaries (collectively, the “Group”), which comprise the consolidated statements of financial position as of December 31, 2014 and 2013, and the assessed the status of the design and operations of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting (“ICFR”) for the year ended Introduction of Business 14 consolidated statements of profit or loss, consolidated statements of comprehensive income or loss, consolidated statements of changes in equity and December 31, 2014. Business Model 16 consolidated statements of cash flows for the years then ended, and a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information. Performance Summary 18 The Company’s management including the ICFR Officer is responsible for the design and operations of its ICFR. I, as the ICFR Officer, Governance 20 Management’s responsibility for the consolidated interim financial statements assessed whether the ICFR has been effectively designed and has operated to prevent and detect any error or fraud which may cause any Vision and Strategy 22 Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these consolidated financial statements in accordance with Korean International misstatement of the financial statements, for the purpose of establishing the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial Ethical Management 24 Financial Reporting Standards (“KIFRS”), and for such internal control as management determines is necessary to enable the preparation of consolidated statements for external financial reporting purposes. I, as the ICFR Officer, applied the ICFR standards for the assessment of design and financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. 2014 Doosan Way 26 operations of the ICFR. 2014 Highlights 28 Auditors’ responsibility Based on the assessment of the operations of the ICFR, the Company’s ICFR has been effectively designed and has operated as of December Strategy and Performance Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audits. We conducted our audits in accordance 31, 2014, in all material respects, in accordance with the ICFR standard. Business Environment Analysis 32 with auditing standards generally accepted in the Republic of Korea. Those standards require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free from material misstatement. Business Performance 34 Risk, Opportunity and Business Strategy 38 An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. The procedures selected depend on our judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, Upgrading Business Portfolio 40 whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, we consider internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation and fair presentation of Core Business Leadership 44 the consolidated financial statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing Upgrading Business System 48 an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal control. An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements. Sustainable Management We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion. EHS (Environment, Health and Safety) 58 Talent Management 64 Opinion Social Contribution 70 In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Doosan Heavy Industries Doosan Day of Community Service 74 & Construction Co., Ltd. and its subsidiaries as of December 31, 2014 and 2013, and their consolidated financial performance and cash flows for the Customer Satisfaction 76 years then ended in accordance with Korean International Financial Reporting Standards. Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries Other matter Doosan Power Systems 80 The consolidated financial statements of the Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Co., Ltd. and its subsidiaries for the year ended December 31, Doosan Power Systems India 84 2013 were audited in accordance with previous auditing standards generally accepted in the Republic of Korea. Doosan VINA 87 Appendix Myungho Jang, Performance Index 93 Internal Control over Financial Reporting Officer Stakeholders 123 Geewon Park, Materiality Analysis 124 Chief Executive Officer or Chairman GRI Index 126 Audit Report 128 This audit report is effective as at March 19, 2015, the independent auditors’ report date. Accordingly, certain material subsequent events or circumstances may have occurred during Assurance Statement 130 the period from the auditors’ report date to the time this report is used. Such events and circumstances could significantly affect the accompanying consolidated financial statements and may result in modification to this report. Performance of Overseas 130 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Management Framework Strategy and Performance Sustainable Management Subsidiaries Appendix 131 Navigation Menu Assurance Statement 2014 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction CEO Message 04 Doosan Credo 06 Doosan Group 08 Introduction Conclusion Doosan’s Philosophy 09 DNV GL Business Assurance Korea. (hereinafter “DNV GL”) is commissioned to carry out the assurance engagement of the 2014 Integrated Report In DNV GL’s opinion, the Report provides a reliable and fair representation of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction’s policy, practices and Management Framework (hereinafter “the Report”) of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Co., Ltd. (hereinafter “Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction”). This engagement performance in 2014. DNV GL confirms that the report is ‘in accordance’ with the Guidelines – Core. Company Profile 12 focused on the information provided in the Report and the underlying management and reporting processes. Further conclusions and observations on the Adherence to the principles of Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness, as set forth in the AA1000APS Introduction of Business 14 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is responsible for the collection, analysis, aggregation and presentation of all information within the Report. (2008) are made below : Business Model 16 DNV GL’s responsibility in performing the work follows terms of reference and scope of work agreed. The assurance engagement is based on the Inclusivity Performance Summary 18 assumption that the data and information provided to us is complete, sufficient and authentic. Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction’s stakeholders Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction’s issues were composed through various sources (previous integrated reports, internal reports, benchmarking, are the intended recipients of the assurance statement. Governance 20 media, external experts) of information based on the international CSR standards. Various ways of engaging stakeholders and key issues associated with stakeholder groups are also presented in the Report. Vision and Strategy 22 Scope of Assurance Ethical Management 24 Materiality This Assurance Engagement covered data from the calendar year 2014. The scope of DNV GL’s Assurance Engagement includes only for operations 2014 Doosan Way 26 The materiality determination process is clearly presented in the Report. Issue pool to identify material issues is based on sector issues recommended under control in Korea the review and assessment of followings : 2014 Highlights 28 by GRI and analyse additional issues (previous integrated reports, internal reports, benchmarking, media, external experts). This offers the opportunity · Evaluation of adherence to Accountability principles provided in AA1000 Accountability Principles Standard (APS) 2008 with Type 1, a moderate level to study various aspects of the business environment changes. Sustainability issues were reviewed in terms of relevance and impact (significance) and of assurance as stated in AA1000 Assurance Standard (AS) 2008. ten material issues are identified and prioritized based on the stakeholder’s opinion. Strategy and Performance · Verification of disclosures to check the Report is prepared ‘In accordance’ with the GRI Guidelines G4 (Core option) (Aggregated level of data that Business Environment Analysis 32 Responsiveness refers to the period between January and December in 2014) Stakeholders’ views, interests and expectations have been considered in the preparation of the Report. Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Business Performance 34 · Visit to Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Head office in Seoul, Korea in April 2015. presents sustainability management strategy, performance and activities which correspond to ten key material issues. Key performance and goal of Risk, Opportunity and Business Strategy 38 reported year and performance figures for three years provide meaningful information for stakeholders to understand performance trend. Upgrading Business Portfolio 40 Limitation Core Business Leadership 44 The engagement excluded the sustainability management, performance and reporting practices of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction’s suppliers, Opportunities for Improvement Upgrading Business System 48 contractors and any third-parties mentioned in the Report. DNV GL did not interview external stakeholders as part of this Assurance Engagement. Any The following is an excerpt from the observations and opportunities reported to Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction’s management. However, financial information from Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction’s annual report and company reporting on operations in 2014 or other sources are these do not affect our conclusions on the Report and are provided to encourage continual improvement. Sustainable Management not included in the scope of the Assurance. Economic Performance based on the financial data were crosschecked with internal documents and the · Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is recommended to seek to have a more clear understanding of who its stakeholders are and a comprehensive EHS (Environment, Health and Safety) 58 audited financial statements. The aggregation and calculation process for building economic Performance is reviewed and tested by the verification and balanced communication process in which they engage. Talent Management 64 team. The baseline data for Environment and Social performance are not verified, while the aggregated data are used for the verification. DNV GL · Since Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction reports a wide range of quantitative data on sustainability performance, it is required to maintain the Social Contribution 70 expressly disclaims any liability or co-responsibility for any decision a person or an entity may make based on this Assurance Statement. consistent approach to collection and report information geographically and chronologically. Doosan Day of Community Service 74 · Negative issues are reported for the objective figures (violations, fines, etc.) in the Report. The more active response like cause analysis and Customer Satisfaction 76 Verification Methodology countermeasures on negative issues are recommended. The Assurance Engagement was planned and carried out in accordance with the AA1000AS (2008). As part of the verification, we challenged the Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries sustainability-related statements and claims made in the Report and assessed the robustness of the underlying data management system, information Statement of Competence and Independence Doosan Power Systems 80 flow and controls. DNV GL is a leading provider of sustainability services, including the verification of sustainability reports. Our environmental and social assurance Doosan Power Systems India 84 In accordance with the Protocol, the Report was evaluated with regard to the following criteria: DNV GL has examined and reviewed documents, data specialists operate in over 100 countries. DNV GL was not involved in the preparation of any statements or data included in the Report except for this Doosan VINA 87 and other information made available by Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction. We acquired the information and technical data from the certified Assurance Statement. DNV GL maintains complete impartiality toward stakeholders interviewed during the verification process. management systems. We performed sample-based audits of; Appendix · The process for determining the materiality of the contents to be included in the Report; Performance Index 93 · The process for generating, gathering and managing the quantitative and qualitative data included in the Report. Stakeholders 123 May 2015 Seoul, Republic of Korea · The accuracy of data verified. Materiality Analysis 124 Country Manager In-Kyoon Ahn GRI Index 126 Audit Report 128 Assurance Statement 130 This report has been printed with environmentally-friendly paper that used soy ink. Head Quarter 22, Doosan volvo-ro, Seongsan-gu, Changwon-si, Gyeongsangnam-do, Korea TEL. 055.278-6114 Seoul Office 465, Gangnam-daero, Seocho-gu, Seoul, Korea TEL. 02.513-6991~2 www.doosanheavy.com For any inquires or suggestion about the 2014 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated Report please contact Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction CSR Team (Doosanheavy.csr@doosan.com)
