Sustainability Report 2014 Company The companies of ALTANA AG develop, manufacture, and Corporate performance indicators distribute high-quality, specialty chemical products and pro2014 2013 vide the associated services. ALTANA is a globally active corporation headquartered in Wesel, Germany, with an interNumber of employees 6,064 5,741 national sales share of approximately 86 percent. Its four Sales € million 1,952 1,765 divisions, BYK Additives & Instruments, ECKART Effect PigEBITDA € million 397 336 ments, ELANTAS Electrical Insulation, and ACTEGA CoatEBITDA margin % 20.4 19.0 ings & Sealants, occupy a leading position in their target marResearch and development expenses € million 114 109 kets with respect to quality, product solution expertise, Investments € million 90 94 innovation, and service. Total production t 643,592 533,770 ALTANA offers innovative and environmentally compatGross value added € million 739 633 ible solutions with the matching specialty products for Final products t 505 418,450 coatings manufacturers, paint and plastics processors, for the WAI 1 1 3.12 6.02 printing and cosmetics industries, as well as for the electriWAI 3 2 39 67 cal and electronics industry. The product range includes addiTotal CO2 tives, special coatings and adhesives, effect pigments, seal(Scope 1 + Scope 2) 3 t 219,165 147,602 Drinking water m3 1,368,129 565,080 ants and compounds, impregnating resins and varnishes, and Non-hazardous waste t 9,302 6,286 testing and measuring instruments. Hazardous waste t 18,711 18,487 The ALTANA Group, which belongs to SKion GmbH, an 1 Work Accident Indicator 1 (number of occupational accidents with one or more days of lost investment company owned by Susanne Klatten, who is work time per million working hours) also the Deputy Chairwoman of ALTANA ’s Supervisory Board, 2 Work Accident Indicator 3 (number of lost work days due to occupational accidents per million working hours) currently includes 49 production sites and more than 50 3 Scope 1: direct emissions; Scope 2: indirect emissions service and research laboratories worldwide. With a workforce of more than 6,000 employees throughout the group, ALTANA generated sales of about € 2.0 billion in the 2014 fiscal year. Its impressive earning power and high growth rate make ALTANA one of the most successful and innovative chemical groups worldwide. About this report The Sustainability Report 2014 was written by ALTANA AG to provide the statements apply to all divisions and worldwide subsidiaries that were public, the company’s employees and business partners, authorities, part of the ALTANA Group in 2014. The report follows the international non-governmental organizations, and all other stakeholders with inforG3 guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) . We performed mation about the implementation of sustainability in the strategy of an in-house assessment of our compliance with GRI indicators and have ALTANA in terms of ecology and corporate social responsibility. The comconcluded that the report meets the requirements of application level A. pany’s economic development is discussed in detail in its 2014 Annual Report. For further information on the topics presented in this report, on further performance indicators, and concerning the GRI index, please visit The facts and key figures presented in this report refer to fiscal year www.altana.com / sustainability. The annually published report also serves 2014; environmental performance indicators refer to the period from Octoas COP on ALTANA ’s implementation of the principles of the Global ber 1, 2013 to September 30, 2014. Unless otherwise noted, our Compact. The report is available in both German and English. At a glance Business divisions and product portfolio Paint additives Coatings Primary insulation Packaging industry Plastics additives Graphic arts Secondary insulation Graphic arts Industrial applications Cosmetics and personal care Electronic and engineering materials Exploration technology oil / gas Plastics industry Measuring and testing instruments Functional applications ALTANA Materiality Matrix clear that the relevance of a topic is often assessed differently internally than externally. At the same time, all fields The ALTANA Materiality Matrix shows all topics addressed of activity are important to us. We focus special attention in this sustainability report. In addition, the matrix makes it on topics in the right side of the matrix (see graphic). ALTANA Materiality Matrix Sustainable value creation for society Innovative and sustainable product solutions Social commitment Human rights Significance for our stakeholders Biodiversity Climate protection in production Resource efficiency / waste / Sustainability in the supply chain substitution of fossil resources VOC reduction Occupational safety Health protection Employer attractiveness Sustainable value Staff development creation for company Staff satisfaction Significance for ALTANA At a glance Business divisions and product portfolio Management 1 Preface 33 Environment 5 34 TAKING RESPONSIBILITY LOCALLY 5 Management 38 Facts on Environmental Protection Products 6 LATERAL THINKING 38 Resource Consumption and Waste 15 10 Company 40 Customer Proximity and Climate Protection 10 Climate Protection as an Opportunity 41 Investments for Climate Protection Safety 10 Acquisitions 41 Improving Waste Disposal 23 11 Certified Management Systems 42 Reducing Water Consumption 11 Compliance 42 Reducing Emissions Environment 12 Guiding Principles 33 Paint additives Coatings Primary insulation Packaging industry 12 ALTANA X 43 Human Resources Plastics additives 13 Graphic arts Innovation Strategy Secondary insulation 44 Graphic arts CONVICTIONS COMMUNICATING Human Resources Industrial applications Cosmetics and personal care Electronic and engineering materials 13 Awards 48 Our Employees 43 Exploration technology 13 oil / gas Plastics Global industry Compact 48 Assessing Performance Measuring and testing instruments 13 Functional applications Responsible Care and Chemie ³ 48 Global Employee Survey Social Commitment 51 14 Stakeholders 48 International Exchange 49 Manager Selection 15 Products 49 Management Training 16 JOINING FORCES FOR A COMPETITIVE EDGE 49 Diversity in the Group 20 Sustainable Product Development 50 Vocational Training at ALTANA 20 Reducing Emissions ALTANA Materiality Matrix clear that the relevanceSocial 50 Week for Trainees of a topic is often assessed differ20 Protecting the Climate 50 Award ently internally than externally. At the same time, all fields 20 Conserving Resources The ALTANA Materiality Matrix shows all topics addressed of activity are important to us. We focus special attention 21 Alternatives to Hazardous Substances 51 Social Commitment in this sustainability21 report. In Guidelines addition, and the Their matrix makes Impact on it ALTANA on topics in the52 right side of the matrix PROMOTING YOUNG (see graphic). TALENT 22 Global Product Strategy 56 Educational Coaching at a Wesel Elementary School ALTANA Materiality Matrix23 Safety 56 Project Weeks with the House of Junior 24 GUARANTEEING SAFETY Researchers 28 Worldwide Safety Culture 57 Preparatory Vocational Support for Junior High 28 ALTANA Safety Indicators School Students 29 Measures for Improving Sustainable value creation for society 57 Behavior Competitions Innovative for Students productinsolutions and sustainable the Upper 29 Social commitment Technical Safety Improvements Secondary Level Human rights 30 Low Number of Incidents 57 Educational Projects Outside of Germany Significance for our stakeholders Biodiversity Climate protection in production 31 Occupational Health Promotion 58 Volunteer Commitment Resource efficiency / waste / Sustainability in the supply chain 31 Sports Offers 58 for Charitable Supportsubstitution Organizations of fossil resources VOC reduction 60 Highlights and Lowlights Occupational safety 62 Programs / Goals Health protection 64 attractiveness Employer Global Compact: Communication on Progress Sustainable value (COP) Staff development creation for company Staff satisfaction Contact Significance for ALTANA Further key performance indicators, and the GRI index can be found in the Notes to the Sustainability Report 2014 on the Internet at www.altana.com / sustainability Preface Ladies and Gentlemen, As an innovation-driven company, innovation and sustainability go hand in hand at ALTANA . That’s why we support the goals of the UN Global Compact initiative. Innovations enable us to manufacture products that require fewer resources and help our customers produce with low emissions and energy efficiently. We not only cooperate extensively with our customers, but also with a number of other external partners. For both sustainability and innovation require that we change perspectives in order to see more than is apparent at first glance. We present some of these people and cooperative endeavors in this sustainability report. They couldn’t be more different: start-ups, brand manufacturers, fire fighters, politicians, polar researchers, and a student who was the head of ALTANA for a day. They all have one thing in common: they open our minds to different interests and needs. And they help us create sustainable value – for our customers, our employees, our shareholders, and for the environment in which ALTANA acts. We would like to extend our heartfelt gratitude to our partners for this and for their willingness to be part of this sustainability report in text and image. Sustainability thrives above all on the willingness of each individual to change. So I thank our employees, who with their commitment have made ALTANA a sustainable employer, business partner, and neighbor. I wish you interesting reading. Dr. Matthias L. Wolfgruber Chief Executive Officer 2 Preface Dr. Matthias L. Wolfgruber, Chief Executive Officer, and Dr. Andreas Diez, Vice President Environment, Health and Safety “Both sustainability and innovation require that we change perspectives in order to see more than is apparent at first glance.” Preface 3 Ladies and Gentlemen, A development I am very pleased with is our clear improvement in occupational safety from 2013 to 2014. This is due to the many measures and efforts undertaken in the companies of the ALTANA Group, which ultimately are leading to the development of a safety culture. In environmental protection, too, we want to “live” such culture more. Our initiative (which may seem unusual at first glance) to send two employees on an expedition in Antarctica with polar researcher Robert Swan can be seen in this context. The plan to attract true ambassadors for sustainable action was a success. After their return, the staff members devoted themselves to this task with great commitment and in internal and external lectures enthused listeners and motivated them to act more sustainably. Last year, we expanded our portfolio of environmentally compatible products by means of acquisitions. While an acquisition we made in 2013 is characterized by a very short and thus efficient upstream supply chain, it initially threw us off of our success track in terms of achieving the key environmental figures we set ourselves regarding our own production steps. We will take up this challenge and do everything in our power to reach our environmental targets for the coming years. The ALTANA Group is continuing unwaveringly on the path to greater sustainability. In this report, you can read about how it is doing so and which people are making a contribution. I wish you pleasurable reading and perhaps an inspiring change of perspective for your own environment. Dr. Andreas Diez Vice President Environment, Health and Safety 4 Management ALTANA stands for sustainable profitable growth. The environmental management system we introduced, the excellence program ALTANA X , acquisitions, and research investments in future technologies support our growth path. 6 LATERAL THINKING 10 Company 10 Climate Protection as an Opportunity 10 Acquisitions 11 Certified Management Systems 11 Compliance 12 Guiding Principles 12 ALTANA X 13 Innovation Strategy 13 Awards 13 Global Compact 13 Responsible Care and Chemie ³ 14 Stakeholders 6 Management Lateral Thinking: Future Makers ALTANA’s partnership with the Landa Group enables it to spearhead the development in digital printing and gives it access to an especially sustainable technology. Landa Digital Printing and ALTANA have While water-based inks are now used only been strategic partners since 2014. We in niche markets such as transpromo, “Digital printing is a decisive market for the future. hold a minority stake in the young compai. e. advertising on transaction-related docAs a strategic partner of the Landa Group, ALTANA now has access to an innovative and sustainable process. ny. The financial resources provided by uments such as statements, digitally Nanography has the potential to revolutionize the printALTANA are being used for the final develprinted books and a small fraction of the ing market.” opment step of Nanographic Printing ® packaging applications, the Landa techDr. Stefan Engel, ALTANA technology. The alliance is proof positive nology with its countless usage possibilithat ALTANA is investing with an eye to ties has enormous potential for the comthe future in order to expand the Group’s mercial printing and packaging markets. position in promising environmental “We have set ourselves the goal of adtechnologies. dressing a broad spectrum of applications and thus revolutionizing digital printing, Landa’s Nanographic Printing technoloall this with a sustainable process,” says gy consists of three elements: Landa NanoNir Zarmi, Chief Operating Officer of graphic Printing ® Presses, water-based Landa Digital Printing. Landa NanoInk ® colorants and a special indirect printing process. Tiny drops of ink are ejected onto a heated transfer blanNanography Has Many Ecological ket. The ultra-thin printing image dries Advantages immediately and can be transferred to any Nanography TM has a number of environkind of paper or plastic without penemental benefits. The Landa Nanographic trating this material. Printing process produces thin images that require less than half of the materials used in conventional printing and prints 6 management LATErAL ThINKING: Future MAkers ALTANA’S pArTNErShIp WITh ThE LANdA GrOUp ENABLES IT TO SpEArhEAd ThE dEvELOpmENT IN dIGITAL prINTING ANd GIvES IT ACCESS TO AN ESpECIALLy SUSTAINABLE TEChNOLOGy. “WhAT CONNECTS US WITh ALTANA? WE ShArE mANy vALUES BETWEEN OUr TWO COmpANIES, ONE OF WhICh IS OUr Landa digital printing and ALTANA have While water-based inks are nowpASSION used only FOr SUSTAINABLE INNOvATIONS. been strategic partners since 2014. We ThAT SpUrS“digital in niche markets such as transpromo, US ON.”printing is a decisive market for the future. hold a minority stake in the young compai. e. advertising on transaction-related As a strategic partner of the Landa Group, ALTANA now docLAnDA nir zArMi, grouP has access to an innovative and sustainable process. ny. The financial resources provided by uments such as statements, digitally Nanography has the potential to revolutionize the printALTANA are being used for the final develprinted books and a small fraction of the ing market.” opment step of Nanographic printing ® packaging applications, the Landa techDr. steFAn engeL, ALtAnA technology. The alliance is proof positive nology with its countless usage possibilithat ALTANA is investing with an eye to ties has enormous potential for the comthe future in order to expand the Group’s mercial printing and packaging markets. position in promising environmental “We have set ourselves the goal of adtechnologies. dressing a broad spectrum of applications and thus revolutionizing digital printing, Landa’s Nanographic printing technoloall this with a sustainable process,” says gy consists of three elements: Landa NanoNir Zarmi, Chief Operating Officer of graphic printing ® presses, water-based Landa digital printing. Landa NanoInk ® colorants and a special indirect printing process. Tiny drops of ink are ejected onto a heated transfer blannanography Has Many ecological ket. The ultra-thin printing image dries Advantages immediately and can be transferred to any Nanography Tm has a number of environkind of paper or plastic without penemental benefits. The Landa Nanographic trating this material. printing process produces thin images that require less than half of the materials used in conventional printing and prints 8 management with water-based ink that contains only ucts can be applied exactly on the desired environmentally friendly materials. Furtherspots and thus avoid waste.” The same more, digital printing produces less applies to ACTEGA ’s overprint varnishes, waste than analog printing processes, as which also replace foil. the technology makes the manufacture of printing plates superfluous and the exThe partnership with Landa has opened up act number of printed sheets desired further potential for our coatings, addican be produced without the waste assotives, and effect pigments. The alliance is ciated with make-readies and overruns. based on values such as innovative spir“In short, the Nanographic printing process it, openness, trust, and the mutual appreciis good for the planet,” says Landa’s ation the two companies have for each Nir Zarmi, summing up the advantages. other. moreover, the two companies have a similar understanding of responsibility. Traditionally, sustainable technologies and “We do more than just our work,” says dr. products have been very important at Engel. “We are working on a sustainALTANA . In all of our companies, we are able future.” working on expanding our portfolio accordingly – to the benefit of our customers. “For example, our metallic printing inks are more eco-friendly and economical than foil lamination,” says dr. Stefan Engel, Global head of digital printing at ECKArT and one of ALTANA ’s experts on the cooperation with Landa. “Our prodmanagement 9 Using Nanographic printing technology, the layer of ink is much thinner than with conventional processes. It is 500 nanometers thick, half as much as with offset printing. Xerography UV Inkjet Aqueous Inkjet Offset Nanography 5 Microns 0,5 Paper LAnDA’s DigitAL nAnogrAPHiC Printing ProCess prOTECTS rESOUrCES. ThE INKS ArE WATEr-BASEd ANd rEqUIrE LESS pIGmENT ThAN CONvENTIONAL prINTING INKS. 10 Sustainability Report 2014 Company Climate Protection as an Opportunity ALTANA AG is a globally active group of companies. It develSustainable management combines economic efficiency, enviops, produces, and sells high-quality specialty chemicals, ronmental and health protection, and corporate social including additives, special coatings and adhesives, effect pigresponsibility. It is the basis of our activities at ALTANA . As we ments, sealants and compounds, impregnating resins, as advance our portfolio, we make a concerted effort to conwell as testing and measuring instruments. The company is tinuously expand our offer of climate-friendly innovations. based in Wesel, Germany. This particularly concerns the development of water-based In 2014, ALTANA enlarged its Management Board and products to reduce emissions from volatile organic compounds redistributed the tasks within it. The Chairman of the Man(VOC) . You will find more detailed information in the Prodagement Board, Dr. Matthias L. Wolfgruber, continues to overucts chapter. see core functions such as Corporate Development, InnoAt the same time, we analyze the potential financial vation Management, and Human Resources. In addition to risks posed to our group by the consequences of climate the financial affairs of the Group, Martin Babilas now aschange. Such risks arise primarily from rising energy prices, sumes responsibility for the ACTEGA Coatings & Sealants and as well as from higher prices for fossil raw materials that ELANTAS Electrical Insulation divisions. The new member we need for production. of the Management Board, Dr. Christoph Schlünken, is in Of our sites, only one might be directly affected by clicharge of Environment & Safety, ALTANA Excellence, as mate change. ELANTAS PDG is based near the Mississippi well as the BYK Additives & Instruments and ECKART Effect River. It is not out of the question that in the distant future Pigments divisions. A complete overview of the responsiwater could reach the site due to the rising water level. bilities of the members of ALTANA ’s Management Board is provided in the Annual Report 2014. In the 2014 fiscal year, the ALTANA Group generated Acquisitions Enrich Our Sustainable Portfolio sales of € 1,952 million and achieved EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, amortization and depreciation) of € 397 milIn addition to product development, ALTANA uses acquisilion. The company’s sales were evenly distributed between all tions and investments to achieve targeted expansion of regions of the world. Detailed information on ALTANA ’s the Group’s sustainability profile. In 2014, the company’s mifinancial results can be found in our annual report, where we nority stake in Landa Digital Printing, three acquisitions, also listed the public grants and social benefits the compaand ALTANA ’s cooperation with the Spanish technology cennies in our group received in the 2014 fiscal year. The annual ter ITENE served this purpose. report can be called up at www.altana.com / annual-report. The acquisition of technologies and customer-specific know-how from the Dutch company Royal DSM added water-based wax emulsions to our portfolio. They can be used primarily to manufacture composite material for the construction and automotive industries. This business is helping BYK expand its range of wax additives in a customer-oriented way. Management Products Safety Environment Human Resources Social Commitment 11 With the acquisition of the companies Premiata and Overlake able Energy Sources Act (EEG) apportionment. This is not the and their integration into the newly established ACTEGA case with the sites named. do Brasil, the ACTEGA Coatings & Sealants division now has Opinions within the Group differ about whether it is a presence in Latin America. The new company has three an advantage for an individual company to have its own enproduction sites. Its portfolio consists of water-based and ergy management system. Some believe this is a sensible UV curable coatings, as well as printing inks and coatings means of controlling energy flows and of achieving the CO² based on renewable raw materials, including soy. ACTEGA do reduction goals we have set ourselves. In their opinion, a Brasil sells some of these products under the brand name certificate can also enhance positive publicity, especially since Ecolake. it is playing an ever-greater role in customer relations. BYK signed an agreement with ITENE , whereby BYK More and more companies are checking to see whether their has taken over the sale of clay-based additives for bioplastics suppliers have a certified energy management system. and for the packaging industry. Others, however, see a separate energy management system as having no added benefits, apart from tax advantages, neither for the company nor for its processes and susCertified Management Systems Serve tainable management overall. In their view, well-estabEnvironmental Aims lished environmental management systems have a sufficient range of tools to control energy flows, heighten efficiency, The ALTANA Group seeks to continuously reduce the enviand improve the environmental balance. ALTANA considers ronmental effects of its business activities. The managing a well-functioning environmental management system as directors of the Group’s various companies have therefore being suitable regarding the issue of energy as well. committed themselves in writing to ensuring that appropriate improvements are made in their firms. To determine the effects on the environment, we have implemented interCompliance: Training and Workshops nationally recognized management systems. It is the task of the individual companies to have their systems certified. ALTANA has had a comprehensive Compliance Management This also applies to companies integrated into the Group withSystem (CMS) since 2008. Detailed information about this in the framework of acquisitions. system as well as our group’s leadership and responsibility In 2014, we made further progress in this area. ELANTAS structures can be found at www.altana.com / sustainability. Isolantes Elétricos do Brasil had its environmental manOur goal is to continuously advance this system and agement system certified according to ISO 14001. In addiadapt it to the criteria of the IDW 980 audit standard valid tion, ELANTAS Beck in Hamburg and BYK -Chemie in Wesel in Germany. As a result, we sought an exchange with external (which have already received environmental certification) had experts in 2014. They confirmed that we chose the right their energy management systems audited based on ISO system. 50001. This certificate is an important prerequisite for energyALTANA ’s Code of Conduct, a binding guideline for all of intensive companies to apply for tax relief in Germany. It our employees and managers worldwide, is a component can also mean partial exemption from the German Renewof the CMS . It provides information about proper behavior in 12 Sustainability Report 2014 instances of corruption, accepting or giving advantages, for the Guiding Principles in their company when the latter discrimination, and conflicts of interest. Moreover, on the basis were introduced in 2011. of the “Corporate Guideline HR ” published in 2014, all ALTANA companies have committed themselves to adhering In short sequences, the employees explain their personal unto these regulations. In addition to ALTANA ’s Code of Conderstanding of the values and qualities that characterize duct, ELANTAS Beck India informed all of its staff members ALTANA . The result is a kaleidoscope of our group, which is about the law on sexual harassment at the workplace that marked by an innovative spirit and customer orientation. went into effect in India in 2013. Participation in the film was voluntary. All of the employees Training programs on ALTANA ’s Code of Conduct have spoke in front of the camera without a script. That makes been offered electronically on an online platform since our film particularly authentic. And it’s why we decided to use 2010. Aside from German, English, and Chinese versions, an some of the sequences for our new “ALTANA plus” image Italian version was added in 2014. It provided training to campaign launched at the beginning of 2015. 270 employees last year. The e-learning program (exclusively in English) developed in 2014 addresses the issues of corruption and corruptSustainable Management with ALTANA X ibility. With it, we have trained 300 managers. Also, we used our annual controller meetings in the U.S. and China in Our internal ALTANA Excellence program – ALTANA X , for 2014 to heighten the participants’ knowledge about the issue short – was initiated in 2013. The goal is to make processes of compliance. At both events, the subject was taken up more efficient in an effort to cut costs in the long run. Of during a whole day of lectures and workshops. a total of 108 projects, eight have a direct link to sustainable With internal audits, we check to see whether our busimanagement. Some of the projects expressly seek to optiness processes contain compliance risks and, if they do, mize the use of material or energy to protect resources or imdefine measures to eliminate these risks. In 2014, we perprove safety. For example, thanks to improved boiler cleanformed 19 audits of this kind. ing processes we have reduced the use of raw materials for cleaning agents at BYK in Wesel and thus made their disposal superfluous. At ACTEGA DS in Bremen, improvements Film Conveys Guiding Principles in the manufacture of Provalin have reduced the amount of material needed and at the same time cut disposal costs. “We want to be leading in everything we do” – this is the In other projects, the sustainability effects are a result motto of ALTANA ’s Guiding Principles. Last year, we shot of intended economic process optimizations. This applies, for the film “We are ALTANA ,” in which employees from Gerinstance, to a project launched by ELANTAS Beck in Hammany, the U.S., Italy, India, and China talk about their work. burg, where we are conserving energy in the manufacture of It can be called up on our website. resins thanks to more efficient production processes. At The 36 women and men featured in the film work in difits Wackersdorf site, ECKART is optimizing the atomization ferent capacities. Among them are production workers as of aluminum into powder and thus will also consume less well as managers and specialists. Some were ambassadors energy. Management Products Safety Environment Human Resources Social Commitment 13 Innovation Strategy Awards Sustainable management is often rooted in innovations. In 2014, the German “Land of Ideas” initiative staged a comALTANA invests around six percent of its total sales in innovapetition called “NRW -Wirtschaft im Wandel” (A Changing tions, which is above the industry average. Moreover, we Economy in North Rhine-Westphalia). The competition was are continually working on making our internal innovation mounted under the aegis of the economics minister of management as efficient as possible. North Rhine-Westphalia. A jury consisting of representatives A good example is the realignment of BYK ’s research from industry, associations, and politics selected the prizeand development in 2014. The move helps establish an interwinners. ALTANA was given an award for its successful transnational innovation structure with sites in Germany, the U.S. , formation from a conglomerate into a pure specialty chemand Asia. Processes were changed and tasks redistributed. icals supplier. In a nutshell, the changes aim to speed up innovation processes at BYK and to enable the company’s researchers to react as quickly as possible to market needs. For particularly Global Compact in the Supply Chain when it comes to the development of environmentally compatible, sustainable, or VOC -free products, we receive imporAs a member of the worldwide Global Compact initiative tant impetus from our customers. of the United Nations, we have committed ourselves to imIndependently of our internal commitment to innovaplementing its principles in our supply chain. We share the tion, we enter into exchange and cooperation with external corresponding code of conduct with our suppliers on our purpartners to promote it. Most of them are our customers, chasing platform, among other places, where they can sign but they also include other suppliers and scientific institutes. the voluntary initiative. A total of 480 companies have done In our view, an exchange of knowledge is of the utmost so since 2010, with 161 signing it in 2014. When we visit importance for future innovations. suppliers, we conduct audits to ensure that they are adherIn this context, we also observe the development of ing to the voluntary commitments. In 2014, we audited innovation culture in German industry. In 2014, we commis21 companies in India, Poland, and the U.S. sioned the market research institute Forsa to conduct a study for us for the second time. In this cross-sector study, 250 top decision-makers and 250 career entrants were surResponsible Care and Chemie ³ veyed on the topic. One outcome of the study, titled “Industry Innovation Index 2014,” is that the majority of companies The basis of our activities is the chemical industry’s worldin Germany focus on internal innovation programs but do not wide sustainability initiative, called Responsible Care. All of sufficiently open up to the outside. ALTANA ’s managing directors personally signed this voluntary initiative and, based on it, submit an annual report to the German Chemical Industry Association (VCI) , which uses the data for its annual Responsible Care progress report. 14 Sustainability Report 2014 In Germany, the sustainability initiative Chemie ³ (Chemisin Wesel alone. Guests gathered information about the prodtry ³) has set itself the goal of pushing ahead sustainability, ucts we manufacture, visited laboratories, and took guided above and beyond the objectives of Responsible Care. tours of the production halls. At some sites, children gained The initiative was established by the VCI , the German Mining, their first practical experiences in experiments developed Chemical and Energy Industries Union (IG BCE) , and the especially for them. And young people had the opportunity to German Federation of Chemical Employers (BAVC) . ALTANA collect information about the apprenticed trades on offer. supports this initiative because it is in line with our group’s Guiding Principles. An important part of the work of Chemie ³ is to convey to members exemplary solutions and approaches for sustainable management. A publication called “Good Practices” serves this purposes. One of the first reports was devoted to an innovative sealant that our company ACTEGA DS developed (see ALTANA Sustainability Report 2013). With its help, bottle cap manufacturers can use considerably less steel. Stakeholders In our communications, we rely on dialogue with various interest groups. They include neighbors, local political representatives, and the media, as well as public authorities, associations, investors, customers, and suppliers. The exchange serves to strengthen trust in our products and the safety of our plants. On the one hand, we determine stakeholders relevant to us on the basis of our experience and the communications needs we identify. On the other, we analyze which groups may have special expectations or fears vis-à-vis the chemical industry and adapt our communications accordingly. Our annual reports and annual sustainability reports are an important component of our communications with interest groups, as is participation in association meetings or other events. ALTANA ’s regular Germany-wide open house activities are among them. Eight of our group’s sites took part in this action day in September 2014. A total of 8,000 visitors attended, 4,500 Products We want to be leading in everything we do. This particularly concerns our innovative products, which conserve resources and protect the climate. We help our customers manufacture with low emissions and energy-efficiently. Furthermore, with our PVC -free and thus plasticizer-free closure seals for glass jar lids, for example, we help them increase the safety of their products. 16 JOINING FORCES FOR A COMPETITIVE EDGE 20 Sustainable Product Development 20 Reducing Emissions 20 Protecting the Climate 20 Conserving Resources 21 Alternatives to Hazardous Substances 21 Guidelines and Their Impact on ALTANA 22 Global Product Strategy 16 Products Joining Forces for a Competitive Edge: Trailblazers Together with Feinkost Dittmann, ACTEGA DS has brought a packaging innovation onto the market: a PVC-free closure for glass jars. Plasticizers in PVC closures have many Dittmann, the market leader for gourmet disadvantages. When they come into condelicacies in Germany, was the first com“ALTANA ’s top priority is to give our customers a tact with oily and fatty foods they may pany in its sector worldwide to introduce competitive advantage with our products, enabling them to have an edge in their markets. This can migrate and thus can be deleterious to conPVC -free closures for its products. “As a lead to lasting success if we can combine this goal with sumers’ health. In addition, there is the family-owned business, we want to guaradvantages for consumers and the environment. danger that when the packaging is incinantee our customers maximum product This ambition paid off in our cooperation with Feinkost Dittmann. It’s an important milestone in the aderated, dioxins will be emitted. When safety,” says Reichold, explaining his motivancement of our thermoplastic elastomers under the Timm Reichold, the managing director of vation. “In addition, we have a special brand name Provalin.” Feinkost Dittmann, learned of these facts responsibility to protect the environment.” Wilfried Lassek, ACTEGA in the mid-2000s, he knew immediately that his company’s gourmet foods packSuch innovative closures have been made aged in glass jars needed closures with possible by Provalin. Under this brand sealing compounds devoid of PVC. But name, ACTEGA DS sells thermoplastic elasthere were no such alternatives at the time. tomers (TPE) that can be used to manuReichold needed an innovative partner. facture PVC -free and thus plasticizer-free sealing compounds for glass jar lids. He found one in ACTEGA DS . Ten years Consumers recognize this from the blue ago, the gourmet food manufacturer seal inside the lid. and the sealant specialist pooled their resources and were joined by the closure Provalin is suitable for both hot and cold manufacturer Pano to form an unusual filling of foods. Moreover, it can withtriad. The cooperation has set standards stand the high temperatures that arise durin the food packaging industry. Feinkost ing sterilization and pasteurization. Last 16 products JOINING FOrCES FOr A COmpETITIvE EdGE: trAiLbLAzers TOGEThEr WITh FEINKOST dITTmANN, ACTEGA dS hAS BrOUGhT A pACKAGING INNOvATION ONTO ThE mArKET: A pvC-FrEE CLOSUrE FOr GLASS JArS. “ThANKS TO ALTANA, WE ArE LIvING Up TO OUr rESpONSIBILITy FOr CONSUmErS. WITh ThE pvC-FrEE CLOSUrE, WE GUArANplasticizers in pvC closures have many dittmann, the market leader forTEE ThEm mAXImUm prOdUCT SAFETy.” gourmet disadvantages. When they come into condelicacies in Germany, was the tiMM first comreiCHoLD,“ALTANA Feinkost’s topDittMAnn priority is to give our customers a tact with oily and fatty foods they may pany in its sector worldwide to introduce competitive advantage with our products, enabling them to have an edge in their markets. This can migrate and thus can be deleterious to conpvC -free closures for its products. “As a lead to lasting success if we can combine this goal with sumers’ health. In addition, there is the family-owned business, we want to guaradvantages for consumers and the environment. danger that when the packaging is incinantee our customers maximum product This ambition paid off in our cooperation with Feinkost dittmann. It’s an important milestone in the aderated, dioxins will be emitted. When safety,” says reichold, explaining his motivancement of our thermoplastic elastomers under the Timm reichold, the managing director of vation. “In addition, we have a special brand name provalin.” Feinkost dittmann, learned of these facts responsibility to protect the environment.” WiLFrieD LAssek, ACtegA in the mid-2000s, he knew immediately that his company’s gourmet foods packSuch innovative closures have been made aged in glass jars needed closures with possible by provalin. Under this brand sealing compounds devoid of pvC. But name, ACTEGA dS sells thermoplastic elasthere were no such alternatives at the time. tomers (TpE) that can be used to manureichold needed an innovative partner. facture pvC -free and thus plasticizer-free sealing compounds for glass jar lids. he found one in ACTEGA dS . Ten years Consumers recognize this from the blue ago, the gourmet food manufacturer seal inside the lid. and the sealant specialist pooled their resources and were joined by the closure provalin is suitable for both hot and cold manufacturer pano to form an unusual filling of foods. moreover, it can withtriad. The cooperation has set standards stand the high temperatures that arise durin the food packaging industry. Feinkost ing sterilization and pasteurization. Last 18 Products but not least, it guarantees that no unde86 Million Provalin-Equipped Closures sired substances migrate from the TPE in 2014 into the food over a longer period. Hence The partners needed around six years for Provalin is ideal for packaging oily and the development work. The debut came fatty foods such as olives and antipasti. in 2011: the first antipasti jar with Provalin. Since then, Feinkost Dittmann has ACTEGA DS marketed the first PVC -free gradually converted the closures of its ensealants back in the 1980s, albeit for bottle tire range of products to accommodate caps. “The cooperation with Feinkost the innovative sealant. The method had to Dittmann was a tremendous opportunity be adapted to all kinds of lid sizes. This to optimize our TPE development for process is now almost complete. In 2014, application in vacuum screw closures,” says the gourmet product manufacturer Wilfried Lassek, the managing director sealed 86 million jars with the blue seal. of ACTEGA DS . “That was a key milestone in our sustainable product development.” The innovation met with a tremendous response in the industry. Experts rewarded Provalin not only had to prove itself under the partners’ commitment with the Gerthe different production conditions of man Packaging Prize 2011. Consumdifferent bottling plants. In addition, the ers were also thrilled. A study found that material had to be durable enough to eight of ten consumers buy gourmet last for up to 36 months. food closed with the blue seal. “Provalin offers us a real competitive edge,” says Reichold. products 19 Under the brand name provalin, ACTEGA dS sells thermoplastic elastomers (TpE) , which are used to make pvC free and thus plasticizer-free sealing compounds for glass jar closures. Consumers recognize this from the blue seal inside the lid. In 2014, Feinkost dittmann closed 86 million jars with this seal. provalin is ideal for packaging oily and fatty foods such as olives and antipasti. MAking ProDuCts sAFer: ACTEGA dS, FEINKOST dITTmANN, ANd A CLOSUrE mANUFACTUrEr JOINEd FOrCES TO dEvELOp ThE FIrST pvC-FrEE ANd ThUS pLASTICIZEr-FrEE SEALING COmpOUNd FOr GLASS JArS. ThE prOdUCT INNOvATION hAS GONE dOWN EXTrEmELy WELL WITh CONSUmErS. 20 Sustainability Report 2014 Sustainable Product Development at ALTANA reduce the ecological footprint of our products. Second, our products can help our customers reduce emissions and The sustainability of our products is a core component of our energy consumption. corporate responsibility. In the context of new technologies, biotechnology, We aim to ensure that our products generate as few which has not been used much so far in the specialty chemiemissions as possible and need as little resources as possible. cal industry, opens up interesting possibilities. BYK -Chemie In addition, we look for alternatives to harmful substances has already gathered its first biotech experiences. With a few wherever possible. products, it replaced traditional catalysts with enzymes. With these objectives in mind, our companies successThe enzymes’ sustainability is indisputable because they are fully differentiate their respective portfolios, and did so again water based, non-toxic, and biodegradable. Furthermore, in 2014. This innovation strategy enables them to access as they can be processed at much lower temperatures, they new markets or new customer groups, or to utilize new techhave the advantage that they save energy during manunologies that were not used at ALTANA hitherto. facture and thus reduce emissions. Thanks to the lower temperatures, moreover, secondary reactions, for example color changes that occur when traditional catalysts are used, can Reducing Emissions be avoided. When it comes to helping our customers manufacture Our product strategy aims at reducing emissions from volatile climate-friendly products, a new development by our comorganic compounds (VOC) . We achieve this goal by steadily pany ELANTAS Beck as well as the cooperation between BYK expanding our portfolio of water-based paints, additives, coatand the Spanish technology center ITENE achieved mileings, and pigments. An exemplary new development for stones. With the product group co-Shield, which has already this strategy from the year under review are the water-based been patented in the U.S., ELANTAS is now offering a printing inks that ACTEGA Colorchemie brought onto the groundbreaking two-layer concept for insulating coatings. market under the name ColorFlex. They are conceived for flexIt prolongs the life of energy-efficient, speed-controlled ible plastic packaging used for food. Overall, the ACTEGA motors. division increased the share of its products based on water BYK ’s cooperation with ITENE will push ahead worldand not solvents to approximately 55 percent. Of the 106 wide usage of climate-friendly bioplastics based on polylactic thousand tons of finished goods the division sold in 2014, acid (PLA) . The additives resulting from the collaboration 35 thousand tons of water replaced fossil-based solvents. improve the mechanical resilience and thermal resistance of About 86 percent were VOC -free coatings. packaging materials for which the bioplastic is used. Protecting the Climate Conserving Resources In addition to reducing VOC emissions, we are also working Extremely efficient resource consumption is an important on cutting CO ² emissions. This can be done in various ways. component of sustainable product development. In 2014, First, the use of new technologies in manufacturing can help trailblazing new developments of our companies once Management Products Safety Environment Human Resources Social Commitment 21 again contributed to improving our customers’ products The success of the plasticizer-free sealant Provalin encourin this regard. aged ACTEGA DS to extend this portfolio to other applicaELANTAS Beck India developed four products that are tions. As a consequence, the company has tapped new marmanufactured with oil from cashew shells. In terms of sustainkets. On the one hand, it modified its Provalin recipe such able management, we view this innovation as a particuthat the material no longer contains animal-derived compolarly remarkable step. It shows the potential that lies in reusnents (ADC) . Now Provalin can also be used for kosher and ing plant waste. vegan food packaging. A new bonding agent developed by BYK that optimizes On the other hand, with ProvaMed the company is metal primers improves the corrosion resistance of metals, offering a transparent, plasticizer-free, low migration thermothus increasing their lifespan. Svelon, a new, PVC -free sealant plastic elastomer (TPE) that is suitable for sterilization prothat ACTEGA DS developed in cooperation with the U.S. cedures in medicine and pharmacology. As such, it can be Dayton Systems Group, enables beverage cans to be provided used as a sealant for syringes and infusion bag closures, with a twist-off cap. As a result, the cans can be closed among other things. again – an important benefit for consumers. A water-based encoding varnish from ACTEGA Terra not only makes it easier to print individual labels, but also makes the printing Guidelines and Their Impact on ALTANA process more sustainable as it reduces the use of material. The legal framework for our company’s activities consists of national laws and international guidelines. We attentively Alternatives to Hazardous Substances follow the development of projects that affect us and participate in the opinion-making process they give rise to, for Wherever it is possible and economically sensible, ALTANA example within the framework of online surveys launched by strives to replace harmful substances. With this strategy, we lawmakers. often open up new markets for our companies. An examThe introduction of nano registers that has been disple is Lasersafe from ECKART . The first heavy metal-free pigcussed for some years impacts a number of our companies. In ment can be used for the increasingly popular practice of our view, such registers are not needed, because the rules laser marking of plastics. A new group of thixotropy additives of the EU -wide REACH regulation suffice for registering the that BYK brought onto the market is produced without nanomaterials that are used for respective substances. We the substance NMP (N-Methyl-2-pyrrolidone), which is toxic took this stance during the Internet consultation that the EU to reproduction. requested different stakeholders to participate in. With the introduction of a new ToySafe paint series, If nano registers are introduced nonetheless, we advoACTEGA Terra offers safety not only to toy manufacturers. cate the establishment of an EU -wide institution to keep Food packaging manufacturers can also rest assured that the administrative costs and effort for the companies affected these paints do not contain any substances that are detrimenwithin certain limits. National registers, which are currently tal to human health, such as Bisphenol A, benzophenone, planned in some European countries, should not be created heavy metals, and plasticizers. because they increase the bureaucratic burden in the companies. 22 Sustainability Report 2014 We stick to the criticism we expressed in the previous years 2014 we provided information on two substances to the on the definition of the term “nano” that is currently under International Council of Chemical Associations (ICCA) , which discussion. This concerns two aspects. First, the definition it published on the Internet. For reasons of confidentiality, is so broad that according to experts it unnecessarily extends we cannot publish further information. This concerns our adto powder and normal pigments. Second, it is not practiditives. For with them we are not bringing substances onto cal because it refers to the tiniest particles (so-called primary the market but are creating an effect. The chemical associaparticles). But as a rule, chemical companies process agtions have not found a solution to this special case to date. glomerates or aggregates, a large amount of particles that clump together. Finally, we make reference to the fact that there is still a lack of measuring methods to examine the materials at reasonable expense. The only method with which primary particles can be identified is expensive electron microscopy. A statistical evaluation of the results is hardly reasonable. The planned legislation on hydraulic fracturing in Germany makes testing of this unconventional method of gas and oil production more difficult. While we regret this, we are pleased that tests will not be ruled out completely. In our view, hydraulic fracturing is a controllable technology that can help pave the way for an energy turnaround in Germany, enabling us to refrain from using coal and use more environmentally friendly natural gas for generating energy instead. The risks of the technology that have been discussed publicly refer to groundwater protection. We therefore advocate transparency. All of the substances in the fracturing liquids should be published. This also concerns our additives. Our goal is to contribute to environmentally compatible fracturing and, in keeping, to develop non-critical products. Therefore, we are gathering data to evaluate the effects of our additives on the environment. Global Product Strategy ALTANA has registered eleven substances under the EU -wide REACH regulation. In line with our voluntary commitment regarding the worldwide Global Product Strategy (GPS) , in Safety ALTANA relies on a uniform safety culture. Technical and organizational measures contribute to enhancing work safety and anchoring the issue firmly in our employees’ minds. Our top priority is to reduce the number of accidents. We are constantly working on minimizing dangers and improving the protection of our employees’ health. 24 GUARANTEEING SAFETY 28 Worldwide Safety Culture 28 ALTANA Safety Indicators 29 Measures for Improving Behavior 29 Technical Safety Improvements 30 Low Number of Incidents 31 Occupational Health Promotion 31 Sports Offers 24 Safety Guaranteeing Safety: Fire Department Helpers The cooperation between BYK and the Wesel fire department includes joint training and special fire-fighting vehicles. In a very sophisticated technological enviwere given permission by the regional ronment, safety plays a key role. This administration to forego having our own “Good cooperation presupposes predictability and applies particularly to chemical companies. company fire service. Instead, we supreliability. Our longstanding cooperation with the Wesel fire department has helped strengthen our unFor many years, BYK in Wesel has coopport the municipal fire department, among derstanding for one another enormously. We have erated intensely with the local fire departother things, in its regular special trainbuilt well-functioning structures together that enable ment. The collaboration is extraordinary. ing of personnel to fight industrial fires. us to act quickly and competently in an emergency.” We not only know this from first-hand exIn addition, we are helping them purKlaus Hirle, BYK perience, but it is also confirmed by chase special fire-fighting equipment used Christoph Hegering, the assistant chief of to fight industrial fires and other large the Wesel fire and rescue department. fires. Finally, we provide special equipment on our factory grounds and maintain it Chemical reactions require high temperaon a regular basis. tures, and some raw materials are combustible or caustic. To guarantee the proThe cooperation is multifaceted. The top tection of employees, neighbors, and priority is to train the 70 fulltime and the environment, the corresponding laws 200 volunteer fire department employees and regulations prescribe detailed safety on active duty in Wesel. “Everyone here measures. Among other things, some comhas to be able to fight an industrial fire,” panies are required to develop their own says Hegering. Two-day training stints fire departments. This would have been the on the grounds of the Rotterdam Intercase with BYK in Wesel too. national Safety Center (RISC) prepare them for this task. Twice a year, accident But due to the proximity of our plant scenarios are gone through here, situato the main fire department in Wesel, we 24 Safety GUArANTEEING SAFETy: Fire DePArtMent HeLPers ThE COOpErATION BETWEEN ByK ANd ThE WESEL FIrE dEpArTmENT INCLUdES JOINT TrAINING ANd SpECIAL FIrE-FIGhTING vEhICLES. “ALTANA IS A pArTNEr WITh WhICh WE CAN TALK OpENLy ANd hONESTLy. SO WE KNOW ThAT COmmUNICATION WILL WOrK In a very sophisticated technological enviIN AN EmErGENCy.” were given permission by the regional ronment, safety plays a key role. This administration to forego having our own Hegering, CHristoPH “Good cooperation WeseL Fire presupposes DePArtMent predictability and applies particularly to chemical companies. company fire service. Instead, we supreliability. Our longstanding cooperation with the Wesel fire department has helped strengthen our unFor many years, ByK in Wesel has coopport the municipal fire department, among derstanding for one another enormously. We have erated intensely with the local fire departother things, in its regular special trainbuilt well-functioning structures together that enable ment. The collaboration is extraordinary. ing of personnel to fight industrial fires. us to act quickly and competently in an emergency.” We not only know this from first-hand exIn addition, we are helping them purkLAus HirLe, bYk perience, but it is also confirmed by chase special fire-fighting equipment used Christoph hegering, the assistant chief of to fight industrial fires and other large the Wesel fire and rescue department. fires. Finally, we provide special equipment on our factory grounds and maintain it Chemical reactions require high temperaon a regular basis. tures, and some raw materials are combustible or caustic. To guarantee the proThe cooperation is multifaceted. The top tection of employees, neighbors, and priority is to train the 70 fulltime and the environment, the corresponding laws 200 volunteer fire department employees and regulations prescribe detailed safety on active duty in Wesel. “Everyone here measures. Among other things, some comhas to be able to fight an industrial fire,” panies are required to develop their own says hegering. Two-day training stints fire departments. This would have been the on the grounds of the rotterdam Intercase with ByK in Wesel too. national Safety Center (rISC) prepare them for this task. Twice a year, accident But due to the proximity of our plant scenarios are gone through here, situa to the main fire department in Wesel, we 26 Safety tions that would be conceivable at BYK . from the reciprocal training is deepened by en, though, they have not had to put their They include pumps and filling facilities regular joint exercises and on-site visits firefighting skills to the test. that catch on fire. to the BYK plant grounds. In this training program financed by BYK , Joint Crisis Management the firefighters learn under which conBut this is not enough for successful coditions they can use water, foam, or powoperation. “Open and honest interaction der to extinguish a fire and which adwith one another is paramount,” says ditional rescue and security measures are Hegering. “Good cooperation is based on needed. the partners being predictable,” adds Klaus Hirle, the head of Work and Health In parallel, BYK has its own employees Protection at BYK -Chemie. “This sows trained to be so-called fire department trust.” helpers. Two helpers have to be available on each shift. In the event of an emerJoint debriefings by the managers, analygency, they support the fire department ses, and above all the willingness of both as “scouts” with their knowledge of sides to talk openly about mistakes and the site or carry out preparatory work, for to learn from them are additional aspects example switching on fire wells on the of the partnership. Both Hegering and factory grounds. They are also trained with Hirle are convinced that “in the case of an the fire department, learning how to use emergency, we could react much faster respiratory protective equipment, among and better than a few years ago.” Thanks other things. The knowledge gained to the preventative safety measures takSafety 27 The 18-ton large-tank fire truck TLF 4000, which was purchased with financial support from ByK , is particularly suitable for extinguishing large fires. The big advantage of this fire-fighting vehicle: With its 4,500 liter tank and the foam and extinguishing powder it carries it can be deployed immediately to fight fires. With the help of a control device, the water / foam monitor in the front of the vehicle, with a capacity of 1,500 liters a minute, can be operated even while the vehicle is being driven. The fire fighters can begin extinguishing the flames in the very first minutes, before the hoses are connected with fire wells or fire hydrants at the location. At its WeseL site, bYk CooPerAtes CLOSELy WITh ThE LOCAL FIrE dEpArTmENT. EmpLOyEES TrAIN TOGEThEr WITh FIrE FIGhTErS AT ThE pLANT ANd rECEIvE SpECIAL TrAINING FOr FIGhTING INdUSTrIAL FIrES; ThE COmpANy hELpS pUrChASE SpECIAL FIrE-FIGhTING EqUIpmENT. 28 Sustainability Report 2014 Uniform Safety Culture Worldwide WAI 2 As an employer, it is ALTANA ’s duty to protect its more than 6,000 employees from dangers and to offer them safety 2014 Target for 2014: 4.0 2.58 at the workplace. The basis for the technical and organiza2013 3.98 tional measures we implement are the laws valid in the 2012 4.67 region where the respective site is located. In addition, we 2011 4.92 have developed a uniform safety culture applicable at all 2010 6.23 2009 5.57 of ALTANA ’s sites. By implementing a wide range of measures, 2008 7.52 we ensure that our safety culture is firmly anchored in the 2007 8.00 minds and behavior of all of our employees. Achieved in 2007 – 2014: 67 % (Target for 2016: 2.1) ALTANA Occupational Safety Indicators WAI 3 With the Work Accident Indicator (WAI) we continuously collect data on occupational safety from all our sites world2014 Target for 2014: 65.0 39.07 wide. Each year, we define upper limits to achieve our 2013 67.09 most important goal, namely, to reduce the number of occu2012 76.25 pational accidents. Since we began recording this infor2011 68.83 mation in 2006, we have been able to lower the number of 2010 98.56 2009 103.62 accidents step by step, as the graphics on the side show. 2008 158.81 2007 176.29 WAI 1 Achieved in 2007 – 2014: 78 % (Target for 2016: 50) Target for 2014: 6.0 2014 3.12 2013 6.02 The Work Accident Indicator is divided into three categories: 2012 7.29 –W AI 1: Number of occupational accidents with lost work 2011 7.43 time of one or more days per million working hours, 2010 7.73 – WAI 2: Number of occupational accidents with more than 2009 8.15 three days of lost work time per million working hours, 2008 11.68 –W  AI 3: Number of lost work days due to occupational acci2007 12.26 dents per million working hours. Achieved in 2007 – 2014: 74 % (Target for 2016: 3) Management Products Safety Environment Human Resources Social Commitment 29 In 2014, as in the previous years, there were no fatal accihow important it is for safety to, say, clean tools and devices dents in our company. The figures in all three areas were sigafter use and put them back in their place. nificantly lower than the upper limits we had defined. In Safety awareness and safe behavior were also addressed three of our four divisions, we already reached the level we by BYK at its Wesel site. Safety experts and the executive had defined for 2016. management, supported by an external consultant, developed It is particularly noteworthy that for several years a a safety program called “sicher@BYK ” (safe@BYK ). The number of our companies have worked so safely that there aim of the program is to address and promote safety-comhas been no lost work time due to accidents. ECKART has pliant behavior across all divisions and levels of hierarchy. achieved this for more than ten years at our U.S. site in ScherRegular investigations of dangers at the workplace (called job erville, for four years at our Chinese site in Zhuhai, and for safety analyses at BYK ), dialogue-oriented instructions, two years at our Wackersdorf site in Germany. ELANTAS Beck and anonymized documentation of occupational accidents India has been accident-free for more than ten years. The on the Intranet serve to sharpen employees’ safety awareemployees at ACTEGA Foshan (China), ACTEGA Kelstar (U.S.), ness. In regular team meetings, line managers, safety officers and ACTEGA Rhenacoat (France) have worked for more and employees develop suggestions for improving occuthan three years without any lost work time due to accidents. pational safety. This positive development is the result of various safety measures implemented at ALTANA . An important contributing factor is that we exchange best practice models between Technical Safety Improvements our sites. In addition to examining employees’ safety behavior, we regularly probe how we can continue to improve our techniMeasures for Improving Behavior cal equipment and make it safer in terms of ergonomics. In Ankleshwar, India, for example, we built a separate In spite of all our success, we are aware of the fact that we elevator shaft outside the production building to replace cannot slacken in our efforts. Particularly at the sites where the pulley system used inside. As a result, employees can transthe WAI statistics were good, the management had the port raw material pallets safely. In Schererville, so-called impression that the employees’ safety awareness in everyday scissor lift tables now make it easier to stack packets on palwork had let up – a very human development. lets. Employees no longer have to bend down, because At the Schererville site, the number of near accidents with low weights the table top remains at work height thanks increased. As a result, we are offering the forklift operators to special springs in the mechanism, and only sinks down there special training and examining the situation in monthly with increasing weight. At the Zhuhai site, ELANTAS installed safety talks with the employees. At ELANTAS Beck India a new dosing machine. The machine obviates the need to in Pimpri and Ankleshwar, we have introduced special audits add powders manually, as the latter are fed automatically into and so-called safety hunters to make the employees realize the reactor vessels. This not only prevents dust from accumulating, but also reduces the risk of explosions. 30 Sustainability Report 2014 Low Number of Incidents Number of incidents according to process safety incident (PSI) for 2014 / 2013 / 2012 related to one million working hours Fires, explosions, and leakage of chemicals pose dangers to our employees and neighbors, to the company and the environment. Our goal is to prevent such incidents from 2014 ¹ 0.41 2014 1.14 occurring. This is the basis of our process and plant safety at 2013 0.68 all of our sites. 2012 0.46 In keeping with the laws of the respective region, we ¹ According to ALTANA’s specific definition of significant incidents. generally equip new production facilities with sumps or catchment basins to prevent chemicals from leaking out. Many existing plants have been retrofitted accordingly. Closable Number of incidents in absolute terms for 2014 / 2013 / 2012 / 2011 differentiated according to fire and release of chemicals wastewater pipes and sealed surfaces also help prevent chemicals from being released into the environment. Needless to say, we register every relevant incident, 3 1 2014 ¹ no matter whether it is in production or in a warehouse, in a 3 8 2014 technical center or a lab. But our definition of “significant 1 5 2013 incidents” differs from that of the German Chemical Industry 2 2 2012 Association of (VCI) . 4 2 2011 The VCI categorizes an incident as being “significant” if Fire Release of chemicals a fire or explosion causes a defined loss amount or injury ¹ According to ALTANA’s specific definition of significant incidents. or if a defined amount of chemical leaks out. The amounts vary depending on the substance or mixture. This applies regardless of whether the chemical was caught in a special container or a sump or actually made its way into the enIn addition, there were two deflagrations. At ACTEGA vironment (water or air). In our view, however, an incident Rhenania’s site in Grevenbroich, a forgotten grounding led is only “significant” if the substance is actually dissemito a minor deflagration in which an employee suffered nated into the environment. For in all other cases, the techslight burns. During repair work on a pipeline at ELANTAS nical preventive measures implemented are conducive to Zhuhai, there was a deflagration with a large shooting plant safety. flame. No employees were injured. Based on ALTANA ’s own definition, we registered four At ECKART ’s Hartenstein site, an explosion occurred significant incidents in 2014. At the ECKART site in Louisville, while pigments were being ground together with solvents in Kentucky, wastewater contaminated with aluminum was December 2014. No one was injured, but there was extendispersed into the environment through a leaky pipe. Howsive material damage. The cause analysis had not been comever, the leak in the sewage pipe was not located on our pleted when this report was printed. property. The contamination of the soil by the metal was remedied swiftly. Neighbors suffered no harm. Management Products Safety Environment Human Resources Social Commitment 31 Occupational Health Promotion Sports Offers At ALTANA , we have traditionally attached great importance An important component of our prevention strategy are the to preventive measures to protect human health, in order sports options that more and more companies are offering to reduce lost work time due to illness and to enhance emtheir employees, often right on site. The most recent examployees’ wellbeing. At our sites in Germany, we registered ple is the Pimpri site of our company ELANTAS Beck India. a sickness rate of 4.2 percent in 2014. Compared to the data In the new administrative building there, a fitness room was of the chemical industry in Germany and the data pubprovided with equipment in 2014, and a badminton court lished by the central statutory health association (GKV) , this was set up in a storeroom that is no longer needed. Both emfigure is in the same general range at around 4 percent. ployees and managers participated in the first tournament. In Germany, representatives of all of our companies regularly exchange information about their respective occupational health promotional measures and provide best practice examples. The following measures were successfully implemented in 2014: As the first company in the Group, BYK began offering employees over 40 a comprehensive, free checkup by a company physician. The response is extremely positive. At its Wackersorf site, ECKART had good experiences with a new model for shift workers: employees over 50 switch shifts after a maximum of three days. An occupational reintegration management system for employees who are unable to work for more than six weeks due to illness is being discussed. The aim is to give employees the opportunity to perform certain tasks during the illness phase if they want to and if the tasks do not impair the recovery process. Medical advisory opinions need to be obtained. At ELANTAS ’ two Chinese sites, the management launched an anti-smoking campaign. The three top managers there serve as role models – they quit smoking themselves. Second, a smoking ban was introduced for the entire factory grounds, and as a third measure, a financial reward is offered to every employee who stops smoking. To be eligible, the employee has to sign a written agreement. If the employee has a relapse, he or she has to pay back twice the amount he or she received. 32 Sustainability Report 2014 Environment Environmentally friendly management is a key component of ALTANA ’s corporate strategy. Our goal is to steadily reduce the energy consumption at all sites and in all areas. To this end, we have installed special heating cabinets and energy-saving electric motors at our new production plant in Wallingford. We also implement this objective in other environmentally relevant areas, such as waste. 34 TAKING RESPONSIBILITY LOCALLY 38 Facts on Environmental Protection 38 Resource Consumption and Waste 40 Customer Proximity and Climate Protection 41 Investments for Climate Protection 41 Improving Waste Disposal 42 Reducing Water Consumption 42 Reducing Emissions 34 Environment Taking Responsibility Locally: Climate protectors BYK USA has erected a new, leading-edge manufacturing facility in Wallingford that meets the most stringent environmental protection requirements. In our company, growth and sustainability highly skilled, in Wallingford. The first go hand in hand. Nothing illustrates this 22 new employees, including researchers “With our state-of-the-art facilities all over the world, better than the expanded plant that BYK and developers, engineers, as well as for example in Wallingford, we have taken responsibility for the environment and our surroundings. Our USA opened in 2014 in Wallingford. It chemical operators and maintenance techcustomers reduce their carbon footprint and at the is ALTANA ’s largest investment outside of nicians began work in 2014. same time we create a healthy climate for our emGermany to date. ployees and neighbors at the location.” “BYK USA helps position Connecticut as Dirk Plas, President BYK USA With the new manufacturing facility in a leader in manufacturing in the U.S. Connecticut, the additives manufacturer That strengthens our global competitive has doubled its capacities in the U.S. position,” says Nancy Wyman, LieutenMoreover, it is now closer to our customant Governor of the state of Connecticut, ers. The plant has taken over the manuwhich provided loans to subsidize the facture of almost 200 products that BYK construction of the facility. “This expanUSA had hitherto imported from Europe. sion means more good jobs with good “Thanks to the local manufacturing, we are benefits for Connecticut’s workforce in an now more flexible. We can react to inindustry that has wages around 30 perquiries faster. At the same time, we reduce cent higher than average annual wages.” our carbon footprint because overseas transports are significantly reduced,” says “Another plus is the high level of automaDirk Plas, President BYK USA , summing tion of the new plant, which is a driver up the advantages. for sustainability, environmental protection and safety in the workplace,” asserts Plas. In addition, by 2016 BYK USA will have The Lieutenant Governor is convinced that created around 40 new jobs, some of them “workplace safety and environmental 8 Environment TAKING rESpONSIBILITy LOCALLy: CLiMAte ProteCtors ByK USA hAS ErECTEd A NEW, LEAdING-EdGE mANUFACTUrING FACILITy IN WALLINGFOrd ThAT mEETS ThE mOST STrINGENT ENvIrONmENTAL prOTECTION rEqUIrEmENTS. “ByK USA hELpS pOSITION CONNECTICUT AS A LEAdEr IN mANUFACTUrING, BALANCING ThE NEEdS OF BUSINESS WITh ENvIrONIn our company, growth and sustainability mENTAL highly skilled, in Wallingford. The first prOTECTION ANd COmprEhENSIvE go hand in hand. Nothing illustrates this SUSTAINABILITy 22 new employees, including researchers EFFOrTS.” “With our state-of-the-art facilities all over the world, better than the expanded plant that ByK and developers, engineers, as well as for example in Wallingford, we have taken responsiLieutenAnt nAnCY WYMAn,bility goVernor for the environment and our ConneCtiCut oF surroundings. Our USA opened in 2014 in Wallingford. It chemical operators and maintenance techcustomers reduce their carbon footprint and at the is ALTANA ’s largest investment outside of nicians began work in 2014. same time we create a healthy climate for our emGermany to date. ployees and neighbors at the location.” “ByK USA helps position Connecticut as Dirk PLAs, PresiDent bYk usA With the new manufacturing facility in a leader in manufacturing in the U.S. Connecticut, the additives manufacturer That strengthens our global competitive has doubled its capacities in the U.S. position,” says Nancy Wyman, Lieutenmoreover, it is now closer to our customant Governor of the state of Connecticut, ers. The plant has taken over the manuwhich provided loans to subsidize the facture of almost 200 products that ByK construction of the facility. “This expanUSA had hitherto imported from Europe. sion means more good jobs with good “Thanks to the local manufacturing, we are benefits for Connecticut’s workforce in an now more flexible. We can react to inindustry that has wages around 30 perquiries faster. At the same time, we reduce cent higher than average annual wages.” our carbon footprint because overseas transports are significantly reduced,” says “Another plus is the high level of automadirk plas, president ByK USA , summing tion of the new plant, which is a driver up the advantages. for sustainability, environmental protection and safety in the workplace,” asserts plas. In addition, by 2016 ByK USA will have The Lieutenant Governor is convinced that created around 40 new jobs, some of them “workplace safety and environmental 36 Environment protection are keys to a higher quality of improves the site’s energy efficiency and life. They are an important factor for also helps reduce emissions. the state’s business climate.” Most processes that had to be carried out Closed Systems Reduce Emissions manually in the existing plant are now The plant’s state-of-the-art equipment automated. This applies to the entire proincludes closed systems with a total of 18 cess control. As a result there will be tanks from which raw materials are fed fewer off-spec batches, which improves right to the production vessels. This reducquality and reduces the amount of enes the VOC emissions in the exhaust air. ergy needed for rework. Furthermore, the Elevators optimize the material flow. New automated process reduces the risk of filling stations facilitate workflows and incidents. prevent products from overflowing. A collection tank prevents chemicals from being released into the environment in the case of incidents. A specially designed ventilation system ensures healthy working conditions in the manufacturing plant and reduces the risk of explosions. High capacity cooling towers plus the use of special thermal oil for heating and cooling of the reactors Environment 37 The plant, equipped with state-of-the-art technology, contains closed systems with which raw materials are fed directly into production vessels. That reduces emissions of volatile organic compounds (vOC) in the exhaust air. high-performance cooling towers and special thermal oil for heating and cooling reactors improve the site’s energy efficiency and contribute to reducing emissions. bYk usA’s stAte-oF-tHe-Art ProDuCtion FACiLitY mEETS ThE mOST STrINGENT ENvIrONmENTAL prOTECTION rEqUIrEmENTS. ThE pLANT’S hIGh dEGrEE OF AUTOmATION IS A CONTrIBUTING FACTOr. AT ThE SAmE TImE, WE CrEATE NEW, SKILLEd JOBS. 38 Sustainability Report 2014 Facts on Environmental Protection at ALTANA Resource Consumption and Waste Environmentally friendly management is a central component The table of environmental performance indicators for of ALTANA ’s strategy. In 2007, we set ourselves the goal 2007 – 2014 on the opposite page shows how ALTANA ’s of reducing our energy consumption, in relation to gross addenergy consumption, CO ² emissions, and waste volumes ed value, by 30 percent by 2020. We also seek to reduce have developed in comparison with the respective previous our water consumption and the waste produced when we year and since we began collecting the data in 2007. manufacture products. To measure our success on the path As a growth-oriented company, ALTANA does not use to these objectives, we have defined key performance indicaabsolute key performance indicators to reflect the compators and each year gather relevant data. ny’s growth. Instead, we gather absolute data on drinking Due to the acquisitions ALTANA made in 2013, we not water consumption, the total amount of CO ² emissions, only increased the amount of finished goods we manufacand the volume of hazardous and non-hazardous waste. We tured in 2014. Our energy and water consumption, as well set these data in relation to gross value added and derive as our CO ² emissions and the amount of non-hazardous key performance indicators and targets from them for each waste we produced, also grew. year. On the other hand, our new rheology products in parIf we only consider the companies that belonged to ticular have significant advantages in the upstream supply ALTANA prior to 2013, it becomes clear that to a certain exchain. They consist of non-fossil raw materials (clay), and are tent they have made very good progress in sustainable processed with no additional manufacturing steps. Since management. These companies have reduced their water and our production sites in the U.S. are in close proximity to mines energy consumption, as well as their waste volumes, and where raw materials are extracted, the transportation disthus reached the defined targets. tances are short. All of these factors have a positive impact A look at the key performance indicators of all ALTANA on the environmental performance of the supply chain. companies, including the newly obtained ones, shows In 2014, ALTANA produced around 505,000 tons of that the values of four of six key performance indicators have finished goods, an increase of 86,000 tons compared to increased (See graphics on page 40). The reason is the 2013. Overall, our companies needed about 490,000 tons of acquisition of the rheology business mentioned above. This raw materials plus water. Fossil raw materials constituted technology, which is new for ALTANA , is distinguished the lion’s share, some 400,000 tons (approximately 82 perby lower environmental burdens in the supply chain, but incent). Non-fossil, non-renewable raw materials (for examvolves higher energy consumption and larger quantities ple clay) comprised around 66,000 tons, while renewable raw of waste in production. materials accounted for 23,000 tons. Additionally, we used At the same time, we anticipate that in 2017 and 2020 around 44,000 tons of water as raw material. Remarkably, we will reach the environmental targets we set for these since we began collecting this data in 2007, the share of years respectively, by implementing improvement measures renewable raw materials and other, non-fossil materials as in the coming years. The only exception is water consumpwell as water has steadily increased. tion; we will not be able to reduce our use of water by the amount defined by 2017. Management Products Safety Environment Human Resources Social Commitment 39 Environmental data ALTANA 2007 – 2014 2014 2013 2007 in € million Production of finished goods (t) 504,927.01 419,060.74 350,796.74 Natural gas (MWh) 404,129.91 211,006.29 169,034.91 Oil 17,730.72 24,508.01 39,588.06 Coal 0 0 0 Power consumption (purchased) (MWh) 258,143.59 204,566.12 198,416.30 Drinking water (m³) 1,368,129.91 562,887.23 737,125.90 Ground / surface water (m³) 1,181,952.00 737,581.85 419,805.00 CO emissions (t) ² total 219,165.20 148,120.77 146,130.58 internal (Scope 1) ¹ 91,486.62 51,985.27 47,084.22 external (Scope 2) ² 127,678.58 96,135.51 99,046.35 CSB ³ (t) direct 4 12.37 6.26 0 indirect 5 22.12 3.40 0 Hazardous waste (t) total 18,711.60 18,573.42 17,987.65 recycling 3,596.81 4,247.38 3,247.69 thermal utilization 10,717.54 9,316.38 8,259.69 disposal 4,397.25 5,009.67 6,480.27 Non-hazardous waste (t) total 9,302.54 6,214.16 8,717.44 recycling 3,929.44 2,110.06 2,933.55 thermal utilization 847.85 1,951.56 848.46 disposal 4,525.25 2,152.54 4,935.43 Inert waste (t) 7,727.90 0 0 Ozone 0 0 0 Locations near nature reserves 1 1 0 ¹ E missions from ALTANA’s own energy generation, e.g. for heat. ² Emissions from third parties due to purchased energy, e.g. electricity. ³ Chemical oxygen demand: pollution of wastewater with organic chemicals. 4 Discharge in rivers, lakes, etc. after purification. 5 Discharge in the public sewage system and the corresponding treatment plants. 40 Sustainability Report 2014 Drinking water (without water as raw material) per gross CO energy total per gross value added ² value added in kg / € in dm ³ / € 2014 ¹ Target for 2014: 0.2360 0.2329 Target for 2014: 1.0349 2014 ¹ 0.7820 2014 0.2970 2014 1.8510 2013 0.2340 2013 0.8890 2012 0.2440 2012 1.0560 2007 0.3030 2007 1.5300 ¹ Data excluding the companies acquired in 2013. ¹ Data excluding the companies acquired in 2013. Hazardous waste total per gross value added Non hazardous waste total per gross value added in g / € in g / € Target for 2014: 31.115 Target for 2014: 11.9854 2014 25.320 2014 ¹ 7.9400 2013 29.320 2014 12.5900 2012 31.750 2013 9.8100 2007 37.330 2012 12.2300 2007 18.0900 ¹ Data excluding the companies acquired in 2013. Hazardous waste disposal per gross value added Non hazardous waste disposal per gross value added in g / € in g / € Target for 2014: 8.379 Target for 2014: 5.4978 2014 5.950 2014 ¹ 3.1400 2013 7.910 2014 6.1200 2012 8.550 2013 3.4000 2007 13.450 2012 5.6100 2007 10.2400 ¹ Data excluding the companies acquired in 2013. Customer Proximity Improves Climate Protection ers and markets. Thanks to these measures, we are enhancing our delivery reliability and creating new jobs in the With new production facilities in the regions, for example regions, jobs that are shaped in accordance with our globthe U.S., we are now even better connected with our customally uniform safety standards. Our proximity to customers Management Products Safety Environment Human Resources Social Commitment 41 also contributes to climate protection because it makes out additional natural gas being fed in. That reduces the overseas transports of raw materials and finished goods suenergy consumption and CO ² emissions by seven percent. At perfluous. As a result, the energy consumption connected its Hartenstein site, the company began building a highly with transports and the resulting CO ² emissions are elimiefficient combined heat and power unit in the fall of 2014. nated. As of the end of 2015, the unit’s energy will be used to The dimensions of the savings potential can be illusheat the heating water for the office and production buildtrated with the following example. In Wallingford, BYK ings as well as the thermal oil, and at the same time will is now manufacturing a number of products for the North cool the air in the cooling units. At ECKART ’s site in Zhuhai, American market that were previously produced in Wesel. China, 14 new centrifuges will cut the energy consumpIn 2014, BYK USA imported 7,400 tons of finished goods tion by 50 percent compared with the old centrifuges. and intermediates from Wesel, which led to around 1,900 By participating in the Clean Tec Region initiative in the tons of CO ² emissions. These will be done away with in the Netherlands, BYK -Cera is also helping to reduce ALTANA ’s future. CO ² emissions. At its Deventer site, the company began operating a photovoltaic facility for electricity generation in 2014. A new boiler in production, coupled with further meaInvestments for Climate Protection sures, will help conserve 22,500 cubic meters of natural gas. Also, BYK -Cera partly switched to efficient LED technolOur companies reduce energy consumption in various ways ogy in Deventer and Denekamp. For driving back and forth and thus contribute to climate protection. This is illustrated between the two sites, employees have access to an environby a few examples of new investments in sites in the U.S. , the mentally friendly electric vehicle (BMW i3). Netherlands, India, China and Germany. At the company’s Wesel site, BYK ’s fleet also has two of In 2014, ELANTAS PDG ’s extensively renovated laborathese vehicles. Since 2014 staff members eligible for a comtory building at its St. Louis site became fully operational. pany car have been able to choose this car model. The vehicle Behind the historic façade there is now an energy-efficient can be comfortably charged at four charging stations on new building with insulated windows and exterior walls the company’s grounds. Although still in the initial phase, the as well as efficient ventilation and lighting. At its Ankleshwar offer is meeting with great interest. The employees who site, ELANTAS Beck India finished a heat-recovery project. are using it are convinced of the advantages. Exhaust heat produced when thermal oil needed for production is heated now preheats the raw materials in the tanks. As a consequence, natural gas consumption in Ankleshwar Improving Waste Disposal can be reduced by seven percent. At its Pimpri site, the company installed various new pumps, including thermal oil To reduce the amount of water to be disposed of after it pumps, which also reduce energy consumption. is used to clean production and filling containers, ACTEGA ECKART installed a new afterburner for cleaning waste implemented various innovations at several sites. Some air at its site in Schererville. The solvent vapors arising durof them resulted from our internal suggestion system. For ing production combust autothermally, in other words withexample, at its Lehrte site ACTEGA Terra installed special 42 Sustainability Report 2014 tanks that enable washing water to be reused. In the U.S. , ACTEGA Kelstar reduced the amount of water that has to be disposed of by 15 percent thanks to multiple use and with the help of special pressure systems. For its part, ACTEGA Rhenania introduced a special method for filtering solvents used to clean mixing vessels. This enables multiple use of solvents. Reducing Water Consumption Last year, ELANTAS Beck India made a number of investments to significantly reduce water consumption at its sites in Pimpri und Ankleshwar. At its Pimpri site, the company replaced the old, leaky extinguishing water pipeline with a new pressure pipe. In Ankleshwar, cooling water for pumps is now fed back to the storage tank in a cycle rather than consuming it in a through-feed method. In the future, the vacuum pumps will also be cooled using this method. Reducing Emissions In the preceding years, ECKART had invested considerable sums to cut dust emissions arising from copper processing at its U.S. site in Painesville. The objective is to reduce copper dust emissions to one pound a year in the long run. In 2014, the company ushered in additional improvements, among other things, by installing a filter. In the next step, it will optimize the atomization of molten aluminum into powder and thus manufacture even finer powder particles. This will reduce the energy consumption. At its Zhuhai site, ELANTAS installed special cameras in warehouses and workshops used to measure and control indoor dust emissions. To absorb the VOC emissions, the company installed two active carbon filters. They are quieter than conventional filters and additionally conserve energy. Human Resources Our employees are our most important resource. Therefore, ALTANA promotes their professional development and prepares them for positions of leadership. We put particular emphasis on recruitment of young talent, specialists, and managers. Together with our sustainability ambassadors we aim to anchor sustainability awareness in the minds of our employees and have initiated various projects, including training on the topic of energy conservation. 44 COMMUNICATING CONVICTIONS 48 Our Employees 48 Assessing Performance 48 Global Employee Survey 48 International Exchange 49 Manager Selection 49 Management Training 49 Diversity in the Group 50 Vocational Training at ALTANA 50 Social Week for Trainees 50 Award 44 Human Resources Communicating Convictions: Sustainability Ambassadors In 2014, two ALTANA employees set out on an expedition to Antarctica with the polar researcher Robert Swan, OBE (Order of the british empire). They returned as passionate advocates of climate protection. Theoretical knowledge is important, but They also got a glimpse of the effects only first-hand experience promotes a of climate change, having seen glaciers “The ALTANA Group has been committed to protectdeep understanding of sustainability. We melting with their own eyes. ing the climate for years, for example by maintaining its own energy and environmental management share this conviction with the polar system certified in compliance with ISO 14001. researcher and environmentalist Robert It is clear to the ALTANA ambassadors Now it’s a question of protecting resources on a perSwan, OBE , a former Special Envoy for that “Antarctica has to be preserved as a sonal level in everyday life. That’s easier than one might think, and it gives us a feeling of satisfaction. the United Nations’ environmental pronature reserve,” as Dr. Michael Bessel We not only convey this message within the comgram. He has regularly explored the said. Mining of raw materials there has pany, but also outside of it, at schools for instance.” seventh continent since 1989. In 2014, to remain prohibited even after 2041, Michela Michelotti, ELANTAS two ALTANA employees joined one of when the UN moratorium expires. So, the his expeditions for the first time. ambassadors assert, resources have to be protected worldwide. An initiative The two staff members were Michela launched by Swan called “2041” reMichelotti, quality and EHS manager at presents these objectives. ELANTAS Italia, and Dr. Michael Bessel, laboratory head at BYK ’s Wesel site. They “The trip to Antarctica made us aware returned as passionate ambassadors that we have no time to lose,” says Michela for sustainability and climate protection. Michelotti, summing up her experiences. “If we want to live in harmony with nature After a stormy crossing from Tierra del and the environment, we have to act Fuego through the Drake Passage, they not now. Everyone can contribute to global reonly experienced the magic of nature source protection, at work, in private during glacier hikes, boat trips, and unique life, everywhere.” During lectures at the encounters with humpback whales. ALTANA Global Management Meeting, 44 human resources COmmUNICATING CONvICTIONS: sustAinAbiLitY AMbAssADors IN 2014, TWO ALTANA EmpLOyEES SET OUT ON AN EXpEdITION TO ANTArCTICA WITh ThE pOLAr rESEArChEr rOBErT SWAN, OBE (OrdEr OF ThE BrITISh EmpIrE). ThEy rETUrNEd AS pASSIONATE AdvOCATES OF CLImATE prOTECTION. “I’m hAppy ThAT ALTANA IS TAKING rESpONSIBILITy FOr ThE OppOrTUNITIES OF FUTUrE GENErATIONS ANd, TOGEThEr WITh ThE AmTheoretical knowledge is important, but They also got a glimpse of theBASSAdOrS, effects mOTIvATING pEOpLE TO prOonly first-hand experience promotes a of climate change, having seen mOTE SUSTAINABILITy.“ glaciers “The ALTANA Group has been committed to protectdeep understanding of sustainability. We melting with their own eyes. ing the climate for years, for example by maintainrobert sWAn, obe, FounDer oF tHe “2041” initiAtiVe, ing its own energy and environmental management share this conviction with the polar PoLAr reseArCHer AnD enVironMentAList system certified in compliance with ISO 14001. researcher and environmentalist robert It is clear to the ALTANA ambassadors Now it’s a question of protecting resources on a perSwan, OBE , a former Special Envoy for that “Antarctica has to be preserved as a sonal level in everyday life. That’s easier than one might think, and it gives us a feeling of satisfaction. the United Nations’ environmental pronature reserve,” as dr. michael Bessel We not only convey this message within the comgram. he has regularly explored the said. mining of raw materials there has pany, but also outside of it, at schools for instance.” seventh continent since 1989. In 2014, to remain prohibited even after 2041, MiCHeLA MiCHeLotti, eLAntAs two ALTANA employees joined one of when the UN moratorium expires. So, the his expeditions for the first time. ambassadors assert, resources have to be protected worldwide. An initiative The two staff members were michela launched by Swan called “2041” remichelotti, quality and EhS manager at presents these objectives. ELANTAS Italia, and dr. michael Bessel, laboratory head at ByK ’s Wesel site. They “The trip to Antarctica made us aware returned as passionate ambassadors that we have no time to lose,” says michela for sustainability and climate protection. michelotti, summing up her experiences. “If we want to live in harmony with nature After a stormy crossing from Tierra del and the environment, we have to act Fuego through the drake passage, they not now. Everyone can contribute to global reonly experienced the magic of nature source protection, at work, in private during glacier hikes, boat trips, and unique life, everywhere.” during lectures at the encounters with humpback whales. ALTANA Global management meeting, 46 Human Resources in their respective companies, and in their Michelotti. This, she adds, is proof that local surroundings at schools and with ALTANA takes climate protection and opinion makers, the two colleagues have resource conservation seriously. “But the since advocated improved climate proexpedition also gave me an important tection including personal action. new perspective. Ultimately, sustainability is a question of communication. Those With their activities, the two ambassawho champion it have to be persuasive on dors have given people food for thought an emotional level.” about how to act sustainably in daily life. In addition, they have initiated new She and Robert Swan see eye to eye on projects at ALTANA , including training this. “We have the opportunity to efon the topics of waste separation and profect positive change,” asserts the former jects related to energy conservation at UN Special Envoy. “But each individual the three ELANTAS sites in Italy and a surmust recognize that we have to change vey of employees at BYK’s Wesel site. our personal actions.” It is wrong, the The survey found that awareness of suspolar researcher says, to associate saving tainability is very pronounced and the energy with a loss of comfort or with employees are prepared to act. restrictions, as was often the case in the past. “In point of fact, it will help us all A Question of Communication survive,” says Swan. This proves that ALTANA ’s commitment in recent years has borne fruit. “Many ALTANA companies are certified in accordance with ISO 14001,” says Michela human resources 47 In numerous internal lectures, the ALTANA sustainability ambassadors michela michelotti and dr. michael Bessel speak out in favor of improved climate protection, which includes personal action. To this end, they have launched various projects at ALTANA , for example on the topics of waste separation and energy conservation at three Italian sites, and a sustainability survey of employees at our Wesel site. They also advocate climate protection at external events, at schools, and with opinion makers, among other things. The two ALTANA sustainability ambassadors saw and experienced the effects of climate change first hand on an exhibition in Antarctica led by robert Swan. The initiative founded by Swan, called “2041,” is devoted to protecting Antarctica as a nature reserve. The aim is to ensure that mining of raw materials remains prohibited past 2041, when the UN moratorium ends. This can be achieved if resources are protected around the world. Everyone can make a contribution. AnCHoring sustAinAbiLitY in tHe MinDs oF eMPLoYees ANd mOTIvATING COLLEAGUES TO ACT IN mOrE SUSTAINABLE WAyS. ALTANA’S SUSTAINABILITy AmBASSAdOrS STANd Up FOr ThIS GOAL WIThIN ThE COmpANy ANd OUTSIdE OF IT, FOr INSTANCE AT SChOOLS. 48 Sustainability Report 2014 Our Employees: ALTANA ’s Most Important Global Employee Survey Proves Our Resource Attractiveness In 2014, more than 6,000 women and men worked for The second important instrument of ALTANA ’s human ALTANA companies worldwide. With their above-average resource management is our global employee survey. Every qualifications and their commitment, they are the most three years, we invite all of our staff members worldwide important resource for us as a knowledge-driven company. to participate. In 2014, more than 4,000 employees took part To hold our own in the competition for experts and manfor the first time, corresponding to a response rate of 77 agers, we attach special importance to our corporate culture. percent. This rate is outstanding compared to other compaALTANA ’s culture is characterized by our Guiding Prinnies. We see the results of the survey as proof that ALTANA ciples and the values of openness, trust, scope of action, and is an attractive employer. appreciation. We promote our employees’ professional This is reflected by the employees’ commitment to development and support their health with special preventaour values, among other things. At 62 percent, the approval tive measures. At the same time, we ask our staff memrate is not only above the average in the global chemical bers to committedly apply their skills in the company. industry (59 percent), but also higher than the average in all industries (60 percent). At the same time, there are regional differences. But we attribute these to a tradition and culRegular Dialogue for Assessing Performance ture of restraint in these countries. Furthermore, the results show us future fields of action. One of the most important instruments ALTANA uses groupOf particular interest is how the local corporate culture wide in human resource management are so-called progmight be shaped even better. ress dialogues that we hold with each employee individually at least once a year. They serve to assess the employee’s performance and hence are a component of staff developInternational Exchange ment. In addition, they constitute the basis for individual target agreements, which we also conclude with our employTwo thirds of our employees work in Europe, more than 3,000 ees once a year. In the talks, we discuss measures that can of them in Germany. Our workforce in America is 1,348, be taken – for example, providing suitable work equipment while we employ 751 people in Asia. These numbers make and materials in order to enhance the work environment it clear how important international exchange is in our and work results. group. For well-connected employees who share their knowlNot all of the employees’ contracts stipulate that the taredge with others in the company are decisive for ALTANA ’s get agreements have an effect on compensation. If they success. Our corporate values, including openness, stand for do, we supplement the target agreement dialogue with a this. target achievement dialogue. We also conduct the latter We support our staff when they want to live in anothtalks at least once a year. The three dialogues together coner country for a while and work for a different company. Also, stitute the ALTANA compass dialogue. we send qualified staff to other companies to work on projManagement Products Safety Environment Human Resources Social Commitment 49 ects, for example after we have acquired a company. Dependprogram. As the training distinguishes between disciplining on the size and scope of the project, the expatriates ary and specialist management activities, we train the respeccan live for up to three years in another country. ALTANA helps tive target groups separately. Hence we can cater better to them prepare for their stay by offering various consulting the particularities of the specialized managers. Furthermore, it services and, during their time abroad, implements further improves the possibilities of forming networks within the measures to make the change – including for family memrespective groups. bers – as uncomplicated as possible. Forty employees have Each training comprises four modules, consisting of participated in these measures since they were launched. two days each that have to be completed in a period of sevIn 2014, twelve employees lived abroad. en months. The German Federal Association for Trainers, Consultants, and Coaches (BDVT) awarded the program the International German Training Prize in Bronze. Manager Selection with the Help of an Online Assessment Test Diversity in the Group In keeping with our aspiration “We want to be leading in everything we do,” when hiring new managers we try to In the year under review, 25 percent of the Supervisory Board choose personalities that fit perfectly with us. To implement members were women. In our German companies, 21 perthis process uniformly worldwide, in 2014 we developed a cent of the management positions were occupied by women. binding online assessment test for all companies that all appliThis figure remains below the percentage of female emcants with an academic degree and people interested in ployees overall. In 2014, women constituted nearly 30 permanagement positions have to take. The new instrument is cent of the workforce. available in all languages relevant for ALTANA . Due to the different hierarchical and contractual strucThe assessment test is based on standardized, scientifitures of the non-German companies, we do not calculate cally validated questions on abilities and personality traits. the percentage of women in them. Nevertheless, we set comIt automatically generates a profile for the applicant in regard pany-related goals that serve to increase the number of to ALTANA competencies. This speeds up the general selecwomen in disciplinary management positions. tion procedure. In Germany, we continue to pursue the goal of bringing more women into management positions with the LEADING WOMEN @ALTANA initiative. In 2014, as in the year Award-Winning Management Training before, we invited qualified women employees to a workshop for this purpose – this time from southern Germany. One “FOKUS führen” is the name of a special management trainof the themes was gender-specific communications. In ing program on leadership we developed with Haufe Aka2015, a women’s mentoring network is being activated in demie, a German supplier of seminars and further education which young female employees can learn from experienced measures. In 2014, we introduced it as new mandatory staff members. training for all managers who didn’t complete the predecessor 50 Sustainability Report 2014 In 2014, there were no cases of employees being discrimiAward for ELANTAS PDG nated against in our companies. Every year, the regional media group St. Louis Post Dispatch in Missouri ranks the best jobs in the region based on employVocational Training at ALTANA : Trainees Make ee surveys. For the second consecutive time, our St. Louisa Film based company ELANTAS PDG received the best grade in the mid-sized company category among manufacturers. The A total of 146 young women and men completed their company was awarded the title “Top Workplace 2014.” vocational training at one of ALTANA ’s German companies in the year under review. Depending on the location, our companies offer myriad chemical, technical, and commercial trades requiring an apprenticeship. To continue to attract committed and qualified young people to the company in the future, we published a film on our website in 2014. With it, we cater to young people’s needs for authentic, webbased information. The film does not focus on the subject matter of the different occupations, but rather emphasizes what our aspiration “to promote and challenge” means for trainees in day-to-day life. Trainees joined forces to develop the concept and screenplay for the two-minute film. Young people from our companies are also the actors in the film. Social Week for Trainees At its Hartenstein site, ECKART was the first company to introduce a voluntary social week. It is part of the vocational training program. With this offer, the company intends to strengthen the young people’s social skills and at the same time promote values such as openness and appreciation. During the social week, the trainees have the opportunity to work for a child daycare center, in facilities for the disabled or the elderly, at a farm or for a charity organization. The company accompanies their work with preparatory and feedback measures. In 2014, eight trainees took advantage of this offer. Social Commitment As a good corporate citizen, ALTANA supports and sponsors social projects focusing on education, science, and research. To strengthen our local environments and to be a good neighbor, we especially promote initiatives near our sites in Germany and abroad. 52 PROMOTING YOUNG TALENT 56 Educational Coaching at a Wesel Elementary School 56 Project Weeks with the House of Junior Researchers 57 Preparatory Vocational Support for Junior High School Students 57 Competitions for Students in the Upper Secondary Level 57 Educational Projects Outside of Germany 58 Volunteer Commitment 58 Support for Charitable Organizations 52 Social Commitment Promoting Young Talent: Entrepreneurs A dream came true for the high school student Lea Weygardt at ALTANA: she became the head of a large company for one day. This was made possible by the student campaign “Boss for 1 Day.” Arousing young people’s enthusiasm for secondary schools were selected and invitbusiness topics and allowing them to ed to a two-day boss casting. It was a “Working at ALTANA is exciting and opens up many experience and help shape the work of top unique opportunity for the students, as the opportunities to unfold and develop – even if you didn’t study chemistry and outside of the laboratory. managers for one day – that is the goal casting is a professional management But many young people don’t know this. That’s of the student campaign “Boss for 1 Day” audit normally reserved for managers when why it’s so important to make contact with one anthat ALTANA sponsored for the second top positions are filled. Of the 208 stuother directly. Both sides can benefit from this.” time in 2014. One of the most important dents participating, an expert jury chose Dr. Matthias L. Wolfgruber, ALTANA aims of the campaign is to reduce prejuten finalists in a multi-stage selection dice and the distance between school and process who for one day exchanged the business. classroom for the executive chair. Another objective is to playfully open a The 18-year-old high school student Lea window to the future for students through Weygardt from Marienschule high school which they can recognize the soft skills in Münster qualified for the boss job. they possess. This is not apparent from She persuaded the jury in numerous tests school reports; such skills only become and interviews, and in a corporate planimportant later in professional life and can ning game with other students learned make or break a career. how decisions are made and complex processes managed in business. Now the Making Decisions and Managing finalist had to find out what it would be Complex Processes like to be at the helm of a big company for For the “Boss for 1 Day” student campaign one day. And to separate reality from in 2014, ten school classes from level II myth when it comes to the work of man52 Social Commitment prOmOTING yOUNG TALENT: entrePreneurs A drEAm CAmE TrUE FOr ThE hIGh SChOOL STUdENT LEA WEyGArdT AT ALTANA: ShE BECAmE ThE hEAd OF A LArGE COmpANy FOr ONE dAy. ThIS WAS mAdE pOSSIBLE By ThE STUdENT CAmpAIGN “BOSS FOr 1 dAy.” “I NEvEr WOULd hAvE ThOUGhT ThAT A ChEmICAL COmpANy LIKE ALTANA COULd BE SO EXCITING. I WAS ImprESSEd By hOW mANy Arousing young people’s enthusiasm for secondary schools were selecteddIFFErENT and invitdEpArTmENTS WOrK TOGEThEr business topics and allowing them to ed to a two-day boss casting. ItANdwas hOW a ThE BOSSat mAINTAINS “Working AN ALTANA is exciting andOvErvIEW.“ opens up many experience and help shape the work of top unique opportunity for the students, as the opportunities to unfold and develop – even if you LeA WeYgArDt, “boss For 1 DAY” didn’t study chemistry and outside of the laboratory. managers for one day – that is the goal casting is a professional management But many young people don’t know this. That’s of the student campaign “Boss for 1 day” audit normally reserved for managers when why it’s so important to make contact with one anthat ALTANA sponsored for the second top positions are filled. Of the 208 stuother directly. Both sides can benefit from this.” time in 2014. One of the most important dents participating, an expert jury chose Dr. MAttHiAs L. WoLFgruber, ALtAnA aims of the campaign is to reduce prejuten finalists in a multi-stage selection dice and the distance between school and process who for one day exchanged the business. classroom for the executive chair. Another objective is to playfully open a The 18-year-old high school student Lea window to the future for students through Weygardt from marienschule high school which they can recognize the soft skills in münster qualified for the boss job. they possess. This is not apparent from She persuaded the jury in numerous tests school reports; such skills only become and interviews, and in a corporate planimportant later in professional life and can ning game with other students learned make or break a career. how decisions are made and complex processes managed in business. Now the Making Decisions and Managing finalist had to find out what it would be Complex Processes like to be at the helm of a big company for For the “Boss for 1 day” student campaign one day. And to separate reality from in 2014, ten school classes from level II myth when it comes to the work of man54 Social Commitment agers. And to investigate how managers said, it has to have a corporate culture that have thought that a chemical company deal with their corporate and social responfocuses on people. “I was able to talk could be so exciting,” the 18-year-old sibility. to every employee and I found they have said, summing up her impressions as “Boss very good rapport,” said Weygardt. This for 1 Day.” On December 1, the time had come. was confirmed by her fellow students in Brought by a chauffeur and welcomed by the advanced sociology class whose ALTANA CEO Dr. Matthias L. Wolfgruber, questions Dr. Wolfgruber fielded during she sat down next to the company’s CEO his visit to Marienschule high school. in the executive chair and began her For Dr. Wolfgruber, it goes without saying duties as “Boss for 1 Day.” In addition to that employees live out openness, trust, discussing the day’s mail in the morning, and appreciation. “Our corporate values talks with different department heads were and management guidelines apply to on the agenda. From Jörg Bauer, Vice everyone at ALTANA , worldwide, in all of President Human Resources, she learned our subsidiaries.” about manager development, and Annette Lampe, Head of Personnel De“The role of a management board memvelopment, told her about the mentorber is very demanding and multifaceted, ing program within the framework of the you have to constantly switch between women’s network. “The company is topics,” says Weygardt, describing the role innovationand knowledge-driven,” Dr. of CEO Wolfgruber. She’s also impressed Wolfgruber explained to the boss as by how many different departments work they walked around the laboratory buildtogether and how the boss maintains ing. For a company to be successful, he an overview of everything. “I never would Social Commitment 55 Based on personal impressions, the students now see company Of the 208 students who participated in the “Boss for 1 day” leaders from a different perspective. A survey of the particicampaign in 2014, the jury of experts selected ten finalists pants in “Boss for 1 day” found that almost two thirds of the who exchanged their school desk for an executive chair for a students had a more positive image of companies and manday. Lea Weygardt qualified for the top post at ALTANA . agers after having personal contact with them. Personal opinion about managers and companies (in percent) Judgment of the boss (in percent) my opinion changed positively due to the campaign Friendly 65 78 It was a great experience meeting a top manager Strong sense of responsibility 60 75 I now have a realistic picture of companies and managers Credible 53 68 Source: Boss for 1 day Can be a role model for young people 57 Source: Boss for 1 day reDuCing PreJuDiCes AnD DistAnCe betWeen sCHooL AnD business – ThAT IS ONE OF ThE mOST ImpOrTANT GOALS OF ThE “BOSS FOr 1 dAy” CAmpAIGN. BOTh SIdES BENEFIT FrOm pErSONAL CONTACT. ALTANA TOOK pArT IN ThE STUdENT CAmpAIGN FOr ThE SECONd TImE. 56 Sustainability Report 2014 Our Social Commitment The volunteer mentors do not act as tutors, but as personal contacts. They spend two hours a week with the girls or We want to arouse the enthusiasm of young people all over boys outside school hours. During this time, they accompany the world for the natural sciences, technology, and maththe children to music class, for example, explore the offer ematics. So promoting initiatives that benefit education, sciat the municipal library with them, or make excursions with ence, and research is at the center of our activities. To be them to natural surroundings, which are subsequently a good neighbor, we prefer to support projects near our sites. documented by the kids. In the first year, eight volunteer menWe have sponsored many for several years. tors got involved in the educational coaching project. The goal is to increase the number to 20 by the end of 2015. Educational Coaching at a Wesel Elementary School Project Weeks with the House of Junior Researchers All children have potential, but often the conditions are lacking that could enable them to really develop. Educational Our cooperation with the House of Junior Researchers founcoaching, which ALTANA carries out with the nonprofit dation has a tradition. In 2014, BYK continued to promote Klausenhof Academy and the Elementary School GGS Innenyouth with special project weeks at two Wesel elementary stadt in Wesel that promotes inclusion, addresses this issue. schools. We were supported by the German Red Cross The aim of the project is to individually promote disadvan(DRK) Abenteuerland daycare center. taged children starting in second grade in order to give As in the previous years, the project weeks in the schools them better educational opportunities. It is geared to children in March had a main theme in each grade. For example, with a migration background, children who are educationchildren dealt with the topics of Clean Water, Building, and ally disadvantaged, and children who live in socially adverse Design. The junior researchers at both schools presented conditions, among others. the results of their projects at a closing event in April, for which In this context, ALTANA is financing the personnel and ALTANA had invited parents and teachers to the confermaterial costs for a socio-educational expert for three years. ence center in Wesel. In the fall, the children visited BYK and The expert’s task is to attract mentors in Wesel who will sudid practical tests to research the lotus effect during three pervise and accompany the children on a volunteer basis. mornings. He or she has to train the mentors and subsequently coordiThe goal of our commitment is to get the children internate their activities. On the one hand, those children are ested in scientific phenomena. We seek to promote their eligible for promotion who have particularly promising talproblem-solving expertise by accompanying them continuousents; on the other hand the project aims at helping chilly from kindergarten to secondary school. The BYK school dren reduce deficits and thus promote the development of ambassadors even assist the young researchers regularly durtheir personality. ing school visits outside of the project weeks. Management Products Safety Environment Human Resources Social Commitment 57 Preparatory Vocational Support for Junior High Young people who submitted a business idea from the field School Students of chemistry in 2014 have a chance to win a special award in 2015. The special prize in chemistry is a trip to BYK USA Most ALTANA companies in Germany support junior high in Wallingford. There, the young people can gather inforschool students, for example with internships. ACTEGA mation about additives and specialty chemicals at one of our Rhenania expanded these activities in 2014. In cooperation largest research and production sites. with the Käthe Kollwitz comprehensive school in Grevenbroich, the company supported four tenth-grade students in writing their term paper for the school subject German. Educational Projects Outside of Germany They wrote a report on the methods used to filtrate paints and varnishes and the challenges posed. ALTANA also supports educational projects outside of GerThe young people spent four days at the company many. The best example is our longtime cooperation with the gathering information. ACTEGA Rhenania employees checked German nonprofit association Passo Fundo e.V., based in to see if the work the students did subsequently was corMünster. The organization has set itself the task of providing rect before the students handed it in at their school. The refinancial support to students in Brazil. It grants scholarsults of the work were also presented at an event at the ships to talented young people who cannot afford to pay for school. We intend to continue this preparatory vocational suptheir studies. port in the coming years. In 2014, ALTANA once again allocated a total of 7,500 euros to finance five university scholarships. The scholarship holders receive this support on the condition that they Competitions for Students in the Upper get involved in a social project. Secondary Level Since 2013, ALTANA has cooperated with the children’s aid organization Kinderhilfe Nepal e.V., based in Mainz. In Our activities within the framework of the “Boss for 1 Day” 2014, we again donated money to the Parizat Nestling Home and “Jugend gründet” (Youth Startups) competitions are for girls in the capital Kathmandu. Daughters of imprisgeared to high school students. In both cases, we seek to help oned parents find a safe home there. In addition, they receive young people test their entrepreneurial and management schooling and vocational training. abilities. With our donation of 5,700 euros, the association For “Jugend gründet,” we awarded a special prize in expanded the photovoltaic and thermal solar facility, which chemistry in 2014. The competition is organized by the was initially installed in 2010, on the home’s new building. Steinbeis Innovation Center at the University of Pforzheim on As a result, the girls’ home will be independent from the state behalf of the German Federal Ministry for Education and electricity supply. The facility generates enough electricity Research. The aim of the competition is to get young people to operate computers, sewing machines, and rice cookers. It aged 16 to 21 to playfully go through all phases of foundalso heats up water. Just how important this independence ing a company, with the development of a business plan beis became apparent during the earthquake in April 2015. The ing the first step. building and solar installation withstood the quake, and, 58 Sustainability Report 2014 unlike many of their compatriots, the girls and their caregivSupport for Charitable Organizations ers did not have to forego hot water or hot meals. In the Mysore district in southern India, the Development As reported in the Management chapter, ALTANA ’s German through Education (DEED) organization built a center for companies again took part in the chemical industry’s Gerchildren who have not attended school yet for various reamany-wide open house day. Traditionally, we donate income sons. They can participate in a three-year support program we generate, say, from selling food and drinks, for a good to prepare themselves for attending a regular school. During cause. The respective companies usually top up the amount this time, they live on the DEED grounds. they have earned, and this was the case again in 2014. Thanks to the initiative of a German student who comFor example, BYK donated 6,000 euros to the Förderverpleted a project of several months at the center, contact ein Kinderpalliativmedizin Löwenzahn & Pusteblume e.V. with ELANTAS Beck India was established. In 2014, the comThe association supports the work of the children’s palliative pany donated beds, tables, and benches worth a total of team at Marien-Hospital in Wesel, which cares for children 3,000 euros, enabling the center to modernize its furniture. in the region who have life-shortening, and in many cases chronic illnesses. ACTEGA Rhenania topped up the income from the Volunteer Commitment open house activities to a total of 2,000 euros. The Care Service for People with Mental Handicaps in the Rhine district In addition to our commitment to education and research, we of Neuss and the Tafel Existenzhilfe e.V. in Grevenbroich each also see it as our task to take responsibility in society. We received 1,000 euros. At their own booth, they informed do so by organizing our own volunteer days, among other visitors to the event about their assistance to people in need. things. In 2014, for instance, BYK employees spent a day The company had already supported both organizations during their global sales meeting to cultivate the garden of in 2011. the SOS Children’s Village in Düsseldorf. The facility offers Another example is ECKART ’s Christmas donation camassistance to children and youth who live in difficult situations. paign in Hartenstein. For a few years, ECKART has refrained Fifty-five BYK staff members from Germany, Japan, the from giving customers and business partners Christmas presU.S. , and China pulled weeds, trimmed bushes, and painted ents. Instead, the company uses the money to support benches. nonprofit initiatives both in Franconia and on a national level. In the U.S., our company ELANTAS PDG in St. Louis offers In 2014, the Amberg-Sulzbach e.V. self-help group for chilits employees many possibilities to get personally involved dren suffering from cancer and the outpatient children’s hosand make donations. The staff members eagerly take up these pice work of the Hospiz Team Nürnberg e.V. each received offers. Among other things, they can donate blood on 10,000 euros. These sums are not for a specific purpose; the certain dates. In addition, they have various opportunities organizations can decide themselves which projects they throughout the year to donate clothing, food, or money wish to realize with the money. to nonprofit organizations. On St. Louis World Food Day in The child rights organization Save the Children reSeptember, a few colleagues diligently helped pack food ceived 10,000 euros for a specific Ebola aid project as well packages. as 10,000 euros for general aid projects. 60 Highlights and Lowlights 62 Programs / Goals 64 Global Compact: Communication on Progress (COP) 60 Sustainability Report 2014 Highlights and Lowlights Highlights – A LTANA increased its gross value added by 16.7 percent to 763 million euros. – Our companies’ sustainable portfolio grew further due to acquisitions, our stake in the Landa Group, and our own developments. – A LTANA brought additional products onto the market that offer alternatives to hazardous substances. Among them are BYK ’s new thixotropy additives and the pigment Lasersafe made by ECKART . – Coatings labeled with ACTEGA Terra’s new ToySafe seal do not contain the following substances: Bisphenol A, benzophenone, heavy metals, or plasticizers. – Following the lasting success of the plasticizer-free sealant Provalin, ACTEGA DS brought ProvaMed onto the market for medical and pharmaceutical applications. – A LTANA achieved all of the occupational-safety targets it set for itself. Three of the company’s four divisions even reached the level defined for 2016. – The following companies have not had any lost work time due to accidents for a longer period: ECKART , Schererville site (eleven years), Zhuhai site (four years), Wackersdorf site (two years); ELANTAS Beck India (more than ten years); ACTEGA Foshan, ACTEGA Kelstar, and ACTEGA Rhenacoat (three years each). – In 2014, ALTANA met its environmental targets with the companies that belonged to the group before 2013, and in some cases even exceeded them. – E CKART ’s new exhaust air combustion system at its Schererville site reduces natural gas consumption and thus CO emissions by seven percent. ² –B  YK -Chemie, Wesel, and ELANTAS Beck, Hamburg, certified their energy management systems in accordance with ISO 50001. – E LANTAS Isolantes Elétricos do Brasil certified its environmental management system in accordance with ISO 140001. – On our electronic procurement platform, a further 161 suppliers committed themselves to adhering to the principles of the Global Compact initiative. – An English-language e-learning program devoted to the topic of corruption was developed and implemented for managers. – In 2014, there were no penalties for violations of legal norms. – A total of 8,000 visitors attended Open House Day in Germany. – Counseling services for people suffering from mental strain are now offered to employees of ECKART in Germany. – At its Wesel site, BYK now offers all employees over 40 a comprehensive, free medical check-up. – More and more ALTANA companies offer their staff sports options. Highlights and Lowlights 61 Lowlights – In the year under review, ALTANA recorded four significant incidents according to its own definition, including three conflagrations / explosions and one release of chemicals. One employee was slightly injured. According to the VCI definition, there were eleven significant incidents. – In 2014, ALTANA had to pay the following fines: due to violations of environmental law, 19,000 euros, 6,000 euros, and 1,500 euros, respectively. Another fine amounting to 1,300 euros concerned products and services. – Contrary to its original plans, ECKART can realize only one combined heat and power plant (CHP) in Germany. This is because changes in the legal situation worsened the prospect of such investments being profitable. – Due to an acquisition in 2013, CO emissions, water consumption, and the amount of non² hazardous waste grew in part considerably in relation to gross value added. – Our objections to the EU definition of the term “nano” remained unsuccessful. This will place a substantial burden on manufacturers of powdered products. 62 Sustainability Report 2014 Programs / Goals Core management tools for increasing performance include the measurement of performance indicators, the definition of goals, the development and implementation of action plans, and the review of goal attainment. The latter is part of the target evaluation that determines the variable income components of executive managers. The list below shows our goals for performance indicators and important measures. The individual ALTANA companies also have detailed action plans in the context of their respective management systems. Management Certification of additional non-certified companies in accordance with ISO 14001 or similar standards Ongoing Certification of the energy management systems of all manufacturing companies in Germany in accordance with ISO 50001 End of 2016 Certification of further companies in Germany in accordance with ISO 50001 End of 2015 Open House event at all German companies Sept. 2017 Safety summaries for the substances to be registered in 2018 to support the Global Product Strategy End of 2018 Continued communication of ALTANA requirements for cooperation with suppliers in the context of supplier visits and audits (Global Compact) Ongoing Further development of the performance indicator system based on GRI Ongoing Evaluation of ALTANA’s sustainability performance with standardized questionnaires Annually Need for action and implementation of measures derived from the evaluation of the sustainability performance Ongoing Products Expanded development of water-based coatings, especially at ACTEGA Ongoing Use of renewable raw materials (without quantification) Ongoing Additional lifecycle assessments (LCA) Ongoing Development of further additives and pigments for waterborne coatings Ongoing Development of further VOC-reduced and / or water-based coatings Ongoing Development of products for resource efficiency Ongoing Development of products for energy efficiency Ongoing Development of additional products with FoodSafe seal Ongoing Safety WAI 1 below 3 or WAI 2 below 2.1 occupational accidents per million working hours End of 2016 WAI 3 below 50 lost work days per million working hours End of 2016 Reduction of significant incidents; no significant incidents in the long run Ongoing Safety improvement measures from best practice examples End of 2016 Programs / Goals 63 Environment Reduction of specific environmental impact (in terms of gross value added): CO emissions 30 % 2007 – 2020 ² CO emissions -9% 2012 – 2020 ² Water; worldwide water management replaces previous targets End of 2016 Hazardous waste -5% 2012 – 2017 Non-hazardous waste -5% 2012 – 2017 Hazardous waste for disposal -5% 2012 – 2017 Non-hazardous waste for disposal -5% 2012 – 2017 Various measures to conserve water Ongoing Various measures to reduce waste Ongoing Various measures for energy efficiency and using renewable energies Ongoing Replacement of combined heat and power plant at ELANTAS Italia in Ascoli End of 2015 Further expansion of cogeneration plant depending on feasibility Ongoing Renewable energies: feasibility studies and stronger use Ongoing Human Resources Increase in percentage of women managers Ongoing Sickness absence recording for preventive health care worldwide End of 2016 Additional measures to further establish new Guiding Principles Ongoing Compliance seminars Ongoing Audits on compliance-relevant topics around the world Ongoing Enhancement of the health management systems Ongoing Anonymous counseling for employees in Germany End of 2015 64 Sustainability Report 2014 Global Compact: Communication on Progress (COP) By participating in the U.N. initiative Global Compact, we commit to respecting human rights, creating socially compatible working conditions, promoting environmental protection, and fighting corruption. Principle Page Measure taken Human Rights Principle 1 Businesses should support and 28 – 31 Health management, performance indicators, respect the protection of internationally occupational safety proclaimed human rights Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit 13 – 14 Search for suppliers, supplier agreements, in human rights abuses audits, Global Compact on the Internet Labor Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of SR 2013, Supplier agreements association and the effective recognition of 14 – 15 the right to collective bargaining Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and 11 – 12 Compliance management system compulsory labor Principle 5 The abolition of child labor 11 – 12, 57 Compliance management system, support of education initiatives Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect 11 – 12 Fair treatment, compliance management of employment and occupation system, training, surveys Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary 11, 62 – 63 Energy and environmental approach to environmental challenges management system, goals Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater 33 – 42, Process optimizations, technical updates, environmental responsibility 62 – 63 programs and goals, performance indicators Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of 15 – 21, Product innovations, use of renewable environmentally friendly technologies 38 – 39 sources and water Anti-Corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in 11 – 12 Training, audits, and performance indicators all its forms, including extortion and bribery GRIContact Index (Excerpt) GRI Index The ALTANA Sustainability Report 2014 is geared to the Andrea Neumann Completely covered Partly covered Not covered G3 international guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative Head of Corporate Communications N = Notes Sustainability Report 2014 (GRI) . The short overview lists the respective status and Tel + 49 281 670 10900 C = Cover references for281 Fax + 49 the indicators 670 10999relevant to ALTANA . AR = ALTANA Annual Report 2014 press@altana.com Dr. Andreas Diez GRI standard disclosure Reference Status GRI standard disclosure Reference Status Vice President Environment, Health and Safety Strategy 1. Tel + 49 281and analysis 670 10600 3.12 GRI Content index C, N Preface 1.1 Fax of + 49 281 the CEO 670 10649 p. 1 3.13 External assurance of the report N 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, p. 10, N 4. Governance, commitments, Andreas.Diez@altana.com and opportunities and engagement 2. Organizational profile 4.1 Governance structure pp. 10 – 11, 2.1 Name of the organization C AR, p. 69 2.2 Primary brands, products and / or C, AR, 4.2 Independence of supervisory board N services pp. 35 – 39 chairman 2.3 Divisions and operational structure C, AR, 4.3 Supervisory board or independent N pp. 35 – 39 members of the executive board 2.4 Location of organization’s C 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders N headquarters and employees to provide recommendations or direction to 2.5 C, AR, the executive / supervisory board Countries with major operations pp. 44 – 45 4.5 Linkage between executive N, AR, 2.6 Ownership structure C, AR, p. 69 compensation and company pp. 69 – 70 2.7 Markets served AR, pp. 35 – 38 performance 2.8 Scale of the organization C, AR 4.6 Mechanisms to avoid conflicts of N 2.9 Significant changes during the p. 10 interest reporting period 4.7 Qualification of executive bodies for N 2.10 Awards received in the pp. 13, 49 – 50 sustainability Imprint reporting period 4.8 Guiding principles, company values p. 12, N 3. Report parameters and codes of conduct 3.1 Reporting period C 4.9 Procedures of the executive / N Publisher Design supervisory board level for overseeing 3.2 Date of last report N ALTANA AG Heisters & Partner the organization’s sustainability 3.3 Reporting cycle C performance Abelstr. 43, 46483 Wesel Büro für Kommunikationsdesign, Mainz 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding C 4.10 Process for evaluating the sustainability N Germany the report performance of the executive board 3.5 TelProcess 281 + 49for 670 -report defining 8 content Photography N 4.11 Implementation of precautionary pp. 11, 22, N 3.6 Fax + 49 281 Boundary 670 of the 10999 report C,Robert N approach Brembeck, Munich 3.7 info@altana.com Limitations on the scope of the report Eyal N Izhar, Jerusalem (pp. 4.12 Support 7 – for 8) external initiatives pp. 13 – 14, N 3.8 Joint ventures, subsidiaries, p. 6, N 4.13 Memberships in associations and N www.altana.com outsourcing interest groups Printing 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged p. 14 3.9 Data measurement N Cover coated with TerraWet Matt CoatEberl Print GmbH, Immenstadt by the organization 3.10 Changes to the statement of N ing G 9 / 83 provided information Velvet Touch-060, inside in earlier reports 4.15 Stakeholder selection p. 14 3.11 pages coated from with Changes reporting Matt CoatTerraGreen previous N 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder p. 14 periods in the scope, boundary, or engagement ing G 5 / 75 matt based on renewmeasurement methods 4.17 Key topics of stakeholders C able resources, both water-based coatings made by ACTEGA Terra / formulated with additives from BYK . GRI Index (Excerpt) GRI Index The ALTANA Sustainability Report 2014 is geared to the Completely covered Partly covered Not covered G3 international guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative N = Notes Sustainability Report 2014 (GRI) . The short overview lists the respective status and C = Cover references for the indicators relevant to ALTANA . AR = ALTANA Annual Report 2014 GRI standard disclosure Reference Status GRI standard disclosure Reference Status 1. Strategy and analysis 3.12 GRI Content index C, N 1.1 Preface of the CEO p. 1 3.13 External assurance of the report N 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, p. 10, N 4. Governance, commitments, and opportunities and engagement 2. Organizational profile 4.1 Governance structure pp. 10 – 11, 2.1 Name of the organization C AR, p. 69 2.2 Primary brands, products and / or C, AR, 4.2 Independence of supervisory board N services pp. 35 – 39 chairman 2.3 Divisions and operational structure C, AR, 4.3 Supervisory board or independent N pp. 35 – 39 members of the executive board 2.4 Location of organization’s C 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders N headquarters and employees to provide recommendations or direction to 2.5 C, AR, the executive / supervisory board Countries with major operations pp. 44 – 45 4.5 Linkage between executive N, AR, 2.6 Ownership structure C, AR, p. 69 compensation and company pp. 69 – 70 2.7 Markets served AR, pp. 35 – 38 performance 2.8 Scale of the organization C, AR 4.6 Mechanisms to avoid conflicts of N 2.9 Significant changes during the p. 10 interest reporting period 4.7 Qualification of executive bodies for N 2.10 Awards received in the pp. 13, 49 – 50 sustainability reporting period 4.8 Guiding principles, company values p. 12, N 3. Report parameters and codes of conduct 3.1 Reporting period C 4.9 Procedures of the executive / N supervisory board level for overseeing 3.2 Date of last report N the organization’s sustainability 3.3 Reporting cycle C performance 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding C 4.10 Process for evaluating the sustainability N the report performance of the executive board 3.5 Process for defining report content N 4.11 Implementation of precautionary pp. 11, 22, N 3.6 Boundary of the report C, N approach 3.7 Limitations on the scope of the report N 4.12 Support for external initiatives pp. 13 – 14, N 3.8 Joint ventures, subsidiaries, p. 6, N 4.13 Memberships in associations and N outsourcing interest groups 3.9 Data measurement N 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged p. 14 by the organization 3.10 Changes to the statement of N information provided in earlier reports 4.15 Stakeholder selection p. 14 3.11 Changes from previous reporting N 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder p. 14 periods in the scope, boundary, or engagement measurement methods 4.17 Key topics of stakeholders C GRI standard disclosure Reference Status GRI standard disclosure Reference Status 5. Performance indicators LA13 Composition of senior management pp. 49 – 50, N Economic and employee structure (e.g. age / gender / culture) EC Management approach N, AR, pp. 35, 69 Human rights N EC1 Direct economic value generated and C, AR HR Management approach distributed Society EC2 Financial implications of climate p. 10 SO Management approach N change SO2 Business units screened for risk related p. 12 EC3 Benefit plan obligations AR, pp. 103, to corruption 118 – 121 SO3 Percentage of employee trained in p. 12, N EC4 Financial assistance received from AR, p. 93 anti-corruption policies government SO5 Policy positions and participation pp. 21 – 22 Environmental in public policy development and EN N lobbying Management approach SO8 Fines / sanctions for non-compliance p. 60 EN1 Materials used by weight or volume p. 38, N with laws and regulations EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary p. 39, N Product responsibility energy source PR Management approach N EN4 Indirect energy consumption by p. 39, N primary energy source PR9 Significant fines for non-compliance p. 61, N EN5 pp. 40 – 41, N with laws and regulations concerning Energy savings the use of products and services EN8 Total water withdrawal by source p. 39, N EN11 Use of protected areas p. 39, N EN16 Direct and indirect greenhouse pp. 39 – 40, N gas emissions Our explanations and comments on all of the GRI indicaEN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting p. 39, N substances by weight tors can be found in the notes to this sustainability EN21 Water discharges p. 39, N report. We provide this information on the Internet at EN22 Waste by type and disposal method pp. 39 – 40, N www.altana.com/gri-index. EN23 Number and volume of significant p. 30 spills EN28 Fines / sanctions for non-compliance p. 61, N with environmental laws and regulations Labor practices and decent work LA Management approach N LA7 Injuries, absenteeism, and fatalities pp. 28 – 29, N LA8 Risk-control and programs regarding p. 31, N serious diseases ALTANA AG Abelstr. 43 46483 Wesel, Germany Tel + 49 281 670 10900 Fax + 49 281 670 10999 www.altana.com
