UN Global Compact Communication On Progress Year: 2015 1 About Sidra Sidra Agriculture Company W.L.L. is a Qatari company which has proudly acquired the name of the national tree of Qatar Ziziphus spina christi. Sidra was established in 2004. Its headquarter is in Doha and is registered in the Qatar Chamber of commerce and Industry. On August 2015, Sidra is acquired by Shaikh Khalid Bin Hamad Al Thani. Sidra is an internationally-recognized turnkey design and build landscaping company specializing in the engineering, design, planting and construction of large and complex landscaping projects backed by a modern nursery and complimented by a rich garden center. Sidra’s renowned reputation for construction excellence, timely and on-budget completion, professional care as well as its keen cultural and environmental concern has made Sidra one of the overwhelming top choices of Qatar’s top governmental agencies, private institutions, and individual citizens. This is accomplished by focusing on the necessity to preserve our scarce natural resources especially in light of the dominating influence of desertification in our region. Our engineers are working on optimizing our valuable water resources by designing efficient irrigation networks; we are also actively involved in the development and manufacture of natural 100% plant origin fertilizer to provide healthy organic plants and trees as well as to reduce the need for irrigation. Mission: Our mission is to enhance and improve outdoor and indoor living environments in a manner which respects nature, contributes to the sustainability of natural balance and ensures the maintenance of a sustainable relationship with our surroundings. We provide comprehensive landscape services through a holistic approach which seamlessly integrates ecological and aesthetic considerations with the distinctive cultural character of the region. Vision: As human beings we have a special responsibility to ensure harmony and coexistence with our environment. Sidra believes that responsible landscaping should retain environmental sustainability as its core principal and be based on respect for all creatures. 2 CEO statement of continued support for the Global Compact and its 10 principles. I am pleased to confirm that Sidra Agriculture Company reaffirms its support to the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labours, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication of Progress, we will describe the improvement in the implementation of the ten principals where we can share this information with the stakeholders through the channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Ziad Jabbour General Manager info@sidradoha.com z.jabbour@sidradoha.com T: +974 4482 1494 F: +974 44821495 3 Description of action in each issuing area which are Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. Human Rights  Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and  Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Commitment/Policy: Sidra supports the basic human rights provided by the Government of Qatar. We assure that the inherent dignity and of the equal and inalienable rights of all members of the human family is the foundation of freedom, justice and peace in the world. Sidra’s Human Rights Policy reflects the Company’s commitment to conduct its business in a manner consistent with these principles and to protect human rights within the company’s sphere of influence. Action taken: Some of the tools used for this objective are listed below:  The company runs a process of employee grievance through its HR function, these grievances are addressed confidentially.  Sidra runs equal employment opportunity policy that protects human rights.  Sidra has the “open door policy” where any employee has the opportunity to meet the General Manager for redressal of any problem or issue.  Sidra’s office and labor camp have a complaint box which is checked on daily basis by the HR department and all issues are reported to the higher management. Measurement of Outcomes:  Over the last years, few instances of employee grievances were escalated and resolved to the satisfaction of the grieving party.  Some issues and problems reported by employees to the various functions have been resolved. Plans for the upcoming years: Sidra will work towards creating a process for capture the grievance and measure the redressal timeline. 4 Labour rights  Principle 3: Businesses should upload the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining.  Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour.  Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour.  Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Commitment/Policy: We support and respect the protection of international labour rights within our sphere of influence. We believe that workers’ rights are human rights. We seek to promote and defend human, women's and workers' rights in the global economy. As workers across the developing world fight for their right to work in dignity, healthy and safe workplaces to earn a living wage, we provide solidarity to support their efforts, and we will continue to demand that corporations be held legally accountable to respect core internationally recognized workers’ rights standards. Action taken:  We promote a safe, healthy, and supportive work environment.  All our labors are entitled to medical insurance.  Involves closely monitoring our compliance with Qatari and international laws in all of our locations to ensure that the rights of our employees are not abused.  Our employees are required to comply with our corporate policies at all times.  We also work with our suppliers to advise compliance with all applicable human rights and labor laws and regulations.  We are granting the women’s rights through regular pay and regular working hours; equal pay for equal work; permanent contracts; safe and non-hazardous work environments.  We are protecting women from the egregious and widespread form of discrimination such as sexual harassment in the workplace.  We are helping the working mothers who are trying to support their families.  Sidra compensates its employees with wages and benefits that meet or exceed the legally required minimum under the Qatari law.  Sidra does not require its employees to work more than the maximum hours of daily labor set by Qatari laws. 5  Sidra prohibits discrimination based on race, color, age, gender, sexual orientation, gender identity and expression, ethnicity, religion, disability, union membership or political affiliation. We have around ten nationalities working together under one ceiling.  Sidra complies with the minimum age laws and requirements and do not employ child labor.  We provide our employees with a safe and healthy workplace in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations.  We encourage our employees to conduct business according to our Code of Ethics.  We comply with all applicable laws and regulations on bribery, corruption and prohibited business practices.  We consider the right to privacy of our employees a core value. Employees’ personal data is highly protected.  We donate to non-profit organizations on a yearly basis. We encourage our employee to be involved by participating in the donation committees.  A Nursing Unit was created during this year in the labor camp provided with the essential equipment and the first aid tools. A certified nurse form the Supreme Council of Health in Qatar is available 24 hours in the camp. Measurement of Outcomes:  The HR Manager visits the labor camp twice a week to solve their issues.  While the company succeeded to improve the labor camp along with all related facilities, training sessions will be given to labors concerning their health & safety during work.  Human Resources policy supporting the labor principles.  We encouraged the labors to participate in the public sports activities occurring in Qatar during the national and sports holidays.  Sidra is offering dinner during the holy month of Ramadan to all staff and their families as well as labors. Plans for the upcoming years:  Expanding the welfare areas for labors.  Training sessions will be held to all workers concerning health and safety polices. 6 Environment  Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges.  Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility.  Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Commitment/Policy: Sidra is committed to leading the company in minimizing the impact of its activities on the environment and enhance the local diversity of the ecology by planting and increasing the green area. Action taken:  Minimize waste by evaluating operations and ensuring they are as efficient as possible.  Minimize toxic emissions through the selection and use of its fleet and the source of its power requirement.  Avoid the use of paper wherever possible. For example, sending quote documents as PDF files and re-use the scratch papers.  Avoid the use of postal services, saving on transportation and on paper (envelopes). For example, emailing invoices and statements of account.  Keep energy usage low. For example, making use of low energy light bulbs throughout and using schedules to ensure computers are shut down after work.  Avoid unnecessary travel by making use of instant messaging, video and audio conferencing, telephone and email.  Actively promote recycling both internally and amongst its customers and suppliers.  Meet or exceed all the environmental legislation that relates to the Company.  Use an accredited program to offset the greenhouse gas emissions generated by our activities.  Increase the green area thus the oxygen by planting more canopy trees and green areas.  Using of recycled papers in the process of printing the business cards, brochures and letter heads.  Using of outdoor eco-rubber tiles made of recycled tires.  We as partners with Doha Oasis are doing efforts in Qatar to launch a million tree campaign to increase the green area and reduce the effect of sand storms and dust as well as CO2 emissions. Measurement of Outcomes:  Grasses recycling, by using the lawn clippings as compost. 7 Anti-Corruption  Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Commitment/Policy: Sidra is committed to conducting its business with honesty and integrity and in compliance with the law of Qatar. This Policy applies, subject to and in accordance with any applicable local law or legal requirement, to each Head of Department, officer and employee of Sidra. Corruption can take place in many types of activities. It usually is designed to obtain financial benefits or other personal gain, such as bribes , a privilege, an object of value, an advantage, or merely a promise to influence a person in an official or public capacity. The areas of business where corruption, including bribery, can most often occur include: 1. Gifts, Entertainment and Hospitality 2. Facilitation Payments 3. Procurement Process 4. Political, Community and Charitable Contributions Action taken: 1. Gifts, Entertainment and Hospitality  Gifts, entertainment and hospitality are acceptable if they are reasonable, proportionate and made in good faith and in compliance with our company policies.  These activities must be in compliance with our Code of Business Conduct.  Examples of gifts, entertainment and hospitality include the receipt or offer of gifts, meals or tokens of appreciation and gratitude, invitations to events, functions, or other social gatherings, in connection with matters related to our business. These activities are acceptable provided they fall within reasonable bounds of value and occurrence. 2Facilitation Payments  Facilitation payments are not allowed. 8 3. Procurement Process  Supplier selection should never be based on receipt of a gift, hospitality or payment.  When supplier selection is a formal, structured invitation for the supply of products or services is required.  We maintain documentation supporting our internal controls.  In the public sector, such a tender process may be required and determined in detail by law to ensure that such competition for the use of public money is open, fair and free from corruption. 4. Political Community and Charitable Contributions  It is not allowed to make political contributions from Company funds without authorization. Measurement of Outcomes:  Communication and training to all employees on the anti-corruption commitment.  No anti-corruption cases were registered in the last 2 years.  All above mentioned actions are applied. ____________________________________________________________________________________ 9
