FROM LANDING TO TAKE OFF: WE CARE! SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 TABLE OF CEO Statement 4 CONTENTS Introduction to our S ­ ustainability Report 2015  6 Mission ­Statement6 Economic Sustainability7 Facts & ­Figures8 Milestones8 Headcount Reporting 9 Products and Services  11 HUB & Base Management  15 Governance  16 Responsibilities  17 Environ­mental Sustainability  18 Environmental Policy  19 Main Activities 19 2 Human Rights & Labour Principles  20 Society & Sustainability  21 Code of Conduct 22 Fair Competition  22 Anti-Corruption  22 Web-based training  23 Social Sustainability23 Equal ­Opportunities & Recruitment Policy  24 Retention  24 Compensation & Benefits  25 Employee Relations  26 Swissport Health M­ anagement & Pension Scheme26 Training  27 Organisational ­Structure 30 ­ esponsibility & Sustainability31 Product R Global S ­ tandards – Local ­Champions 34 Performance Management  35 Our Stakeholders 35 Customer ­Dialogue36 Local ­Contributions36 Awards & Recognition  37 About this Report  38 3 CEO At Swissport International we strive for sustainable development. We want to improve our sustainable practices in all parts of our industry, especially the aspects of economic, STATEMENT social and environmental sustainability. This is Swissport’s third Sustainability Report covering the year 2014 and beginning of 2015 and it is meant to provide you with an i­nsight on “how we do things” in our ­multinational company. On 1 August 2015, I joined Swissport to become the new President and CEO of Swissport International. Under previous leadership, Swissport has embarked on a successful growth path – from about 23,000 employees in 2007 to now well over 60,000. Given the size of our company, it is obvious that people are our success and we will continue to focus on our people and continuously building a safe and great work environment for them. At Swissport we believe that innovation is the most important element for sustainable development. We always strive to invent new technology and develop new knowledge that will contribute to the environment and our economic growth. Using our k­ nowledge and experience combined with innovation is crucial for doing our part for contributing to the environment and the society. We operate in a challenging industry where our customer demands are high and we must keep improving in all aspects of our business to keep the business running efficiently. The aviation industry is constantly in change and it will always be shaped by innovation. With respect for the environment, we must be on our front foot with developing technologies and services that will allow us to be the number one choice for our customers. Next to Ground Handling, Cargo Handling is the most important business for Swissport. “Cargo markets showed solid improvement in 2014. The upturn in the global economic cycle helped bolster confidence and international trade and therefore heightened demand for air freight. This led to a 5.8% expansion in FTKs in 2014, but the freight load factor remained low, at 45.7%. International trade is expected to continue growing at the same pace in 2015 as in 2014 on the back of a slightly healthier global economy.” (IATA ­Annual review 2015). Even though the cargo market improved in 2014 we also had to face set-backs such as the loss of business, pricing pressure, increased labor costs and volume volatility in certain countries. Swissport has successfully developed mitigating strategies to manage through backfalls. 4 To support our main mission of “providing the aviation industry with consistent and ­tailor-made solutions around the globe for a better customer experience” we need to ­continue our commitment to the highest ethical standards. As a global business, Swissport International bonds people, economies and cultures while motivating economic growth and social development. Yet, as we continue to grow and expand our business we will face challenging ethical dilemmas. Swissport’s ethical and behavioural principles, which apply throughout all the countries in which we are active, are enshrined and explained in our Code of Conduct (the “Code”), which is intended to serve as a guide to Corporate and Employee ethical behaviour. Along with the Code, our Core Values – People, Professionalism and Partnership – form a strong foundation for our actions. This provides a consistent guideline for how we work with our clients, each other, and our business partners and communities. 2014 was an eventful year for Swissport, mainly characterised by the complex but ­successful integration of Servisair, the biggest acquisition in Swissport’s history. We could cement our position as the world’s leading provider of ground handling and cargo ­services, and for 2015 we have a well defined strategy and will put a special focus on e­ nsuring we achieve our high global quality and operations standards. Swissport joined the United Nations Global Compact in 2011, expressing our support of the Ten Principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. We are, and we will continue to be, committed to making the UN Global Compact and its Ten Principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of Swissport. In ­addition to the above-mentioned fundamentals, Swissport also has a Group Environmental Policy which was established in and has been valid since 2007. Swissport International Ltd. is the leading global airport and aviation service provider in terms of quality, reliability, safety, innovation and network coverage. Offering a comprehensive range of services, Swissport is able to provide an “all-inclusive” service package ­ in addition to managing integrated collaboration models. It is my expectation that all ­employees will commit to our Code of Conduct and keep working to the highest standard and act with complete integrity. Swissport is a diverse and dynamic organization and I am ­immensely proud to be its new CEO. This Sustainability report gives us the opportunity to share a little bit of our vision with you. Eric Born President & CEO Swissport International Ltd. 5 INTRODUCTION The Swissport Sustainability Report 2015 summarizes the world of Swissport and its global operations from a sustainability perspective. The report has continuously improved since TO OUR the first report in 2013 and we are proud that it has developed from a GRI C to a GRI A level in just 3 years. The report enables stakeholders and readers to get an overview of the ­SUSTAINABILITY impacts, risks and opportunities Swissport has identified as material in terms of sustainability. Given the nature of our business, social sustainability and its sub-categories labour REPORT 2015 ­practices and decent work, human rights, product responsibility, and society are the most material factors identified by Swissport. Environmental sustainable practices are an increasingly important area to consider for all companies in all industries. Swissport and the aviation industry are no exception. Due to Swissport’s business nature, the operation of ground service equipment (“GSE”) has been identified as the main source of environmental impact which can be influenced by the ­organization. The actions taken to cope with this impact are further disclosed in this report. Sustainable economic growth has always been and remains a strategic focus for Swissport. Since Swissport is a service provider and does not own any production plants or airports, we focus on our indirect economic impact on society by ensuring a fair and safe working ­environment for our locally hired staff, by full compliance with local legal and tax ­regulations and various contributions to local societies where Swissport operates. Examples of these contributions to local communities are disclosed further in this report. MISSION To provide the aviation industry with consistent and tailor-made solutions around the globe, for a better customer experience. ­STATEMENT Swissport is a people-focused organisation– only with our people will we achieve our goals and our vision. As such, we focus on the principles of sustainability and compliance, living by our Core Values: ·· People ·· Professionalism ·· Partnership The ongoing professional development of the people within Swissport ensures that: ·· We show respect towards our people and their values; we do not compromise on safety and work with enthusiasm and enjoyment. ·· We are pioneers; working constantly towards achieving sustainable results, we creatively explore new options and improved solutions. ·· Continually striving to exceed the expectations of our clients and our commitments, we deliver excellent service; in any place, at any time. Swissport is the biggest global airport and aviation service provider in terms of quality, reliability, safety, innovation and network coverage. Offering a comprehensive range of services, Swissport is able to provide an “all-inclusive” service package in addition to ­managing integrated collaboration models. ·· Ground Handling ·· Cargo Services ·· Executive Aviation ·· Fuelling Services ·· Aircraft Maintenance ·· Aviation Security 6 “ At Swissport, we are working hard to ensure that we reach our goal of sustainable economic growth. Sustainable economic growth is not just concerning financial ECONOMIC results at Swissport, it is also about ensuring a stable and safe workplace for our local staff at our local operations. In order to achieve the goal of sustainable SUSTAINABILITY ­economic growth, Swissport is focused on consolidating and strengthening our ” ­market position to ensure we are constantly driving industry innovation in key areas such as service, quality and reliability.  Eric Born, CEO & President The biggest impact on Swissportʼs 2014 results was the successful integration of Servisair after the closing of the acquisition on 23 December 2013. Swissport became one of the largest ground handlers in UK & Ireland with operations at more than 30 airports, and ­further increased its footprint in LATAM by being present in 10 countries in the region. With the closing, Swissport, owned by PAI Partners, now employs more than 60,000 ­personnel, and the company’s network exceeds 265 stations in 48 countries. Swissport’s expanded and comprehensive service offering compliments more than 700 customers, which equates to more than 3.9 Mio flights and 229 Mio passengers served per annum. An estimated 4.1 Mio tons of cargo are moved and 120 warehouses are operated worldwide throughout the combined network. Swissport is recognized as the benchmark in terms of value for money, customer dedication, and cost management. The company has established a global reputation for being a valued business partner, not only because of our financial resources and modern ground support equipment, but also due to our intangible assets, particularly management expertise and a brand name that stands for superior quality. Overall responsibility for the strategy and development of the economic impacts and ­market presence lies with the CEO together with the CFO of Swissport. The Swissport Formula describes “the way we work” – it is an organization-wide ­established set of policies, practices and standards ensuring sustainable economic growth and continued success in all the markets were Swissport is present. Efficient and secure operations form a sustainable basis for development and provide customer confidence and peace of mind, in addition to reducing costs. With the Swissport Formula, c­ ustomers and employees experience the benefits of global alignment, standardization and consistency every day. Swissport does not disclose financial results to a full extent; however the facts and figures provided in this report show a good overview of the economic performance and worldwide market presence of Swissport. It is important to add that Swissport as a ground handling service provider does not own or run any production plants or airports that could have a significant direct economic impact on the environment or society. As a consequence of this, the direct economic impacts of Swissport’s operations are not deemed material. However Swissport recognizes that as a global company operating on local levels, we have a responsibility towards the local ­communities. In all countries and stations we operate in, Swissport is always looking to create jobs for local people. We ensure a fair and safe working environment for our locally hired staff and our full compliance with local legal and tax regulations as well as various positive contributions to local communities as disclosed later in this report. 7 FACTS & 2014 Revenue (not normalised) CHF 3.0 billion ­FIGURES Countries 48 Employees ~ 60,000 Flights handled (movements) > 3.9 million Cargo handled (tonnes) > 4.1 million Warehouses > 120 Airports served > 265 Customer airlines > 700 Passengers handled (departures) > 224 million Countries Continent Countries Stations South America 6 35 Africa 9 37 Asia & Middle East 6 13 North America 2 65 Central America & the Caribbean 7 18 Europe 18 104 MILESTONES 2014 ·· Swissport named “Cargo Handler of the Year” by ACSA ·· Swissport and Cargolux sign agreement for global strategic partnership ·· For the sixth year in a row: Swissport awarded “Air Cargo Handling Agent of the Year 2014” ·· Swissport joins German Aviation Association (BDL) ·· Swissport and Transaero Airlines sign agreement for global strategic partnership ·· EuroAirport Skyview Lounge awarded “Priority Pass European Lounge of the Year” 8 Swissport’s headcount reporting is consolidated on a monthly basis for all the legal and operating entities of the Swissport Group with a majority participation of Swissport HEADCOUNT (> 50 % Swissport participation). It includes a consolidated overview over all headcount, male / female ratios and the allocation of permanent and temporary contracts. The headREPORTING count report also shows the headcounts per division and per continent, for managing the business effectively. It forms the basis for calculating HR-related performance indicators. Total Headcount as of 31.12.2014: 58 544 Headcount per staff type Headcount per Business Line Operations PAX 0.4% Support Ramp 0.2% Management Load Control 1.6% Station Control 3.2% 0.7% 1.8% Cargo Handling ng 0.8% 6.2% Aviation Security ity Executive Aviation tion Aircraft Maintenance nance 10.2% Fuelling Services es Lounge 33.6% 1.9%% 92% 47.3% Headcount per support function Headcount per Continent Ops Support Africa Finance America North HR/Learning America South & Caribbean Communications ns 1.8% 1.2% Asia IT Europe Legal 3.7% Bus Dev 8.8% Supply Mgmt 13.5% GSE Commercial 31.5% Admin 43.6% Safety 30.1% Quality 23.8% 9.4% 10% 15.5% 1.0% 2.0% 0.4% 2.7% 0.4% 0.6% 0 6% 9 Headcount per contract coverage Headcount per contract duration Headcount full time Headcount permanent Headcount part time Headcount temporary 12.6% 41% 59% 87.4% Headcount per gender – Operations Headcount per gender – Support Headcount male Headcount male Headcount female Headcount female 32.6% 37.9% 67.4% 62.1% 69% 69% Headcount per gender – Management Headcount male Headcount female 24.7% 75.3% 69% 69% Ground Handling The award-winning Swissport Ground Handling business currently provides passenger PRODUCTS and ramp handling at over 192 stations worldwide and serves in excess of 224 million ­passengers per year. Today, Swissport is recognised as the biggest independent global AND SERVICES ground services provider with the largest number of hub and Low Cost Carrier base ­operations globally. Innovation Swissport has the advantage of being able to exchange expertise and share best practices from all over the world – the benefit of which is seen in the Swissport Formula. Due to our global presence, operational practices and service innovations are being developed and implemented on an ongoing basis. Process and service optimisation, through the use of information technology, has been crucial to the success of Swissport. Our vast reach and network enables rapid adoption of the latest technologies, which deliver efficiency and cost-effective operations on site. Using the benefit both of our experience and proprietary software for resource optimisation enables Swissport to develop rapid turnaround times without sacrificing quality of service. Processes are documented and described in detailed operations manuals to ensure safe handling according to the ISAGO authority. Our aim is to serve our airline customers in the most effective way while also being cognisant of the individual needs and requirements of each of our customers. Outlook Swissport is monitoring automation developments in the area of groundservice provision very closely. We constantly strive to reduce our production costs with the early integration of newly created features within our scope of activities. The automation process is already well developed in the area of passenger handling, including: ·· Fully automated passenger handling at check-in ·· Automated boarding processes Swissport also supports working groups with our know-how in order to advance the same kind of automation in other areas, such as: ·· Self-service devices at Lost & Found counters ·· Checked-baggage screening ·· Central load control Our well-established operational monitoring tools allow us to test every change in ­procedure and verify the impact of any deviation to the running process. Swissport is an organisation that is actively shaping the future for the benefit of our customers. 11 Cargo Swissport is the world’s biggest Cargo Services provider, offering award-winning Cargo Handling at more than 109 airports worldwide, and handling in excess of 4.1 million tonnes annually. The cargo organisation is set up to allow global, regional and local representation at both sales and operational levels through its Customer Relationship Management (CRM) process, which is designed to improve the customer experience. Swissport Cargo is in the process of rolling out new technologies to improve operational capabilities and allow the customer to experience cost savings throughout the contract period, and we have linked this process to Cargo 2000 (C2K) measurements across our network. Our size and scope allows customers to manage multiple operations through a single point of contact, one common Service Level Agreement (SLA) and one invoice if necessary, saving on administration costs. Innovation With daily monitoring of the key business drivers and shipment tracking in line with Cargo 2000 (C2K) standards, we have a transparent overview of our services that ensures service quality and enforces operational excellence. Implementation of hand-held terminals reduces human error and ensures efficient operation, which allows our customers to also benefit from reduced handling and associated costs. Daily follow-ups on hours worked, volumes handled, door waiting times and many other measures ensure a scorecard approach to daily activity which further supports the Cargo operations and helps to deliver efficient operations. Swissport will continue to improve technology and interfaces for its customers and has many new and exciting advancements in production to minimise cost and improve operational readiness. We are also committed to improving the look and feel of our facilities, as well as to grow and develop new operations worldwide. Some benefits of this approach to innovation include: ·· Cargospot: The system used to manage our Cargo business, interfacing with any airline system. ·· Freightfinder: Using the latest technology, Freightfinder allows you to track and trace your freight in any of our warehouses worldwide. ·· Hand-Held Terminals: Swissport’s customers benefit from real-time status updates so shipments can be tracked and traced in our warehouses. ·· Volume Scanning Devices: Allow our customers to calculate the volume of shipments with accuracy. ·· SHIELD Document Imaging System: Capturing the entire flight pouch digitally solves the problem of missing documents. 12 Outlook The continued drive to grow with our customers and to ensure that we continue to deliver the highest quality handling in the most cost-efficient way is our prime focus in 2015. By leveraging the use of system-management and implementing innovative, solid operational and financial processes together with our customers, we will continue to enhance our prime position in cargo handling services. Our Global Account Management team allows ­customers to benefit from full access to Swissport’s specialist resources, including the latest industry information and cutting-edge operating solutions designed to optimise the ­efficiency of customers’ handling processes. This specialised team provides our customers with peace of mind and an established confidential relationship to explore and develop new opportunities and strategies. This single point of contact allows quality consistency, open communication and increased transparency in the handling process. We tailor operations to the needs of our customers and create a suite of reports based on their information ­requirements, both at operational and sales levels. Executive Aviation Swissport Executive Aviation (SEA) & PrivatPort provide exclusive ground handling services to the international community of operators and executives who utilise private or corporate jets in up to 78 stations worldwide. The mission is to make arrivals, stopovers and departures as convenient and smooth as possible for passengers and crew, providing a customised spectrum of aircraft care services. These bespoke service requirements are ­offered by professionals with good expertise, exceptional skills in servicing and understanding the importance of the business aviation world. The dedicated teams are handpicked for their commitment to the job and are highly committed to their assignment, ­delivering assistance beyond expectation. Fuelling Swissport Fuelling Services is an international company that provides high quality, independent aviation fuel handling on behalf of airlines, airports and fuel suppliers. We provide a full service solution with regards to our clients’ fuelling needs including both on and off airport fuel storage and distribution systems. Swissport Fuelling Services has a proven track record in demonstrating a full understanding of the requirements and responsibilities of maintaining aviation fuel systems, with a focus on safety, cost control, inventory ­management and a clear emphasis on environmental compliance and responsibility. ­Swissport Fuelling Services provides our customers with safe, efficient, independent ­into-plane f­ uelling services whilst leading the industry in on-time performance. Our expertise and knowledge in this specialist field also assists our clients in the design, construction and commissioning of aviation fuelling facilities and related structures. Swissport Fuelling Services operates to the highest industry standards in health, safety and environment. Our policies and procedures have been developed in accordance with the Air Transport Association (ATA) 103 Specification and the Joint Inspection Group (JIG) Guidelines for Aviation Fuel Quality Control & Operating Procedures. 13 Aircraft Maintenance Swissport Aircraft Maintenance, the recipient of the prestigious FAA Certificate of Excellence Diamond Award, is a quality provider of third-party line maintenance services operating at 27 airports in the USA and in four other countries globally, providing line maintenance support to major commercial airlines on both a scheduled and on-call basis, ensuring that all capital-intensive equipment operates and performs flawlessly. Swissport’s A & P Mechanics has the training, knowledge and expertise to meet our customers’ demands. Ground Support Equipment (GSE) Maintenance Swissport GSE and Unit Load Device (ULD) Maintenance Services operate at over 45 airports in 13 countries, managing and maintaining a fleet of more than 4,000 units. Our commitment is to offering superior and consistent standards and dedication throughout our network: providing r­ eliable, comprehensive and cost-effective GSE maintenance, ­minimising downtime and maximising productivity. Swissport Maintenance Services is committed to working within the industry towards the research and development of ­efficient, safe, ergonomic and e­ nvironmentally friendly Ground Services Equipment. Aviation Security Swissport Aviation Security (Checkport) provides security services for more than 40 customers in over 10 countries worldwide. The team working within the organisation is highly trained in both security and vulnerability assessments, providing complete solutions for our customers. Swissport Aviation Security customers have the flexibility to choose the solution fit for them; be it on a local or a global level, the Checkport entities guarantee full ­flexibility for the procurement of security services. Our services and expertise in this ­specialised field are based on more than 20 years’ experience within Aviation Security with a clear focus on, and commitment to quality solutions and integrated products for the ­client’s convenience. Working with Swissport allows our clients to purchase security ­services via ground handling and cargo and benefit from the synergies realized by the integration of security tasks in existing processes, such as: ·· Check-In Security Combined Check-In and Security Services ·· Gate Security Combined Gate and Security Services ·· Cabin Clean & Search Combined Cleaning and Security Services 14 Outsourcing continues to play an important role in the aviation and airport services industry. As airlines continue to focus on profitability, they are increasingly focusing on their HUB & BASE core business: passenger transportation. While the Swissport service portfolio can begin from a single station, true partnership comes when Swissport provides the full management MANAGEMENT of our airline partner’s hub or base operations. Swissport HQ assumes professional project leadership from appointment through to the operational start, providing total reassurance for our customers during transition. Experienced field managers from our global network support the implementation on site. This solution encompasses vast commercial expertise from more than 700 customer ­airlines. Quality reassurance is given to our customers via the operational and leadership training of local staff and management. Commissioning Swissport with hub operations is both financially and operationally sensible for our customers. Swissport has earned our customers’ trust for hub management through our proven track record in best practice, quality and industry-leading processes and procedures in addition to our commitment to continuous innovation in service provision. Swissport is well positioned to manage the sensitive responsibility for hub management for our customers – success stories include Munich – the regional fleet of Lufthansa, Helsinki – Finnair, Johannesburg – South African Airways, Sao Paolo and Rio – Gol / Cargo: 3 stations for United in the USA. 15 GOVERNANCE Group Executive Management (GEM) President & CEO Eric Born* EVP Europe South, EVP Europe EVP North UK, MEA, LATAM & EVP Global Central, East, America, Japan Global Commercial Cargo West & Korea Juan José Andrés Nils Pries Knudsen* Philipp Joeinig* Joe Phelan* Alvez* EVP Human EVP Finance & EVP Legal & Risk EVP Ground SVP Business Resources, CFO Management Handling & Development Communications Alvaro Johannes Group Services Christian Goeseke & Marketing Gómez-Reino* C. Spindler* Luzius Wirth* Peter Moser* * GEM Members 16 Topic Lead / responsibility General strategy of Swissport Chairman of the Board and Board RESPONSIBILITIES members, CEO / GEM members Strategy of Divisions / subsidiaries Division Head / Unit Head or business lines Financial results / investor relations CEO / CFO Acquisitions & mergers CEO / CFO / SVP Business Development / BOD / Investment Committee Press releases & articles / media contacts / VP Corp. Communications & Marketing CD & CI New operations & major contracts Division Head / Unit Head Environmental & political issues CEO / Legal / Corp. Communications & Marketing or Legal department / Division Heads Crisis Communication CEO / Corp. Communications & Marketing / GEM members (Group emergency guidelines), Risk Manager Swissport Local activities on station level Local Management Labour issues Local CEO with Human Resources Overall responsibility for the development and implementation of equal opportunity initiatives rests with the Chief Executive Officer of the company. It is the responsibility of each manager to ensure that the associated policies and procedures are published and communicated to all staff within their area of responsibility. It is also the responsibility of each ­manager to ensure that effective monitoring takes place to provide assurance that the ­policies & procedures are being adhered to. Furthermore, it is the responsibility of every staff member to ensure that their actions adhere to the associated policies and procedures that apply in their place of work. Failure to do so could lead to disciplinary action, including dismissal. In general, all Swissport policies and procedures are designed to comply with local law, represent the best human resource management practices, encourage and respect diversity and ensure equal opportunities, foster a team approach to business ­success, offer development and secure employment, and provide competitive remuneration and other terms and conditions. These policies, processes and guidelines are in place to provide guidance, structure and alignment for the various HR activities. Group Executive Management Meetings (GEMM) take place on a monthly basis to review the business ­performance including economic, environmental, and social performance in order to assess risks and opportunities, and general compliance with the principles, guidelines and international agreed standards. This ensures that any fluctuation in country or operational performances can be identified immediately; actions and improvements can be implemented and reviewed monthly. In addition, the divisional EVPs and the Group CEO visit the key ­countries several times a year to conduct in-depth business reviews. These reviews are supported and rounded-off by internal safety and management audits, external audits (e.g. ISO / ISAGO and / or airline audits) as well as independent internal corporate group audits, which report directly to the Board of Directors. All Governance mechanisms, processes and procedures are compliant with the general norms. Currently, the Group Executive Management has only male members. This fact has been addressed regularly and seriously. ­Swissport wants to reiterate that this has been and will be addressed in any recruitment and is not the result of discrimination. All 7 members of the Board of Directors are dependent (PAI or Swissport), except for the Chairmain Dr. Staehelin and the Vice Chairman Per H. Utnegaard. 100% of the members of the GEM are in the age group of 35-60 and none of the members are of any minority group. 17 ENVIRON­ “ Swissport International Ltd has been a participant of the UN Global Compact for more than three years. This membership stands for our continued efforts in MENTAL environmental sustainability. We are, and we will continue to be committed to ” ­making environmental sustainable practices a part of our strategy, culture and day SUSTAINABILITY to day operations of our company.  Eric Born, CEO & President According to the United Nations Global Compact Principles, businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges, undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility and encourage the development and diffusion of ­environmentally friendly technologies. We strive to continually improve our environmental management system, with the goal of improved environmental performance. For Swissport, Corporate Social Responsibility focuses on safeguarding society and mankind by preserving our living conditions, as well as ensuring safety for our employees. We achieve environmental quality by proactively, systematically and fully integrating environmental ­considerations into the planning and execution of our work. Our environmental protection activities are focused on our Ground Service Equipment (GSE). The Swissport Group has issued an Environmental Policy which sets the goals of minimizing negative environmental impact, endeavour for continuous improvement for our services and for more effective production processes with customer adapted solutions, to be economical with raw material, materials and energy, to increase awareness of environmental issues among all employees to a level where environmental considerations become one`s own responsibility and finally to foster low-emission service vehicles and ground service equipment. Overall responsibility for the development and implementation of environmental initiatives rests with the Chief Executive Officer of the company. It is the responsibility of each manager to ensure that the associated policies and procedures are published and communicated to all staff within their area of responsibility. Employee behaviour is guided through awareness training and regular briefings. Typically, the operational areas interface directly with the airport infrastructures. Swissport has to make use of the locations, assigned infrastructures and processes prescribed by the local authorities. Swissport is using safety analysis and review systems to identify, control, or reduce environment, safety, and health risks through engineering and administrative controls. We strive to continually improve our environmental management system, with the goal of improved environmental performance. In addition to this we are evaluating our environmental performance through periodic reviews and audits to ensure that our conduct is consistent with these principles. Swissport is compliant with all local environmental laws, regulations and standards. In the period covered by this report, Swissport was neither involved in any rulings, nor made liable as a result of environmental non compliance. 18 Swissport has made an effort to identify our main environmental impact areas as below. Guidelines are given to all operations on the design of operational and managerial proceENVIRON­ dures. The Swissport environmental policy focuses on the following core impact areas: Operational Managerial Behaviour MENTAL POLICY GSE Maintenance GSE Purchasing GSE Usage Anti/ De-Icing Stationary Purchasing Office Electricity Waste Management Office Air conditioning Lavatory Services Waste Recycling Fuelling In addition to complying with all applicable environmental laws and regulations, Swissport is committed to: ·· Making environmental concerns an integral part of our planning and decision-making process and committing sufficient resources to implementing effective environmental programmes; ·· Practising sound environmental management of all Swissport-operated facilities and properties and all natural resources under our management; educating employees to be accountable for environmental management and encouraging them to seek innovative ways to improve the environmental aspects of our operations; ·· Minimising, mitigating or restoring any adverse environmental impacts caused by our operations; maintaining open relationships with our customers, employees and government agencies to meet their information needs with regards to environmental issues; ·· Continually improving our environmental programmes; ·· Ensuring the proper handling and disposal of all waste, and minimising their creation while pursuing opportunities to prevent pollution and recycle and reuse waste materials; ·· Evaluating our environmental performance through periodic reviews and audits to ensure that our conduct is consistent with these principles. GSE Due to Swissport’s business nature, the operation of Ground Service Equipment (GSE) has MAIN been identified as the main source of environmental impact, which could be influenced by the organisation. Within our own organisation, Swissport maintains continuous contact ACTIVITIES with major GSE manufacturers worldwide to evaluate adequate equipment with minimal environmental impact. For example, Swissport has been operating electrically powered GSE for many years wherever possible and available. Some electrical ground-service equipment reduces fuel usage by 30–40 %. In the Swissport de-icing business, the use of glycol is strictly monitored. Swissport constantly strives for an optimisation of glycol use and glycol recovery by using state-of-the-art technology. A glycol mix is a Swissport standard for optimised glycol usage, i.e. to reduce the use of glycol to the minimum necessary. Fuelling Swissport’s Fuelling operation is fully committed to meeting its customers’ fuelling and fuel storage needs in a manner consistent with a clean environment. We believe it is both good business practice and our duty to protect the natural resources of the communities which we serve while maintaining outstanding service to our customers. In keeping with this belief, it is our policy to conduct our business in an environmentally responsible ­manner that protects the public, our customers, our employees and the environment. To ensure minimum spilling of fuel, a “zero-drop” compliance and incentive in the fuelling service has been implemented, both for environmental and for safety reasons. 19 Green Logistics The majority of the GSE is leased, hence there is minimal logistics required for transportation of GSE from one location to another. When GSE transportation is required, the method of transportation depends on various factors, such as distance and volume for example. In most cases, the logistic suppliers transport GSE by boat. Duty travel by air is kept at the lowest possible level – a policy with top management attention. Car-sharing options and discounted rates for public travel or hire cars are offered in order to reduce the personal need for a car. Video conferencing, WebEx, Skype and telephone conferencing are oftenused alternatives to business travel. Video conferences are preferred to face-to-face ­meetings when possible. Conference calls reduce travel costs and the environment impact related to travel, such as fuel. Regarding employees’ individual transport, financial incentives for public transport offers are in place. In Head Office, public transport is subsidized with CHF 50 per employee and per month. Various similar initiatives are in place around the globe. HUMAN RIGHTS “ As a member of the UN Global Compact, Human Rights are an important topic for Swissport. We constantly strive to ensure that all Swissport operations and & LABOUR ­significant suppliers are in compliance with the Human Rights. It is an organizationwide goal with top management focus that Swissport is seen as a company with PRINCIPLES ” high ethical standards. This is reflected in our Code of Conduct and our Core ­Values.  Dr. Johannes Spindler – EVP General Counsel & General Secretary According to the United Nations Global Compact Principles, businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights, and make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Furthermore, businesses should uphold the ­freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining, the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour, the effective abolition of child labour and the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. As a service provider and therefore a human workforce business, Swissport has a big responsibility towards its employees. Swissport is fully committed to these principles. Swissport is actively supporting and respecting the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights through various policies and certification requirements. This is a subject of priority throughout the organization and has lead to the absence of any significant incidents or violations of non-compliance with the internationally proclaimed human rights including freedom of association or collective bargaining, child labour, compulsory labour and ­indigenous rights by Swissport or any significant suppliers during the reporting period. Swissport has not identified any particular operation or supplier that is at significant risk or exposure in this regard. If such a case of non-compliance should occur, Swissport is ­prepared to take all measures necessary outlined in the Code of Conduct in order to deal with the violation. With a large workforce of more than 60 000 employees worldwide, uniform suppliers are our most relevant supplier with regard to human rights protection. In order to ensure compliance with our standards on a global level, all significant suppliers engaged by Swissport are required to show certificates of compliance with relevant and prioritized human rights, including non-discrimination, child labour, forced and compulsory labour, security ­practices, and Indigenous rights. In addition to this we recognize the legitimate role of ­responsible trade unions and employee representatives. Swissport establishes appropriate mechanisms to enable the effective representation of staff. The overall responsibility for environmental, political, and labour issues lies with the CEO; the responsibility is further divided to the Legal department and Human Resources. 20 For all its employees, Swissport maintains and promotes a Corporate culture and behaviour in which honesty, integrity and respect for the law are viewed as essential to achieving our desired success. In relation to human rights the Code of Conduct states: ·· The recognition of internationally proclaimed human rights ·· Respect for other cultures and opinions ·· Professional behaviour and observance of the rules of good business practice and of internal and external rules and regulations ·· Protection against discrimination Any and all of the employees are personally obliged to abide by the Swissport Code of Conduct. They are prompted to report any evidence of possible violation of the Swissport Code of Conduct to their superior or, if appropriate, to the General Counsel or to the ­Chairman of the Audit Committee. As a last resort, if the employee fears retaliation, he or she has the possibility of contacting the Swissport Whistleblower hotline. Swissport is an advocate of fair and open competition and is constantly working against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. All directors, officers and SOCIETY & ­employees of the Swissport Group are required to abide by the Swissport Anti-Corruption guidelines and the Competition Law guidelines, regardless of their place of work. SUSTAINABILITY Each individual Swissport employee is obliged to follow the Competition Law guidelines and Swissport has issued Anti-Corruption guidelines which are based on the Anti-Corruption rules set forth in the 1997 OECD Convention on Combating Bribery of Foreign Public Officials in International Business Transactions, the 1999 Criminal Law Convention of the Council of Europe on Corruption and the 2003 United Nations Convention against corruption. Overall responsibility for issues regarding Fair Competition and Anti Corruption lies with the CEO and EVP General Counsel, the responsibility is further divided to division heads within the company. All directors, officers and employees are prompted to report any corrupt practice of which they become aware (including attempts thereof) to their superior or to the Group General Counsel. Disciplinary actions (including termination without notice) will be taken against those directors, officers and employees who do not comply with Anti-Corruption rules and Competition Law. In the period covered by this Sustainability Report, Swissport was neither involved in any rulings, nor made liable in relation to corruption or anti-competitive behaviour. Code of Conduct The Code of Conduct and its supporting policies (Anti-Corruption guidelines and Competition Law guidelines) apply and form the guiding principles of our behaviour. The Code of Conduct states: ·· Behaviour with integrity and in compliance with the law ·· The recognition of internationally proclaimed human rights ·· Respect for other cultures and opinions ·· Responsibility towards society ·· Care for the environment ·· Loyalty towards the Swissport Group ·· Fair, courteous and respectful behaviour towards colleagues, superiors, subordinates, customers, shareholders, authorities, business partners and the public ·· Professional behaviour and observance of the rules of good business practice and of internal and external rules and regulations ·· Protection from discrimination ·· Promote an open, transparent and constructive business style Since constant awareness is the best prevention of all, Swissport urges all its employees to report any violation of the Swissport Code of Conduct. Such reporting should primarily be addressed to the superior or the local HR manager. If the superior is part of the issue then the employee should directly address it to the Head of the business unit. As a last resort, if the employee fears retaliation and / or if he / she wants to report on a confidential basis he / she has the possibility of contacting the Swissport Whistleblower e-mail hotline or the Swissport Whistleblower telephone hotline, where all communications will be treated in strict confidence, and will not result in any disciplinary action against the person making them in a good faith and intention, even if the alleged violation proves unfounded in the subsequent internal investigation. In contrast, however, any violation of the Code of ­Conduct by the person making such communications, and any intentionally falsified claim of such violation (such as malicious and improper accusations) will result in disciplinary action. Fair Competition Competition law may on no account be violated. Any such violation may result in sub­ stantial fines for Swissport and in fines or prison sentences for its employees. In particular, price-fixing among competitors (verbal, written or in any other form), market allocation and any other practices which may inhibit free competition are strictly prohibited. Anti-Corruption Swissport’s Anti-Corruption guidelines summarise the relevant statutory provisions in Switzerland. Under Swiss law – like in most of the developed countries – corrupt practices are subject to criminal prosecution if they are carried out in Switzerland and also abroad. Therefore, when doing business abroad, all directors, officers and employees of the ­Swissport Group must comply with both the Swiss rules and any applicable local rules. Since the international Anti-Corruption treaties adopted over the last few years have ­provided for a certain harmonisation of the national legal rules, the Swiss rules are in line with those of most of the developed countries. However, since there are slight differences from country to country, it is required to assess the applicable national rules with the ­support of a local lawyer in each particular case which raises anti-corruption issues. 22 Web-Based Training A web-based training on the three modules “Code of Conduct”, “Competition Law” and “Anti-Corruption guidelines”, was rolled out for the Head Office in 2013. A further roll-out of the web-based training to senior managers on a global level is planned. It consists of three modules, with an approximate duration of 1.5 hour. “ Labour practices and decent work are perhaps the most material aspect of ­Swissport’s operation. We focus on our people at every level of our company, since SOCIAL people are our key to success. We are constantly working together locally and globally, top management to ground level, to ensure that all procedures related to SUSTAINABILITY ” this aspect are of the highest standards. We strive for excellence in everything we do, labour practices and decent work is no exception.   Peter Moser – EVP Human Resources, Marketing & Communications HR management is at the core of our business and the Swissport HR strategy builds upon the global business strategy. Both the Swissport business and the HR strategy are based on our shared Corporate vision and mission “to provide the aviation industry with consistent and tailor-made solutions around the globe, for a better customer experience” and our ­commitment to our Corporate Core Values “People, Professionalism and Partnership”. As a service provider and therefore a people’s business, Swissport has a big responsibility towards its employees. Therefore, Swissport is fully committed to ensuring fair and equal employment opportunities, diversity and no discrimination, as well as full compliance with health and safety regulations. Swissport believes that good people-management practice generates a working environment where employees are committed and dedicated to giving their best. We also believe in the importance of listening to staff and using staff knowledge in solving business issues. The Corporate HR team works closely with line management and the worldwide HR ­Community to develop and implement valuable programmes, tools, processes and ­procedures to support Swissport managers in their daily work for more efficiency, better management and leadership in order to achieve our shared goal of excellence. Swissport is dedicated to supporting all employees in reaching their full potential through a wide variety of training and development techniques and continuous performance management. The Swissport training program provides level-adequate training from base to top. The various training programs will be further disclosed in this report. In addition to this, Swissport does not compromise on occupational health and safety, and has implemented several training programmes and guidelines to ensure the safety of our employees. ­Swissport’s operational procedures aim at the health and safety of the employees, in ­particular at the reduction of work accidents. Despite the wide spread of its stations (265 stations in 45 countries on five continents) Swissport strives to apply worldwide the same standardized operational procedures which are based on high national standards. Swissport is dedicated to aligning, regularly reviewing and continuously improving its standardized processes and procedures across the entire organization. The operational ­procedures are reviewed by the management of the Swissport Group periodically and are improved continuously. Swissport is certified for management system ISO 9001. 23 EQUAL Swissport’s recruitment policy can be summarised in two words: Objectivity and Equality. Swissport cares for its employees as they are the most valuable contributors to success. ­OPPORTUNITIES Therefore, Swissport is committed to making an effort when recruiting new staff where human resources specialists and line management are involved. We are looking for & RECRUITMENT ­motivated, committed and dedicated colleagues who are skilled and bring the experience or willingness to learn and who are proud to work for Swissport. We invest in our people and POLICY do not treat them as a cost. Swissport wants to be and remain an “Employer of Choice”. Therefore, Swissport adheres to all national laws relating to the recruitment of staff, and to any of the more-stringent requirements of its own internal policies (e.g. equal opportunities, employee advancement, etc.). No job applicant will be discriminated against or treated less favourably based on gender, race, colour or ethnic origin, marital status, religion or any other category protected by law. Any such discriminatory behaviour will constitute gross misconduct under our Code of Conduct. The company also recognises that, as an employer, we fully comply with all legislation that renders certain types of discrimination unlawful. RETENTION Swissport is not only fully committed to finding the right people for the right job at the right time, we are also dedicated to providing an attractive work environment and company culture where our employees feel respected and appreciated for the great work they are performing every day. Retention of our dedicated staff and talents is key to our success. Swissport is working on various retention measurements and means to ensure that we can say “able to go, but happy to stay!” One way of better understanding the reasons why we lose good people, is to ask them. Therefore, Swissport introduced a structured exit interview for voluntary leavers in management in order to find out about the “real” reasons for a resignation. The analysis and derived intelligence will help us in identifying any issues – individual or systematic – as soon as possible and will allow us to address them in a quick and appropriate way. Further to structured exit interviews, Swissport has engaged in a study of general retention means for senior management and its current situation. Findings on the reasons for leaving and motivators are essential for us to understand the needs and requirements of our senior management in order to address them appropriately and effectively. 24 Employment terms and conditions, competitive salary packages and incentive systems are in local responsibility and always in compliance with local legal requirements. Swissport is COMPEN­ committed to having a fair and equal payment structure for both women and men and to “pay for performance”. In 2013, Swissport initiated a project, “Position Benchmark SATION & ­Analysis”, to benchmark internal positions and to ensure a coherent and consistent way to handle Compensation & Benefits for exempt employees. The project provides the BENEFITS ­following benefits: ·· Establish internal fairness in positions globally ·· Enhance simplicity and transparency ·· Assist with global reward strategies, i.e., Executive Bonus Plan ·· Provide data to assist with the identification of attendees for global strategic ­management meetings ·· Support succession planning and talent management ·· Support international assignments ·· Support mergers and acquisitions Further to a competitive and fair base salary for all employees, some positions are also ­entitled for a variable component of their compensation. Rules and qualifications for such executive and local bonus schemes are clearly outlined and communicated and form a fair and market-consistent portion of the overall package. For the senior management and ­executives of Swissport who participate in the Executive Bonus Plan, there is a direct link between company performance and variable compensation. Additional fringe benefits such as subsidies for public transport and health programmes, discounted memberships and alike are available in various locations over the world. 25 EMPLOYEE Swissport is fully committed to information sharing with employees and provides business news and performance updates to staff on a regular basis. We recognise the legitimate role ­RELATIONS of responsible trade unions and employee representatives. Swissport establishes appropriate mechanisms to enable the effective representation of staff. Swissport believes that good people-management practice generates a working environment where employees are ­committed and dedicated to giving their best. We also believe in the importance of listening to staff and using staff knowledge in solving business issues. SWISSPORT Swissport Health Management and Pension Schemes are in local responsibility and always in compliance with local legal requirements. In Switzerland, around 300 employees reHEALTH ceived advice or assistance during 2014. The majority of insurees with long-term illnesses and accident victims were able to return to work at Swissport. In cases where Swissport is ­MANAGEMENT unable to offer continued employment, the Health Management team endeavours to find solutions with third parties. The number of insurees with long-term illnesses remained & PENSION ­stable in the year under review. The Board of Trustees is agreed that the activities of Health Management are extremely SCHEME valuable for the insurees as well as the PVS and the employer. In May 2013, it therefore decided to provide founds of CHF 275 000 net on an annual basis for the next three years (2013–2015) for health management services. The Swissport pension scheme for Switzerland has increased its focus on sustainable ­investments for the pension fund. In 2014, it was able to increase the equity-based ­sustainable investments to CHF 84 million. The existing ZKB index product “IPF World ex CH Index Responsible Class N” was accumulated at the expense of the previous product from Safra Sarasin. In 2014, the return was therefore increased and cost reduced. The CEO of Swissport and the entire Group Executive Management are committed to the development of all employees: endorsing that each individual has the relevant knowledge, TRAINING skill and proficiency to deliver the highest standards of work consistently and safely in the workplace. Swissport recognises that training and development is fundamental to maintaining and continually improving operational performance, and an integral part of the organisation in the achievement of our strategy and goals. Therefore, Swissport is striving for excellence at all levels in the organisation. Swissport is dedicated to supporting all employees in reaching their full potential through a wide variety of training and development techniques and continuous performance management. The Swissport training programme provides level-adequate training from base to top – for all operations staff, to supervisory and first-line management, as well as middle and senior managers. All staff levels are in scope for technical and developmental training as reflected in the Training Pyramid represented below: Target Group Content DASM* Senior Management Talent Leadership Essentials Programme Management Training Middle Management Advanced Active Advanced Leadership & Leadership (AAL) Functional skills First-Line Management Management & Basic Active Leadership (AL) Leadership skills Technical Training Supervisory Staff Active Supervision (AS) Operations Steering Operation Operations Staff Technical Training Execution *DASM: Development Assessment Swissport Management Standard Training Programme The Swissport Standard Training Programme (STP) is applicable to all Swissport stations, unless overruled by local laws, regulations or written carrier-specific instructions. Station management shall ensure conformity with local laws, regulations and specific carrier ­requirements. For that purpose, station management will establish supplementary local documentation to the STP. The technical training material follows a modular approach and covers generic trainings such as human factors, fire prevention or active supervision, health and safety, dangerous goods and security, as well as all training and qualification needs for the execution of operational core services offered by Swissport. 27 Technical Training The Swissport personal development and training programme pursues the global standardisation of the trainings worldwide. Therefore, Swissport is responsible for the development and maintenance of the globally binding Standard Training Programme (STP) and the ­corresponding technical training material, with the support of expert know-how from the business divisions and from Swissport field locations. The target groups are e­ mployees working in operations and supervisory staff. It is a goal of Swissport to ensure that all ­employees have a sound basic knowledge of their duties in the work place. For this reason, Swissport has developed a Technical Training Policy to achieve safe, smooth and efficient handling, and which contains the following principles: ·· One global Swissport Standard Technical Training Programme that is binding on all operational units to ensure consistent, high-quality technical training to Swissport’s operational staff. ·· The Swissport Standard Technical Training Programme shall be established in accordance with internal requirements as specified in the Swissport Operations Manual and Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) as well as with industry regulations, laws, regulatory and customer requirements. ·· Local station, regional and / or business unit management (as appropriate) shall ensure conformity with local laws, country regulations and specific carrier requirements, and will establish supplementary local documentation (if applicable). ·· Local supplements are defined as training material additional to the Corporate training material in order to fulfil any local requirements that are not covered by corporate material. ·· Training delivery and compliance remains a local responsibility. This includes the establishment and implementation of local supplements to the Corporate training, the training record control and the establishment of local training development for local implementation plans. ·· The Swissport Standard Technical Training Programme should include innovative learning elements, such as e-Learning modules and online testing, as well as ­interactive training solutions. Organisational Structure For the development of Corporate technical training standards and to monitor implementation, Swissport has a functional training organisation in place under the leadership of the Head of Global Training, where all business divisions are represented. Additionally, all relevant Corporate functions – such as Human Resources, Supply Management and IT – are also represented in this group. Functional Training Working Groups develop standards by sharing best practices. The development and review of the technical training materials and the revision of the Swissport Standard Training Programme ensure compliance with industry regulations. They also monitor the implementation of the Swissport Standard Technical Training Programme and act as an entry point for updates and alerts on regulatory changes across all stations. This way it is ensured that best practices are captured and transferred into the Technical Training Materials. 28 Management Training Our shared goal at Swissport is excellence. We strongly believe in quality, customer ­orientation and delivering top-class services at all levels. To ensure excellence in anything we do, we need to ensure that we have excellent training and development in place for our staff. One of Swissport Formula key initiatives created in 2010 is to provide Management & Leadership training to our management. As a consequence, two management training programmes – Active Leadership (AL) and Advanced Active Leadership (AAL) – have been created and customised to the different management levels in our organisation while at the same time following the same principles and guidelines to guarantee standardised quality levels worldwide for optimised effectiveness. Active Leadership (AL) The ultimate objective of this programme is to: “Introduce and develop skills enabling delegates to appropriately manage and lead teams in ways that engage employees and secure commitment to improved performance, revenue generation and customer satisfaction.” This training is followed by all first-line management, and is focused on the following topics: ·· Performance Management / Goals and target setting ·· Basic Customer Service culture ·· Conflict resolution / managing conflicts ·· Employee direction and motivation ·· Basic influencing skills ·· Time management and delegation ·· Teamwork and collaboration ·· Basic communication skills Advanced Active Leadership (AAL) The ultimate objective of this programme is to: “Build on existing management and ­operational capabilities to advance leadership and functional skills in order to ensure a high level of employee engagement and commitment.” This training is addressed at ­operations and station managers, and is focused on the following topics: ·· Commercial / Financial awareness ·· Advanced Customer Service culture ·· Introduction to Project Management ·· Attendance management ·· Employee direction and motivation ·· Influencing skills ·· Leadership ·· Managing change 29 Development Assessment Swissport Management Swissport’s skills gap analysis is called Development Assessment Swissport Management (DASM). The DASM project was launched in 2009 and conducted over the duration of 2.5 years for all senior management positions at Swissport worldwide. The project goal was to gain a holistic and fair assessment of our senior management group to understand both Swissport’s strengths and shortcomings in order to accelerate them and to address them respectively. Process definition, roll-out and support, as well as the facilitation of feedback and debriefs, including all preparation, information and communication, is owned and driven by Corporate Human Resources in close collaboration with the HR Community and with regular discussion and approval from the Group Executive Management team. In order to be effective, development support and development actions have to be based on a thorough needs analysis. Hogan assessments have not only been used for this skills gap analysis, but have also ­established as mandatory part of the selection and recruitment process for senior management at Swissport worldwide, as well as for supporting hiring and promotion decisions. In order to support individuals in their development, Swissport has various tools on hand: ·· Individual Development Plans (focusing on behavioural development) ·· Goal planning and competency assessment (focusing on professional development) ·· Think Box – a personal development tool providing online coaching, e-learning, book and article tips, an online development plan, videos, online training sessions and much more in cooperation with Hogan ·· Targeted Trainings (Finance for Non-Finance Managers, Empathy, Listening skills etc.) based on general or individual findings from Hogan and LVI analyses ·· Individual Coaching ·· Mentoring ORGANISAThe Corporate HR team works closely with line management and the worldwide HR ­Community to develop and implement valuable programmes, tools, processes and TIONAL ­procedures to support Swissport managers in their daily work for more efficiency, better management and leadership in order to achieve our shared goal of excellence. Swissport is ­STRUCTURE presently operating on five continents in a variety of different legal environments. This requires local experts for all human-related matters. Therefore, Swissport strongly believes in a decentralized approach for its operational HR matters. Nonetheless, Swissport’s unique strength lies in our standardised approach to operations which certainly also includes best practice processes and procedures in HR. This guarantees best-in-class service to our ­customers. Hence, there is a strong link between the local HR teams and the Corporate HR team at Head Office – the Swissport worldwide HR Community. The Swissport worldwide HR Community represents all the Senior HR leaders of our countries and the Corporate HR team. The Senior HR leaders have two important roles: 1. Full HR responsibility for their countries and regions for all operational needs and ­issues. 2. Collaboration on, and implementation of, global HR projects in line with our functional HR strategy and the defined strategic initiatives. 30 Global and regional meetings of the entire or parts of this group take place regularly to facilitate an exchange of current HR issues, collaboration and shared project work. It is important to understand that the Swissport worldwide HR community is collaborating on a regular basis and in different projects. As all members of this community are senior HR professionals and leaders in their countries, we have a vast variety of skills and expertise that we can widely utilise. Projects are not solely run out of the Head Office, but rather led by individual HR leaders (based on their knowledge and expertise) and accompanied and coordinated by Corporate HR. This ensures full buy-in and smooth roll-out and local ­implementation. In most cases, our HR colleagues are supported by their local human ­resources, payroll and tax specialists to ensure smooth and effective human resources ­operations and employee relations. “ Swissport takes great pride in our safety management system and managing our responsibility towards our products and services. We focus on the safety and quality PRODUCT of our services at every level of our company. It is a consistent goal for Swissport to have the lowest possible rates of injuries and we are constantly working together to ­RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY ” ensure that all procedures meet the highest standards. We do not compromise on safety.  Luzius Wirth – EVP Ground Handling & Group Services Offering a wide range of ground handling services, Swissport recognizes its important role of managing product responsibility in a manner which is consistent with the Core value of professionalism. The Swissport Health & Safety Management System incorporates all ­aspects of operational and managerial activities that could have a potential impact on ­safety. Swissport recognizes its responsibility towards employee and customer health and safety, product responsibility and legal regulations. For new locations, implementation and usage of the Swissport Health & Safety Management System is guaranteed from the first day of operation. Swissport operates a Safety Management System (“SMS”) to comply with ICAO, IATA Civil Aviation and Airports Authorities requirements. The SMS includes organization-wide policies regarding product damage, third party damage and injuries, as well as internal and external communication regulations. Swissport is committed to self-regulation when sending out any kind of communication. The Communications policies are reviewed on a regular basis, with no specific time cycle. The Code of Conduct is used as a framework for all our communication. In the core of all communication engagements is our commitment to transparency, objectivity, balanced information and equal treatment of all parties. All interaction should be in the spirit of our Corporate values and principles, tailored to each respective audience. In addition to this, all Swissport employees are required to follow the communication policies including “General Communications Policy”, “Crises Communication Policy” and “The Social Media Policy”.. The communication policies of Swissport are developed by Corporate Communications & Marketing and reviewed by the Legal Department. The successful implementation of these policies has lead to an absence of reported incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing and communication during the reporting period. The overall responsibility of health and safety, product responsibility and regulations lies with the CEO. The responsibility is further divided to the Risk Management team of Swissport, Corporate Communications, and the Legal department. Swissport is using the AQD (Aviation Quality Database) to report and record all incidents and accidents. AQD has been rolled out and implemented in all stations across the entire global network. Risk assessment and investigation processes with root cause analysis are fully built in. Swissport has received several certifications and awards for product responsibility related performance: 31 Cargo 2000 (C2K) ISAGO, ATA 103 Specification, JIG Guidelines for aviation fuel quality control and operating procedures, FAA Certificate of excellence diamond award. Safety Management System The Swissport Health & Safety Management System incorporates all aspects of operational and managerial activities that could have a potential impact on safety. The Health & Safety, Crisis Management and Environmental Management policies all operate in alignment with one another to ensure that Swissport’s staff work in an environment that has safe and ­environmentally aware processes, especially when unexpected events occur. All Swissport entities are required to adhere to the standards given in this policy to ensure a safe working environment for its staff and customers, and to avoid damage to property. Description and Key Features Organisation · Definition of accountabilities · Definition of responsibilities · Functional organisation · Tasks for safety functions Risk Assessment · Severity rating · Probability rating · Risk analysis process and requirements Training · Training and instruction requirements Reporting and occurrence categories · Employee injuries · Aircraft damage · Third-party damage and injuries · GSE damage · Dangerous goods incidents · Cargo damage Information / Communication · Internal communication regulations · Communication regulations to customers and authorities Occurrence Management · Investigations · Root cause analysis · Findings and actions Audits and Controls · Audits · Checks · Review Performance Measurement · Statistics · Performance indicators · Corporate dashboard Swissport is using the AQD (Aviation Quality Database) to report and record all incidents and accidents. AQD further provides statistics to monitor actual performance and trends throughout the network. Regular case analysis is used to review existing operational procedures. 32 Operational Risk Management Swissport has set up its operational safety risk management in line with the ICAO recommendations for the establishment of a safety management system. All occurrences recorded in AQD are being risk rated through the combination of defined severity and probability coding. Records are either based on incident and accident history as well as on information on “near miss” situations and ground-safety reports. Together with structured information on operational phases and contributing factors, the database provides all the necessary ­information about the Swissport Group risk register, which is automated and continuously updated. With regards to Health & Safety, all Swissport employees working on the ramp near to aircraft, in cargo warehouses or in another potentially hazardous environments are fully equipped with personal protective clothing (security vests, helmet, gloves, etc.), which is mandatory for them to wear as we do not compromise on safety. For the same reason, the standard training programmes which are applied in all stations worldwide include safety aspects of the working environment, in particular the use of protective clothing as well as the special behaviour on the ramp aiming at minimising the risk of working ­accidents. The operational procedures are reviewed by the management of the Swissport Group periodically and are improved continuously. Health & Well-being Swissport has fitness and health services at many locations depending on their size of ­operation. Health and Safety is not only a matter of protective equipment, but also of ­different programs that support a healthy lifestyle. Various stations of the Swissport Group offer services and programmes such as: education, counselling, and other local Human Resources programs for health and well being. These fitness and health services are ­available for employees, and sometimes even for their family members. GLOBAL Swissport is dedicated to aligning, regularly reviewing and continuously improving its standardised processes and procedures across the entire organisation. Local implementation ­STANDARDS – of all standardised processes and procedures are crucial to our success in providing the customer with best-in-class services every day, every time and everywhere. The Swissport LOCAL Formula is a proven model of standardizing managerial and operational processes. This enables Swissport to deliver the highest service quality for our customers and to apply the ­CHAMPIONS same proven standards in all our Ground Handling and Cargo operations all over the world. The Swissport Formula has been derived from the best practices not only from our operation, but also from comparative industries. It ensures pro-active management at all operational levels and is focused on a KPI-driven performance culture, optimised resource utilisation, technical and managerial training and efficient operational processes. This approach enables continuous improvement in the stations through a change of mind-set and behaviour. The Swissport Formula aims to change the company culture from a local understanding of the “Swissport way of doing things” to a global approach. The tried and trusted ­procedures are reinforced with the Swissport core values. Efficient and secure operations form a sustainable basis for development and provide customer confidence and peace of mind, in addition to reducing costs. With the Swissport Formula, customers and employees experience the benefits of global alignment, standardisation and consistency every day. Collaboration across the entire organisation is crucial for successful local implementation of our global standards. Therefore, Swissport is structured as a matrix organisation. The functional communities and cross-functional teams are collaborating in a strong relationship to ensure full alignment and implementation of our standardised best-in class processes in the local stations. Good relationships are absolutely crucial in creating buy-in, ensuring a smooth roll-out and delivering the same message across the organisation. Taking over the management of a new and large operation in a totally new environment requires the skills and knowledge of a seasoned and successful management team that is able to fully ensure best quality service delivery to our customer from day one. Swissport prefers to use existing internal knowledge from the organisation to recruit a new management team to lead the new operation. The management team usually exists of a locally hired HR director with long-standing expertise in working with unions and local, specific labour-related ­issues. In preparation for the take-up of the new operation, the key members of the ­management team are identified during the succession management process as ideal ­candidates for such an assignment. Action plans include early communication, preparation of professional and smooth transfers for individuals and their families, but also individual and cultural preparations and advance meetings and location visits. Performance Management is one of the most important processes in Swissport. Our ­Performance Development Review System for all senior managers worldwide is another PERFORMANCE example of worldwide alignment and transparency with local implementation. Not only has the worldwide HR community ensured a consistent and smooth roll-out of the system to MANAGEMENT the entire organisation, but we have also been working continuously in setting even higher standards. This led to the implementation of a HR system to support the workflow and enable management and HR to closely manage and monitor the entire process. On top, an up-skilling training was developed and is rolled-out via the HR community to support our managers in providing high-quality performance appraisal, feedback and development sessions. The train-the-trainer approach ensures a consistent and strong message to be ­delivered by all trainers at the same time. As a next step, the performance management process was amended and extended to the group of operational managers at Swissport. An initial pilot roll-out to selected countries took place in 2014 following a similar process to ensure full coverage and local implementation worldwide. After a review phase later in 2014, a further roll-out to other countries is planned. As well as continuously reviewing and improving our processes, Swissport HR has also included the reviewed and optimised Swissport recruitment process in this supporting HR system in a few pilot countries. A further roll-out to selected countries will be conducted in the following years. This will further support and professionalise Swissport’s efforts in getting the best people on board. A global approach in rolling out the same HR system solution ensures a fully aligned ­process, but at the same time still allows for the required flexibility to embed process steps for local legal compliance or cultural specialities. Swissport engages with a range of stakeholders on a regular basis. It is our declared goal to be a reliable, professional and recognised partner in the creation of values and results for all OUR our stakeholders – internally and externally. Our key stakeholders are identified by analysing those groups that are intrinsically affected by, or could have an effect on, our operation. STAKEHOLDERS ·· Customers Airlines ·· Airports ·· Airport authority (private and governmental) ·· IATA and other international associations in the aviation industry ·· Shareholders ·· Management ·· Staff ·· Trade Unions and work councils ·· Communities ·· Suppliers ·· Passengers Swissport’s Sustainability Report was created through the engagement and interest of our various stakeholders. Key topics and concerns raised were: ·· Employee and customer safety ·· Service quality and customer satisfaction ·· Human rights and labour principles ·· Employee development ·· Environmental Protection and Initiatives ·· Equal opportunities ·· Engagement in local communities 35 In 2013, Swissport initiated its first Sustainability Report which addressed the above topics and concerns. The following years, through further engagement of internal and external stakeholders, Swissport’s awareness and engagement with sustainable practices has ­continuously increased. Evidence is shown in our further developed and refined reports. CUSTOMER Swissport intends to deliver the best service and improve operational processes by developing and introducing state-of-the-art technology to our customers. We do not rest on our ­DIALOGUE successes and have developed methods and tools for continuous improvement, working with our customers in a collaborative way to ensure that we always strive to be the best and offer innovative and optimal solutions to all of our customers – current and new – across all of our many and diverse operations. We believe that technology has to increase value ­externally and internally at the same time as reducing cost. In order to achieve this, ­Swissport meets with airlines to review processes and identify cooperation (potential for outsourcing of “non-core” activities and usage of technology), follows industry trends by visiting industry conferences, analyses and benchmarks competitors and also stays in ­contact with external partners. This is our understanding of true partnership: one of our core values. Swissport carefully observes market trends. It is obvious that these trends show a need for modifications to the current business model and increase the importance ­ of technology: Swissport’s IT is eager to continuously improve the infrastructure and applications landscape to support the business processes. LOCAL Swissport takes pride in contributing to our local communities all over the world, and ­several local stations have implemented projects, contributions and initiatives both ­CONTRIBUTIONS environmental and social, related to this. FOUR RHINOS WERE SENT FROM JOHANNESBURG TO MIAMI On 16 March 2015, four White Rhinos embarked on a journey to “The Center for Conservation of Tropical Ungulates” in Miami, Florida, where they will be protected from rhino poaching. This endangered species will live their lives in luxury and protection. Three female and one male white rhino departed on board of British Airways flight BA056. The experienced and dedicated staff at the SCS 3 BA facility in Johannesburg were assigned to make sure that this precious cargo was handled with utmost care and minimal stress. ­Operations supervisor Saleem Mohammed, facility supervisor Zelda Erasmus and cargo controller Lesley Mangala were assigned this important task and did an outstanding job by positioning and loading this fragile cargo. SWISSPORT MEXICO HELPS DURING HUMANITARIAN CRISIS As part of our collaboration with Interjet, Swissport Mexico helped move humanitarian aid for the people that suffered the impact of the Hurricane “Odil”, a category 4 cyclone that hit Cabo San Lucas in Baja California Sur on 14 September 2014, causing extensive ­damage across the scenic peninsula. It was considered one of the strongest tropical ­cyclones ever recorded to make landfall in this area, and will likely go down as one of the most destructive ones in Mexico. During those days, we stored goods from different entities like the government, the Red Cross and other organizations at our warehouse in Mexico City. All Swissport staff that participated in these efforts showed tremendous enthusiasm, thinking that every box will help someone in need. 36 SWISSPORT ENVIRONMENTAL ENGAGEMENT – LET’S DO IT CYPRUS As part of our Corporate Social Responsibility, a team of Swissport Larnaca employees ­successfully helped to clean a part of the salt lake area in Larnaca in collaboration with the nationwide cleaning campaign “Let’s Do it Cyprus!”, which took place on our island for the second time on 6 April 2014. “Let’s do it Cyprus!” is part of the campaign “Let’s do it World!” a global cleaning ­campaign that aims to relieve the world’s natural locations from trash. It is the largest voluntary program and largest citizens’ movement that has ever been organized in the world. More than 9’000 volunteers, including our Swissport employees, joined forces at more than 700 clean-up points around the island on Sunday. All goals were surpassed and some 25 tons of rubbish were picked up from the countryside and parks. Certifications AWARDS & CARGO 2000 Swissport has achieved certification as a fully compliant Cargo 2000 company, a landmark RECOGNITION certification recognising S­ wissport’s active endeavours to fully c­ omply with all agreed industry quality standards. ISAGO Swissport’s Corporate Headquarter as well as 14 stations of its global network have been awarded the IATA Safety Audit for Ground Operations, listed in the ISAGO registry. IATA Swissport has been a Member of the ­Strategic Partnerships Program from 2005 to 2014. ISO Swissport is Management System ISO 9001 certified (by SGS). INTERNATIONAL CARGO ­HANDLER OF THE YEAR – AFRICA (2011/2013/2015) Awarded to Swissport for the third time in a row at the Air Cargo Africa 2015 Conference and Exhibition. ACSA Best Cargo Handler of the Year 2014 Awarded to Swissport at ACSA’s Feather Awards 2014. ACW Air Cargo Handling Agent of the Year 2014 Awarded to Swissport for the sixth year in succession at the World Air Cargo Awards 2014. GROUND HANDLING AWARD 2013 Awarded to Swissport at the prestigious Cargo Airline of the Year Awards 2013. NPMA Silver Nozzle Trophy for the most outstanding airport fuelling organization in the United States for 2013 (Oakland International Airport). ITM Best Global Aviation Ground Services Company 2012. Awarded to Swissport 12 years in a row, by the Institute for Transport Management. 37 ABOUT THIS This is Swissport International Ltd.’s third Sustainability Report. The reporting period includes complete information on the year 2014 and beginning of 2015 for all of Swissport REPORT International Ltd and its subsidiaries (collectively “Swissport”). The next report is planned for 2016 covering data for the year 2015. Since the date of the previous report (08.2014), Swissport has increased its focus on sustainability. This is reflected in this report by the disclosures on Swissport’s Management Approach to each category and responding to each performance indicator. This is done in accordance with version G3.1 of the Global Reporting Initiative Guidelines and with the “Communication on Progress” requirements of UN Global Compact. Any re-statement of information from the previous report is mainly concerning facts, figures and headcount reporting. The same basis for reporting is used in this report as in the previous sustainability report, and Swissport has not detected any new boundaries of the report. The core values and the introduction at page 2 form the basis of this report and are to be considered as guidelines with regards to those aspects and indicators identified being material to Swissport. The reporting was based on the main subject areas set out in the GRI Guidelines. The present structure allows us to address specific information to key stakeholder groups identified by the organization: airlines, employees, shareholders. The report covers all the performance indicators which are material for Swissport in relation to Economic (EC), Environmental (EN), Human Rights (HR), Labour (LA), Social (SO) and Product Responsibility (PR). The performance indicators has a corresponding disclosure of Swissport`s management approach to each of the categories. Unless otherwise stated, figures, facts and manager statements are valid for Swissport on a worldwide basis and are measured and displayed in a manner which is according to the GRI protocol. All indicators, facts and figures are based on internal measured data. Our report has been verified by GRI to fufil all requirements for applications level A. Swissport International Ltd. Flughofstrasse 55 CH-8152 Opfikon SWITZERLAND www.swissport.com 38 G3.1 Content Index – GRI Application Level A STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART I: Profile Disclosures REPORT FULLY ON THE BELOW SELECTION OF PROFILE DISCLOSURES OR PROVIDE A REASON FOR OMISSION Profile Level of Disclosure Location of Disclosure Additional Information Disclosure Reporting 1. Strategy and Analysis Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the 1.1 Fully pp. 1–2 ­organization. As Swissport is not a public listed 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. Partially p. 1–3 company, we do not disclose this information. 2. Organisational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization. Fully p. 31 2.2 Primary brands, products, and / or services. Fully pp. 7–9 Operational structure of the organization, including main 2.3 Fully pp. 2–3 & pp. 10–12 divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. http://www.swissport.com/corporate/ 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters. Fully p. 31 contacts/headquarters Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major operations or that are 2.5 Fully p. 4 specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. http://www.swissport.com/ http://www.swissport.com/corporate/ 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. Fully corporate/ownership/ ownership/ Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors 2.7 pp. 3–4, p. 10 served, and types of customers/beneficiaries). 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. Fully pp. 2–3 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, 2.9 Fully p. 1 & p. 3 structure, or ownership. 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. Fully pp. 29–30 40 Profile Level of Disclosure Location of Disclosure Additional Information Disclosure Reporting 3. Report Parameters Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information 3.1 Fully – Comlete 2014 until June 2015 provided. 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). Fully – 01.08.14 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.). Fully – Annual 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. Fully pp. 30–31 The core values on page 2 form the basis of this report. The reporting was based on the main subject areas set out in the 3.5 Process for defining report content. Fully p. 2 GRI Guidelines. The present structure makes it possible to address specific information to key stakeholder groups: Airlines, employees, shareholders Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, 3.6 leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). See GRI Boundary Fully p. 3 Protocol for further guidance. State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the 3.7 Fully pp. 30–31 report (see completeness principle for explanation of scope). Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can 3.8 Fully p. 3 significantly affect comparability from period to period and/ or between organizations. Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques underlying estimations In general, Swissport does not diverge 3.9 applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other Fully pp. 30–31 from the GRI Indicator Protocols information in the report. Explain any decisions not to apply, or to substantially diverge from, the GRI Indicator Protocols. Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-state3.10 Fully pp. 30–31 ment (e.g., mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods). Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the 3.11 scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the Fully pp. 30–31 report. Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in 3.12 Fully – This detailed content index the report. Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external Swissport will not seek external 3.13 Fully – assurance for the report. assurance for CSR report 2015 41 Profile Level of Disclosure Location of Disclosure Additional Information Disclosure Reporting 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement We do not report fully on this disclosure, Governance structure of the organization, including committees because we have not been able to gather 4.1 under the highest governance body responsible for specific Partially pp. 11–12 this data, we will be able to report this tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. information in 2017 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is Chair of the board of directors is an 4.2 Fully – also an executive officer. independendt member of the B.O.D. For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the 4.3 number and gender of members of the highest governance body Fully p. 12 that are independent and/or non-executive members. Employees have the possibility to Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide 4.4 Fully p. 15 address their concerns as provided in recommendations or direction to the highest governance body. local co-determination laws. Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and executives (including 4.5 Fully p. 12 departure arrangements), and the organization’s performance (including social and environmental performance). All governance mechanisms and Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure processes are compliant with general 4.6 Fully – conflicts of interest are avoided. laws and norms, However no specific company process for this topic. Process for determining the composition, qualifications, and All governance mechanisms and expertise of the members of the highest governance body and processes are compliant with general 4.7 Fully – its committees, including any consideration of gender and other laws and norms, However no specific indicators of diversity. company process for this topic. Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of 4.8 conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental, Fully pp. 1–2 & p. 10 and social performance and the status of their implementation. Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s identification and management of economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks 4.9 Fully pp. 15–16 and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own We do not report fully on this disclosure, 4.10 performance, particularly with respect to economic, environNot – as the information is proprietary mental, and social performance. Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or 4.11 Fully pp. 11–12 principle is addressed by the organization. Externally developed economic, environmental, and social Swissport has been a participant of the 4.12 charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organizaFully – UN global compact for more than three tion subscribes or endorses. years. Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) Swissport has been a member of the and/or national/international advocacy organizations in which strategic partnership program from the organization: * Has positions in governance bodies; * 4.13 Fully – 2005-2013, Swissport is a member of Participates in projects or committees; * Provides substantive IATA. Swissport has a member of the funding beyond routine membership dues; or * Views board of ASA. membership as strategic. 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. Fully p. 27 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with 4.15 Fully pp. 27–28 whom to engage. Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of 4.16 Partially p. 27–28 Our Stakeholders And Customer Dialog engagement by type and by stakeholder group. Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has 4.17 Fully p. 26–27 Our Stakeholders And Customer Dialog responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. 42 STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART II: Disclosures on Management Approach (DMAs) G3.1 Level of Explanation for the reason Disclosure Location of Disclosure DMAs Reporting for omission DMA EC Disclosure on Management Approach EC Economic performance Economic Sustainabilty Aspects Market presence Fully p. 3 Indirect economic impacts DMA EN Disclosure on Management Approach EN We do not report on this issue as the disclosure is not material to our business Materials Not because Swissport is a ground handling service provider that does not own or run any production plants or airports. Environmental Energy Fully ­Sustainability (p. 12–13) We do not report on this issue as the disclosure is not material to our business Water Not because Swissport is a ground handling service provider that does not own or run any production plants or airports. Aspects We do not report on this point since the disclosure as prescribed by the GRI Guidelines is not applicable to our Biodiversity Not business because Swissport can not influence the location as our operations are bound to the airport. Emissions, effluents and waste Products and services Environmental Fully ­Sustainability (p. 12–13) Compliance Transport p. 2 Introduction to our Overall Fully Sustainability Report 2015 Social SustainabilityTraining and education Fully Labour practices and decent work (pp.14–15) pp. 17–18 Equal Aspects Diversity and equal opportunity Fully opportunities & ­recruitment policy Compensation & Benefits Equal remuneration for women and men Fully (p. 18) DMA HR Disclosure on Management Approach HR Investment and procurement practices Fully Human Rights (p. 14–15) Freedom of association and collective bargaining Child labor Fully Human Rights (p. 14–15) Prevention of forced and compulsory labor We do not report on this issue as the disclosure is not material to our business Security practices Not because Swissport does not have security personell. Aspects Indigenous rights Fully Human Rights (p. 14–15) Assessment Fully Human Rights (p. 14–15) Society and Sustainability Corruption Fully (p. 15–16) As Swissport is not a public listed Public policy Not company, we do not disclose this information. Anti-competitive behavior Society and Sustainability Fully Compliance (p. 15–16) 43 G3.1 Level of Explanation for the reason Disclosure Location of Disclosure DMAs Reporting for omission DMA PR Disclosure on Management Approach PR Customer health and safety Product and service labelling Product Responsibility and Aspects Marketing communications Fully Sustainability (p. 22–23) Customer privacy Compliance Level of Indicator Disclosure Reporting Location of Disclosure Additional Information Economic performance Direct economic value generated and distributed, including As Swissport is not a public listed revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations company, we do not disclose financial EC1 Not – and other community investments, retained earnings, and statements, as the information is payments to capital providers and governments. propriertary. Due to the nature of Swissport’s business, we do not consider climate change as a high risk or opportunity. If Global Regulations were put in place which would force air traffic to go Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the EC2 Fully p. 12–13 down, it would have a direct impact. The organization’s activities due to climate change. probability of this happening is considered low. Swissport’s contribution to limit climate change lies in our innovation of new technology in the groundhandling service industry As Swissport is not a public listed company, we do not disclose financial EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations. Not – statements, as the information is propriertary. No financial assistance has been EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. Fully – received from the government during the reporting period. Market presence As Swissport is not a public listed Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by gender company, we do not disclose financial EC5 compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of Not – statements, as the information is operation. propriertary. Swissport definition on local depends on many factors, Eg. Trading blocks, and government regulations. In additions to trading regulations and location, the Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based EC6 Fully – factors influencing Swissport suppliers: suppliers at significant locations of operation. Engage suppliers based on costs and efficiency. There are no global policies established for granting locally based suppliers. Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior manageEC7 ment hired from the local community at significant locations of Fully p. 3 pp. 28–29 operation. Indirect economic impacts As Swissport is not a public listed Development and impact of infrastructure investments and company, we do not disclose financial EC8 services provided primarily for public benefit through Not – statements, as the information is commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. propriertary. Understanding and describing significant indirect economic p. 3 Economic EC9 Fully impacts, including the extent of impacts. ­Sustainability 44 Level of Indicator Disclosure Reporting Location of Disclosure Additional Information Environmental Materials We do not report on these issues as the EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. disclosures are not material to our Not – business because Swissport does not EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. own or operate any production plants or airports. Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. We do not report on these issues as the disclosures are not material to our EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. Not – business because Swissport does not Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency own or operate any production plants or EN5 ­improvements. airports. Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy EN6 based products and services, and reductions in energy Fully p. 12–14 requirements as a result of these initiatives. We do not report fully on this issue as parts of the disclosure is not material to Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and EN7 Partially p. 18–19 our business because Swissport does not reductions achieved. own or operate any production plants or airports. Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. We do not report on these issues as the disclosures are not material to our EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. Not – business because Swissport does not own or operate any production plants or EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. airports. Biodiversity Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or EN11 adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and We do not report on these points since EN12 services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high the disclosures as prescribed by the GRI biodiversity value outside protected areas. Guidelines are not applicable to our Not – EN13 Habitats protected or restored. business because Swissport can not influence the location as our operations Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing EN14 are bound to the airport. impacts on biodiversity. Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation EN15 list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk. Emissions, effluents and waste EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions EN18 We do not report on these issues as the achieved. disclosures are not material to our EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. Not – business because Swissport does not own or operate any production plants or NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and EN20 airports. weight. EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. Swissport significant spills are defined as spilling volume that needs to be EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. Fully – reported to the government officials. During the reporting no significant spills have been recorded. Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention We do not report on these issues as the EN24 Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste disclosures are not material to our shipped internationally. Not – business because Swissport does not Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water own or operate any production plants or EN25 bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the airports. reporting organization’s discharges of water and runoff. 45 Level of Indicator Disclosure Reporting Location of Disclosure Additional Information Products and services We do not report on this issue as the disclosure is not material to our business Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and EN26 Partially p. 12–13 because Swissports is a ground handling services, and extent of impact mitigation. service provider that does not own or run any production plants or airports. We do not report on this point since the disclosure as prescribed by the GRI Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that EN27 Not – Guidelines is not applicable to our are reclaimed by category. business because Swissport is a service provider and does not sell any products. Compliance Monetary value of significant fines and total number No fines or non-monetary sanctions for EN28 of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with Fully – non-compliance with the law received environmental laws and regulations. during the reporting period. Transport Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and EN29 other goods and materials used for the organization’s Fully p. 12 operations, and transporting members of the workforce. Overall We do not report on this issue as the Total environmental protection expenditures and investments disclosure is not material to our business EN30 Not – by type. therfore no dedicated budget for environmental expenditures. Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work Employment We do not report on this point since the disclosure as prescribed by the GRI Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, Guidelines is not applicable to our LA1 Partially pp. 5–7 and region, broken down by gender. business because the current HR reporting systems can not support the required breakdown of data. The current HR reporting systems can Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee LA2 Not – not support the required breakdown of turnover by age group, gender, and region. data. Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided LA3 Fully p. 18–19 to temporary or part-time employees, by major operations. We do not report on this point since the disclosure as prescribed by the GRI Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by Guidelines is not applicable to our LA15 Not – gender. business because the current HR reporting systems can not support the required breakdown of data. Labor/management relations ‘The majority of the workforce (95%) is non-managerial and therefore theoretiPercentage of employees covered by collective bargaining cally subject to CLAs. – Half of US, all LA4 Fully – agreements. of Canada and all of Europe would be covered by CLAs which would roughly amount to 50% of the total workforce. Because of the diverse legal regulations where Swissport operate, we can not report on minimum notice period regarding operational changes because this Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational information is different with every LA5 changes, including whether it is specified in collective Fully – Collective Labor Agreement department agreements. in the various countries. Yet, Swissport always meets the terms with legal operations which comply with the different regulations in the countries where we are stationed. 46 Level of Indicator Disclosure Reporting Location of Disclosure Additional Information Occupational health and safety Health and Safety functions Swissport Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint the following structure showing the management-worker health and safety committees that help minimum standard: 1 Manager LA6 Fully – monitor and advise on occupational health and safety Corporate, 1 Manager per each Division, programs. 1 Manager per each Country, 1 Health & Safety Officer per each Station. We do not report on this point since the disclosure as prescribed by the GRI Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeGuidelines is not applicable to our LA7 ism, and number of work-related fatalities by region and by Not – business because the current HR gender. reporting systems can not support the required breakdown of data. Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control LA8 programs in place to assist workforce members, their families, Fully p. 25 or community members regarding serious diseases. In general CLA’s with trade unions do Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with not cover all health and safety issues. LA9 Fully – trade unions. However, this might be the case in some locations. Training and education We do not report on this yet, but we will Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, be able to report on this upon full LA10 Not – and by employee category. implementation of our training system which is foreseen for 2017. Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that To some extent Swissport offers those LA11 support the continued employability of employees and assist Fully pp. 17–20 made redundant for operational reasons them in managing career endings. help in finding a new job. We have 1027 overall with a formal Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and performance appraisal and thereof 235 LA12 Fully – career development reviews, by gender. female and 792 male, i.e. 23% and 77% respectively Diversity and equal opportunity We do not report on this point since the Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of disclosure as prescribed by the GRI employees per employee category according to gender, age Guidelines is not applicable to our LA13 Not – group, minority group membership, and other indicators of business because the current HR diversity. reporting systems can not support the required breakdown of data. Equal remuneration for women and men Swissport is not a public listed company, Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by LA14 Not – therefore we do not disclose reports on employee category, by significant locations of operation. salery as the information is propriertary. Social: Human Rights Investment and procurement practices We do not report on this point since the Percentage and total number of significant investment disclosure as prescribed by the GRI agreements and contracts that include clauses incorporating Guidelines is not applicable to our HR1 Not – human rights concerns, or that have undergone human rights business because the current HR screening. reporting systems can not support the required breakdown of data. All significant suppliers engaged by Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors and other Swissport are required to show HR2 business partners that have undergone human rights screening, Fully – certificates of compliance with relevant and actions taken. human rights. A web-based training on the elements of the Code of Conduct was rolled out for the Head Office late 2013.” The Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures web-based training consists of three HR3 concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to Fully pp. 19–20 modules, with the duration of 1.5 hour. operations, including the percentage of employees trained. Corporate Head Office employs 140 people and accounts for 0.35% of total workforce 47 Level of Indicator Disclosure Reporting Location of Disclosure Additional Information Non-discrimination Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective No incidents reported during the HR4 Fully – actions taken. reporting period. Freedom of association and collective bargaining Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective HR5 Fully p. 14–15 bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. Child labor Operations and significant suppliers identified as having signifiHR6 cant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to Fully p. 14–15 contribute to the effective abolition of child labor. Prevention of forced and compulsory labor Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and HR7 Fully p. 14–15 measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. Security practices Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s Swissport does not have security HR8 policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that Fully – personell. are relevant to operations. Indigenous rights Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of No incidents reported during the HR9 Fully – indigenous people and actions taken. reporting period. Assessment We do not report on this yet as we have Percentage and total number of operations that have been thus far been unable to gather the data, HR10 Not – subject to human rights reviews and/or impact assessments. but we will be able to report on this in 2017 Remediation We do not report on this yet as we have Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed thus far been unable to gather the data, HR11 Not – and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms. but we will be able to report on this in 2017 Social: Society Local communities We do not report on this issue as the disclosure is not material to our Percentage of operations with implemented local community SO1 Not – business. Occasional engagement engagement, impact assessments, and development programs. reported, however not significant part of the business. No operations have been indentified to Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts SO9 Fully – have a significant potential or actual on local communities. negative impact on local communities. Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations SO10 with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local Fully – Not applicable as per SO9 communities. 48 Level of Indicator Disclosure Reporting Location of Disclosure Additional Information Corruption Swissport performs a specific, systematical risk assessment on divisional level (not on unit level), where – among others – also the corruption & bribery risk is assessed. For example: We are aware that Swissport would be exposed Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for SO2 Partially – to the risk of corruption within the area risks related to corruption. of licenses & concessions, if we would not proactively plan some activities for mitigation of the risk. As we don not perform the risk assessment on unit level, we can not indicate a number or percentage of the business units at once. A web-based training on the elements of the Code of Conduct including anti-corruption was rolled out for the Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corrupHead Office late 2013.” The web-based SO3 Fully pp. 13–14 tion policies and procedures. training consists of three modules, with the duration of 1.5 hour. Corporate Head Office employs 140 people and accounts for 0.35% of total workforce. SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. Fully p. 15 Public policy Public policy positions and participation in public policy We do not report this disclosure item as SO5 Fully – development and lobbying. the information is proprietary. Swissport does not provide any financial Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political and in-kind contributions to political SO6 Fully – parties, politicians, and related institutions by country. partys, politicians, and related institutions per country. Anti-competitive behavior Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, SO7 Fully p. 15–16 Code of Conduct; Fair competition anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes. Compliance Monetary value of significant fines and total number of We do not report this disclosure item as SO8 non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and Not – the information is proprietary. regulations. Social: Product Responsibility Customer health and safety Swissport is committed to updating its services regularly for improvement towards the latest standards in safety in Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of accordance with internal requirements as products and services are assessed for improvement, and PR1 Fully – specified in the Swissport Operations percentage of significant products and services categories Manual and Standard Operating subject to such procedures. Procedures (SOPs) as well as with industry regulations, laws, regulatory and customer requirements. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of PR2 Fully – None received during reporting period. products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. Product and service labelling Swissport’s services do not require Type of product and service information required by procelabelling with regards to: sourcing of PR3 dures, and percentage of significant products and services Fully – components, content, safe use of subject to such information requirements. product, and disposal. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations PR4 and voluntary codes concerning product and service informaFully – Not applicable as per PR3 tion and labeling, by type of outcomes. Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of PR5 Fully pp. 26–27 surveys measuring customer satisfaction. 49 Level of Indicator Disclosure Reporting Location of Disclosure Additional Information Marketing communications Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes Swissport does not sell any products PR6 related to marketing communications, including advertising, Fully pp. 23–24 whose sale is prohibited in specific promotion, and sponsorship. markets. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, PR7 Fully – None received during reporting period. including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. Customer privacy Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of PR8 Fully – None received during reporting period. customer privacy and losses of customer data. Compliance Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with No fines or non-monetary sanctions for PR9 laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of Fully – non-compliance with the law received products and services. during the reporting period. 50 SWISSPORT INTERNATIONAL LTD. GROUND HANDLING, CARGO SERVICES, AIRCRAFT MAINTENANCE, FUELLING SERVICES, EXECUTIVE AVIATION, AVIATION SECURITY P.O. BOX, 8058 ZURICH-AIRPORT, SWITZERLAND P: +41 43 815 00 00 F: +41 43 815 00 30 CONTACT@SWISSPORT.COM WWW.SWISSPORT.COM
