Global Compact Communication on additional actions 05-2015 Global Compact THE 10 PRINCIPLES OF THE GLOBAL COMPACT HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Mersen additional actions: Mersen plants sign this type of declaration and commitment regularly, whenever a main customer requests it. Mersen plants uphold the Group's values as stated in the Group's charter and undertake to demand the same commitments from suppliers. 2/11 Global Compact Principle 2: Business should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Mersen additional actions: Mersen plants sign this type of declaration and commitment regularly, whenever a main customer requests it. Mersen plants uphold the Group's values as stated in the Group's charter and undertake to demand the same commitments from suppliers. Mersen Equality Group agreement between men and women. Diversity politic. 3/11 Global Compact LABOUR Principle 3: Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Mersen additional actions: Hardness Group agreement with the realisation of a hardness diagnosis. Group management tool adapted. Implementation in each plant in 2013-2014. Safety Group policy. Works Council and OHS committee in place and meetings held regularly according to legal requirements. Elections are held to renew those instances regularly. Continued Works Council and OHS committee meetings with an annual prevention plan showing that progress is on schedule. Social dialogue toughened (Managers, Direction, follow-up care, …). Transparency of all economic and labour data. 4/11 Global Compact Principle 4: Business should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Mersen additional actions: Update of the supplier guidelines and of the purchasing ethics guidelines V.2014, available within our company in the Quality system In Lotus Notes and sent to all our suppliers. 5/11 Global Compact Principle 5: Business should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. Mersen additional actions: Update of the supplier guidelines and of the purchasing ethics guidelines V.2014, available within our company in the Quality system In Lotus Notes and sent to all our suppliers. Mersen plants uphold the Group's values as stated in the Group's charter and undertake to demand the same commitments from suppliers. 6/11 Global Compact Principle 6: Business should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Mersen additional actions: Mersen Equality Group agreement between men and women. Diversity politic. As a general rule the HR department pays special attention to ensure that employee representatives, women and workers in different age brackets are treated fairly. Update of the supplier guidelines and of the purchasing ethics guidelines V.2014, available within our company in the Quality system In Lotus Notes and sent to all our suppliers. 7/11 Global Compact ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Mersen additional actions: ISO 14001 certification at our Saint Bonnet de Mure plant. 4 Direction commitment lines: waste limitation, energy optimization, rejections and nuisances control, eco design. In 2013, conditions of application of the new ROHS Directive have been analysed in collaboration with Gimelec. Our REACH status declarations by products families have been updated twice further to the evolution of the list of worrying substances. Use of components with Cr VI, Be and Cd Is forbidden. Compliance upgrade of our plants in relation to prefectural decrees. The new Saint-Loup de Naud surface treatment line, started up again at the end of 2011, is totally effluent-free. 8/11 Global Compact Principle 8: Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Mersen additional actions: Update of the supplier guidelines and of the purchasing ethics guidelines V.2014, available within our company in the Quality system In Lotus Notes and sent to all our suppliers. ISO 14001 certification at our Saint Bonnet de Mure plant. 4 Direction commitment lines: waste limitation, energy optimization, rejections and nuisances control, eco design. Organization of waste sorting on our plants. 9/11 Global Compact Principle 9: Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Mersen additional actions: Continued deployment of our mastery of the REACH Directive in Europe and help ASIA and America to spread the REACH directive, which enables us to respond to our customers' queries while improving our control of how hazardous substances are used in our workshops, on our production lines and at our workstations. Our REACH status declarations by products families have been updated twice further to the evolution of the list of worrying substances. Now there are 161 substances. Following the presentation of the status of demand on our markets in terms of sustainable development and eco-design, made to the European Management Committee beginning of 2014, a first action plan was implemented and executed especially for suppliers and trading products. During 2015, other actions in middle term concerning the adaptation of our ranges with the market are planned. With recurring actions of regulatory monitoring in particular through our active participation in the Environment Committee of our trade union the Gimelec, we set up the internal information and reflections to prepare for the implementation of the European Directive on DEEE the recycling of electrical and electronic waste Continued establishment of Product Environmental Profiles (PEP) and Life Cycle Analyses (LCA) as part of all new product development projects. Continuation of our participation in the PEP ecopassport eco-declaration program in liaison with the PEP association. The new Saint Loup de Naud surface treatment line, started up again at the end of 2011, Is totally effluent-free. 10/11 Global Compact ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Mersen additional actions: Update of the supplier guidelines and of the purchasing ethics guidelines V.2014, available within our company in the Quality system In Lotus Notes and sent to all our suppliers. At the Corporate level, the Mersen Group does internal audits focused on the detection of risks of fraud or any form of corruption, and the resulting report is distributed on the Corporate level. 11/11
