CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 insuring all our futures contents Editorial 1 Presentation of the CNP Assurances Group 2 Corporate social responsibility at CNP Assurances 6 Offer protection for everyone 10 Contribute to a sustainable economy 16 Be an attractive employer 24 Promote a caring society 38 Environmental and social indicators at the non-consolidated subsidiaries 51 Methodology 53 Editorial In 2003, CNP Assurances was one of the ﬁrst French companies to pledge to uphold the United Nations Global Compact. Year after year, this report measures the progress made. We have formally expressed, deployed and deepened our commitments, not only as an insurer and an investor, but also more generally towards our stakeholders and our environment in France and in our international markets. The challenge was not just to take action, but also to report our progress and publish objective indicators of the major challenges facing our organisation, the results of our CSR policies and the achievements of our teams. The CSR indicators covering all of our activities published since 2006 do just that. Frédéric Lavenir We have made CSR a force for change and value creation, so that as well as locking in the gains made to date we deepen our practical, everyday commitment to building a company that is increasingly responsible in its dealings with its customers, employees, shareholders and the environment in which we operate. With Paris playing host to the latest UN Climate Change Conference, we are determined to make 2015 another year of progress. I hope you ﬁnd the report interesting. Frédéric Lavenir Chief Executive Ofﬁcer 2014 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES 1 Presentation of the CNP Assurances Group I Proﬁle The CNP Assurances Group designs, develops, distributes and manages personal risk, protection, savings and pension products. Its mission is to offer across-the-board insurance protection in keeping with the Group’s proud heritage and deeply-held values. OUR BUSINESS IS PROVIDING PROTECTION TWO CONTINENTS WITH COMPLEMENTARY GROWTH DRIVERS CNP Assurances plays a major role in providing families and individuals with social protection. Structural factors mean that By addressing the growing needs of today’s society, our business this need is growing both in Europe and in Latin America, be it model offers considerable development potential. The Group has due to younger generations moving long distances away from a robust and balanced geographic network. their parents, demographic changes or longer life expectancy It is the leader in France at the centre of a rich and mature in Europe, or to the growth in the middle classes, particularly in European market shaped by an ageing population that is Brazil. creating a wealth of opportunities. The Group is responding to these practical and essential needs. Boasting a strong position in Brazil, at the centre of a fast-growing We enable people to protect their future and that of their loved Latin American market, the Group is focusing on meeting the ones, to conﬁdently undertake projects, and to safely pass on protection needs of the burgeoning middle classes, and making their wealth to future generations. insurance available to millions of very low-income Brazilians through its micro-insurance offer. A MULTI-PARTNER BUSINESS MODEL Our unique expertise in life insurance and social protection is shared with our individual and group insurance partners through our multi-partner business model. 2 2014 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES PRESENTATION OF THE CNP ASSURANCES GROUP I Key ﬁgures A track record spanning more than 160 years A comprehensive range of personal risk/protection (7), life insurance and pension products Operations in Europe and Latin America, including a signiﬁcant presence in Brazil No. 1 in France for personal insurance (1) No. 1 in France for term creditor insurance (2) No. 3 in France for group pension plans (3) No. 4 in Europe for personal insurance (excluding health) (4) 6th largest insurer in Brazil (5) €1,080 million net proﬁt in 2014 €30.8 billion in premium income in 2014 (IFRS) €307.4 billion in average technical reserves in 2014 (excluding deferred participation) Over Over Over 28 million insureds worldwide (6) 13 million (6) life insurance 4,700 employees under personal risk and and pensions policyholders worldwide protection (7) policies worldwide (1) Source: FFSA, 2013 data, June 2014 (5) Source: SUSEP, December 2014 (2) 2013 term creditor insurance contracts, FFSA, June 2014 (6) Estimates partly based on the number of managed contracts, rounded up (3) Source: XERFI, Le marché de l’épargne retraite et salariale, April 2013 (7) Death/disability and health insurance, term creditor insurance and property & (4) Argus de l’assurance – Europe Top 20, 2013 Results, December 2014 casualty insurance 2014 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES 3 PRESENTATION OF THE CNP ASSURANCES GROUP I CNP Assurances’s stakeholders at 31 December 2014 In Europe Personal risk/protection* IRELAND CNP Europe Life Savings/pensions • INSUREDS: – 600 savings/pensions • EMPLOYEES: 10 FRANCE CYPRUS/GREECE CNP Assurances LBP Prévoyance CNP Cyprus MFPrévoyance Insurance Holding (Consolidated French Group) • INSUREDS: • INSUREDS: – 142,000 personal risk/protection – 18 million personal risk/ – 33,000 savings/pensions protection • EMPLOYEES: 283 – 9 million savings/pensions • Sales outlets: 880 • PARTNERS: 450 • EMPLOYEES : 3,148 CNP Assurances and consolidated subsidiaries and 539 non-consolidated subsidiaries • Sales outlets: 12,000 SPAIN CNP BVP CNP Partners ITALY • INSUREDS: CNP Unicredit Vita – 133,000 personal risk/protection • INSUREDS: – 220,000 savings/pensions – 431,000 personal risk/protection • EMPLOYEES: 233 – 405,000 savings/pensions • Sales outlets: 5,200 • EMPLOYEES: 163 • Sales outlets: 1,800 CNP SANTANDER Germany, Italy, Spain, Poland, Austria, Norway, Sweden, Denmark, Finland, Iceland. (partnership in force since December 2014) 4 2014 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES PRESENTATION OF THE CNP ASSURANCES GROUP In Latin America CIVIL SOCIETY • Insurance supervisors and public authorities BRAZIL • Professional bodies Caixa Seguradora and • Host communities subsidiaries • Beneﬁciaries of corporate • INSUREDS: philanthropy – 7.3 million personal risk/ protection – 2.9 million savings/pensions – 500,000 non-life insurance • EMPLOYEES: 799 ISSUERS OF FINANCIAL ASSETS • Sales outlets: 60,000 • 750 government and corporate bond issuers • 225 companies in which the Group is a minority shareholder • Asset managers SUPPLIERS • Service providers (administrative, advisory, etc.) • Ofﬁce equipment suppliers ARGENTINA • IT service and equipment CNP Seguros de vida suppliers • INSUREDS: – 2.1 million personal risk/ protection – 378,000 savings/pensions • EMPLOYEES: 69 • Sales outlets: 417 * Personal risk, health, term creditor and property & casualty insurance. 2014 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES 5 Corporate social responsibility at CNP Assurances I The story of our CSR commitment 2003: THE FUNDAMENTAL FIRST STEP, PLEDGING TO UPHOLD THE GLOBAL COMPACT The CNP Assurances Group has always upheld human rights I The 10 principles of and citizens’ rights, in line with the Universal Declaration of the Global Compact human rights, and more speciﬁcally has always complied with WE SUPPORT the labour standards of the International Labour Organization and national labour laws in each host country. In pledging to uphold the Global Compact in 2003, we Human rights reafﬁrmed our commitment to respecting these fundamental principles, and also to combating corruption and protecting the 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection environment. CNP Argentina, the Caixa Seguradora group and of internationally proclaimed human rights and CNP UniCredit Vita have also pledged to uphold the Global 2. Make sure they are not complicit in human rights Compact. abuses Labour 2009: HELPING TO PROMOTE THE ADOPTION OF THESE PRINCIPLES THROUGHOUT THE INSURANCE 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association SECTOR and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining We played an active role in launching the Association Française 4. The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory de l’Assurance’s sustainable development charter in 2009 labour and have pledged to pursue its core aims of reducing social vulnerability, combating climate change, supporting economic 5. The effective abolition of child labour and development and promoting socially responsible investment. 6. Eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation 2011: DEEPENING OUR COMMITMENT TO ACTING Environment AS A RESPONSIBLE INSURER AND A RESPONSIBLE 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach INVESTOR to environmental challenges In 2011, we pledged to uphold the United Nations’ Principles 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental for Responsible Investment (PRI), ushering in a new phase in our responsibility and commitment as a responsible investor. 9. Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies COORDINATED DEPLOYMENT IN SUBSIDIARIES AND SHARED PROGRAMMES WITH PARTNERS Anti-corruption 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its Consistent with the Group’s business model, our main subsidiaries forms, including extortion and bribery have one or several local partners, generally banks that distribute their products. These subsidiaries develop CSR policies in line with Group principles. There is regular dialogue between CNP Assurances and its subsidiaries and they share the same performance indicators. 6 2014 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AT CNP ASSURANCES I Components of the CSR approach CNP Assurances’s CSR approach is organised around four strong commitments that inspire all our actions. OUR AMBITION Create value for all CNP Assurances’s stakeholders as a responsible insurer and investor OFFER CONTRIBUTE PROTECTION TO A SUSTAINABLE FOR EVERYONE W Help to combat 4 ECONOMY W Apply socially responsible ﬁnancial exclusion commitments investment principles W Design socially W Support key challenges useful products and 12 for the future: SMEs and the energy services and environmental transition priorities W Ensure policyholder W Apply responsible purchasing policies satisfaction PROMOTE BE AN A CARING ATTRACTIVE SOCIETY EMPLOYER W Reduce our environmental footprint W Develop skill sets aligned with the Group’s strategy W Manage our carbon footprint W Provide a working environment that fosters well-being and performance W Manage our local impact W Deploy policy an assertive gender equality I Stakeholder dialogue We maintain regular dialogue with the main stakeholders and service levels. In addition, CNP Assurances and its main conduct periodic stakeholder satisfaction surveys. subsidiaries perform qualitative and quantitative studies to anticipate new needs arising from emerging social and As well as maintaining regular dialogue with employee demographic trends (see “Ensure policyholder satisfaction”). representatives and measuring employee satisfaction levels, in 2013 we performed a diagnostic review of psychosocial risks Constructive dialogue is engaged with companies held in our in order to better understand how employees perceive their asset portfolio whenever a problem is revealed during the work environment. Following the Company’s reorganisation quarterly SRI screening process, through our asset managers around business units, a survey was conducted in two phases or directly during the lead-up to General Meetings. As well as to determine employees’ reactions to the change and the results contributing actively to the work of our industry body, the FFSA, were discussed by the Occupational Health, Safety and Working in the area of corporate social responsibility, we are a member Conditions Committee. During the year, CNP CIH conducted an of ORSE, a French CSR think-tank, and its Finance Club, which employee survey at its subsidiaries CNP Cyprialife and CNP brings together companies and stakeholders (NGOs and unions). Asfalistiki. In 2014, we joined the Institutional Investor Group of Novethic, a French SRI research and media centre. The international Regular satisfaction surveys are conducted among policyholders subsidiaries also participate in local insurance industry bodies, and our distribution partners, in France and in international and the Caixa Seguradora group carries out an annual CSR markets, to obtain insights that will help us improve customer assessment with the help of research institute Ethos. 2014 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES 7 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AT CNP ASSURANCES I Creating shared value and social value-added Being a responsible insurer means acting as an informed Our excellent risk assessment skills and long-term investment ﬁnancial intermediary between policyholders looking for security strategy ensure that we are able to fulﬁl our commitments. Beyond and an economy exposed to risks. We protect policyholders these commitments, which are the bedrock of the insurance offer, by minimising their exposure to the risks of everyday life. we innovate by offering real social value-added. SHARING THE VALUE CREATED IN 2014 WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS Premiums Investment income €30,356m net of ﬁnance costs ISSUERS OF FINANCIAL €13,214m ASSETS POLICYHOLDERS Endowments, annuities, Pool services risks to optimise prices €26,412m Payroll costs EMPLOYEES €422m Assess Guarantee Fees and each insured administrative DISTRIBUTION commissions risk, management, administrative ﬁnancial investment PARTNERS €3,126m and ﬁnancial strategy, reserving personal risk, management protection, policies costs pension and savings solutions Other general operating expenses SUPPLIERS €332m Corporate Manage philanthropy, non-proﬁts risks €4m SOCIETY Dividends Taxes SHAREHOLDERS €529m €773m 8 2014 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AT CNP ASSURANCES I CSR in action The following report presents the Group’s CSR action plan, the In addition to its Sustainable Development Committee, in 2013 priorities for each component of the CSR policy and related the Caixa Seguradora group set up the Caixa Seguros Institute to additional initiatives, with the corresponding ﬁgures. lead its strategic social, environmental and cultural programmes. Covering all consolidated subsidiaries in the CNP Assurances At the end of 2014, CNP Argentina added CSR initiatives to its Group and the main non-consolidated subsidiaries, it features list of strategic objectives. examples of initiatives launched by all Group entities (for more details, see “Group reporting methodology”). The Statutory Auditors have reviewed the fairness of the most signiﬁcant MEASURING CSR PERFORMANCE information, performing procedures that included detailed tests of the measurable indicators. See page 54 for more information. The Statutory Auditors’ report is presented in the Progress in meeting our CSR objectives as of end-2014 Registration Document available at www.cnp.fr, which also W make CSR an integral part of our strategy: initiatives have includes answers to frequently asked questions about CSR been launched to support the new ambition to “create value governance and risks. The Caixa Seguradora group also for all CNP Assurances’s stakeholders as a responsible insurer publishes a Sustainable Development Report that is available and investor”. For example: online at www.cuidardofuturo.com.br. W a Responsible Investor Charter has been prepared outlining the principles and the responsibilities of the people directly and indirectly concerned CSR GOVERNANCE STRUCTURES W the business units have been given a brochure on CNP Assurances has a Sustainable Development department, “CNP Assurances’s CSR Commitment” to be handed out to which reports directly to the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer and is supported distribution partners and/or policyholders by the business units. The head of the Sustainable Development department reports periodically to the Board of Directors and the W suppliers representing 37% of CNP Assurances’s purchases are now rated for their CSR performance Chairman on the department’s activities and objectives. In Italy, CNP UniCredit Vita has set up a Green Group to deal with W the goal of continuing to reduce carbon emissions per full-time equivalent employee generated by internal operations was CSR issues and since 2013 sustainable development indicators met in 2014, with emissions cut by 2.6% vs. 2013. have been included in the quarterly indicators reviewed by the Management Committee. CNP Assurances’s 2014 CSR rating The quality of CNP Assurances’s corporate social responsibility policy has been recognised by SRI rating agencies. We obtained particularly high scores for our performance in the areas of Human Resources management and community outreach. RATINGS SUMMARY (UNSOLICITED RATINGS) Rating agency CSR rating Comments Methodology Sustainalytics 83/100 (August 2014) 5th/94 – insurance sector worldwide http://www.sustainalytics.com/sustainalytics-global-platform Oekom Prime C+ (March 2013) http://www.oekom-research.com/index_fr.php?content=corporate-rating Vigéo 54/100 (2014) 7th/37 – insurance sector Europe www.vigeo.com CDP 89 B 8th/12 SRI indices that include CNP Assurances CNP Assurances’s shares are included in several European SRI indices. In particular, its presence in the Ethibel Sustainability Index Excellence Europe, the NYSE Euronext Vigeo – Eurozone 120 index and the MSCI Global Sustainability Indexes has been conﬁrmed. In 2014, Caixa Seguradora was named the insurer with the best long-term vision in a comparative study of best practices among 250 companies conducted by the Epoca Negocios 360° guide, and ﬁfth-best insurer for the quality of its ESG and Human Resources management practices. 2014 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES 9 Offer protection for everyone We want to offer all policyholders insurance cover that matches their daily life, needs and budget as closely as possible. This is W Priority No. 1: an ambitious goal because of the very wide-ranging situations in Help to combat ﬁnancial exclusion our various markets. W Priority No. 2: Adapting to different situations is our way of helping to combat Design socially useful products and services ﬁnancial exclusion. In some cases, that means going beyond simply settling an insurance claim to offer policyholders innovative services to help them overcome difﬁculties. W Priority No. 3: Ensure the highest levels of policyholder satisfaction Timeline Insurassistance concept created – an The Active Emploi product offering combining assistance services is leading prize winner for its job and standard ﬁnancial beneﬁts placement support 1997 2002 2008 2010 2013 Caixa Seguros is ﬁrst Brazilian First Insurance Kit launched Caixa Seguros becomes insurer to offer chronic for microentrepreneurs the leader in micro-insurance critical illness cover (including in Brazil AIDS and cancer) Micro-insurance policies Our term creditor written by the Group: insurance rejection rate is still below 96,600 unit-linked contracts 190,000 incorporating policies at end-2014 0.2% an SRI fund 10 2014 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES OFFER PROTECTION FOR EVERYONE Help to combat ﬁnancial exclusion Priority No. 1 I Products for everyone I Risk selection adapted to each insured’s health proﬁle IN FRANCE, AN OFFER ALIGNED WITH THE NEEDS CNP Assurances draws on its exceptionally deep understanding OF PEOPLE WITH LOW INCOMES of risks, acquired over its many years’ experience in personal insurance, to regularly update and reﬁne its risk selection policy. In agreement with its distribution partners, CNP Assurances offers A key aim of this policy, which takes into account the state of products with deliberately low minimum premiums or investment health of each insured, is to ensure that the acceptance rate amounts (€30 for life insurance), despite the extra administrative for disability and incapacity cover is as high as possible. For costs. The €30 tranche represented more than a third of new example, in the last three years we have been actively marketing money invested in these contracts and 46% of regular premiums the speciﬁc disability cover for insureds who represent an in 2014. aggravated risk offered in application of the AERAS Convention. In addition, since 2012, the conditions of eligibility for the Since the beginning of 2015, LBP Prévoyance has offered easy premium cap applicable to low income borrowers have been access long-term care insurance to help policyholders faced with relaxed. a loss of autonomy to meet the additional costs of staying in their own home by topping up their beneﬁts and other income. Lastly, our term creditor insurance rejection rate has remained at less than 0.2% for the past six years. In 2010, CNP Assurances strengthened its ties with social economy stakeholders by becoming the insurer for loans granted by Procilia, a partner to the French government’s Action Insuring aggravated health risks Logement low-income housing loan scheme. This cooperation at CNP Assurances with social economy stakeholders such as Action Logement, local welfare committees (comités sociaux) and micro-ﬁnance We are resolutely committed to ensuring that individuals institutions operating according to the pawnbroker principle representing an aggravated risk have access to credit (crédits municipaux) was pursued in 2014, with the launch of a and insurance in line with the provisions of the Aeras term creditor insurance offer with Crédit Municipal de Marseille. Convention, and were quick to offer the speciﬁc disability We already had similar partnerships with Crédit Municipal de cover deﬁned in the new version of the Convention dated Paris and Crédit Municipal d’Avignon, providing insurance for 1 February 2011. Disability cover is also being offered personal loans and debt consolidations. on the terms provided for in the convention, to customers who were denied incapacity or disability cover under a CNP Assurances is a founder member of the Entrepreneurs de la standard policy. In addition to these regulatory obligations, Cité foundation, which aims to help micro-entrepreneurs obtain we also offer disability cover to civil servants and selfinsurance, and is one of the co-insurers for the foundation’s Basic employed workers. Insurance Kit offering death/disability and health cover. A total of 102 new Basic Insurance Kits were sold in 2014. As the leader in the group life insurance segment, CNP Assurances enables companies, non-proﬁts, local authorities and hospitals to offer all their employees the same insurance cover at the same price, by pooling risks and covering different generations under I Access to information Insuring all our futures also means offering a website that is the same policy. accessible to everyone, whatever their computer equipment or physical abilities. IN BRAZIL, A SUCCESSFUL AND INNOVATIVE CNP Assurances’s new cnp.fr website launched in May 2014 MICROINSURANCE PRODUCT complies with France’s RGAA government website accessibility guidelines. The aim has been to meet AA standards in terms of The Caixa Seguradora group was the ﬁrst insurer to enter the colour contrast, keyboard access, image text alternatives, popBrazilian micro-insurance market, with the Amparo contract ups, page titles, basic information structure, etc. launched in 2011. Three years down the line, at 31 December The Caixa Seguradora group is instilling a culture of retirement 2014, more than 190,000 Amparo contracts were in force. The saving among civil servants and is taking steps to make product includes accidental death beneﬁt, cover for funeral costs information more accessible to people with hearing problems. and related expenses, three months’ food aid for the deceased’s family, and the opportunity to participate in a monthly random draw to receive a cash windfall. Caixa Seguradora also offers other affordable insurance products for the many people in Brazil with very low incomes, such as the AP and RD vouchers and Vida da Gente. 2014 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES 11 OFFER PROTECTION FOR EVERYONE Design socially useful products and services Priority No. 2 We are continuing to update our offer to keep pace with the latest W assistance in ﬁnding a new job, including distribution of changes in society, by enhancing existing offers and developing CVs and online career advice, offered to Caixa Seguradora targeted prevention services. policyholders who lose their jobs. Policyholders in the late stages of a critical illness can claim beneﬁts without reducing the capital built up under their policy, as well as free medication I An offer aligned with people’s in the event of hospitalisation or emergency care needs W efﬁnance term creditor insurance for home-buyers, co-insured with LBP Prévoyance, which won an award in 2013 “for its broad acceptance criteria, useful guarantees, limited exclusions and affordability”. ANTICIPATING POLICYHOLDER NEEDS In addition to studies carried out with the distribution partners, In early 2015, LBP Prévoyance launched a new, the Group entities perform research to anticipate new needs comprehensive long-term care insurance package arising from emerging social and demographic trends. In comprising an emergency payment and monthly 2014, CNP Assurances’s own research focused on anticipating beneﬁts, along with various assistance services including policyholder needs for term creditor insurance, life insurance home visits by the local postman or another person and tax-exempt gifting solutions, on distribution methods and on accredited by Filassistance International (a subsidiary of gaining a better understanding of life insurance needs in Italy. CNP Assurances). Every year since 2007, LBP Prévoyance has commissioned a survey from TNS Sofres to assess the long-term care needs of people who are beginning to experience a certain loss of autonomy. Eighty percent of respondents to the October 2014 survey stated that they were concerned by this issue. Most of I Promoting good health them would prefer to continue living in their own home, despite Making life-long support for insureds its mission, in 2003 the inevitable difﬁculties. While the relatives of people in this CNP Assurances pioneered the integration of targeted assistance situation often express concern about how to pay for care, the and prevention services in life insurance and long-term care main issue is dealing with the psychological problems and the insurance contracts, in particular through its Filassistance greatest demand is for help for caregivers. International subsidiary. Services developed by Filassistance include: INNOVATIVE SOLUTIONS W individual assessments to help to prevent loss of autonomy and memory loss We offer innovative solutions to help policyholders deal with W a pandemic prevention service and heart attack prevention problems related to loss of autonomy, job loss and ageing, programme such as: W an employee counselling and stress management service for companies W Protection Active Emploi, an unemployment insurance product at a reduced premium developed by CNP Assurances that W a support service for family carers of dependent insureds provides ﬁnancial support for 6 or 24 months, along with (360° care) personalised assistance in ﬁnding a new job, such as a career review, training and logistical support W personal ﬁnancial management advice for people hit by a serious, unforeseen health or family problem W long-term care insurance developed by CNP Assurances that W support and advice for sufferers of a chronic long-term kicks in as soon as the ﬁrst signs of disability appear, an option that has been added to all MGEN contracts, representing illness, including medical advice, assistance with welfare, two million insureds administrative and ﬁnancial matters and psychological support; since 2013, speciﬁc support has been offered to W insurance covering the payment of gas bills in the case of a women cancer sufferers and their families from when the illness personal accident, offered by CNP Assurances to customers is ﬁrst diagnosed. of GDF Suez This positioning in local personal assistance services and daily Wa capital guarantee in the case of a serious unforeseen care and living assistance was reinforced in 2014, notably by event offered with the Cachemire product developed by introducing a retirement assistance product and a “Care for CNP Assurances and distributed by La Banque Postale Caregivers” offering designed speciﬁcally for inclusion in group plans. W an innovative new product with a capital guarantee launched in Italy by CNP UniCredit Vita in response to policyholders’ desire for security 12 2014 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES OFFER PROTECTION FOR EVERYONE PREVENTION CAMPAIGNS The deployment of new technologies The deployment of new technologies has made life easier CNP CIH conducts prevention campaigns targeting obesity and for policyholders. For example, a website for reporting term stress, while some of its products come with an offer of free or creditor insurance claims set up by CNP Assurances in 2012 low-cost medical check-ups. CNP Assurances deploys workplace allows policyholders to submit scanned claim documents programmes to promote the health and well-being of local electronically, including by text message, and to track the claim’s government employees. status. Stealing a lead on the competition, since January 2014 CNP Assurances has offered a full online term creditor insurance underwriting process for home-buyers who obtain ﬁnance from I Service quality aids Boursorama Banque, with a legally valid electronic signature system. Deployment is now underway at Crédit Agricole. As well New common and convergent quality initiatives were developed as reducing the time required to complete the process, the system in 2013 with CNP Assurances’s partners to improve the quality also offers a secure storage solution for insurance applications of service for insurance advisors and policyholders. and the related documents. Shared applications The Caixa Seguradora group has also responded to customer calls for an extension of its online services to include insurance The workstations used by CNP Assurances’s distribution partners underwriting, with specialists available via a forum to assist (Puma, Partage, Majestic and CNPNet) incorporate duty of customers during the purchase process. advice compliance, while enhancing the quality and efﬁciency of policyholder services. CNP UniCredit Vita has enhanced its website for direct access to insurance accounts, with the addition of downloadable A single platform to process health questionnaires information and claim forms. The use of the CNPNet platform with bank partners in the last ﬁve years enabled 76% of term creditor insurance health A business continuity plan questionnaires sent to CNP Assurances to be processed A business continuity plan has been set up to prepare for the electronically in 2014. Since 2013, these questionnaires can be risk of downtime following an incident affecting our information ﬁlled out in the insured’s home, making life easier for customers systems. Tests are performed each year, using different scenarios, who don’t have time to visit their bank branch, or need their to ensure that in all the various departments, normal business personal medical ﬁle to ﬁll out the form or are joint borrowers. operations could be quickly and efﬁciently restored. Ensure policyholder satisfaction Priority No. 3 I Doubling up satisfaction monitoring CNP Assurances’s annual survey among local authorities and companies that have purchased employee beneﬁt plans showed that management quality and team availability were once again Surveys are carried out periodically by Group entities among its core strengths in 2014. Eighty-three percent of respondents both policyholders and distribution partners, to obtain a were satisﬁed with CNP Assurances’s service quality, scoring it comprehensive vision of customer satisfaction. an average of 7.5 out of 10. In 2014, four satisfaction surveys were conducted by Outside France, customer satisfaction surveys are conducted CNP Assurances on individual policy administration processes. by every subsidiary except CNP BVP, which outsources these Whether they are carried out as part of a quality certiﬁcation surveys to its distribution partner. The surveys are conducted process, pursuant to a service level agreement or for other annually in Cyprus and up to monthly in Brazil. CNP Partners purposes, these surveys help to improve customer responsiveness has been meeting distribution partners each month for the last and to provide feedback to our distribution partners. The few years to ﬁnd out how they view the quality of services. The satisfaction rate of callers who purchased their policies from customer satisfaction score in 2014 was 4.2 out of 5. La Banque Postale and CNP Trésor was 88% in 2014. A satisfaction survey is carried out with CNP Assurances’s partners during each customer communication campaign. For the second year running, Caixa Seguradora was chosen as the best insurance company by the website In addition, a speciﬁc survey is conducted to check that ReclameAQUI which gives out awards every year for CNP Assurances meets the expectations of its distribution the quality of customer relations, particularly complaint partner, Caisses d’Epargne. The results of the February 2014 resolution processes. survey showed a sharp improvement in satisfaction levels, to 60% overall. We scored highest for the quality of information and selling aids, the quality of contacts with counterparts and the quality of training. 2014 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES 13 OFFER PROTECTION FOR EVERYONE I Following up policyholder requests Given the efforts made by the teams on a daily basis and the resources deployed since 2008, we believe that the ﬁne levied by the Sanctions Committee of the French ﬁnancial services CNP Assurances regularly reviews a sample of letters sent to supervisor, ACPR, was harsh. customers in response to requests for information or complaints in order to assess the quality of the responses. The results are We would like to reiterate that we have never derived any presented in reports that are given to the departments that issued proﬁt from these unclaimed settlements: the income generated the letters to help them constantly improve their service quality. by investing the funds is not kept by the Group but is added to the sum shared by all policyholders, as is the case for all life CNP Assurances received AFAQ 9001 certiﬁcation at the end insurance policies. of 2014. The customer service organisation was a key focus of the certiﬁcation project, which was used as an opportunity to In 2014, more than €60 million was paid out to over 24,000 optimise response times and quality in the most important areas. beneﬁciaries found during the year. Quality indicators have been developed and shared with the business units. DISPUTES MEDIATION SERVICE At CNP Assurances, there were 1,359 disputes in progress at the end of 2014. Seventy-three percent of cases are won in the The CNP Assurances mediation service is an easy-to-use, ﬁrst instance, 77% on appeal and 100% when the matter is free dispute resolution process that improves relations with submitted to the highest court of appeal. policyholders and frequently helps to avoid litigation. Details of how to contact the service are systematically given in the policy terms and conditions for all of our products. In 2014, 1,540 mediation procedures were initiated or reopened, an increase of nearly 12% compared with 2013, and 131% since the service was launched in 1993. Other initiatives PROCESSING COMPLAINTS MORE QUICKLY I Protecting policyholders In 2013, CNP Assurances committed to replying within two PROTECTING POLICYHOLDERS’ PERSONAL DATA months of a complaint being received. Processing times have been reduced thanks to a major reorganisation carried out in coordination with our distribution partners. Systems have been A closely controlled Group procedure deployed to reﬁne complaint monitoring and analysis processes. Personal insurance is based on knowledge of sensitive personal In addition, a standard deﬁnition of the term “complaint” data. At CNP Assurances, protecting the conﬁdentiality of has been adopted throughout CNP Assurances since 2013 policyholder data is central to our administrative processes and complying with that used by France’s insurance supervisor to the obligations speciﬁed in our code of conduct. Customers’ monitor insurance companies’ performance in this area. Based medical and personal information is protected by procedures on the new deﬁnition, a complaint is any expression of discontent that comply with local regulations in each host country, and a by a customer, whether justiﬁed or not, with the perceived quality dedicated system has been set up to keep abreast of regulatory of a product or service, whatever the tone or form thereof, to changes. which a reply or a solution is explicitly or implicitly expected. Complaints received by CNP Assurances mainly concern the Implementation in subsidiaries underwriting and claim management processes. The European subsidiaries notably comply with the European The number of complaints is marginal, with 21,866 received in Data Protection directive (95/46/EC) as transposed into national 2014 involving less than 0.1% of policyholders. Nonetheless, law. Employees at CNP Europe Life received special training in each one is analysed in order to understand how we can improve data protection during 2012. CNP UniCredit Vita updates its our service quality using the tools referred to above. security policy governing the protection of customer data on an annual basis. At MFPrévoyance, where medical conﬁdentiality is a particular concern, employees must sign a formal pledge UNCLAIMED SETTLEMENTS AT CNP ASSURANCES to uphold their obligation to maintain professional secrecy. Medical conﬁdentiality training courses are regularly given to The French Act of 17 December 2007 introduced a requirement MFPrévoyance and LBP Prévoyance employees by the medical for life insurers to pro-actively identify any unreported claims, and ofﬁcer. to trace and pay the beneﬁciaries. The Act also gave insurers The data security policy at Caixa Seguradora is also updated the legal and practical means of ﬁnding out when policyholders annually and all information is categorised by level of have died. conﬁdentiality to ensure appropriate treatment. Regular intruder The internal resources devoted to this complex process by tests are conducted to assess the efﬁcacy of the security measures. CNP Assurances have gradually been increased and a In addition, policyholders must give their consent to using their 60-person team is now working full time to deal with the backlog email address for mass communications from CNP Assurances. of unclaimed settlements dating back prior to 2007. A dedicated computer system is used to manage these authorisations. 14 2014 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES OFFER PROTECTION FOR EVERYONE A Data Protection Ofﬁcer has been appointed to lead an inhouse network spanning all Group companies and communicate I SRI products procedures, notably through a dedicated intranet site. Controls Policyholders can contribute to sustainable development by are performed to ensure that the procedures are applied and investing in SRI funds offered with their savings contracts. Each the Data Protection Ofﬁcer prepares an Annual Report. The of the ﬂagship savings products offered by CNP Assurances Data Protection Ofﬁcer works with representatives from each includes unit-linked SRI funds, and environmental, social and distributor to foster best practices. governance screening is being rolled out to the general asset A privacy by design approach is used to embed protection of portfolios underlying all of our traditional savings products and personal data in our products and services as from the initial own-funds portfolios (see “Contribute to a sustainable economy”). design phase. The Data Protection Ofﬁcer is systematically consulted before any applications that include personal data are W LBPAM Responsable (http://www.labanquepostale-am.fr/isr/ notre_offre_isr.html) rolled out, to check compliance of data processing, new service delegation or IT outsourcing contracts, website legal notices, etc. W Ecureuil Bénéﬁce (https://www.caisse-epargne.fr/ecureuilbeneﬁces-resp.aspx) PRODUCT AND SERVICE COMPLIANCE W CNP développement durable (http://www.fongepar.fr/ DOCS/na_400001.pdf) All Group entities check the legal compliance of contractual At 31 December 2014, some 96,600 individual life insurance documents at each stage of the product design process. policies sold by CNP Assurances included an SRI fund. SRI assets Dedicated teams ensure that insurance products and transactions totalled €512 million at that date, up by more than 13% over are compliant and that any changes in the applicable laws are 2013. SRI funds continued to be promoted by our two major duly taken into account. partners in 2014, with reduced fees offered to customers who chose to invest in these funds during SRI Week. In order to maintain yearly progress, Group entities conduct campaigns to obtain certiﬁcation in new areas while ensuring A brochure on “CNP Assurances’s CSR Commitment” was that previous certiﬁcations are renewed. CNP Assurances and sent to several thousand policyholders and included in the several subsidiaries have obtained ISO 9001 certiﬁcation of main materials used to present CNP Assurances’s offers to the their main business processes. distribution partners. CNP Assurances: ISO 9001:2008 certiﬁcation In 2014, La Banque Postale introduced two new structured funds whose ﬁnal performance depends on the average increase in the W the annual policyholder information process for individual Ethical Europe Equity index. These funds, which are offered for insurance and group pension policies as well as call centre example with life insurance policies, have been very successful processes in helping to promote socially responsible investment, attracting W processing of incoming mail €143 million in new money from 35,000 CNP Assurances policyholders in just two months. W the entire term creditor insurance process W management of individual insurance products sold by the Amétis network (certiﬁcation obtained as part of the drive to shorten processing times and improve quality of service) I Encouraging policyholder W processing of death beneﬁt claims in individual insurance commitment to sustainable W in stages, processing of incident reports and database development administration for individual insurance policy administration applications W To present its social and environmental challenges and achievements, the Caixa Seguradora group has developed an informative “Caring for the Future” website (http:// W CNP Assurances’s internal audit processes have been certiﬁed www.cuidardofuturo.com.br), which also hosts a blog about by IFACI, France’s internal audit and internal control body responsible consumerism. Its websites reiterate the “5 Rs” of W Âge d’Or Expansion’s services have been “NF Service” quality responsible consumerism: Reduce, Reuse, Recycle, Rethink certiﬁed since 2011 consumption habits, and Respect natural resources W CNP Argentina’s ISO 9001:2008 certiﬁcation of its W CNP Assurances’s pledge to uphold the United Nations Global management system has been regularly renewed since 2004. Compact and its responsible investing strategy are highlighted It is the ﬁrst life insurance company in Argentina to obtain in the over 18 million letters sent to policyholders. Since 2011, certiﬁcation for both the underwriting and administrative the message is communicated to all holders of endowment management of insurance policies policies (other than unit-linked contracts), including on the annual policyholder statements W CNP CIH has earned ISO 9001:2008 certiﬁcation for its life insurance processes in Cyprus W In 2014 for SRI Week, we organised an awareness campaign for savers with our partner La Banque Postale, supported by W since 2000, CNP Partners’ UNE-EN ISO 9001:2008-compliant a special offer for investments in our range of SRI funds. Our quality management system covering the design, underwriting and administration of life insurance policies and pension plans network of 300 travelling insurance advisors also got involved has been AENOR and IQNet-certiﬁed. in explaining the Group’s investment approach and its SRI offer. At Caixa Seguradora, the quality management system is subject to regular audits. 2014 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES 15 Contribute to a sustainable economy Our Group’s primary ﬁnancial responsibility is to secure the commitments made to policyholders and guarantee a steady, W Priority No. 1: optimised performance year after year. Apply socially responsible investment principles In line with the belief that including socially responsible investment criteria in the investment selection process optimises the yield-torisk ratio over the long term, ESG screens have been applied to W Priority No. 2: the majority of CNP Assurances’s assets and those of its French Support key challenges for the future: SMEs subsidiaries over the last few years. and the energy and environmental transition This commitment also extends to suppliers. An audit and W Priority No. 3: improvement programme has been launched by CNP Assurances to steadily enhance its suppliers’ CSR performance. Apply responsible purchasing policies CNP Assurances’s responsible investor story Cluster-bomb and anti-personnel mine ESG ﬁlter applied to entire manufacturers excluded from portfolio bond portfolio 2006 2008 2011 2012 2014 Best-in-class strategy adopted Pledge to uphold PRI Reviews launched for the entire equity portfolio of energy-efﬁciency upgrades in property assets Forests representing a €248 billion 37% carbon sink of in assets managed of CNP Assurances’s by the Group using ESG criteria suppliers assessed for their environmental, 546,716 teqCO2 social and ethical performance 16 2014 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES CONTRIBUTE TO A SUSTAINABLE ECONOMY Apply socially responsible investment principles Priority No. 1 I In France, a strategy deﬁned by with the need to preserve the environment and ensure the safety of the properties’ users. These include the Sustainable Property Management Charter adopted with Icade in 2008, and in 2014 CNP Assurances and implemented establishing a “green works charter” to take into account the by the asset managers impact of all co-owned property management agreements on the environment and on users’ health and safety. CNP Assurances is an insurance group. As such, it does not manage assets for others and entrusts the management of its own assets to specialists. In France, the socially responsible investing INTEGRATING ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES approach is deﬁned and led by CNP Assurances, drawing IN WOODLAND MANAGEMENT PROCESSES on the SRI expertise of the asset management companies. CNP Assurances’s strategy is applied to all of its assets and those CNP Assurances is the largest private owner of woodland in of its French subsidiaries. The commitment to socially responsible France, with 54,414 hectares of forest at end-2014. Société investing was strengthened in 2011 when we pledged to uphold Forestière, a 50%-owned subsidiary, applies sustainable the Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI). management techniques that help to prevent ﬁres, promote biodiversity and anticipate the effects of climate change. In 2003, in addition to ISO 9001 certiﬁcation, all of CNP Assurances’s LISTED ASSETS woodland assets were certiﬁed by the Pan European Forest Council (PEFC), which guarantees that the timber comes from Since 2008, CNP Assurances has chosen to exclude from its ownsustainably managed forests. funds portfolio arms manufacturers whose products include land mines or cluster bombs and ﬁrms that speculate in agricultural commodities. The Company also checks that similar screens are SOCIAL INFORMATION USED TO MANAGE PRIVATE applied to the 67 investment funds whose units are held in the EQUITY AND INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENTS portfolio. The last such check was carried out in October 2013. SINCE 2010 In line with our socially responsible investing strategy, ESG screens are gradually being applied to all asset classes in the ESG ratings are awarded based on the due diligence process entire portfolio, with equities selected according to best-in-class carried out ahead of any new private equity investment. A total criteria and bonds excluded when they fail to meet the screening of 17 private equity funds were rated in 2014. In addition, criteria. CNP Assurances had invested nearly €143 million at end-2014 in several socially responsible funds that ﬁnance small businesses experiencing social barriers to raising equity capital and support SUSTAINABLY MANAGING PROPERTY ASSETS struggling SMEs. An ESG questionnaire has been introduced for new infrastructure With €8.5 billion in property assets in France based on net book investments. In 2014, 55% of infrastructure funds in the portfolio values, CNP Assurances is an important player in this market. responded to the questionnaire or gave us a copy of their own Management of its property assets is entrusted to specialised CSR Report. companies on the basis of strict speciﬁcations that deal notably 2014 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES 17 CONTRIBUTE TO A SUSTAINABLE ECONOMY SOCIALLY RESPONSIBLE INVESTING STRATEGY (CNP Assurances France at 31 December 2014) 80% OF INVESTMENTS INFRASTRUCTURE AND PRIVATE EQUITY • Since 2010, ESG rating of private equity funds during due 20% OF INVESTMENTS ESG SCREENING diligence PARTIAL ESG SCREENING • Infrastructure funds required to submit ESG reports • CNP Assurances invests in private equity funds that ﬁnance SMEs that have difﬁculty in raising MUTUAL FUNDS equity capital and infrastructure CORPORATE BONDS funds invested in renewable • 6% of portfolio invested in energy, water treatment and SRI or themed funds backing • Quarterly ESG ratings waste treatment projects. traditional life insurance Portfolio: €274m contracts. Portfolio: €2.5bn • Exclusions or restrictions based on UN Principles of Responsible • Investing • €388m in green bonds UNIT-LINKED FUNDS Infrastructure • 96,600 unit-linked contracts and private equity purchased by policyholders include SRI or themed funds. Portfolio: €512m GOVERNMENT BONDS Mutual funds AND EQUIVALENTS • Excluded countries: Unit-linked – countries rated as “not free” funds and “partly free” by Freedom Corporate House Equities EQUITIES bonds – countries rated as “corrupt” Property • Best-in-class strategy by Transparency International – Quarterly ESG screening with Forests SRI analysts at Natixis AM since 2006 and LBPAM since 2009 – If ESG screening reveals Governement bonds problems and discussions with the issuer are unproductive, FORESTS further purchases may be halted or the existing holding • France’s largest private may be sold owner of woodland, with • Vote at General Meetings 54,414 hectares at end-2014, representing €117m • ISO 9001 and PEFC-certiﬁed sustainable management PROPERTY by 50% subsidiary Société Forestière since 2003 • Managed by specialised companies based on strict speciﬁcations, • Objectives: safety, biodiversity, notably regarding the environment and safety anticipate effects of climate • Sustainable management charter with Icade, “Green appendices” change included in master property management contracts and club deals • Energy efﬁciency assessments for compliance with Grenelle II have been carried out on 85% of CNP Assurances’s fully owned property assets 18 2014 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES CONTRIBUTE TO A SUSTAINABLE ECONOMY I A responsible shareholder SHAREHOLDER ACTIVISM INSPIRED BY OUR STATUS AS A LONG-TERM MINORITY SHAREHOLDER CNP Assurances’s corporate governance principles are a SYSTEMATICALLY VOTING AT GENERAL MEETINGS cornerstone of its policy of responsible investing. They are deﬁned by senior management and shaped by its position as a longSince 2005, CNP Assurances has followed a policy of term minority shareholder. The core objective is to protect the shareholder activism by systematically voting at the General rights of minority shareholders who are investing to support the Meetings of listed companies in its portfolio. We don’t leave it to investee’s long-term growth. Shaped in part by investor concerns, the asset management companies to vote on our behalf, except these principles are pragmatically applied to all companies in the in the case of shares held through mutual funds. portfolio, taking into account each one’s characteristics, industry and regulatory environment. A CONSTRUCTIVE STANCE In 2014, CNP Assurances voted at the General Meetings of I Deploying ESG screening companies representing 77% of the equity portfolio, including in international subsidiaries 99.9% of the portfolio of French equities and around 20 European issuers. In all, we read the proxy documents for The Caixa Seguradora group excludes certain industries from its 107 meetings and analysed 1,929 resolutions, voting against equity and government and corporate bond portfolios. At CNP 17.8% of them. When we had issues with proposed resolutions, Argentina, when choosing among investments with equivalent we endeavoured to talk to the companies concerned ahead of risk and yield proﬁles, priority is given to those with the best the meetings. social and/or environmental proﬁle. In 2014, 22% of its assets were dedicated to supporting projects in the real economy or with high-quality ESG proﬁles. Support key challenges for the future: SMEs and the energy and environmental transition Priority No. 2 I Investing in SMEs creating jobs and attracting foreign investment. We invest through private equity funds selected for their investment strategy, their teams and their ability to support the development of the In 2014, we continued our strategy of investing to support companies in the portfolio over the long term. the real economy either directly through co-ﬁnancing deals or indirectly through specialised funds. The amounts committed in In 2014, CNP Assurances increased its support for funds invested 2012 and 2013 continued to be invested in SMEs, infrastructure to support struggling companies, with €95 million committed at projects and property assets. end-2014. SUPPORTING PRIVATE EQUITY INVESTING IN LISTED SMES AND MID-CAPS CNP Assurances has been active in the private equity market As part of the strategy of investing to support the French since 1992 and is one of France’s largest investors in unlisted economy, CNP Assurances has chosen to invest in the Novo 1 companies, with a €3.5 billion net exposure at 31 December and Novo 2 mid-market corporate debt funds. The result of a joint 2014. In this way, we are supporting nearly 500 French initiative between Caisse des Dépôts and 18 leading insurance companies with less than €50 million in revenue at various companies including CNP Assurances, the two investment funds stages in their development, from start-up to expansion to ﬁnal have raised €1 billion in capital that will be used to ﬁnance sale. Whether they are innovative start-ups or SMEs with an around 30 to 40 companies. CNP Assurances’s investment at established presence in their market, operating in the high-tech 31 December 2014 amounted to €57 million at amortised cost sector or traditional manufacturing industry, these companies net of impairment. play a strategic role in strengthening France’s economic base, 2014 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES 19 CONTRIBUTE TO A SUSTAINABLE ECONOMY I The energy and I Forests: an environmental environmental transition opportunity Our socially responsible investor approach for listed equity funds takes into account the goal of energy and environmental transition, particularly with the development since 2014 by our CARBON SINKS IN FRANCE AND BRAZIL asset management companies’ SRI experts of a carbon risk and In 2014, tree growth in CNP Assurances’s forests helped to opportunity assessment process. For example, the ESG rating of sequester 546,716 tonnes of carbon dioxide. After deducting companies in the portfolio is weighted towards technological timber sold or cut down during the year, a net 267,832 tonnes innovations that promote energy and environmental transition. of carbon dioxide was added to the sequestered total. Since 2007, the Caixa Seguradora group has been offsetting PROPERTY ASSETS: IMPROVED ENERGY its carbon emissions by ﬁnancing tree-planting programmes in PERFORMANCE the Atlantic Forest organised by the Green Initiative NGO, thus earning the subsidiary CarbonFree certiﬁcation. The management CNP Assurances’s maintenance and renovation programmes for of these forests in accordance with biodiversity principles also the property assets in the portfolio support the constant aim to provides an income for disadvantaged local communities and make the properties more energy efﬁcient. Renovation projects an opportunity for them to acquire new skills. In all, 17 hectares are carried out to the highest environmental standards (17% of of woodland have been planted and operations organised with ofﬁce space is certiﬁed to HQE, THPE, BBC or Bream Very Good CNP Assurances have added 5,335 trees to these plantations. standards). Since 2009, an environmental audit has been systematically carried out on all newly acquired properties. As of 31 December ANTICIPATING CLIMATE CHANGE 2014, energy performance assessments had been performed on In 2001, in compliance with France’s Forestry Act, CNP Assurances 93% of residential properties and 92% of commercial properties. approved a sustainable management charter deﬁning the commitments of Société Forestière, the company in charge of managing its woodland. These commitments include managing the woodlands sustainably, A GENERAL AUDIT OF ENERGY PERFORMANCE protecting their biodiversity and pro-actively planning for the impact of climate change. To meet recent requirements introduced by France’s Grenelle I and II Acts, and pending the enactment of the relevant enabling The climate change issue is a key factor in managing our forests. legislation, 85% of CNP Assurances’s fully owned property In order to ensure the long-term health and value of the woodland, assets have already been assessed for energy efﬁciency. Action the management company selects transitional tree species adapted plan scenarios adapted to each building have been deﬁned in to current and future climates and pays increasing attention to the order to reduce CO2 emissions and energy use. The analysis soil moisture reserves in areas where new trees are being planted. includes estimates of the payback period and potential energy savings for each property. This gives us a clear overview of the energy weak spots in the portfolio as we prepare to respond to PROTECTING BIODIVERSITY the requirements of Grenelle II, building by building. Société Forestière is preparing environmental zoning maps and launches initiatives each year to protect biodiversity. For example, INVESTING IN SPECIFIC FUNDS in 2014, in the Voudenay Forest, maintaining an unbroken forest canopy and naturally growing plots without timber harvesting At end-2014, CNP Assurances had €45 million invested in private helped preserve very rich pockets of biodiversity. For several equity funds in the clean energy, clean industry and clean tech years, the Gaudinière Forest (over 2,000 hectares) has been sector. Investments in renewable energy infrastructure and water monitored by the not-for-proﬁt organisation Perche Nature to and waste treatment represented total assets of €128 million analyse bird nesting. The results were very promising in 2014: at 31 December 2014. An additional €388 million is invested 14 nesting boxes were occupied by tawny owls and 7 nests were directly in bonds issued to ﬁnance speciﬁc environmental projects occupied by hawks. Woodland management also prevents soil (“green bonds”). erosion and ensures water ﬁltration and puriﬁcation. In Brazil, Caixa Seguradora’s reforestation operations promote biodiversity, protect water resources and participate in soil conservation. 20 2014 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES CONTRIBUTE TO A SUSTAINABLE ECONOMY Apply responsible purchasing policies Priority No. 3 The Group’s larger entities (CNP Assurances and Caixa Seguradora) performance tracking processes. The online service enables were the ﬁrst to integrate CSR principles into their sourcing policy, purchasing managers to check these performances. The but other subsidiaries are also making progress in this area, information is compiled through a collaborative platform that particularly CNP UniCredit Vita, with its Green Group. covers 150 business sectors and 95 countries. Following the audit, suppliers receive detailed feedback on their CSR practices including a rating in four categories (environment, I CNP Assurances – social, ethics, responsible purchasing) and a list of their strengths and areas for improvement. deploying a commitment For each consultation or new listing (tender procedure), supplier CNP Assurances’s CSR principles are also put into practice evaluations are requested, and a programme has been put by the Purchasing department, with all buyers aware of these in place to rate the main suppliers every year. At end-2014, issues and most of them trained in CSR compliance. The Group’s 98 suppliers representing 37% of total purchases had been Ethical Purchasing Charter and the code of ethics govern buying evaluated. practices. The main calls for tenders and consultations include a CSR component that proposals must address in order to be considered. Having pledged to uphold the United Nations Global Compact, CNP Assurances systematically promotes its commitment to Other initiatives human rights among subcontractors and suppliers. Agreements include contractual clauses to protect workers. After contracts are signed, a CSR assessment of the main suppliers is carried out by I Combating money laundering, EcoVadis (see “A platform for supplier ESG audits”). terrorism and fraud Nearly all of CNP Assurances’s suppliers of goods and intellectual or other services are based in France. The use of subcontractors is mostly limited to intellectual services as well as printing, A SHARED REQUIREMENT mailing, enveloping, archiving, bulk data entry, call centre and maintenance services. As a ﬁnancial intermediary, we are deeply involved in the ﬁght against money laundering, the funding of terrorism and fraud. Given the business model, in France the main identiﬁcation, I Caixa Seguradora – CSR clauses “know your customer” and due diligence requirements are deﬁned in the agreements signed with distribution partners, who in all contracts are in direct contact with customers. These same requirements are also at the centre of the procedures applied by the international Since 2008, the Caixa Seguradora group has included CSR subsidiaries, in compliance with local regulations. clauses in its supplier contracts based on Global Compact principles (labour, the ﬁght against organised crime and drug trafﬁcking, the environment, fraud and money laundering). END-TO-END CONTROLS Contracts signed before 2008 have been amended to include these provisions. Suppliers and subcontractors working for the In addition to the internal control process and the ethical Caixa Seguradora group pledge to comply with regulations standards deployed throughout the organisation, a system of and act responsibly towards the environment. Non-compliance cross-functional controls is in place to monitor compliance with is grounds for termination of the contract or other appropriate procedures to combat money laundering, the funding of terrorism legal responses. and fraud on a regular basis. These controls are updated to take into account changes to the regulatory environment. I A platform for supplier Procedures stipulate the controls to be carried out, in particular by insurance advisors or distribution partners when dealing ESG audits with customers, as concerns for example verifying the identity of the person paying the premium and the method of payment. CNP Assurances has signed a partnership agreement with In addition to these controls, our management systems are EcoVadis to pool supplier environmental, social and ethical monitored throughout the Group to identify any anomalies. 2014 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES 21 CONTRIBUTE TO A SUSTAINABLE ECONOMY DEDICATED TEAMS W Cap on the value of gifts at MFPrévoyance (added to the internal code of conduct in 2014) Supported by 20 employees, a speciﬁc unit is dedicated to these controls at CNP Assurances, and any employee can check the W A code of conduct signed by all CNP Partners employees Group-wide anti-money laundering procedures on the intranet. W A code of conduct distributed annually at Caixa Seguradora. All subsidiaries have their own anti-money laundering teams who report to Executive Management. CODES ON SPECIFIC TOPICS SPECIFIC TRAINING Some more exposed professions have speciﬁc codes: Speciﬁc training is organised regularly in all subsidiaries. W the CNP Assurances code of conduct includes rules on conﬂicts of interests and gifts, and an ethical purchasing guide provides In 2013, all CNP Assurances employees were invited to a practical guidance on applying the 2006 purchasing code of presentation of measures to combat fraud, money laundering ethics in key situations encountered by the Company’s buyers and terrorism organised with one of our major partners. In 2014, CNP Assurances employees who are exposed to risks (2,200 W a speciﬁc code of ethics has also been prepared for Amétis people) took an e-learning course developed by the industry network insurance advisors and the Compliance unit veriﬁes federation (FFSA) and several major insurers. At end-2014, 85% that they comply with the regulations applicable to insurance of them had completed the training. Similarly, CNP BVP and sales. CNP UniCredit Vita employees received anti-money laundering training in 2014. TARGETED TRAINING I Ethics and In France, training based on the code of conduct was dispensed two years ago to all managers with supervisory roles, who then anti-corruption measures trained their staff with the help of a video and booklet. The programme was subsequently extended to all employees during All subsidiaries provide ethical guidelines through their standard Sustainable Development Week. operating procedures, charters or codes. In Italy, compulsory training was provided on corporate administrative responsibility. In Brazil, since 2012 the CODES FOR ALL ENTITIES Caixa Seguradora group has provided guidance on applying the Group’s code of ethics and code of conduct through its “The Procedures are in place to guarantee the traceability of all fund Challenge of the Code” training programme. A total of 92% of transfers, to prevent corruption. employees completed the training in 2014. Updated and expanded in 2010, the CNP Assurances code of conduct sets out standard operating procedures. It is posted on A CLEAR SET OF PROCEDURES GOVERNING the intranet and features in the Employee Orientation Guide for THE MANAGEMENT OF FINANCIAL ASSETS new hires. At the end of 2014, all employees were reminded of the rules governing corporate gifts and beneﬁts. All other entities This ethical vigilance also applies to CNP Assurances’s asset in the Group also have guidelines, speciﬁcations and regulations. management, particularly for sovereign debt portfolios where the country’s position in the Transparency International index is one W A code of conduct at CNP Assurances of three exclusionary criteria. W A code of ethics at CNP Argentina The ﬁght against corruption also extends to suppliers. W An ethics charter and code of conduct in Italy CNP Assurances’s purchasing contracts include a standard CSR clause requiring suppliers to commit to combating all forms of W An internal code of conduct at CNP BVP corruption, including on the part of their own suppliers and subW An ethical code incorporated into CNP CIH’s code of service, contractors. with details of the sanctions applied in the case of corruption 22 2014 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES ACONTRIBUTE TO A SUSTAINABLE ECONOMY I Contribution to national tax or wherever they are living, can obtain information about CNP Assurances’s General Meetings on the website of the bank or broker that keeps their securities account. revenues The CNP Assurances Group is primarily made up of insurance companies, personal service companies and many ﬁnancial THE REPRESENTATIVENESS OF THE BOARD investment vehicles. OF DIRECTORS CORPORATE INCOME TAX PAYMENTS The Articles of Association separate the functions of Chairman of the Board of Directors from the day-to-day management Europe responsibilities of the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer. The Board of Latin excluding Directors had 18 members as of 31 December 2014, including 2014 France America France Total four independent members, who make decisions as a group. Corporate income tax (In € millions) (401) (332) (40) (773) The membership of the Board of Directors is partly determined by the shareholders’ agreement and reﬂects the Company’s The Group’s insurance companies in France also paid more than ownership structure. It demonstrates the bonds of trust and the €1 billion in taxes on behalf of policyholders. working relationship that unite the Company and its distribution partners. I Shareholder relations As of 31 December 2014, 33% of Board members were women (six directors out of eighteen) and two committees of the Board (the Audit and Risks Committee and the Remuneration and Nominations Committee) were chaired by women. This gender INDIVIDUAL SHAREHOLDERS balance enabled CNP Assurances to take second place in the SBF 120 company rankings for female representation at Board The Company’s 140,000 individual shareholders are provided level. with regular information and can join the Shareholders’ Club, The Board also includes a director representing employees, which is open to all shareholders whatever the number of which goes beyond current regulatory obligations. shares held. They can also obtain information by calling a tollfree number, or by reading the annual shareholders’ guide and Four representatives of the Works Council attend Meetings of the periodic shareholder newsletters. Board of Directors. They voice employee concerns and present the Works Council’s requests to which, in accordance with the As of 31 December 2014, 1,615 employees and former Labour Code, the Board offers its response. employees held shares directly, representing 0.23% of the share capital. A further 1,200 or so employees are shareholders through the corporate mutual fund, with an average investment of €16,100 at end-2014. ORGANISATION OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS To make it easier to vote at General Meetings, proxy documents Details about the practices and organisation of the Board of were sent to the 2,700 individual registered shareholders in Directors are available in the Registration Document. 2014. All shareholders, whatever the number of shares held 2014 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES 23 Be an attractive employer By promoting each employee’s professional and personal development, we develop the skills that will make the Group W Priority No. 1: successful today and tomorrow. Our active diversity policy is Develop skill sets aligned with the Group’s illustrated by our youth training programmes, our programmes strategy to help people with disabilities to enter the workforce and our assertive promotion of gender equality in the workplace. W Priority No. 2: Provide a working environment that fosters well-being and performance W Priority No. 3: Deploy an assertive gender equality policy Total number of employees: Training: Proportion of women senior managers 4,705 20 in the Group: hours of training a year on average per employee 33% 24 2014 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES BE AN ATTRACTIVE EMPLOYER Develop skill sets aligned with the Group’s strategy Priority No. 1 I Human Resources planning – The new joint subsidiary of CNP Assurances and Banco Santander, which had 32 employees as of 31 December 2014, is not included in this section (see “Methodology”). prudently managing headcount CNP Assurances is prudent when it comes to managing headcount. The total number of CNP Assurances employees with GROUP EMPLOYEES permanent contracts declined in 2014. This was in line with the budget objective of reducing general operating expenses, but it The CNP Assurances Group had a total of 4,705 employees also reﬂected the effects of the downsizing plan at CNP CIH and as of 31 December 2014, representing a decrease of 2% from the decision to operate CNP Europe Life’s business on a run-off 2013. basis. 5,000 In practice, the decrease was due to: Wa signiﬁcant increase in resignations, particularly in 4,000 international subsidiaries, and a large, but stable number of retirements compared with 2013 3,000 W greater vigilance in replacing people who left the Group, with positions left vacant no longer ﬁlled systematically in the 2,000 sluggish economic environment 1,000 W targeted hiring focused on speciﬁc technical skills W an increased focus on internal mobility, with most vacant 0 positions ﬁlled last year by internal candidates. 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Almost all employees (99%) are covered by local insurance Constant scope Scope changes* industry collective bargaining agreements. The only exceptions, * The reporting scope changed in 2013 to include work-study contracts. in accordance with local regulations, are in Ireland and for In 2011, MFPrévoyance was added to the reporting scope. 23 executives in Argentina. EMPLOYEE BREAKDOWN BY ENTITY 163 69 10 69 164 283 799 3,009 63 76 CNP Assurances (France) CNP Partners (Spain) MFPrévoyance (France) CNP BVP (Spain) LBP Prévoyance (France) CNP UniCredit Vita (Italy) Caixa Seguradora (Brazil) CNP Argentina (Argentina) CNP CIH (Cyprus/Greece) CNP Europe Life (Ireland) 2014 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES 25 BE AN ATTRACTIVE EMPLOYER Percentage of employees under permanent contracts Percentage of women Average age Geographic distribution CNP Assurances (France) 95% 61 46 61% in Paris 12.6% in Arcueil 16% in Angers 10% in regional ofﬁces MFPrévoyance (France) 92% 72 42 All in Paris LBP Prévoyance (France) 94% 64 39 All in Paris Caixa Seguradora (Brazil) 100% 57 37 77% in Brasilia, 23% in regional ofﬁces CNP CIH (Cyprus and Greece) 98% 70 44 75% in Cyprus, 25% in Greece CNP Partners (Spain) 88% 60 41 77% in Madrid 19% in Milan and 4% in Paris CNP BVP (Spain) 90% 64 41 60% in Spain, 30% in Portugal and 10% in Italy CNP UniCredit Vita (Italy) 96% 40.5 40 All in Milan CNP Argentina (Argentina) 99% 48 34 95% in Buenos Aires CNP Europe Life (Ireland) 100% 30 40 All in Dublin AVERAGE 96% 60 43 WORKFORCE BREAKDOWN BY AGE (%) 100 90 80 70 65 and over 60 60-64 50 55-59 50-54 40 45-49 30 40-44 35-39 20 30-34 10 25-29 0 20-24 e) nce) ) nce l) azi ) ece ain) ) ain ly) a) tin d) anc Fra Fra (Br Gre Sp (Sp (Ita lan (Fr s( ita gen (Ire ces e( e( ra s/ ner VP it V (Ar Life ran anc anc ado pru art PB na voy voy gur (Cy PP CN red nti pe ssu Pré Pré Se IH niC rge uro PA MF xa PC CN PU PA PE CN LBP Cai CN CN CN CN The average age of employees under permanent contracts CNP Assurances’s workforce includes 151 civil servants currently stands at 43 years. The breakdown by gender and age seconded from Caisse des Dépôts, 57% of whom are managers. reﬂects the situation in the insurance industry in each country. Women comprised 60% of the Group’s workforce in 2014, unchanged from 2013. 26 2014 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES BE AN ATTRACTIVE EMPLOYER BREAKDOWN BY PROFESSION AT CNP ASSURANCES In 2014, this internal mobility dynamic maintained by the number 6.2% 4.6% of separations was boosted by the career opportunities arising 2.8% 8% from the reorganisation around business units and the creation 3.1% of Group functions. 1.8% 2% With external hires limited to speciﬁc skills not available within the Group, the dynamic is sustained by personalised support for employees in developing and implementing a career plan, particularly those who want to work towards a diploma (see 17.1% “Training”), as well as integration and training support in their new position. 30.4% In 2014, most of the positions open to external candidates concerned ﬁnance professionals, actuaries, risk managers and 1.5% insurance advisors. The Human Resources department has deployed a wide variety 10.2% of search techniques to ﬁll wealth manager positions in the regions, such as email campaigns focused on target proﬁles in 12.2% Viadeo, reviews of job-seeker ads on Indeed, posting of ads Actuaries/statisticians Finance, accounting, budget control on regional employment websites, and reviews of databases Project management support Policy administration backed by major job boards. These innovations halved the time Building management/logistics Legal taken to hire the required proﬁles. Sales/Marketing including Amétis network Management Communication Human resources Research and advisory Secretarial SEPARATIONS Annual SeparaNumber of Number of HIRING turnover tions dismissals resignations CNP Assurances (France) 3.9% 252 4 44 All vacant positions (388 Group-wide) were ﬁlled in 2014. MFPrévoyance (France) 10.6% 21 1 3 The Group did not encounter any particular hiring problems. LBP Prévoyance (France) 10.2% 7 1 4 Caixa Seguradora (Brazil) 14.0% 111 51 60 New hires CNP CIH (Cyprus and Greece) 8.0% 22 12 CNP Assurances (France) 177 CNP Partners (Spain) 11.0% 19 3 13 MFPrévoyance (France) 27 CNP BVP (Spain) 10.4% 9 1 8 LBP Prévoyance (France) 10 CNP UniCredit Vita (Italy) 3.3% 9 2 3 Caixa Seguradora (Brazil) 97 CNP Argentina (Argentina) 27.5% 19 8 8 CNP CIH (Cyprus and Greece) 16 CNP Europe Life (Ireland) 28.0% 4 4 CNP Partners (Spain) 31 TOTAL 6.7% 473 71 159 CNP BVP (Spain) 7 CNP UniCredit Vita (Italy) 14 Turnover within the Group’s entities reﬂects the varying situations CNP Argentina (Argentina) 9 in 2014, remaining low at CNP Assurances (3.9%), but much higher at MFPrévoyance (10.6%) although this represented an CNP Europe Life (Ireland) 0 improvement on 2013. The Caixa Seguradora group’s employee TOTAL 388 turnover rate was well controlled in 2014, at 14% compared with 21% for the Brazilian insurance industry. Similarly, turnover at CNP CIH was kept at 8% despite the economic environment. A TARGETED HIRING POLICY FOR CNP ASSURANCES The increase in resignations was due to the low basis of CNP Assurances has a well-established internal mobility policy. comparison in 2013 at Caixa Seguradora. The year-on-year Nearly all vacant positions are ﬁlled by drawing on the skills decrease in the number of retirements reﬂected the high basis available within the organisation. This strategy meets two of comparison created by the voluntary early-retirement plan at objectives: it keeps overall employee numbers under control in a CNP CIH in 2013. sluggish economic environment, while giving existing employees At CNP Assurances, half of the separations involving employees the chance to move up in their career. under permanent contracts were due to retirements, consistent with the age pyramid. 2014 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES 27 BE AN ATTRACTIVE EMPLOYER MERGERS/ACQUISITIONS/DISPOSALS/ CNP ASSURANCES EMPLOYEES, BY LENGTH OF SERVICE RESTRUCTURING 4.7% 13.8% None of the Group’s entities carried out a restructuring plan in 2014. CNP CIH avoided implementing a redundancy plan, 24.2% thanks to the measures taken in Cyprus and Greece following the crisis that affected these countries in 2013. 10.5% FOCUSING ON EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT CNP Assurances has a well-established internal mobility policy. Nearly all vacant positions are ﬁlled by drawing on the skills 15.8% available within the organisation. In 2014, 74% of permanent positions were ﬁlled by internal candidates, providing scope for targeted external hiring to strengthen the core skills needed to implement the Group’s strategy. 31.0% Alongside the managed policy of opening vacant positions Less than 3 years 16-21 years to internal candidates, internal mobility was further boosted 3-9 years 22-27 years by the programme of personalised support for employees in 10-15 years 28 years and over developing and implementing a career plan. In 2014, more than 400 employees took up internal mobility opportunities and 150 employees were promoted. Every year, managers are asked to conduct a performance USE OF OUTSIDE CONTRACTORS – review with each member of their team. In 2014, 95% of Group LIMITED AND SUPERVISED OUTSOURCING employees participated in performance appraisals. Annual performance reviews offer a special opportunity for face time between managers and their team members, allowing them Outside contractors to go over the events of the past year, highlight the reviewee’s CNP Assurances (France) 152 (including 74 for cleaning, 48 for security, strengths and areas for improvement, establish expectations and 19 for maintenance, and 8 for reception). IT (CNP TI intercompany partnership): 366 objectives for the coming year, and also discuss the reviewee’s career plans. MFPrévoyance (France) 2 for IT and 2 for technical, ﬁnancial and accounting services LBP Prévoyance (France) 2 for cleaning, 1 for IT and 2 for security SENIORITY – LOYAL EMPLOYEES Caixa Seguradora (Brazil) 338 for reception, security, cleaning, IT and administration The average length of service in the Group was 13 years in CNP CIH 15 for cleaning, 2 for security, 15 for IT, (Cyprus and Greece) 3 for administration 2014 (15 years for CNP Assurances employees and 36 years CNP Partners (Spain) 52 (including 50 for IT) for seconded civil servants), unchanged from the previous year. A third of CNP Assurances employees have been with the CNP BVP (Spain) 1 for cleaning, 1 for maintenance (shared with CNP Partners), 5 for IT, 2 for document management Company for between 10 and 15 years. CNP UniCredit Vita (Italy) 24 (including 9 for IT) CNP Argentina (Argentina) 18 (including 8 for IT) Average length of service (in years) CNP Europe Life (Ireland) 1 for cleaning CNP Assurances (France) 16 CNP Assurances makes limited use of outside contractors MFPrévoyance (France) 7 for specialised non-core operations. A total of 152 outside LBP Prévoyance (France) 2 contractors were used in 2014 compared with 157 in 2013. IT operations have been transferred to an intercompany partnership Caixa Seguradora (Brazil) 7 established in 2012 (CNP TI). CNP CIH (Cyprus and Greece) 14 CNP Partners (Spain) 9 More temporary employees were used in 2014, in line with the decrease in the number and duration of ﬁxed-term contracts CNP BVP (Spain) 9 (excluding youth-employment contracts), reﬂecting the decision CNP UniCredit Vita (Italy) 7 to make more balanced use of these two sources of temporary CNP Argentina (Argentina) 5 support. CNP Europe Life (Ireland) 4 AVERAGE 13 28 2014 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES BE AN ATTRACTIVE EMPLOYER The signiﬁcant number of outside contractors used by the training course and 73 employees were able to work towards a Caixa Seguradora group and CNP Partners reﬂects their diploma, in order to fulﬁl their professional ambitions within the decision to outsource IT operations (186 contractors). Like Group, bringing this number to over 140 employees in the last CNP Assurances, both entities ensure that the employees two years (2013/2014). concerned are accorded the full protection of applicable labour CNP Assurances organised various training initiatives in 2014. legislation (see “Apply responsible purchasing policies”). These included courses on social protection and services to support the Group in its ambitions, and on wealth management products for high net worth customers. The usual training I Training – a strong and programmes were organised for insurance advisors, while regulatory compliance training included a new anti-money sustained commitment laundering campaign. Other programmes concerned Solvency II and management techniques. In addition, all employees were encouraged to take part in an e-learning initiative on writing INVESTING HEAVILY IN TRAINING emails within the scope of the Group’s discretionary proﬁt-sharing plan (corresponding to one of the plan’s indicators). Percentage of More people received training in 2014 in nearly all Group Training budget the workforce entities. The main training area is insurance techniques, followed as a percentage that received Number of by computer/ofﬁce systems, sales and marketing, personal of payroll training training hours development, management skills and languages. In addition, CNP Assurances (France) 5.1% 90% 59,713 during the last two years, targeted training initiatives have been MFPrévoyance (France) 3.2% 71% 1,522 organised to expand the risk management skills base. Individual training needs and requests are generally discussed during the LBP Prévoyance (France) 2.8% 100% 671 annual performance reviews. Group training needs are analysed Caixa Seguradora (Brazil) 3.8% 89% 20,509 when the annual training plans are drawn up. CNP CIH (Cyprus) 0.3% 37% 1,877 In 2014, CNP UniCredit Vita organised special diversity training CNP Partners (Spain) 0.4% 89% 1,239 for all middle and senior managers. This was the case as well CNP BVP (Spain) 0.4% 76% 1,089 in CNP CIH where 37% of employees (Cyprus) beneﬁted from CNP UniCredit Vita (Italy) 2.8% 96% 7,022 a special management training programme as well as other CNP Argentina (Argentina) 0.8% 100% 1,350 training. CNP Europe Life (Ireland) 1.0% 100% 27 MFPrévoyance pursued its ambitious training drive, representing TOTAL 4.2% 87% 95,019 more than 3% of payroll, to structure the acquisition of professional skills by its teams, particularly those concerned by Solvency II. The Caixa Seguradora group focused in particular on manager PERCENTAGE OF CNP ASSURANCES EMPLOYEES training and coaching programmes in 2014. WHO RECEIVED TRAINING BY CATEGORY 100 90 80 I Remuneration 70 Average annual 2014 across-the60 remuneration board pay rise 50 CNP Assurances (France) €56,181 0.7% 40 MFPrévoyance (France) €40,277 0.4% 30 LBP Prévoyance (France) €63,125 1.4% 20 Caixa Seguradora (Brazil) R$ 64,337 6.7% 10 CNP CIH (Cyprus and Greece) €36,052 0.0% 0 CNP Partners (Spain) €49,366 2.2% Category 2 Category 3 Category 4 Category 5 Category 6 Category 7 Senior managers CNP BVP (Spain) €47,006 2.2% CNP UniCredit Vita (Italy) €53,778 0.7% CNP Argentina (Argentina) ARS 292,122 34.0% CNP Europe Life (Ireland) €57,532 0% A WIDE RANGE OF TRAINING COURSES For the consolidated CNP Assurances Group, the average acrossDeveloping employee skills is at the centre of CNP Assurances’s the-board pay rise was 2.25%, with variations among countries Human Resources policies. In recent years, CNP Assurances has due to varying rates of inﬂation (nearly 40% in Argentina) and invested the equivalent of over 5% of payroll in training to boost economic conditions (Cyprus and Greece). internal mobility and help all employees prepare for changes in the Group’s professions. In 2014, 90% of employees attended a 2014 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES 29 BE AN ATTRACTIVE EMPLOYER AVERAGE ANNUAL REMUNERATION (IN EUROS) At CNP Assurances, €6,570,561 was paid out under the FOR CNP ASSURANCES EMPLOYEES discretionary proﬁt-sharing plan in 2014, €17,278,647 was 57,000 paid out under the statutory proﬁt-sharing plan, and €526,480 56,000 in proﬁt-related bonuses were paid to seconded civil servants. 55,000 Employee savings: at 31 December 2014, CNP Assurances 54,000 employees (excluding seconded civil servants) had invested 53,000 €126,836,700 in employee savings plans. 52,000 Employee share ownership: at 31 December 2014, 51,000 1,615 employees held shares directly and 1,166 via the 50,000 employee savings plan, representing 0.23% of the share capital. 49,000 All CNP Assurances and LBP Prévoyance employees are covered 48,000 by supplementary health and death/disability insurance, a 47,000 separate long-term care insurance policy and a life insurance/ 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 pension plan with matching employer contributions. They are also eligible to participate in a “time savings account” and invest in a PERCO voluntary pension plan. Provide a working environment that fosters well-being and performance Priority No. 2 The Group’s Human Resources policy focuses on developing EMPLOYEE REPRESENTATION AND PROTECTION conditions that foster employee well-being at work and promotes personal enrichment and group performance. This not only requires Social dialogue is a priority throughout the CNP Assurances a good understanding of stress factors and the deployment of Group. There is at least one employee representative in personalised support measures for struggling employees, but also all subsidiaries except CNP Europe Life which has only a variety of employee/employer relations channels. ten employees. The Caixa Seguradora group does not have a staff delegate. However, in accordance with the rules set out in the union of insurance workers’ agreement, a representative I A variety of employee/employer of employees and the union president participate in meetings between employee and management representatives. 99% of relations channels Group employees are covered by an insurance industry collective bargaining agreement (except for employees and managers in Ireland and senior managers in Argentina, in accordance with ORGANISATION: VARIOUS FORUMS local laws). In total, 146 meetings between employees and FOR EMPLOYEE REPRESENTATION management were held at the Group’s various entities in 2014. Number WORKING WITH EMPLOYEE REPRESENTATIVE BODIES of AT CNP ASSURANCES meetings Agreements signed in 2014 3 Annual pay agreement with trade In keeping with CNP Assurances’s tradition and past agreements unions, addendum to the discretionary on union rights, the Human Resources department maintains proﬁt-sharing agreement, 7th agreement on CNP Assurances (France) 88 the employment of people with disabilities regular, high quality dialogue with the various employee 3 Annual pay agreement with trade representative bodies (national and European Works Councils, unions, working hours agreement, gender employee representatives and Occupational Health, Safety and MFPrévoyance (France) 16 equality agreement Working Conditions Committee) and with union representatives, LBP Prévoyance (France) 12 1 Annual pay agreement with trade unions giving due consideration to the roles of everyone involved and Caixa Seguradora (Brazil) 1 1 Proﬁt-sharing agreement going beyond compliance with regulatory requirements. CNP CIH The frequency of these meetings increased signiﬁcantly in the last (Cyprus and Greece) 10 0 two years, due to the consultation process with the Occupational CNP Partners (Spain) 5 0 Health, Safety and Working Conditions Committee and the CNP BVP (Spain) 1 0 Works Council concerning the Group’s reorganisation. In all, CNP UniCredit Vita (Italy) 3 0 around 40 meetings were held over a period of 15 months and employees were consulted directly in a two-phased process to CNP Argentina (Argentina) 10 1 Collective agreement ﬁnd out how they felt about the reorganisation. CNP Europe Life (Ireland) 0 0 TOTAL 146 30 2014 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES BE AN ATTRACTIVE EMPLOYER AGREEMENTS TO IMPROVE EMPLOYMENT Group on its various Human Resources activities. Since 2013, CONDITIONS CNP Assurances has deployed a number of initiatives to help managers communicate effectively with their teams. Various CNP Assurances has agreements covering the main areas: management circles have been identiﬁed and communication classiﬁcation and remuneration through the labour adjustment processes have been established, including conference calls with agreement, working hours (ARTT agreement), gender equality, the CEO, special seminars, employee discussion forums, etc. employees with disabilities, union resources, psychosocial For example, in 2014, the 250 main managers with supervisory risks, PERCO voluntary pension plan, discretionary proﬁtroles were involved in the work led by the Executive Committee sharing, statutory proﬁt-sharing, etc. In addition, an action to develop action guidelines on managerial behaviour and how plan was adopted in connection with the French government’s to be and act individually in order for the group to perform well inter-generational contract initiative to facilitate young people’s as a team. Four guiding principles were established: customer access to sustainable jobs under permanent contracts, to help focus, initiative, inventiveness and conﬁdence. keep seniors in work, and to ensure that knowledge and skills are passed on. In 2014, CNP Assurances signed an annual pay agreement with trade unions, an addendum to the discretionary proﬁt-sharing agreement and the seventh agreement on I Promoting awareness employment of people with disabilities. of psychosocial risks The 2015-2018 agreement on the employment of people with disabilities: six successive agreements signed since 1995 have and support systems shaped corporate policy and helped to change views about employing people with disabilities, implement practical measures and develop partnerships with specialised organisations. A KEY CONCERN AT CNP ASSURANCES In this seventh agreement, the signatories have reafﬁrmed their commitment to promoting measures to help people with As a service company, CNP Assurances has paid particular disabilities to enter and remain in the workforce. This shared attention to preventing stress and psychosocial risks over the political commitment is one of the Human Resources policies last ten years. Through its various initiatives (in-house mediation developed by CNP Assurances in keeping with the Group’s service, management training, outside counselling available to ethical, moral and civic values. all employees, etc.), it has created an environment that helps limit the occurrence of these risks. Having exceeded the 50-employee threshold in 2014, LBP Prévoyance established a new framework for social dialogue The agreement on this subject signed with trade union with, for example, the ﬁrst annual pay round meeting with trade representatives in April 2012 provides a practical, shared union representatives and the ﬁrst consultation of the Works framework in the shape of measures to identify, prevent and Council concerning the training programme. manage psychosocial risks. Three new agreements were signed at MFPrévoyance in 2014 A psychosocial risks and stress audit was carried out in 2013 concerning working hours, gender equality and the annual pay to analyse employees’ perceptions of working conditions and agreement with trade unions. Agreements were signed in Brazil their experiences. Levels of exposure to psychosocial risks were on employee proﬁt-sharing, and new collective agreements were slightly less than those observed in a similar study carried out in signed at CNP CIH and CNP Argentina. 2005. An action plan was implemented in 2014 for the period covered by the agreement. Spending on social and cultural activities for Group employees represented 1.6% of payroll in 2014. The easy to use, anonymous group discussion platform provided for in the 2012 agreement is now up and running. Managers answer the questions raised in plenary sessions and the questions THE EUROPEAN DIMENSION and answers are then posted on the platform. Around 50 such meetings were held in 2014. The European Works Council met twice in 2014, including In-house mediation: The in-house mediation service aims to prevent an extraordinary session to discuss the planned sale of and deal with allegations of harassment and discrimination, CNP Assurances’s interest in CNP BVP in Spain following stress and everyday conﬂicts. In 2014, it received 60 referrals, Barclay’s decision to dispose of its Spanish banking network, most of which concerned requests for advice and support. and business developments in Greece and Cyprus. A dedicated commission: A commission set up under the 2012 agreement with trade union representatives on psychosocial risks CNP ASSURANCES’S FOCUS ON MANAGERIAL (notably to handle situations involving groups of employees) COMMUNICATION meets quarterly in each of the Paris, Angers and Arcueil facilities. All employees also have access to a 24/7 hotline operated by Managerial communication is central to employee relations, Filassistance all year round, if they need to talk to someone. supported by the HR intranet that centralises information from the 2014 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES 31 BE AN ATTRACTIVE EMPLOYER MULTIPLE INITIATIVES IN EACH SUBSIDIARY CNP UniCredit Vita, which had the highest overtime rate, has revised the corporate agreement on Friday working hours to W The CEOs of the foreign subsidiaries all receive anti-stress reduce overtime. training Number of hours W Caixa Seguradora and CNP BVP have developed programmes per year for full-time Percentage of partto promote overall well-being at work, through initiatives to employees time employees reduce employee stress levels and avoid occupational illnesses. Caixa Seguradora also organises a “health in the workplace” CNP Assurances (France) 1,575 21% week every year MFPrévoyance (France) 1,575 11% LBP Prévoyance (France) 1,608 2% W MFPrévoyance’s occupational Health, Safety and Working Caixa Seguradora (Brazil) 1,980 0% Conditions Committee started paying particular attention to psychosocial risks in 2012, and a special training course has CNP CIH (Cyprus and Greece) 1,800 0% been included in the management training program CNP Partners (Spain) 1,700 0% W CNP Argentina’s code of ethics provides for the implementation CNP BVP (Spain) 1,700 4% of accident and occupational illness prevention programmes CNP UniCredit Vita (Italy) 1,601 6% W CNP CIH has a team dedicated to regularly communicating CNP Argentina (Argentina) 1,944 1% on workplace health and safety risks, and has supported the CNP Europe Life (Ireland) 1,808 10% Ministry of Labour’s “health and safety week” for several years AVERAGE 1,671 14% W CNP UniCredit Vita introduced compulsory health and safety training for employees in 2013, followed in 2014 by stress management courses for middle managers ADVANCED PART-TIME WORKING PRACTICES W Mutual Universal (mutual insurer for occupational risks) is Apart from four employees at CNP Partners, all Group employees responsible for occupational risk prevention measures for who work part-time chose to do so. At Group level, part-time CNP Partners employees. employees represent 14% of the workforce. At CNP Assurances, 21% of the employees worked part-time in 2014, and almost all of them chose to work 80% or more of total working hours. PartI Organisation of working hours time employees are entitled to all of the same beneﬁts as full-time employees. ANNUAL NUMBER OF HOURS FLEXIBLE WORKING TIME MANAGEMENT At consolidated Group level, annual working hours range from 1,575 to 1,980, depending on local legislation. At In addition, 68% of the workforce at CNP Assurances have CNP Assurances and MFPrévoyance, full time corresponds to personalised working hours to help them achieve better work/life 1,575 hours per year (ARTT agreement of November 2001). balance and organise their working hours based on professional The number of overtime hours stood at 23,918 in 2014, obligations. representing an overtime rate of 0.29% versus 0.34% in 2013. 32 2014 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES BE AN ATTRACTIVE EMPLOYER I Health and safety ABSENTEEISM In 2014, the Group absenteeism rate rose very slightly. 10% 9% 8% 7% 6% 5% 4% 3% 2% 1% 0% e) nce ) ) nce l) azi ) ece ) ain ) ain ly) tin a) d) anc Fra Fra (Br Gre Sp (Sp (Ita lan (Fr s( ita gen (Ire ces e( e( ra s/ ner VP it V (Ar Life ran anc anc ado pru art PB na voy voy gur (Cy PP CN red nti pe ssu Pré Pré Se IH niC rge uro PA MF xa PC CN PU PA PE CN LBP Cai CN CN CN CN Absenteeism rate excluding maternity leave Maternity leave absenteeism rate HEALTH AND SAFETY offers employees additional preventative care from specialist doctors. A social worker is also available during ofﬁce hours. One victim of an occupational illness was reported in the Group. The Company’s training programme includes road safety training There were no deaths in 2014 resulting from a workplace modules for travelling insurance advisors. Prevention initiatives accident or occupational illness. are organised on a regular basis, such as ﬂu vaccination campaigns and a conference on cancer at the Angers facility. NUMBER OF OCCUPATIONAL ACCIDENTS WITHIN THE GROUP Similar initiatives are organised by Caixa Seguradora, including 34 33 on-site nutritionist services, annual assessments of the programme 35 to prevent workplace risks, and on-site medical check-ups. 30 30 30 CNP CIH has teams in both Cyprus and Greece responsible for 23 informing employees about health and safety risks. 25 19 18 20 WORKPLACE HEALTH AND SAFETY AGREEMENTS 15 In all, 99.3% of the Group’s employees are covered by collective 10 agreements dealing with the main health and safety issues. 5 The Occupational Health, Safety and Working Conditions Committee acts on behalf of all CNP Assurances’s employees as 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 well as outside service providers working on its premises. It meets once a month. Every year, a programme is drawn up to prevent risks and improve working conditions. At CNP Assurances, there were 11 lost-time accidents in 2014. The CNAM-measured lost-time incident frequency rate for 2013 In addition to supplementary health insurance, CNP Assurances was 1.2% for Paris with a severity rate of 0.19%. The rate for employees are covered by death/disability insurance with an 2014 will not be published by the CNAM until later in 2015. optional long-term care formula. Collective agreements with MFPrévoyance’s Occupational Health, Safety and Working CNP Assurances is committed to ensuring the health and safety Conditions Committee also include supplementary health of its employees. Numerous health improvement programmes and death/disability insurance. CNP Partners also has an have been established by Group entities: CNP Assurances has Occupational Health, Safety and Working Conditions Committee, independent Occupational Health units at its main facilities and which met twice in 2014. 2014 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES 33 BE AN ATTRACTIVE EMPLOYER Deploy an assertive gender equality policy Priority No. 3 The gender equality story Intergenerational contract Seal of Diversity obtained action plan 1995 2009 2011 2013 2014 First diversity commitment Second gender equality Seventh agreement agreement signed on the integration of people with disabilities I A strong Group-wide policy A commitment applied across the Group: The commitment to ﬁghting discrimination is shared across the Group, and features in CNP Assurances’s code of conduct, the Caixa Seguradora group’s We are dedicated to integrating school-leavers and people with code of conduct and CNP Argentina’s code of ethics. CNP CIH’s disabilities in the workplace, and promoting gender equality. We code of service addresses the issues of discrimination, privacy, also constantly strive to prevent all forms of discrimination. freedom of religion, and respect for each employee. A collective CNP Assurances’s assertive diversity and anti-discrimination agreement on this subject was also signed by MFPrévoyance in policy earned it the Seal of Diversity in 2009 and this certiﬁcation 2011. was renewed in 2014. The policy is based in particular on three A working group set up in 2013 to examine ways of promoting company agreements on gender equality, disabilities and union diversity at CNP UniCredit Vita recommended a number of resources, as well as an action plan to implement the French initiatives that were launched in 2014. These included asking all government’s inter-generational contract initiative. employees to ﬁll out a diversity questionnaire and using the results The results of this policy are illustrated not only by the Seal of to draw up an action plan. CNP UniCredit Vita also participated Diversity but also by several indicators: in a diversity survey conducted by Milan University in 2014, and joined Valore D, an Italian non-proﬁt that promotes gender W in 2014, CNP Assurances moved up to second place in the diversity, increasing the proportion of women in management French Ministry for Social Affairs, Health and Women’s rights positions, and work/life balance. ranking of the top 120 most advanced French companies in terms of gender equality, particularly the proportion of women A continual improvement process: Every year, the CNP Assurances on the Board and other governance bodies Diversity Steering Committee set up in 2010 reviews the actions undertaken in each area of the business to ensure that W employees with disabilities represented 5.3% of consistent policies are applied throughout the organisation. CNP Assurances’s workforce as of 31 December 2014, and Career management and performance review processes uphold the Company has just signed its seventh internal agreement the principle of non-discrimination. Conferences in Arcueil on this subject with three union organisations for 2015-2018 and Angers helped managers understand and become aware W employee representatives who devote more than half of their of stereotypes and how to combat them. Over 300 managers working time to these duties receive a salary increase each received training, particularly on equal opportunity in hiring. year at least equal to the average of the individual raises of all Various mechanisms have been put in place to ensure that the employees in their professional category. application of the diversity policy is regularly monitored and an annual diversity report is presented to employee representatives. 34 2014 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES BE AN ATTRACTIVE EMPLOYER I Promoting gender equality in the workplace The proportion of women in management and senior management positions is growing in the Group. Percentage of Percentage of Average male/female income women managers women senior managers ratio by category CNP Assurances (France) 51% 35% 102% MFPrévoyance (France) 62% 0% 97% LBP Prévoyance (France) 62% 40% 98% Caixa Seguradora (Brazil) 44% 10% 122% CNP CIH (Cyprus and Greece) 36% 25% 112% CNP Partners (Spain) 47% 52% 115% CNP BVP (Spain) 40% 40% 95% CNP UniCredit Vita (Italy) 35% 13% 105% CNP Argentina (Argentina) 50% 33% 113% CNP Europe Life (Ireland) 0% 0% N/A AVERAGE 50% 33% 109% CNP Assurances constantly strives to reduce any observed gender Over the last 20 years, we have implemented an assertive policy gaps in remuneration and promotion. The second agreement to help people with disabilities enter the workforce. A seventh on gender equality signed with trade union representatives on four-year agreement signed in 2014 describes CNP Assurances’s 18 November 2011 sets measurable goals in terms of gender commitment to helping people with disabilities enter and stay in the parity, promotions, training and work/life balance. Particular workforce. Including the 113 disabled employees on permanent attention is paid to women returning to work from maternity contracts and the employees of the 35 sheltered workshops used leave. by the Company, the proportion of disabled employees stood at 5.3% of the workforce as of 31 December 2014. The proportion of women on the Board of Directors and the Executive Committee has increased steadily in recent years, Disabled access audits have been conducted at all reaching 33% and over 38% respectively at the end of 2014. To CNP Assurances’s facilities, in conjunction with the Occupational advance the cause of women in the workplace, CNP Assurances Health, Safety and Working Conditions Committee. The audits belongs to several women’s networks: Financi’elles, a network carried out in 2011 at the two main facilities in Paris found that for women managers in insurance, banking and ﬁnance, and the buildings were respectively 77.4% and 73.2% accessible to Alter’égales, the network for women managers working in the the disabled. In 2014, before CNP Assurances employees moved Caisse des Dépôts Group. A survey conducted by Financi’elles into a new building in Paris, an accessibility audit was carried in 2014 showed that CNP Assurances is seen by its employees out and the recommendations from the audit were implemented. as a company that promotes diversity. Percentage of disabled employees I Employment and integration CNP Assurances (France) 5.3% of employees with disabilities MFPrévoyance (France) LBP Prévoyance (France) 2.6% 0% Caixa Seguradora (Brazil) 0.7% NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES WITH DISABILITIES CNP CIH (Cyprus and Greece) 0% WITHIN THE CNP ASSURANCES GROUP CNP Partners (Spain) 0% CNP BVP (Spain) 0% 153 160 CNP UniCredit Vita (Italy) 5.5% 135 130 CNP Argentina (Argentina) 0% 140 112 111 CNP Europe Life (Ireland) 0% 120 AVERAGE 3.7% 100 89 80 73 The Caixa Seguradora group frequently uses organisations that promote employment of people with disabilities to circulate job 60 offers. 40 20 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2014 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES 35 BE AN ATTRACTIVE EMPLOYER I Fighting age discrimination W speciﬁc awareness programmes on disabilities are carried out from time to time Wa new manager training course on stereotypes will be organised as part of the gender parity agreement as from HIRING YOUNG PEOPLE 2014/2015 CNP Assurances makes every effort to help young people to W a new manager training course on managing inter-generational ﬁnd employment. In 2014, permanent employees aged under teams was launched in 2013 25 accounted for 3% of the workforce. An action plan to implement the French government’s inter-generational contract W in 2013, Caixa Seguradora developed awareness initiatives to help teams welcome disabled workers initiative was drawn up in 2013, describing CNP Assurances’s commitment to helping young people ﬁnd lasting employment W one-day diversity training courses are organised for middle under a permanent contract. In 2014, 17 were hired under and senior managers at CNP UniCredit Vita. In 2014, this action plan, and at end-2014, CNP Assurances employed 57 managers took part in the course. more than 100 school-leavers under work-study contracts. MFPrévoyance signed an inter-generational contract with employee representatives in 2013. Caixa Seguradora has set up a young apprentices programme I Compliance with and promotion to promote the hiring of young people whose family income is of the fundamental ILO less than half the national minimum wage. conventions In keeping with their pledge to support the UN Global Compact, EMPLOYING SENIORS CNP Assurances, CNP Argentina, the Caixa Seguradora group and CNP UniCredit Vita closely monitor compliance with local CNP Assurances had 30 seniors on ﬁxed-term contracts at endlabour laws and regulations. 2014, including 14 who were hired during the year. Employees All of the subsidiaries share the four overriding principles of over 55 accounted for more than 20% of the workforce at endrespect for human rights, freedom of association, the right to 2014, representing an increase of nearly 1 percentage point collective bargaining, long-term support for employees and the compared with end-2013. CNP Assurances’s inter-generational promotion of equal opportunity. Each one submits an Annual plan sets measurable goals for the hiring and retention of seniors. Report on their HR performance to CNP Assurances, with a In 2014, two ﬁxed-term contracts for seniors were converted into special focus on these four criteria. Measures guaranteeing permanent contracts. respect for civil and political rights at CNP Assurances include In 2014, 68 people participated in the “30s Club” set up in the Company’s internal code of conduct, the appointment of application of the inter-generational plan. The club enables a liaison ofﬁcer for dealings with the French data protection young people on permanent contracts who are going to turn 30 agency (CNIL) and agreements on union rights. during the year to meet employees who have 30 years of service Employees are covered by insurance industry collective with the Company. bargaining agreements (except for employees and managers in Ireland and senior managers in Argentina). CNP Assurances ensures that employee representatives enjoy the same training I Promoting diversity through and promotion opportunities as other staff members. communication Our compliance with the ILO’s fundamental conventions is reﬂected in our relations with suppliers and sub-contractors The internal diversity communication plan is reviewed annually. (see “Apply responsible purchasing policies”), in our use of The plan allows employees to report any complaints regarding ESG screens in the selection of ﬁnancial assets (these screens alleged or actual discrimination. It can be accessed via the are applied to 80% of the portfolio in France and 100% of the intranet. Various articles on the implementation of the diversity portfolio in Brazil) and in our property management procedures. policy, as well as external links, are also available on the CNP intranet site. Awareness initiatives and training are conducted to ﬁght ABOLITION OF FORCED OR COMPULSORY LABOUR stereotypes, prejudice, discriminatory language and attitudes, AND EFFECTIVE ABOLITION OF CHILD LABOUR and to convince employees of the advantages of having a diversity policy. Neither CNP Assurances nor its subsidiaries are directly concerned by forced or child labour. Nonetheless, particular Training resources: attention is paid to this subject in our purchasing policy. W a programme to train managers in equal treatment during job interviews has been in place at CNP Assurances since 2009. 83% of managers have been trained to date 36 2014 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES BE AN ATTRACTIVE EMPLOYER I Building employee awareness W the Caixa Seguradora group continued its intense employee awareness campaign last year. In 2012 the subsidiary used the “ﬁve Rs” – Recycle, Reduce, Reuse, Rethink, Respect – as of sustainable development the wallpaper for the computers of all its employees and service issues through training providers. It distributed the new code of ethics and conduct to all Caixa Seguradora group employees, while maintaining its dedicated training programme “The Challenge of the Code”. Sustainable development challenges are the subject of In 2014, the various initiatives concerned the environment and awareness/training initiatives to embed them in the corporate included a survey of employees to assess their awareness of culture and everyday practices. the volume of waste generated at their workplace and how it is managed Awareness campaigns Several Group entities have a section on their intranet dedicated W in Italy, the Green Group has promoted selective sorting awareness and, since 2012, the use of more eco-responsible to sustainable development. For several years, regular events and means of transport and videoconferencing facilities. In 2014, activities have been organised in each entity to raise employee it organised the second “green footprints” awareness day awareness about sustainable development challenges: focusing on diversity, volunteering and a skills bank project W CNP Assurances has organised competitions, surveys and W CNP Partners issued a guide to reducing paper use that is conferences, shared guidelines, and raised awareness about available on its intranet. eco-driving techniques W in 2014, a Socially Responsible Investing conference was Training organised in Paris for all employees with a webcast on the The Caixa Seguradora group offers e-learning courses on sociointranet. In addition, a sale of responsible products was environmental responsibility for all staff, with 324 people trained organised at three sites in Paris, Arcueil and Angers. The in 2014. money raised was matched through a sponsorship programme and donated to two non-proﬁt organisations working in the CNP UniCredit Vita offered an external CSR training course area of sustainable development. A waste awareness initiative in 2013 for members of the Green Group and launched an was organised by the Angers facility for all employees experimental internal CSR training programme. In 2014, it also organised diversity training courses that were attended by some W MFPrévoyance organised a programme to remind employees 50 managers. of the importance of sorting waste, while at LBP Prévoyance the focus was on three eco-reﬂexes – turn off the lights, the computer, the printer – and on the most eco-responsible means of transport for business travel 2014 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES 37 Promote a caring society Every year, when renewing their pledge to uphold the UN Global Compact, CNP Assurances and its various signatory subsidiaries W Priority No. 1: conﬁrm their determination to manage their impact on society Reduce our environmental footprint and the environment. W Priority No. 2: The implementation of environmental policies within the Group, Manage our carbon footprint the commitment to comprehensively disclosing its environmental footprint, the annual monitoring of greenhouse gas emissions and the activities of the CNP Assurances Foundation and the W Priority No. 3: Caixa Seguros Institute are evidence of the importance the Group Manage our local impact places on its impact on the world around it. Greenhouse gas Paper use at CNP Assurances emissions per employee at reduced by over CNP Assurances reduced by €2.5 million 2.6% 60% in donations made by in the last six years on a Group entities in 2014 to in 2014 through comparable scope basis support healthcare, social adjustments to internal (internal operations and inclusion and social procedures policyholder correspondence) research projects 38 2014 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES PROMOTE A CARING SOCIETY Reduce our environmental footprint Priority No. 1 As a service company, CNP Assurances’s environmental footprint is related to employee behaviour and IT server activity. Everyone in the Group has a role to play in reducing its environmental Caixa Seguros’s Ambiantal programme impact, primarily by effectively managing the three main direct This programme brings together initiatives designed sources of greenhouse gas emissions: paper use for day-to-day to promote protection of the environment by instilling administration and policyholder correspondence, business travel awareness of the quantity of resources used and and ofﬁce building management. Employee awareness initiatives encouraging resource-efﬁcient practices. Its objectives are have reduced this footprint, as has the adoption of a number to: of waste-sorting practices. Similarly, train travel is being used more instead of air travel, and video conferencing has become W strengthen the culture of recycling, reusing and reducing materials and resources another regular habit. W promote consideration of environmental issues at all stages of operations and processes I Structures for addressing W reduce the business’s impact in terms of carbon emissions environmental issues W encourage the creation of products and services and the implementation of communication campaigns that Environmental issues are handled locally by each entity. The build awareness of our responsibility to protect the resources mobilised for this purpose vary with the entity’s size. environment. Group subsidiaries report to the parent company on their environmental performance on an annual basis. CNP Assurances has a Sustainable Development department, the head of which reports directly to the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer. Environmental issues are addressed and monitored by the corporate Purchasing, Working Environment and Property Investment departments. The Building Management department I Travel monitors regulatory developments. Each year an external audit ﬁrm prepares an assessment of regulatory compliance and a PROMOTING ECO-DRIVING monitoring tool for equipment at risk. At CNP UniCredit Vita, environmental issues are handled by Car travel is a big part of the Group’s carbon footprint. The the Green Group, comprising employees who volunteer to potential economic and environmental gains are therefore help develop ideas for initiatives that address environmental signiﬁcant. issues. Since 2013, CSR indicators have been included in the Training and awareness campaigns on road risks and ecoCompany’s management reports. driving were established for all employees in 2013. This year, The Caixa Seguradora group set up a Sustainable Development new travelling insurance advisors attended speciﬁc personalised Committee in 2007 to address environmental issues. This modules. Committee, comprising 11 representatives from various sectors within the Group, is led by the Chairman of the Group’s Executive Committee. The initiatives in the environmental programme help EXPANDING VIDEO CONFERENCING to instil a culture of sustainable development within the Group. The use of video and audio conferencing is now widespread within the Group. It is promoted to limit business travel. The Caixa Seguradora group encourages its employees to reduce travel and to use any alternatives available to them. Since 2013, CNP UniCredit Vita has included tracking indicators for video and audio conferencing hours, as well as for air and train travel, in its quarterly report presented to the Management Committee. 2014 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES 39 PROMOTE A CARING SOCIETY In 2014, 8,990 hours of video conferencing were recorded The increase in air travel is attributable primarily to across the Group, of which 95% at CNP Assurances. For the CNP Assurances and the Caixa Seguradora group. ﬁrst time this year, the number of hours of audio conferencing CNP Assurances has prepared a written travel policy, providing reached an all-time high of nearly 33,700, of which 67% at a framework for employee practices to reduce the impact on the Caixa Seguradora following the introduction of a new system environment, while continuing to ensure the comfort and safety of that has proved extremely popular. travellers. Air travel was reduced signiﬁcantly in 2013 but crept CONNECTION HOURS up again in 2014. 2014 A new videoconferencing system set up by Caixa Seguradora in 2013 led to a 6% reduction in miles ﬂown, although in Brazil, CNP Assurances (France) 8,592 air travel is justiﬁed by business expansion and the size of the MFPrévoyance (France) N/A country. LBP Prévoyance (France) 0 Caixa Seguradora (Brazil) 7 Train CNP CIH (Cyprus) 88 Train travel relates mainly to CNP Assurances. Employees CNP Partners (Spain) 170 travelled 3,713,541 kilometres by train, of which more than CNP BVP (Spain) 0 half between its main sites in Angers and Paris. The volume of CNP UniCredit Vita (Italy) 107 train travel was lower at the Group’s other entities: 15,600km for MFPrévoyance, 154,000km for LBP Prévoyance, 6,000km for CNP Argentina (Argentina) 27 CNP Partners and 55,200km for CNP UniCredit Vita. CNP Europe Life (Ireland) N/A TOTAL 8,991 Taxi At CNP Assurances, the use of public transport is encouraged. Taxis can be used under certain conditions, and in this case, COMMUTING hybrid vehicles have been given priority by the booking ofﬁce since May 2013. In 2014, 36% of taxi travel was in hybrid As part of its Business Travel Plan, CNP Assurances updated the vehicles. commuting survey in 2013. Commuting by car was down (by 9% to 30% depending on the site), while journeys by motorcycle or scooter and car sharing were up (by 8% for employees working Car at Paris Montparnasse). In all, greenhouse gas emissions related At CNP Assurances, car travel is monitored in terms of fuel to commuting have been reduced by 13% in three years. consumption: 491,681 litres were consumed in 2014, compared with 524,737 litres in 2013, a decrease of 7%. A large number of subsidiaries cut back on business travel or opted BUSINESS TRAVEL for cleaner modes of transport in 2014. CNP UniCredit Vita, along with MFPrévoyance and LBP Prévoyance, continued their The Group’s carbon emissions linked to business travel (excluding efforts to promote awareness among employees (train vs. air, taxis) are estimated at around 5,400 teqCO2, 68% of which is and public transport). from air travel. CAR TRAVEL (IN MILLION KM) Air EXCLUDING CNP ASSURANCES 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 In million km travelled by plane 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 0.45 CNP Assurances (France) 5.20 4.30 3.30 2.73 3.48 MFPrévoyance (France) N/A N/A 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.40 LBP Prévoyance (France) N/A N/A 0.08 0.08 0.08 0.35 Caixa Seguradora (Brazil) 9.20 6.09 8.48 7.99 8.91 0.30 CNP CIH 0.25 (Cyprus and Greece) 0.19 0.26 0.30 0.40 0.29 0.20 CNP Partners (Spain) N/A 0.75 0.65 0.51 0.52 0.15 CNP BVP (Spain) N/A N/A 0.30 0.17 0.08 0.10 CNP UniCredit Vita (Italy) 0.77 0.72 0.13 0.24 0.18 0.05 CNP Argentina (Argentina) 0.05 0.05 0.06 0.05 0.25 CNP Europe Life (Ireland) 0.10 0.07 0.08 0.10 0.08 0 ) nce ) nce l) azi ) ece ) ain ) ain a) TOTAL 15.5 12.2 13.4 12.3 13.90 Fra Fra (Br Gre s( Sp (Sp tin gen e( e( ra s/ ner VP (Ar anc anc ado pru art PB na voy voy gur (Cy PP CN nti Pré Pré Se IH CN rge MF LBP xa PC PA Cai CN CN 40 2014 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES PROMOTE A CARING SOCIETY I Reducing consumption of ofﬁce initiatives have been deployed by Group entities to reduce paper use. In 2013, for instance, CNP UniCredit Vita’s paper use was included as a key indicator in the monthly report presented to supplies the Management Committee. This year, CNP Partners posted a The CNP Assurances Group’s operations are entirely in the guide to good practice on its intranet to reduce paper use by ﬁeld of insurance. As with other ﬁnancial services, paper is the employees. principal raw material consumed. For several years now, many Reduction in paper use at CNP Assurances Switch from printed Switch to duplex printing for ﬁnancial transaction documents policyholder information letters to dynamic PDFs 2009 2011 2012 2013 Half-yearly policyholder Printing system modernisation statements sent by email project launched A REDUCTION IN GROUP-WIDE PAPER USE PURCHASES OF ECO-FRIENDLY PRODUCTS FOR INTERNAL OPERATIONS FOR INTERNAL PURPOSES In 2014, 35% of ofﬁce supplies purchased by CNP Assurances Percentage of were certiﬁed eco-friendly products, compared to 43% in 2013, Paper use for internal purposes In millions of sheets recycled paper due to a label change. CNP Assurances (France) 23.5 19.5% MFPrévoyance (France) 1 0% Computer consumables (number of cartridges) LBP Prévoyance (France) 0.3 0% Caixa Seguradora (Brazil) 1.5 0% 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 CNP CIH (Cyprus and Greece) * 6.6 0% CNP Assurances (France) 7,922 7,572 8,288 7,860 6,151 CNP Partners (Spain) 0.9 0% MFPrévoyance (France) N/A N/A N/A N/A 64 CNP BVP (Spain) 0.2 0% LBP Prévoyance (France) N/A N/A 79 84 80 CNP UniCredit Vita (Italy) 0.9 100% Caixa Seguradora (Brazil) 1,297 594 406 N/A N/A CNP Argentina (Argentina) 0.6 10% CNP CIH (Cyprus and Greece) 750 N/A N/A N/A N/A CNP Europe Life (Ireland) 0.1 100% CNP Partners (Spain) 123 120 80 110 115 TOTAL 35 17.2% CNP BVP (Spain) 15 24 25 30 17 * Including paper used by CNP CIH agents CNP UniCredit Vita (Italy) 110 N/A 135 145 128 Thanks to the concerted efforts of employees, CNP Assurances CNP Argentina (Argentina) 51 40 48 N/A 180 is reducing its paper use year after year, with savings of 11% CNP Europe Life (Ireland) 15 9 12 14 13 in 2012, 5% in 2013 and 0.4% in 2014. CNP BVP and CNP Argentina have signiﬁcantly reduced their paper purchases for internal purposes, by 35% and 15% respectively in 2014. CNP UniCredit Vita and CNP Europe Life use only recycled paper for internal purposes. 2014 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES 41 PROMOTE A CARING SOCIETY I Ofﬁce building environmental (see “Building employee awareness and training on sustainable development issues”). management The buildings used by Group entities are not currently equipped with systems for generating renewable energy. CONTROLLING ENERGY USE DISTRICT HEATING SYSTEM USE BY CNP ASSURANCES (million kWh) Energy use by the CNP Assurances Group corresponds to heating 6 and cooling systems in its ofﬁce buildings, ofﬁce equipment used by employees and IT servers. Electricity is the main type of energy 5 used. A very slight 4% reduction was observed in 2014 due to weather conditions. 4 Electricity use 3 (in millions of kWh) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2 CNP Assurances (France) 18.8 17.5 18 18.34 16.93 MFPrévoyance (France) N/A N/A 0.35 0.36 0.30 1 LBP Prévoyance (France) N/A N/A 0.09 0.07 0.09 0 Caixa Seguradora (Brazil) 1.07 1.19 1.32 1.19 1.61 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 CNP CIH (Cyprus and Greece) 1.6 0.33 0.34 1.36 1.52 A total of 3.9 million kWh of heating supplied by the CPCU district CNP Partners (Spain) 0.25 0.25 0.31 0.31 0.30 heating network in Paris was used to heat CNP Assurances’s CNP BVP (Spain) 0.03 0.04 0.03 0.03 0.03 Paris ofﬁces in 2014. Fuel oil use (56,010 litres in 2014) only CNP UniCredit Vita (Italy) N/A 0.08 0.63 0.67 0.61 concerns the power generators at the major sites in France. It CNP Argentina (Argentina) 0.14 0.14 0.15 0.15 0.15 is exceptional and not material. Gas use at the Angers and Arcueil sites, at CNP Argentina and at MFPrévoyance totalled TOTAL 21.9 19.5 21.2 22.5 21.6 2.3 million kWh (net caloriﬁc value), unchanged from 2013. CNP Assurances has adopted energy-saving measures designed to help buildings operate more efﬁciently. For example, improving how heating (French sites except Arcueil), air conditioning and WATER USE ventilation systems are controlled requires the expert management of programmable time settings. Controls have been established to ensure compliance with room temperature guidelines and Water use, in thousands fan coil unit settings, and efﬁciency has been improved by of cubic metres 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 permanently closing the windows. CNP Assurances (France) 39.3 45.8 43.5 41.1 32.9 Signiﬁcant work has been carried out to reduce energy use. For MFPrévoyance (France) N/A N/A 0.8 0.8 0.9 example: LBP Prévoyance (France) N/A N/A 0.4 0.4 0.4 Caixa Seguradora (Brazil) 28 33.5 35.5 39.9 28.2 W as part of a comprehensive plan to reduce energy costs at the Saint Serge building in Angers, and on the basis of the energy CNP CIH performance assessment, a four-year programme (2014(Cyprus and Greece) * 2.9 2018) has begun with renovation work on the refrigeration CNP Partners (Spain) 0.7 0.6 0.7 0.9 1.5 system. This will allow compliance with regulations aimed at CNP BVP (Spain) 0.2 0.2 0.1 0.2 0.1 phasing out R22 and replacing open air-cooling towers, which CNP UniCredit Vita (Italy) N/A 1.8 1.5 3 3.2 consume large amounts of water, with closed towers which, by CNP Argentina (Argentina) 1 1.9 1.7 1.8 1.8 virtue of their design, use signiﬁcantly less water CNP Europe Life (Ireland) N/A 0.04 0.04 0.05 0.04 W the renovations carried out following the purchase of a TOTAL new ofﬁce building in Paris included the replacement of the (EXCLUDING CNP CIH) 69.2 83.8 84.2 88.2 71.9 control system for technical equipment with a new building * No information is provided for CNP CIH prior to 2013 because the data are not management system and the installation on three levels of reliable new terminal units to control fan coil units. The installation of An analysis of local restrictions on the Group’s water use, based terminal control units is also part of a multi-year renovation on the Global Water Tool 2012.V1, shows that 4% of its water programme. use is in water-scarce areas (Cyprus), 54% in water-sufﬁcient CNP Assurances’s subsidiaries have also gradually adopted areas and 42% in water-abundant areas (see the area deﬁnitions measures to reduce electricity use, notably for lighting, heating at http://www.wbcsd.org). and IT servers. The Caixa Seguradora group has been a The reduction in water use recorded in 2014 is attributable to forerunner in the use of virtual servers, which it installed in the removal of open air-cooling towers at CNP Assurances and 2009. In 2012, it replaced its computer hardware with more maintenance work at the headquarters of Caixa Seguradora. energy-efﬁcient equipment. In addition, awareness campaigns have been carried out for employees across the Group’s entities 42 2014 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES PROMOTE A CARING SOCIETY WASTE MANAGEMENT I Reducing the environmental Selective sorting at Group entities footprint in our business Waste-sorting systems allow Group entities to recycle printer cartridges and paper used in ofﬁces for internal purposes. With THE ENVIRONMENT AS AN INVESTMENT CRITERION 89% of employees having access to a waste sorting system, a total of 179 tonnes of waste paper were recycled in 2014. As the largest private owner of woodland in France, In Argentina and France, the proceeds from recycling are CNP Assurances helps to capture a signiﬁcant quantity of CO2. In donated to non-proﬁt organisations. Each Group entity has 2014, tree growth helped to sequester 267,832 tonnes of CO2 conducted campaigns to teach employees about recycling. (see “Forests: an environmental opportunity”). The Company Caixa Seguradora’s move into a new building in late 2014 responsible for managing CNP Assurances’s forestry assets has provided an opportunity for a diagnostic review of waste been considering how these woodlands can be adapted to cope management within the organisation and a survey of employee with projected climate change over the coming decades. behaviour. CNP Assurances applies environmental screens to all of its equity Speciﬁc recycling processes and corporate bond portfolios (see “Apply socially responsible investment principles”), giving priority, like CNP Argentina, to The CNP Assurances recycling system was extended in 2011 companies with a good environmental performance. In addition, with a dedicated process for ofﬁce furniture. Used batteries and it has developed CNP Développement Durable, an SRI fund light bulbs are collected at the main facilities, representing over focusing on environmentally responsible investments, which is half a tonne in 2014. marketed through the Amétis network. Computer equipment is also a signiﬁcant source of waste: some Since mid-2009, Green Rating energy efﬁciency assessments obsolete equipment (43% at CNP Assurances in 2014 and 3% have been carried out on all newly acquired properties in order at CNP Partners) was sold or given away, and the rest was to estimate the cost of upgrading the properties to meet the dismantled for recycling by a specialised ﬁrm. This year, the current standards. The Caixa Seguradora group has a policy of Caixa Seguradora group conducted a major internal e-waste not investing in property projects that pose a potential danger to collection campaign. the environment. CNP UniCredit Vita has set up a plastic bottle-crushing and bottleThrough their investment policies, CNP Assurances and its two top collection system in an employee relaxation area. subsidiaries in Brazil and Argentina promote reductions in the environmental footprint of the entire economy. With the same objective, environmental criteria are used to choose suppliers POLLUTION (see “Apply responsible purchasing policies”). Given the nature of its business, CNP Assurances causes no water or soil pollution, and emits very few greenhouse gases other than CO2. Nonetheless, as part of its woodland management, it employs techniques that prevent soil erosion and ensure water ﬁltration and puriﬁcation. The Group’s entities do not cause noise or other forms of pollution. Several entities have installed lighting in their ofﬁces that switches off automatically. None of the Group’s entities have been convicted of any environmental violations or have been the subject of any nonmonetary environmental sanctions. 2014 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES 43 PROMOTE A CARING SOCIETY BUSINESS PAPER USE documents and contractual documents, a reduction of 18%. A ﬁrst major step in reducing paper use was taken in 2009 with Paper use for contractual documents, claims management and the introduction of duplex printing for most customer information customer communication letters (leading to decreases of 42% in 2009 and 26% in 2010). Some customer correspondence was printed on recycled paper for the ﬁrst time this year. Proportion of paper certiﬁed Changes in CNP Partners’ legal notices and new regulatory environmentally requirements in Italy related to the ﬁght against money laundering Business paper use In millions of sheets sustainable increased the volume of customer correspondence. 90% of CNP Assurances (France)* 73.7 99.88% paper used by the Group (including for internal purposes) has MFPrévoyance (France) 0.8 0% a sustainable management label such as FSC, PEFC or EU LBP Prévoyance (France) N/A 0% Ecolabel. Caixa Seguradora (Brazil) 4.2 100% CNP CIH (Cyprus) 1.3 83.88% PAPERLESS OPERATIONS – A RAPIDLY EXPANDING CNP Partners (Spain) 0.5 0% APPROACH CNP BVP (Spain) 0.2 0% CNP UniCredit Vita (Italy) 4.5 100% Digital conversion of certain documents and procedures has increased at CNP Assurances: the Amétis network began the shift CNP Argentina (Argentina) 0.6 0% to digital marketing communications in 2011, and emails had CNP Europe Life (Ireland) 0.2 100% replaced almost all paper correspondence in 2014. TOTAL 86 90.4% Virtually all applications for La Banque Postale products are now * Including corporate brochures paperless. This has helped eliminate the use of carbon paper (a The reduction in paper use is attributable primarily to the decrease saving of 1 million sheets). Half-yearly policyholder statements in the number of contractual documents at CNP Assurances, are now paperless, reducing the number of items sent by the due to fewer regulatory changes and the switch to paperless Caisses d’Epargne and La Banque Postale networks by 3 million insurance applications. and 1.9 million respectively. A total of 74.2 million sheets of paper were purchased for CNP Assurances’s corporate brochures, policyholder information 44 2014 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES PROMOTE A CARING SOCIETY Manage our carbon footprint Priority No. 2 The Group’s carbon footprint has been measured on various server activity. The biggest sources of emissions are travel, paper scopes. As CNP Assurances is a service company, its consumption and ofﬁce building energy use. environmental footprint is related to employee behaviour and IT I Greenhouse gas emissions audits CNP ASSURANCES’S GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS FROM 2009 TO 2014 CNP Assurances performs an annual emissions audit. CHANGES IN GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS FROM MAIN SOURCES Thousand teqCO2 – Identical methodology and scope 5,647 W 20% decrease in emissions linked to energy use in the last ﬁve years 4,548 W 19% decrease in travel-related emissions 4,064 The Company’s travel policy and employee awareness 3,954 campaigns have had encouraging results: greenhouse gas 3,275 emissions linked to business travel have declined by 31% since 2009 2,380 W 66% increase in emissions linked to computer and IT server activity 1,219 Limiting emissions from computer and IT server activity is 918 a difﬁcult challenge due to the growing processing needs generated by such developments as the digital transition, new regulatory requirements and e-commerce, as a result of which Energy Paper IT Travel we have 2.5 times more IT servers today than ﬁve years ago. In particular, very considerable computing power is needed to perform solvency capital calculations in accordance with Solvency II 2009 2014 2014 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES 45 PROMOTE A CARING SOCIETY Regulated measurements Since 2013, the consolidated assessment is based on data available from existing environmental reporting and covers the CNP Assurances’s greenhouse gas emissions measured in main emissions sources: electricity, gas, heating oil, paper for accordance with Article 75 of France’s Grenelle Act of 12 July internal operations, waste and business travel. It does not cover 2010 are shown below: refrigerant gases (minor in terms of emissions), purchases of services, freight (minor in terms of emissions), commuting and Year-on-year visitors. 2014 2013 change It is carried out using the Bilan Carbone® method and the ADEME Direct greenhouse gas emissions (scope 1) 2,643 teqCO2 2,859 teqCO2 -8% carbon database. Indirect greenhouse gas In 2014, the Group’s partial GHG emissions stood at emissions linked to energy use 9,500 teqCO2, representing an average of 2.01 teqCO2 for (scope 2) 2,074 teqCO2 2,015 teqCO2 +3% each of its 4,705 employees. The biggest emissions sources Other indirect emissions 15,267 teqCO2 15,565 teqCO2 -2% were business travel by plane (3,700 teqCO2) and energy use Detailed information by source as reported to the French (3,200 teqCO2). authorities is available in French at http://www.cnp.fr. The decrease in scope 1 emission volumes is attributable to the BREAKDOWN OF GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS reduction in the use of petrol for cars and fuel oil in generators. CNP ASSURANCES GROUP 2% An internal operations target 18% Total tonnes of carbon equivalent per employee for internal operations in the greater Paris area (including contract employees) declined by more than 10% like-for-like between 34% 2009 and 2012, a performance in line with the 2012 target. The trend has continued since then with decreases of 1.2% in 2013 and 2.6% in 2014. CAIXA SEGURADORA GROUP’S GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS The Caixa Seguradora group’s carbon footprint, measured in 5% terms of emissions related to business travel and buildings (based 39% 2% on the GHG protocol), totalled 2.28 tonnes of CO2-equivalent per employee. With its emissions offset by reforestation in the Atlantic Electricity use Business travel by train 0% Forest carried out with Iniciativa Verde, Caixa Seguradora has Gas use Business travel by car earned CarbonFree certiﬁcation for several years in a row. Heating fuel use Paper for internal operations Business travel by air Waste 0% CNP ASSURANCES GROUP’S PARTIAL GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS As part of the CSR approach, we decided to consolidate the results of our GHG emissions audits for all of our consolidated subsidiaries. 46 2014 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES PROMOTE A CARING SOCIETY I Impact of an insurance product The carbon emissions associated with an insurance product over its life cycle were estimated in 2010, using the Bilan Carbone© analysis method. For example, a Trésor Prévoyance Autonomie policy generates 12 kilograms of CO2 over its lifetime, as follows: CLAIMS MANAGEMENT DEVELOPMENT Time spent managing Time spent by marketing dependency payments, documents and mail sent to 25% 2% teams on product development and from beneﬁciaries until death CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION 16% 8% MARKETING Time spent managing the policy Printing of documents and over its entire term, documents and transporting ofﬁce supplies mail sent annually to and to sales teams from beneﬁciaries ACCEPTANCE 2% 8% TRAINING Time spent by teams selecting risks Training for sales teams and for analysis and accepting business travel customer requests 41% DISTRIBUTION Time spent by sales teams on policy subscriptions and sending documents and mail to customers We used the results of this analysis to set priorities for action, the Carbon Disclosure Project. CNP Assurances has signed the leading to our current work on the life cycle stages: Kyoto Statement of the Geneva Association and reiterated its commitment. W “Distribution”, focusing on eco-driving The most signiﬁcant issues for CNP Assurances are its woodland W “Contract administration”, by expanding paperless operations (54,414 hectares) and property assets (3.5 million sq.m.), (see W “Claims management”, with online follow-up. “Contribute to a sustainable economy”). As a provider of homeowner and automobile insurance, the Caixa Seguradora group is also conducting research on I Climate change the impact of climate change, both internally and jointly with government agencies, NGOs and private companies. The CNP Assurances Group’s largest entities and Caixa Seguradora have undertaken signiﬁcant work in Caixa Seguradora offsets its emissions through reforestation in response to this issue. Since 2005, they have been reporting the Atlantic Forest, and has earned CarbonFree certiﬁcation for on greenhouse-gas emissions as part of their participation in several years in a row. 2014 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES 47 PROMOTE A CARING SOCIETY Manage our local impact Priority No. 3 I Local impact In 2014, CNP Assurances invested in DomusVi, France’s third largest private LOCAL EMPLOYMENT provider of residential and home care services for the elderly: CNP Assurances has been providing employment in its host As France’s leading personal insurer whose strategic regions for close to a century: 90% of CNP Assurances priority is to develop the protection business, we consider employees work at one of the Paris, Arcueil or Angers facilities. this investment not only as an opportunity to invest in a Expatriate workers represent 0.3% of headcount at international growing market, but also as a means of providing lasting subsidiaries. These companies also participate in their local job support to a recognised expert in the provision of long-term markets, including for senior management positions: at endcare to the elderly. DomusVi offers a full range of services 2014, 78% of Executive or Management Committee members for the elderly, with 182 nursing homes, 15 retirement had been hired locally. homes and teams of carers and nurses throughout the Less directly, several insurance products include assistance in Company to provide in-home care. ﬁnding work. Examples include, in France, an unemployment insurance product with a reduced premium or advisory services to help the insured ﬁnd a new job and, in Brazil, the job search support service offered by Caixa Seguradora. INITIATIVES TO SUPPORT LOCAL COMMUNITIES The Group’s entities also contribute to resolving current social IMPACT AS AN INSURER AND INVESTOR issues. For example: By making its products widely accessible, in terms of both W Filassistance’s assistance and prevention services meet the affordability and medical screening, the Group is helping to needs of people made vulnerable by age, disability or illness combat ﬁnancial exclusion. These topics, which are an essential part of the Group’s CSR approach, are discussed further on page W Caixa Seguradora actively helps local communities, with programmes such as Jovem de Expressao, which is 11 (Priority No 1: Help to combat ﬁnancial exclusion). supporting human development during the current period of With over €300 billion in investments, we play a major role demographic and epidemiological transition in Brazil (see in ﬁnancing the economies of our host countries. In 2014, we www.jovemdeexpressao.com.br). The programme aims continued our strategy of investing to support the real economy to combat youth violence through jobs in the region where either directly through co-ﬁnancing deals or indirectly through Caixa Seguradoa has its ofﬁces, by working with local specialised funds, providing capital for SMEs, infrastructure cultural centres. Recognised for its original approach, since projects and property development projects. 2010 the programme has been managed in partnership with the United Nations Ofﬁce on Drugs and Crime (UNODC). All sectors of the economy receive support to foster long-term In 2014, Caixa Seguradora organised expression and development. We promote corporate social responsibility among entrepreneurship workshops for 840 suburban youths, and the companies in the portfolio, through our policy of being a its participatory events and discussion groups attracted some responsible investor and shareholder (see “Contribute to a 14,000 participants sustainable economy”). Similarly, Caixa Seguradora’s ﬁnancial investments are carried out entirely in Brazil. W since 2007, LBP Prévoyance has published the results of annual surveys conducted with TNS Sofres and La Croix, providing a wealth of information about the challenges for French society of ﬁnancing welfare and long-term care systems W CNP Assurances is a founder member of the Entrepreneurs de la Cité foundation set up to help micro-entrepreneurs to obtain insurance. 48 2014 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES PROMOTE A CARING SOCIETY LOBBYING underprivileged areas. The Caixa Seguradora group is heavily involved in the Jovem de Expressao programme (see “Local Group companies participate in their local insurance industry’s impact”), and signed a cooperation agreement with UNESCO professional bodies and the international subsidiaries also attend in 2011 to develop community-based communication and youth events organised by the local French consulate, but they do not health promotion initiatives as part of this outreach programme. conduct any lobbying per se. We help to address the challenges The subsidiaries have set up numerous programmes in partnership facing society by contributing to research and discussion, notably with non-proﬁt organisations, such as the reforestation campaign on the topics of retirement and long-term care in France. in Brazil with the NGO Iniciativa Verde, a waste management CNP Assurances systematically acts through industry initiative in France with Amis du Futur, an HIV prevention organisations, in particular the FFSA. In the area of sustainable programme with UNESCO, and in 2014, an updated survey development, it takes part in the Paris Europlace SRI Commission of the sexual and reproductive health of young Brazilians. CNP and is also a member of ORSE, a French CSR think-tank, and Partners continues to provide support to socially vulnerable its Finance Club, which brings together various stakeholders people. (NGOs, unions and trade associations). UniCredit Vita’s philanthropic activities are managed by its Green Group entities do not make donations to political parties. Such Group which has a budget of €12,000. In 2014, it collected donations are speciﬁcally prohibited in the codes of CNP donations from employees – matched by the Company – that Argentina and CNP BVP. were passed on to families affected by the ﬂoods in late 2013. I Corporate philanthropy CNP ASSURANCES FOUNDATION and outreach partnerships After 21 years of supporting programmes in the area of public health – including programmes to improve pain management Corporate philanthropy operations are carried out in partnership since 1999 – the Foundation decided to add more general social with non-proﬁt organisations following calls for projects. In issues to its areas of interest. Its budget in 2014 amounted to France, some projects are proposed by employees, while in €800,000. Brazil, philanthropic initiatives are supported by employee volunteers. Caixa Seguradora has cooperation agreements with W pain management: in 2014, the Foundation’s Board selected UNODC and UNESCO, and a service agreement with the NGO ﬁve new projects to receive total funding of €196,000. Iniciativa Verde. In 2013, it created the Caixa Seguros Institute One of these concerned the creation of tools adapted to the to structure its actions with the UN to improve social behaviour. cognitive abilities of Down’s syndrome sufferers, while another CNP Partners sponsors a community outreach organisation. proposed setting up a mobile dental surgery to enable severely handicapped people to be treated very close to their home. Two innovative serious games projects were also selected, the SPECIFIC INITIATIVES ﬁrst dealing with pain in cancer sufferers and the second – proposed on behalf of the French Red Cross – relating to child treatment projects W policyholders, training/research: CNP Assurances maintains close relations with ENASS, France’s leading business school W ﬁrst aid for heart-attack victims: since the beginning of its specialised in the insurance sector. It also ﬁnances training commitment on cardiac arrest and ﬁrst aid in 2009, the centres and apprenticeship centres (CFAs) such as IFPASS and Foundation has provided €1,937,000 in grants to deploy ADAPT, and helps schools through the apprenticeship tax. As 2,800 deﬁbrillators and train users in 2,000 communities, and part of its philanthropic activities, CNP Assurances ﬁnances also to promote awareness of the difference in outcomes when the Risk Foundation’s “Demographic Transitions, Economic heart attack victims receive immediate CPR. With over 40,000 Transitions” chair people in France dying from cardiac arrest outside a hospital environment, we will be encouraging more communities to W integration: CNP Assurances has a tradition of helping young apply for funding for deﬁbrillators and user training in 2015 people acquire work experience. In 2014, 101 school-leavers were taken on by CNP Assurances under apprenticeship or W other projects: in 2014, the Foundation also provided support work-study contracts, and the Group also had 182 interns. to 18 employee projects in the ﬁeld of health. They included CNP Assurances is a founding member of the Entrepreneurs the creation of specially written books to be given to children de la Cité foundation, and co-insures the entrepreneurs helped during a hospital stay, educational projects and a project to set by the foundation. It also invests in Business Angels des Cités up eye care clinics in Cambodia. Partenaires 2, an investment fund that supports entrepreneurs in 2014 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES 49 PROMOTE A CARING SOCIETY long-term support for employees and the promotion of equal opportunity. Caixa Seguros Institute The Board of Directors of Caixa Seguradora approved the creation of the Caixa Seguros Institute in May 2013, A MESSAGE COMMUNICATED TO STAKEHOLDERS to take over all the Brazilian subsidiary’s initiatives in support of the country’s disadvantaged youth and place This commitment is reﬂected in the integration of environmental, its social, environmental and cultural commitment on a social and governance criteria in ﬁnancial asset management more formal footing. This institute, the ﬁrst of its kind with strategies. Respect for human rights is one of the criteria used to insurance company backing in Brazil, will strengthen select equity and bond investments. The commitment to socially Caixa Seguradora’s presence in its three strategic responsible investing was strengthened in 2011 when we programme areas: pledged to uphold the Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI). W social programmes, particularly Jovem de Expressao, In signing the UDA responsible communication charter, we have which aim to reduce youth violence in Brasilia’s also pledged to respect human rights and diversity in all of our disadvantaged suburbs advertising and corporate communications. W environmental programmes such as Carbono Seguro, In addition, in supplier relations, the standard CSR clause in which aim to control carbon emissions, combat CNP Assurances’s purchase contracts stipulates that the supplier climate change, preserve water resources and protect must undertake to combat human rights violations, notably by biodiversity upholding the Universal Declaration of human rights and the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, as well as W cultural and corporate philanthropy programmes. the International Labour Organization’s conventions. The Human Resources intranet provides information for CNP Assurances employees about their rights, and includes sections on the collective bargaining agreement, social dialogue, professional diversity and stress management. A trade union I Human rights section on the intranet allows unions to be constantly in touch with employees. THE GUIDING PRINCIPLES OF THE GLOBAL COMPACT DEDICATED PROCEDURES In line with our 2003 pledge to uphold the UN Global Compact, we ensure that each local organisation complies with human Each subsidiary submits an Annual Report on their CSR rights laws and regulations. Following the lead of CNP Argentina performance to the parent company, with a special focus on and Caixa Seguradora, CNP UniCredit Vita also pledged to these fundamental criteria. Neither CNP Assurances nor the uphold the Compact in 2010. The Caixa Seguradora group Group’s subsidiaries have recourse to forced or child labour. commissions annual CSR audits from the Ethos institute to verify Nonetheless, particular attention is also paid to this subject in our compliance with the Global Compact principles. purchasing policy (see “Contribute to a sustainable economy”) and in our property management processes. Each year, these companies reafﬁrm their commitment to upholding the Compact’s principles and encourage their asset Group procedures to guarantee respect for civil and political managers and suppliers to follow suit. All of the subsidiaries rights include internal codes and standard operating procedures, share the four overriding principles of respect for human rights, agreements on union rights, and data protection procedures. freedom of association, the right to collective bargaining, 50 2014 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES Environmental and social indicators at the non-consolidated subsidiaries For CNP Assurances, social responsibility extends beyond the Scope companies consolidated for ﬁnancial reporting purposes. As of 31 December 2014, three companies that were more than 50% W 157 Assuristance employees in the Saint-Cloud ofﬁces (3,295 sq.m.) including 65 from Filassistance and 92 from owned but were not consolidated – Assuristance, CNP TI and Garantie Assistance Âge d’Or – were also monitored for CSR compliance. W 16 Âge d’Or employees (excluding franchisees) in Troyes and other locations (390 sq.m.) W 366 CNP TI employees based in CNP Assurances ofﬁces (data included in CNP Assurances ﬁgures). I 2014 social indicators Employees There were four workplace accidents in 2014. CNP TI set up a psychosocial risk prevention commission in 2014 and conducted a survey on workplace well-being. The survey results and Workforce Percentage of women Average age related action plans were presented to all CNP TI employees. In 539 37% 44.7 years addition, elected employee representatives and one member of The number of employees increased by 8% on a comparable management received training in how to deal with an employee scope basis. experiencing mental distress. Outside contractors are used mainly for cleaning, apart from at CNP TI, which uses 14 full-time equivalent employees for IT Training – career management support. A total of 10,133 hours of training were offered in the three subsidiaries, with a budget representing 3.73% of payroll. The proportion of women has remained at around 60% for the insurance/assistance companies. It is lower in the IT sector, at CNP TI launched the “Skills” project during the year, based on an 25%. analysis of the match between each employee’s existing skills and career objectives, as expressed during the annual performance Human Resources planning and development review, and CNP Assurances’s strategy. By highlighting the most appropriate development opportunities, this approach is helping employees to advance more rapidly in their career. Number of Number of new Length of service Turnover separations hires 13.4 years 4.8% 68 110 Employee dialogue A total of 81 meetings were held by the three subsidiaries in Part-time employees represent 10% of the total. Nearly 5,000 2014, including 22 meetings of the Occupational Health, Safety overtime hours were clocked in 2014. Separations primarily and Working Conditions Committee and 59 meetings with corresponded to ﬁxed-term contracts coming to an end (35) and employee representatives. Two agreements were signed during resignations (15). Ten dismissals were recorded in 2014. the year, including one on gender equality at CNP TI. Health and safety Equal opportunities Total absenteeism rate Absenteeism rate excluding Percentage of women senior (excluding CNP TI: not available) maternity leave Percentage of women managers managers 6.6% 2.9% 32% 23% Between them, the three subsidiaries employed six people with disabilities and ﬁve people under vocational training contracts. 2014 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES 51 ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL INDICATORS AT THE NON-CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES I 2014 environmental indicators CNP TI’s environmental data on paper and electricity use are Waste included in CNP Assurances’s environmental data. Assuristance has introduced a collection system for batteries (5 kg), paper (4.5 tonnes) and ink cartridges. Its paper recycling Consumption initiative allows it to help people excluded from the job market to ﬁnd employment. Âge d’Ôr has purchased waste sorting bins for Paper Electricity its nine employees in Troyes. 831,000 sheets 238,751kWh Paper use was cut by 35% through the shift to duplex printing by Measures taken to reduce the environmental all three entities and through projects to introduce digital forms, impact optimise printing resources, in-source marketing work and make Filassistance has adopted the “green letter” economical and ecofranchisee documents available online. friendly mail delivery service. For urgent deliveries of letters and Electricity use was halved following Garantie Assistance’s move to parcels in Paris and the surrounding area, Filassistance uses a new ofﬁces at the end of 2013, as the old ofﬁces were equipped bicycle courier service, with which it has signed a code of ethics with very inefﬁcient electrical installations (electric radiators with and social responsibility, as a means of reducing CO2 emissions. no time-switches, a vehicle lift, etc.). 52 2014 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES Methodology Group reporting methodology of the indicator divided by the total headcount of the consolidated Group, excluding the branches in Italy and Denmark, and the Progress in sustainable development performance is tracked subsidiary created under the partnership with Banco Santander. through the use of dedicated indicators and by identifying Section 4 therefore covers a total of 98.89% of the consolidated outstanding accomplishments. The CNP Assurances Group Group’s employees at 31 December 2014. presents CSR indicators in accordance with the provisions set out in Articles R.225-104 to R.225-105-2 of the French Commercial Code. The 2014 Corporate Social Responsibility Report presents Change these indicators in detail for each country. Change is the percentage difference between the 2013 and 2014 data. Changes that are attributable to signiﬁcant Guidelines and deﬁnition scope adjustments are generally explained in the commentary. The indicators and reporting processes have been deﬁned for all Group entities. This process serves as a reference for the various Reporting period persons at CNP Assurances and at all subsidiaries involved in Indicators mapping movements cover the period from 1 January preparing this section. It describes the issues, roles, indicators 2014 to 31 December 2014 (excluding CNP Assurances and data collection processes, as well as the main identiﬁed risks business travel, which is presented over a trailing 12-month and the system for controlling and managing these risks. period from 1 November 2013 to 30 October 2014); indicators of stocks are as at 31 December 2014. The process was set up using Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines. The reference indicators are presented on the GRI website: https://www.globalreporting.org. Historical data and changes in scope The consolidated entities in this section for 2014 are the same Scopes as for 2013. Changes in scope can nevertheless appear when indicators have not been provided for an entity or sub-entity in The indicators cover all fully consolidated entities in the 2013, but have been in 2014. CNP Assurances Group excluding branches, unless otherwise stated, i.e. CNP Assurances (for environmental data excluding 3,000 sq.m. at regional sites), CNP IAM, Previposte, ITV, CNP Reporting, control and consolidation method International, LBP Prévoyance, MFPrévoyance, CNP Partners (for Indicators are reported by operational departments (HR, building environmental data excluding CIS ofﬁces in Italy and France), management and purchasing), and are broken down by facility CNP Assurances Compañia de Seguros, Caixa Seguradora where necessary. The accounting consolidation system is also Group, CNP UniCredit Vita, CNP Cyprus Insurance Holdings, used for CSR reporting. A CSR Ofﬁcer is appointed for each CNP Europe Life and CNP Barclays Vida y Pensiones (for entity (a total of 18 CSR Ofﬁcers) and prepares the ﬁrst level environmental data excluding ofﬁces in Italy and Portugal), of consolidation within the entity concerned. Thirteen validators and their consolidated subsidiaries. Indicators for the Group’s check the data from their entities. The CNP Assurances consolidated subsidiaries are presented on a 100% basis. The Sustainable Development department is responsible for overall entities covered were the same in 2013 and 2014. consolidation and carries out consistency checks on all the information collected from these CSR Ofﬁcers. The term “CNP Assurances” covers the legal entities CNP Assurances, CNP IAM, Previposte, ITV and CNP The implementation of CSR reporting in 2006 has led to a steady International. The scope for water and energy use includes the improvement in the quality of non-ﬁnancial data, particularly facilities in Paris, Angers and Arcueil, but excludes regional environmental data. Certiﬁcation by the Statutory Auditors ofﬁces; this corresponds to 90% of CNP Assurances employees. and use of the Group consolidation system for CSR reporting in the past three years have also enabled quality standards to The new subsidiary created under the partnership between be tightened. These developments have helped to drive progress CNP Assurances and Banco Santander is not included in this in the Group’s CSR programme by making it easier to manage reporting scope. It had 32 employees at 31 December 2014. initiatives within each business. The main indicators are also published for the non-consolidated Consolidated ratios for all entities are calculated by weighting subsidiaries that were at least 50%-owned by CNP Assurances reported ratios based on each entity’s headcount. at 1 January 2014: Assuristance, Âge d’Or Expansion and the CNP TI intercompany partnership. Limitations to the completeness and reliability The level of coverage of information Estimates have been used for certain environmental data, where The level of coverage for each indicator is presented in the tables. more exact information is not available. For example, water It represents the headcount of entities included in the calculation and energy use data for buildings is sometimes estimated on 2014 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES 53 METHODOLOGY a pro-rata basis according to the number of square metres Names of entities (Arcueil, CNP BVP and CNP Europe Life ofﬁces). Furthermore, To make this report easier to read, the names of certain the deﬁnitions of social indicators may differ slightly between entities have been simpliﬁed. For example, CNP Argentina is countries. However, the consolidated indicators used below used for CNP Assurances Compañia de Seguros, LBPP for are consistent and material. The guidelines were deployed in La Banque Postale Prévoyance, CNP CIH for CNP Cyprus Insurance international subsidiaries in 2014 and certain deﬁnitions, such Holdings, and CNP BVP for CNP Barclays Vida y Pensiones. In as those for absenteeism and remuneration, were harmonised 2014 Caixa Seguros was renamed Caixa Seguradora and CNP from one subsidiary to the next. Vida was renamed CNP Partners. I Veriﬁcation One of the Statutory Auditors performed procedures to verify that the report includes all the disclosures required by Article 225 of the Commercial Code and that the information is fairly stated. A fairness review was performed for the most signiﬁcant information, including detailed tests on the corresponding measurable indicators, and the other information was reviewed for consistency. The Auditors’ report is presented in section 4.8 of the 2014 Registration Document, which can be downloaded from the CNP Assurances website, www.cnp.fr. Labour indicators Level of assurance a) Workforce W Total workforce and breakdown by age, gender and geographic region Fairness W Hires and separations Fairness W Remuneration and changes in remuneration Fairness b) Working hours W Organisation of working hours Fairness W Absenteeism Fairness c) Employee relations W Organisation of social dialogue (employee information and consultation procedures and negotiation processes) Fairness W Agreements with employee representatives Fairness d) Health and safety W Workplace health and safety conditions Fairness W Health and safety agreements signed with trade unions and other employee representatives Consistency W Workplace accidents, frequency, seriousness and occupational illnesses Fairness e) Training W Training policies Fairness W Total number of training hours Consistency f) Equal opportunity W Measures taken to promote gender equality Fairness W Measures taken to promote the employment and integration of people with disabilities Consistency W Anti-discrimination policy Fairness g) Promotion of and compliance with the International Labour Organization’s fundamental conventions concerning: W The right to exercise freedom of association and the right to collective argaining Consistency W The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Consistency W The elimination of forced and compulsory labour Consistency W The effective abolition of child labour Consistency 54 2014 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES METHODOLOGY Environmental indicators Level of assurance a) General environmental policy W Structures for addressing environmental issues Consistency W Employee training and awareness initiatives for the protection of the environment Consistency Not covered in view of the Group’s activities as W Resources allocated to preventing pollution and other environmental risks a service provider W Environmental provisions and warranties Consistency b) Pollution and waste management Not covered in view of the Group’s activities as W Measures to prevent, reduce and remedy air, water and soil pollution seriously affecting the environment a service provider W Measures to prevent, recycle and eliminate waste Consistency W Measures to address noise and other forms of pollution speciﬁc to an activity Consistency c) Sustainable use of resources W Water use and supply in relation to local restrictions Consistency W Raw materials use and the measures taken to use them more efﬁciently Fairness W Energy use and the measures taken to improve energy efﬁciency and increase the use of renewable energies Fairness W Land use Consistency d) Climate change W Greenhouse-gas emissions Fairness W Measures taken to adapt to climate change Fairness e) Biodiversity protection W Measures taken to protect or develop biodiversity Consistency Social indicators Level of assurance a) Territorial, economic and social impact of the Company’s operations W In terms of employment and regional development Consistency W On local residents and communities Consistency b) Relations with people or organisations that have an interest in the Company’s operations W Dialogue with these people and organisations Consistency W Partnership or philanthropy initiatives Fairness c) Subcontractors and suppliers W Integration of social and environmental issues in purchasing policy Fairness W The level of outsourcing and the extent to which ESG criteria are taken into account in relations with suppliers and contractors Fairness d) Fair practices W Action taken to prevent corruption Fairness W Measures taken to promote the health and safety of consumers Consistency e) Other action taken to promote human rights Consistency 2014 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES 55 MORE ABOUT CNP ASSURANCES visit www.cnp.fr DISCOVER EUROCROISSANCEE IN JUST LEARN MORE ABOUT A COUPLE OF MINUTES CNP ASSURANCES Our on-line module tells you everything you To get more information about the need to know about this new generation Group, its businesses and commitments, life insurance fund, including yield obtain answers to your questions about information, information about the capital insurance and read the Group’s latest guarantee, the options available when you news, go to www.cnp.fr. Whether purchase the contract and the options if an you’re an individual, a professional, a unforeseen event occurs. As France’s candidate, a journalist, a shareholder or leading personal insurer, CNP Assurances an analyst, the new site has a space is committed to helping as many people as dedicated to your speciﬁc information possible understand the ins and outs of life needs. insurance and boost the performance of The site complies with computer their savings. accessibility standards and can also be viewed on tablets and smartphones. 56 BILAN RSE 2014 CNP ASSURANCES Read our publications The 2014 Annual Report, CSR Report and Registration Document are available on-line by going to “The Group” and then “Our publications”. The Shareholder Guide and Shareholder Newsletter are available on the Individual Shareholder page. Available in both French and English * for download from www.cnp.fr or on request from CNP Assurances. CO RPO RATE SO CIA L * Except for the Shareholder Guide which is RES PO NS IBIL REPO RT 2014 ITY available in French only 2014 ANNUAL REPORT Registration Document including the Annual Financial Report 2014 insuring all our futures This report was printed by an Imprim’vert-certiﬁed printing company on EU Ecolabel-certiﬁed paper produced from 100% post-consumer recycled ﬁbres. Using 100% post-consumer recycled paper is a genuine commitment to the circular economy, a key CSR challenge. April 2015 – CNP Assurances – Sustainable Development department – Cover design and production: – Document design and production: Labrador – Photos: Eric Audras/Corbis – Paul Bradbury/Getty Images (cover) and Franck Juery (page 1) – 100% recycled paper – Ref. CNP/2015/B-RSE2014/COD – Layout: E-Graphics – Printer: Vincent Ref. CNP/2015/RA2014/KM insuring all our futures CNP ASSURANCES | Registered ofﬁce: 4, place Raoul Dautry, 75716 Paris Cedex 15 | Tel.: +33 (0)1 4218 8888 | www.cnp.fr | Caisse des Dépôts Group
