UN Global compact COP Statement by the CEO NIBE Industrier AB (NIBE) is a Swedish company, with its roots in the southern province of Småland, which has a long-standing tradition of manufacturing products for both household and commercial use. Our vision is to create world-class solutions in sustainable energy. We offer the market high-quality, innovative energy-efficient products and system solutions. Our achievements are largely attributable to our corporate culture, which is based on an entrepreneurial spirit and a passion for business, where healthy profitability and continuous growth are the key factors for success. I am pleased to confirm NIBE´s support of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labor rights, environment protection and anti-corruption. Our Sustainability Program reflects the ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact. We have identified our prioritized sustainability issues and follow our performance on these issues systematically. We communicate sustainability performance on a yearly basis and follow the sustainability reporting standard set by GRI. In the Communication on Progress we describe our actions to continuously improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our customers, employees, suppliers and other stakeholders. Gerteric Lindquist CEO, NIBE Industrier AB 2015-10-14 NIBE INDUSTRIER AB Box 14 SE-285 21 Markaryd SWEDEN Tel +46 433 73 000 Reg nr 556374-8309 www.nibe.com Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Commitment: NIBE actively supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We respect Human Rights within our sphere of influence and operate our business in a transparent and trustworthy way. NIBE sees no significant risks that the company or its suppliers violates the UN Global Compact Principles 1-2. Systems: Our Code of Conduct is a clear set of standards for our business conduct, including The Global Compact Principles 1-2, the protection of human rights, health and safety. It provides the ethical and behavioral framework on which we base our decisions every day. The Code is anchored in values and beliefs and underpins all that we do. Activities: We work systematically to strengthen business ethics, including Global Compact´s Principles 1-2. We follow up of NIBE Code of Conduct through management reviews and the NIBE whistleblowing service. Performance: In the past year NIBE has not been subject to any investigations, legal cases or incidents involving Human Rights violations. No incidents on violations of the Human Rights principles have been reported to the Company Management. Labour Standards Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Commitment: We respect the right of workers and operate our business with safe and attractive working conditions. We respect the freedom of association and collective bargaining and have zero tolerance for forced labour, child labour or discrimination. NIBE sees no significant risks that the company or its suppliers violates the UN Global Compact Principles 3-6. Systems: Our Code of Conduct is a clear set of standards for our business conduct, including Global Compact Principles 3-6. NIBE hold certificates for ISO 9001 and OHSAS 18001 (part of the organization). Activities: The ISO 9001 and OHSAS 18001 are important tools in our efforts to continuously enhance quality and working environment standards throughout the group. We work systematically to strengthen business ethics, including Global Compact´s Principles 3-6. We follow up of NIBE Code of Conduct through management reviews and the NIBE whistleblowing service. Performance: No incidents on violations of labour rights principles have been reported to the Company Management. NIBE INDUSTRIER AB Box 14 SE-285 21 Markaryd SWEDEN Tel +46 433 73 000 Reg nr 556374-8309 www.nibe.com Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Commitment: We recognize that our production and transports have a negative impact on the environment. We constantly work to minimize these effects. Systems: Our Code of Conduct is a clear set of standards for our business conduct, including Global Compact Principles 7-9. We also have an environmental policy in order to lower our overall environmental impact. NIBE hold ISO 14001 certificates (part of the organization). Our plan is that the entire organization is certified in 2016. Activities: The ISO 14001 environmental management system is an important tool to continuously enhance our environmental performance. We work systematically to strengthen business ethics, including Global Compact´s Principles 7-9. We follow up of NIBE Code of Conduct through management reviews and the NIBE whistleblowing service. Performance: No incidents on violations of the environmental principles have been reported to the Company Management. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. Commitment: NIBE do not participate in any corruption, bribery or extortion. Systems: Our Code of Conduct is a clear set of standards for our business conduct, including Global Compact Principle 10. Activities: We work systematically to strengthen business ethics, including Global Compact´s Principles 10. During the year we have implemented and conducted an e-learning program on anti-corruption. The e-learning program will be offered on a regular basis to employees. We follow up of NIBE Code of Conduct through management reviews and the NIBE whistleblowing service. Performance: No incidents on violations of the Anti-corruption principle have been reported to the Company Management. NIBE INDUSTRIER AB Box 14 SE-285 21 Markaryd SWEDEN Tel +46 433 73 000 Reg nr 556374-8309 www.nibe.com
