United Nations Global Compact— Communication on Progress 2014 In 2011, Tiffany & Co. joined the United Nations Global Compact, a strategic policy initiative for businesses committed to aligning their operations and strategies with Ten Principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. The table below shows how we are communicating on progress for the Ten Principles. For further information on the UN Global Compact, please see www.unglobalcompact.org. HUMAN RIGHTS principle global compact principles communication on progress 1 Businesses should support and respect the Tiffany & Co. adheres to key policies and protection of internationally proclaimed procedures in order to safeguard human rights human rights. within the Company and throughout our supply chain. These policies and procedures 2 Businesses should make sure they are not are detailed in the Governance section of this complicit in human rights abuses. report. Within the Company, we welcome diversity and strive to offer all employees an equitable and respectful working environment (see Responsible Mining and Our Employees). The Company’s Social Accountability Program (see Supplier Responsibility) rigorously evaluates vendors to better protect human rights in our supply chain. Beyond these spheres of influence, Tiffany & Co. is committed to protecting human rights throughout the industry and seeks to advance the highest standards in responsible mining (see Responsible Mining). labor standards principle global compact principles communication on progress 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of Tiffany & Co. recognizes and respects the association and the effective recognition importance of stringent labor standards to of the right to collective bargaining. protect workers worldwide. The Tiffany & Co. Internal Audit Department provides oversight 4 Businesses should uphold the elimination and guidance to enhance compliance with of all forms of forced and compulsory applicable laws and regulations to foster a labor. positive and ethical work environment for 5 Businesses should uphold the effective Company employees (see Governance and abolition of child labor. Our Employees). The Company’s Social Accountability Program carefully monitors 6 Businesses should uphold the elimination vendor performance in relation to labor of discrimination in respect of standards, specifically evaluating freedom of employment and occupation. association and collective bargaining, forced labor, child labor and discrimination (see Supplier Responsibility). Additionally, Tiffany & Co. supports the strengthening of industry-wide labor standards beyond our immediate operations (see Responsible Mining). 96 | About This Report environment principle global compact principles communication on progress 7 Businesses should support a Tiffany & Co. draws on the natural world for precautionary approach to environmental both design inspiration and the precious challenges. materials used in our products. At the Company’s core is a commitment to preserve, 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives protect and responsibly manage the to promote greater environmental environment on which we rely for our longresponsibility. term success. The Company promotes 9 Businesses should encourage the environmental responsibility by leveraging development and diffusion of the Tiffany brand. For example, the Company environmentally friendly technologies. plays a leadership role in industry-wide collaborative efforts to protect against environmental damage across the supply chain, raises awareness of risks associated with mining in ecologically sensitive areas and directly sources from mines that are committed to environmental stewardship. These efforts are strengthened by the Foundation’s support of scientific research, conservation and multistakeholder collaboration to promote the most environmentally responsible standards in mining operations (see Responsible Mining). In addition to addressing the impacts of mining, we regularly look to reduce our environmental footprint in other ways, from using recycled content and FSC®-certified sources for our boxes and bags to reducing our greenhouse gas emissions (see Paper & Packaging and Building Footprint). anticorruption principle global compact principles communication on progress 10 Businesses should work against The Tiffany & Co. Business Conduct Policy sets corruption in all its forms, including forth expectations for Tiffany & Co. employees, extortion and bribery. including compliance with relevant laws and regulations. This policy prohibits payment of bribes or the acceptance of inappropriate payments or gifts. All employees are required to review the policy upon hire and thereafter on an annual basis to make sure that they understand these standards (see Governance). Within our supply chain, Tiffany & Co. requires vendors in the Social Accountability Program to annually review the Vendor Code of Conduct, which outlines expectations for ethical conduct and legal compliance (see Supplier Responsibility). About This Report | 97
