United Nations Global Compact Communication On Progress 2015 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 FOUNDER’S STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT FOR THE GLOBAL COMPACT This is Euromonitor International’s third Communication on Progress and it covers all of the company’s global operations during 2014-2015. Euromonitor takes its responsibilities towards society and the environment seriously. Our connection to the UN Global Compact is one manifestation of this commitment and we are committed to our on-going support for the 10 universally accepted principles of responsible business through participation in the Compact, and to reporting how we demonstrate this commitment in a transparent way. During the past year, we have improved our environmental performance, reinforced our ethical practices and continued to contribute to our communities in many locations around the world. On behalf of Euromonitor’s Board of Directors and employees around the world, I commit to continue to provide an annual communication to update stakeholders on our progress. This Communication on Progress is posted on the UNGC website and on Euromonitor’s global website. Internally, it is available on the global intranet site for all employees. Robert Senior Founder May 2015 © Euromonitor International COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 EUROMONITOR INTERNATIONAL 2 ABOUT EUROMONITOR INTERNATIONAL Euromonitor International is the world’s leading provider of global business intelligence and strategic market analysis. We have more than 40 years’ experience publishing international market reports, business reference books and online databases on consumer markets. We deliver market research solutions to support strategic planning for today’s increasingly international business environment. Our research offers in-depth market analysis on consumer goods and service industries worldwide, as well as economic, demographic and socio-economic data and insight on countries and consumers. Euromonitor International is headquartered in London, with regional offices in Chicago, Singapore, Shanghai, Vilnius, Santiago, Dubai, Cape Town, Tokyo, Sydney, Bangalore and São Paulo. We have a network of over 800 analysts worldwide. EUROMONITOR INTERNATIONAL LEADERSHIP ROBERT SENIOR TREVOR FENWICK TIM KITCHIN Founder Executive Chairman Chief Executive Leadership Team ANDY CARTER ANTHONY IRWIN VP Sales VP Research BRAD BORGMAN CAROLYN HARRINGTON VP Consulting, Product Strategy and Development Finance Director DANIEL MELONE LISA TOMLINSON Operations Director VP Sales SARAH HUNTER HR and CSR Director SOCIAL MEDIA Euromonitor maintains a range of Social Media accounts as part of the company’s commitment to dialogue and transparency. You are welcome to follow Euromonitor on: © Euromonitor International COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 EUROMONITOR INTERNATIONAL 3 HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Commitment As an international organisation we recognise that there are differences in accepted practices with regards to standards in safe working environments, child protection and other aspects of human rights. However, we consistently seek to develop best practice across all regions and work to the highest standards rather than just local legal minimums. We are committed to the well-being of our employees, in-country analysts and contractors, creating safe, positive and professional work places. Implementation Our company Staff Handbook and global intranet include policies regarding equal opportunities, flexible working, parental leave, work-life balance and anti-harassment and bullying amongst others. All new employees are briefed at induction and given full details on all policies embraced by the company. Euromonitor International believes an important part of upholding and promoting human rights is the commitment we make as a business to our local communities. Working with community organisations we aim to support individuals to better their lives and those of their family members. Article 14. Everyone has the right to seek and to enjoy in other countries asylum from persecution Since the outbreak of civil war in March 2011 an estimated 9 million Syrians have fled their homes, seeking refuge. Moved by the plight of these people living so far from their homes and with winter approaching our Dubai office raised funds to purchase winter garments for the children. Read more... Winter clothing is donated to over 460 children living in a refugee camp near to the city of Gaziantep in Turkey © Euromonitor International COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 EUROMONITOR INTERNATIONAL 4 Article 23. Everyone, without discrimination, has the right to equal pay for equal work As business leaders, employees, consumers and entrepreneurs, women are accelerating the economic growth and improving the conditions of their communities. Despite proven benefits of women’s economic engagement, women business owners face disproportionate barriers to growing their business. Euromonitor partnered with Vital Voices Global Partnership to provide 23 women from 10 countries in the Middle East and North Africa with access to our market research expertise and information. With training and access to our data the women business leaders were better able to comprehend the power of research to help them grow their businesses and contribute more to their community. Read more… The participants of the MENA workshop Article 25. Everyone has the right to a standard of living adequate for health and well-being of himself and of his family… In August 2014 Euromonitor announced a partnership with the international water charity Just a Drop. Just a Drop works with community partners to provide local, clean, safe water supplies to poor communities around the world. The charity receives 1% of our online sales; the funding will be used to provide a village in Tamil Nadu India with clean water and new sanitation facilities. Caroline Bremer Travel and Tourism Manager visited a Just a Drop project in Uganda to find out more about their work and the impact on communities. © Euromonitor International COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 EUROMONITOR INTERNATIONAL 5 Measurement Management of Euromonitor offices is regularly reviewed by the Leadership Board. Euromonitor is compliant with all legal requirements in every respect, and in many cases, exceeds minimum requirements. In the past year Euromonitor International has not been subject to any investigations, legal cases or incidents involving human rights. The CSR Manager works with all community partners to evaluate the impact of supported projects. Reports are published on the Corporate Social Responsibility Blog on our global website and internally on the global intranet. © Euromonitor International COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 EUROMONITOR INTERNATIONAL 6 LABOUR Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Commitment It is Euromonitor International’s policy to provide employment, training, promotion, pay, benefits and other conditions of employment without regard to race, colour, ethnic origin, nationality, religion or belief, sex, sexual orientation, gender reassignment, marital status, age and/or disability. By valuing diversity and equal opportunity, we benefit from a rich spectrum of experiences, skills and perspectives for all the clients we serve. Euromonitor International complies fully with all aspects of labour law in all countries in which it operates. Where our standards exceed those of local legislation, we apply our own policies. Implementation Euromonitor International has written policies that clearly state employee rights and responsibilities and their compensation and benefits. It is company policy to ensure that decisions concerning hiring, wages, promotion, training, discipline, retirement and termination are based only on unbiased criteria, and are not linked to any discriminatory characteristics. All directors, managers and staff are aware of our equal opportunities policy and are expected to adhere to it. As we continue to grow as a company it is important to ensure all policies are properly implemented across our twelve offices. In 2014-2015 we have formally appointed roles with HR responsibility in each office reporting into the main HR department in our London head office. Employee wellbeing has always been important to Euromonitor, and in the last year we appointed a Head of Employee Relations to be the “go-to” person for employees requiring support and guidance outside of the normal management chain. Euromonitor believes in investing in employee development in order to ensure productive and motivated employees and safeguard business continuity. Euromonitor has an extensive internal training and development programme managed by our International Recruitment and Training Manager and International Research Development Manager. As a global company it is important to ensure that all employees regardless of the country they are based in has equal © Euromonitor International COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 EUROMONITOR INTERNATIONAL 7 access to personal and professional development. In 2015 Euromonitor International University was rolled out globally. The virtual platform aims to help employees, in-country analysts and contractors learn about different aspects of the company and how we do what we do through a series of video training sessions. In March 2015 Euromonitor joined the internationally recognised organisation Sedex (Supplier Ethical Data Exchange). Sedex offers a simple and effective way of managing ethical and responsible practices in your supply chain. Having completed a self-assessment questionnaire (SAQ) we are now able to share this information, on request, with existing and new clients. Measurement Euromonitor International’s HR team periodically reviews the company’s responsibilities towards labour rights in relation to compliance with national and international law. We continue to monitor all health and safety incidents, recruitment statistics and sickness records to ensure compliance with our policies. The usage and completion of Euromonitor International University courses is continually monitored. In the first quarter over 2,500 training session quizzes were taken and 169 certificates, for completion of an entire topic, have been issued. These figures will continue to be reviewed and new courses added as necessary. © Euromonitor International COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 EUROMONITOR INTERNATIONAL 8 ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Commitment Although Euromonitor International’s direct impact on the environment is relatively small we are keen to ensure continued commitment to our internal policies and controls. We take our responsibility in supporting initiatives that prevent and manage environmental risk very seriously. Specifically, we are committed to: • Conserve natural resources and reduce the environmental burden of waste generation • Reduce the consumption of energy through building assessment and control, and by encouraging employee awareness, individual action and proactive involvement • Reduce the level of air travel and balance the impact of unavoidable flights Implementation Employee Awareness of Environment Issues All new employees participate in a Corporate Social Responsibility induction, our environmental policy and targets are explained and discussed within this induction ensuring all employees are aware of our commitment to reduce our impact on the environment. In addition each office has a team of green champions who promote positive behaviour throughout the year and look for ways to improve the efficiency of their office. In April each year we have a global Green Week. In 2015 activities included: a desk plant potting session in Bangalore, free cycle maintenance workshops in London to encourage more people to cycle, a talk on food waste by the Singapore Environment Council and every office participated in a green audit of their building. Employees in Bangalore with their new desk top potted plants © Euromonitor International COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 EUROMONITOR INTERNATIONAL 9 Energy Saving Opportunities Scheme In response to Article 8 (4-6) of the EU Energy Efficiency Directive (2012/27/EU) the UK government established the Energy Saving Opportunities Scheme (ESOS). ESOS is a mandatory energy assessment scheme for organisations in the UK that meet the qualification criteria. In line with this Euromonitor has contracted Sustain Ltd to assist us in becoming ESOS compliant. Sustain will help us to identify energy efficiency measures, and/or confirm if previous measures are having the desired effect. By profiling the energy consumption of our London offices, we will be able to identify and prioritise areas for future energy efficiency investment. Furthermore, we hope to be able to replicate parts of the process in our global offices to effect reductions in energy consumption. Air Travel In 2015 we have rolled out a new global travel booking system enabling us to monitor and evaluate the number of flights taken across the company. We specifically look at the number of inter-office flights against the usage of video conferencing facilities, available in our three largest offices. All flights from the London office are offset through the World Land Trust Carbon Balanced Programme and by the end of 2015 all flights globally will be offset via a regional partnership with a not-for-profit environmental organisation. Measurement Euromonitor International’s leadership team is committed to reducing our environmental impact. The CSR Manager, working with the Director of Operations and Office Managers has day to day responsibility for our environmental programmes and activities. Energy consumption is monitored across each office and targets for reduction are set accordingly. Our current target is a 5% reduction; achievements against this target are reviewed and adjusted as necessary. Euromonitor International uses licensed waste companies for disposal of waste and recycling and approved carbon balanced programmes. Reports are regularly reviewed to ensure our systems are effective with the majority of refuse produced being recycled. Euromonitor International has not been involved in any environmental incidents, nor has it been the subject of any investigations or legal proceedings by any regulating authority. © Euromonitor International COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 EUROMONITOR INTERNATIONAL 10 ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Commitment Euromonitor International is committed to conducting business ethically and honestly everywhere we operate regardless of local cultures and ways of doing business. Employees of Euromonitor International are made aware that bribery, corruption and extortion in any form is not tolerated within our company under any circumstances. Implementation All new employees are given a copy of the Anti-Bribery and Corruption policy and are required to sign an acknowledgement slip confirming they have read and understood the policy. In 2015, Euromonitor released a web-based learning module, available via Euromonitor University, which takes around 20 minutes to complete. The easy to access user-friendly format explains what bribery and corruption are, what the laws are globally, Euromonitor’s stance on it and provides guidelines on how employees should report any concerns. All reports are confidential and are dealt with by our Operations Director in the first instance. Measurement Signed acknowledgement slips are kept on the employee file by HR. Any suspicions, concerns or queries are reported in the first instance to the Operations Director and subsequently shared with the CSR Manager for the purpose of monitoring and identifying any areas where additional support or training may be required. During the last 12 months Euromonitor International has not been involved in any legal cases, rulings or other events related to bribery, corruption or extortion. © Euromonitor International CONTACT DETAILS Catherine Dix Corporate Social Responsibility Manager Euromonitor International 60-61 Britton Street London UK EC1M 5UX www.euromonitor.com © Euromonitor International
