Impact Colors Inc. 201 East Elm Street Conshohocken, PA 19428 USA 1-302-224-8310 www.impactcolorsinc.com August 27, 2015 I am pleased to confirm Impact Colors, Inc continues to support the ten principles of the Global Compact on human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. We are committed to the Global Compact and its principles as part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company, and to engaging in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, particularly the Millennium Development Goals. Impact Colors, Inc. declares our commitment via this communication to our stakeholders and the general public. We recognize that a key requirement for participation in the Global Compact is the annual submission of a Communication on Progress (COP) that describes our company’s efforts to implement the ten principles. We support public accountability and transparency, and therefore report the following according to the Global Compact COP policy: It is our policy that no source materials used for products manufactured and/or supplied by Impact Colors originate from the regions of EDRC (Eastern Democratic Republic of Congo), Angola, Burundi, Central African Republic, Republic of Congo, Rwanda, Sudan, Tanzania, Uganda and Zambia. We further confirm that all Tungsten, Tin, Tantalum, and Gold used in Impact products are sourced from outside the EDRC region. In this regard, we can independently verify and certify that our sources of Tungsten, Tin, Tantalum, and Gold are 100% conflict-free sourced. We are committed to adhering to the health, safety, environmental, regulatory, sustainability and ethical standards of the industry, as well as, local and international laws. And offer transparency of the efforts undertaken to eradicate slavery and human trafficking in the product supply chains. Impact Colors Inc. employees who have direct responsibility for the supply chain have been provided with relevant internal training. We also confirm by internal monitoring that our supply chain partners have certified to us the need to comply with all laws and regulations preventing forced labor and human trafficking. We affirm to sever ties with the offending party, if found to be in violation. We continue to support the environmental sustainability initiatives by developing and promoting the innovation of new products and processes that support sustainability. This includes review packaging options to reduce waste, offering options for consolidation of shipments and analyzing transportation routes and methods, incorporating environmentally-friendly materials for shipping cartons and other materials, participating in the local recycling programs, by using technology to reduce redundant activities and travel by offering telecommuting ,web-based meetings, seminars and presentations and using technology to reduce paper and mail volume internally and externally. Including offering our product documentation via our website (MSDS, Specifications, Product Brochures) We are happy to report that our reduction of packaging material and offers to consolidate shipments have been embraced by our customers, resulting in reduction of waste and in the case of one customer a 25 % reduction in the number of shipments (from 12 shipments to 9 per year). Sincerely yours, Mr. Douglas Thornley President – Impact Colors
