Growth Commitment Results Impact Partners 2 0 1 4 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y P R O G R ESS R E P O RT Growth S C I E N C E I S AT T H E H E A Throughout our 214-year history, DuPont has drawn on its scientific expertise to create a continual course of innovative, science-based solutions for our customers. Today our science is helping to solve critical problems on a global scale. As the world confronts serious challenges created by explosive population growth and economic development, DuPont’s 10,000 scientists and engineers are seeking the answers. Increasingly, our focus is on addressing growth markets where demand is driven by the need to ensure there is sufficient, nutritious and healthy food for people across the globe; to reduce our dependence on fossil fuels; and to protect people and the environment. With our vast storehouse of scientific knowledge, DuPont is uniquely positioned to combine areas of scientific expertise to create entirely new products and markets. Making a difference: building a secure energy future. While the demand for energy grows, the supply of fossil fuels will not. With a growing population, we will need to use those existing resources as efficiently and effectively as possible, and find better ways to harness renewable energy sources as well. These transitions will stimulate new industries and power clean economies. Making a difference: Making a difference: feeding the world. protecting what Ensuring that enough healthy, matters most. nutritious food is available for A growing population places people everywhere is one of the increased pressure on people and most critical challenges facing the environment. As the world humanity. Our focus on providing develops, humanity places greater for the needs of a growing value on both life and the earth we population will help developing all share. We believe that our social countries prosper, and foster and environmental ecosystems economic growth around the world. are precious, and we’re working to protect them. 2 2014 DuPont Sustainability Progress Report R T O F O U R C O M PA N Y DuPont is executing a plan to deliver higher growth and higher value for customers and shareholders by enabling greater food security and safety, creating high performance, cost-effective and energy efficient advanced materials across industries, and delivering renewably sourced bio-based materials and fuels. Through all of this work, our goal is to drive sustainable growth — creating shareholder and societal value while reducing the environmental impact of our value chains. We are advancing the leading edge of innovation, helping customers find solutions to some of the most pressing needs of our age, while applying this model of sustainable growth as our guide. As we operate across 208 DuPont production facilities around the world, we have significantly reduced our environmental footprint, and we have made good progress on a number of other sustainability fronts. We are well on track to achieve our energy utilization goal for 2020. In fact, we met our 2015 milestone two years early as a result of reducing our energy usage significantly more than we were aiming for. We also made excellent progress toward meeting our 2020 food competitive advantage in the marketplace and “DuPont is a true trailblazer and leader, drive value for our shareholders while also reaping demonstrating that sustainability can provide broader benefits for society at large. a competitive advantage in the marketplace DuPont is executing a strong plan that is delivering results now while positioning the company for and drive value for our shareholders…” long-term growth. As we advance this plan — completing the separation of our Performance security goals, particularly in the area of engaging and Chemicals business in mid-2015 and advancing educating youth in Africa on optimal food production the next major era of market-driven innovation — techniques. we will announce a new set of goals, which will be a focus of next year’s report. Through this exciting We are also proud to have introduced a new Supplier transition and beyond, sustainability will remain Code of Conduct, which extends the commitments and expectations of our Core Values to the many thousands central to our mission and key to our success. of people who provide the necessary supplies and materials to our company. And we continued to deepen our sustainability efforts with customers around the world in exciting new ways, as this report highlights. Ellen Kullman In this regard DuPont is a true trailblazer and leader, Chair of the Board & Chief Executive Officer demonstrating that sustainability can provide a 2014 DuPont Sustainability Progress Report 3 Commitment A M AT T E R O F S U S TA I N An Interview with our Chief Sustainability Officer This was another successful year for DuPont as we continued to work toward driving down our environmental footprint — the impact of our company’s operations on the environment — while also increasing the sustainability of our products. Chief Sustainability Officer Linda Fisher discusses DuPont’s environmental performance and the role the company is playing in creating a more sustainable future. Q. What are some recent sustainability highlights Q. How have we broadened the reach of our for the company? sustainability engagement? A. We have exciting progress to report on several different A. DuPont is involved in a number of leading edge fronts. Let’s start with some innovative product lines that our technologies, and stakeholder engagement is a priority customers are using to reduce environmental impacts in the for us. The question is, how do we tap into these different product-use phase. We recently commercialized DuPont™ perspectives? We are finding more opportunities to engage Tyvek® ThermaWrap™, a new version of our house wrap, directly with customers, investors, suppliers, employees and which acts as a low emissivity, metallized other important stakeholders and thought leaders about the weather barrier to help improve the energy progress of our work in sustainability. efficiency of buildings. We also partnered For example, earlier in 2014, DuPont began an Insight Series with Procter & Gamble to build a new to engage with key stakeholders on new and emerging enzyme technology that delivers the technologies. This allowed us to bring together scientists, cleaning power of warm-water when NGOs, policy-makers, academics, and other interested washing clothes at energy-saving coldstakeholders to discuss a wide range of views on the potential water temperatures. And our agricultural benefits and risks of new technologies and their ability customers continue to apply crop protection to help solve global challenges related to food, energy, materials in ways that are smarter, safer, and using and human and environmental health. These are valuable dramatically less product. opportunities for DuPont leaders to listen and learn from On the operational side of the business, our Spruance site these diverse perspectives. Inside the company, we increased in Richmond, Virginia, redesigned their manufacturing employee engagement initiatives with monthly webinars processes to improve productivity while reducing energy use covering sustainability issues. In addition, we launched a and greenhouse gas emissions. We’re proud that this site global campaign about personal environmental responsibility was recognized by the Governor’s Environmental Excellence on Earth Day, and continued recognizing achievements in Awards Program, just as we’re proud of all the initiatives at innovation and operations with our annual Sustainable Growth our facilities across the world to realize our long-standing Excellence Awards. commitment to sustainability. Q. DuPont achieved its 2015 market facing and footprint goals two years early. Do you think they were ambitious enough? How are you building on these in the future? A. In 2006 we made two pretty dramatic commitments. First, we set a high bar for our footprint goals and second, we were among a handful of companies to expand our focus of sustainability to include our products in the global marketplace through our market-facing goals. We learned a lot from committing to these goals, and we are proud to have realized the targets well before our 2015 target date. For example, from 1990 to 2004, DuPont reduced global air carcinogen emissions by 92 percent. And since 2004, we have realized an additional 63 percent reduction in air carcinogens. This translates into protecting human lives. On the market-facing side, we have DuPont™ Tyvek® ThermaWrap™ LE is made with a metallized, low-emission been meeting high targets as well, including boosting revenue (low-e) surface that reflects solar radiation away from the building. from products that reduce greenhouse gas emissions from $100 million in 2007 to $2.5 billion in 2013. 4 2014 DuPont Sustainability Progress Report ABILITY Now, we are taking all of the learnings from the footprint and market-facing goals, and embedding them into the corporate strategy and growth plan. We are finalizing new 2020 goals that will be announced in 2015, that will guide the next steps in our sustainability journey. Looking ahead, as Ellen said in her letter in this report, DuPont is becoming a dramatically different company and our sustainability goals will support this critical transformation. Q. Have there been any notable challenges or areas for improvement in the company’s sustainability performance? A. We are pleased with and proud of the strides we have © 2011 Rich Clement/Bloomberg made in embedding sustainability into our business strategy, including reducing our operational footprint. However, we have identified several key areas where we can improve our Linda J. Fisher serves as Vice President — DuPont Safety, Health & sustainability platform and results. Environment and Chief Sustainability Officer. She has responsibility for advancing DuPont’s progress in achieving sustainable growth; DuPont safety, health and environmental programs; the company’s global product stewardship, regulatory affairs, and government affairs programs; and corporate philanthropy. She joined the company in July 2004. Q. What key messages would you like readers of the report to take away? A. Sustainability is a journey and reflects the dynamic nature of both an enterprise like ours and the larger societal and environmental context in which we operate. We are proud of our longstanding commitment to sustainability and the important achievements we have “DuPont reduced global air carcinogen emissions by 92 percent. And since 2004, made in this area, some of which are highlighted in this we have realized an additional 56 percent reduction in air carcinogens.” report. But we know that’s not enough. We hope this report will spark a meaningful dialogue with For example, I think we have done a solid job of understanding you and our other stakeholders who share our belief in our customers — DuPont would not be a successful company sustainability as good business as well as good corporate otherwise — but there is always room to improve in this area citizenship. So we ask you to challenge us. Where can we especially as many of our customers continue to deepen their contribute more? Who should we be working with? We own sustainability commitments and efforts. We also recognize want our stakeholders to keep engaging with us, keep evolving expectations around supply chain sustainability and helping us see what we can do better. We will listen. have begun to take action in this area. For example, we recently published a new Supplier Code of Conduct which clearly communicates our commitment to the DuPont core values as well as our expectation that our suppliers understand these core values as well. We are also reviewing ways to conduct supplier assessments more efficiently to help us make better decisions in sourcing and logistics. Another area where we can do better is water. Over the years, we have focused a great deal on the important global challenge of climate change. We need to apply this same expertise and commitment to our global water use. While we have realized some important water conservation successes, we should “We need to apply our same expertise and commitment we have to climate expand our understanding of water risks, and put water on a change to our global water use.” higher priority level for our sustainability efforts going forward. 2014 DuPont Sustainability Progress Report 5 Impact 1 3 7 10 9 5 4 Every hour of every day, in nearly every corner of the 1 DuPont Canada established a carpool matching service world, DuPont products are touching and improving many for employees to coordinate ridesharing opportunities. lives. Our sustainability programs are making a difference as Participating employees earned points for an internal program well, in communities and DuPont facilities all across the globe. which encourages peer recognition. Here is a selection of company initiatives that are protecting the environment, saving energy and advancing sustainability 2 DuPont Vietnam was proud to be named a Green in countries around the world. Enterprise in the Green Book 2014 of Binh Duong Province for its second straight year. Companies in the Green Book were recognized for their outstanding efforts in protecting the environment and complying with standards. 3 DuPont celebrated the completion of its largest solar power installation to date — a 15 acre, 4.5 megawatt solar power plant at its facility in Cernay, France. The project, supported by local municipal authorities, was a showcase of private and public partnership. 4 On Chile’s Patagonian coast, DuPont is feeding farmraised Verlasso salmon with an omega-3-producing yeast that dramatically reduced amounts of fish oil needed to raise the salmon. The Monterey Bay Aquarium recently recognized the 6 2014 DuPont Sustainability Progress Report GLOBAL STORIES 8 2 6 company’s salmon as a “good alternative” in its influential company’s Spruance plant in Richmond, Virginia. The team Seafood Watch program, the first time farm-raised salmon has designed and installed equipment to economically recover been so designated. energy that was previously unused. 5 In São Paolo, Brazil, the DuPont offices have moved to 8 Shanghai-based DuPont China was featured in Global 100% renewable energy. The offices are now purchasing Science Magazine for having the most influential R&D center renewable electricity from a small hydro project located in 2013. The R&D Center was recognized for promoting in southern Brazil. Small hydro plants take advantage of sustainable development and reducing energy consumption favorable river flow conditions to generate power with the for the agriculture industry. least environmental impact. 9 DuPont established a pallet recycling program five years 6 Just outside of Vanderbijlpark, South Africa, a woman ago which has resulted in both cost savings and millions of smallholder farmer named Nolundi Msengana Makaula is pounds of waste-to-landfill avoided. In Orange,Texas, our developing a commercial farm using DuPont Pioneer maize Sabine site recycled 6,200 pallets in 2009 and is on target to hybrids. Her 450 acres of fields produce 1.5 times more yield recycle at least 25,000 pallets this year. per acre than the national average, and she has been lauded as a leader in agribusiness and has won many awards for her 10 In Palo Alto, California, DuPont Industrial Biosciences successes in farming. turned the focus of their annual employee engagement challenge to “Changing the World.” Employees earned points 7 DuPont was awarded two prestigious awards for by volunteering with non-profits, educating children in local improving energy efficiency and reducing greenhouse gas schools, and sponsoring community events like upcycling emissions in the manufacture of DuPont™ Nomex® at the demonstrations and “plant-a-seed” donations. 2014 DuPont Sustainability Progress Report 7 FOOD SECURIT Y Results “Feeding a growing population on a changing planet is a global challenge. At DuPont, we are investing in research and partnerships at new levels to find sustainable solutions. We have set strategic goals focused on food security, and have challenged ourselves to add more value and have a greater impact by integrating them with our sustainability objectives. These efforts are a critical part of our business and we are committing resources to solving this challenge each and every day.” DUPONT 2020 FOOD SECURITY GOALS Jim Borel Executive Vice President PROGRESS PROGRESS R&D INNOVATION R&D INNOVATION PROGRESS New Products Creating NEW PRODUCT INNOVATION DuPont Nutrition & Health expanded its range of protective dairy cultures with the introduction of HOLDBAC® YM Plus, part of the DuPont™ Danisco® range. GOAL: $10 BILLION R&D INVESTMENT Controlling contamination of fermented dairy products by yeast and mold is one TO HELP FEED THE WORLD of the greatest challenges GOAL:facing dairy 4,000 NEW manufacturers. HOLDBAC® YM Plus is PRODUCTS a powerful new weapon against spoilage, helping to ensure the production of 2012 PROGRESS: $1.2 BILLION longer lasting, fresher-tasting fermented 2012 PROGRESS: 1,039dairy products and reducing food loss. 2013 PROGRESS: $1.295 BILLION 2013 PROGRESS: 693 Another example of production innovation in action is HOLDBAC® YM Plus REMAINING: $7.505 BILLION REMAINING: 2,268 from DuPont Nutrition & Health. A protective culture that controls the growth of yeasts, molds, and bacteria, this product is most commonly used in fresh PROGRESS PROGRESS food and white cheese applications. Recently, a California-based fermented R&D INNOVATION NEW PRODUCT INNOVATION PROGRESS dairy used HOLDBAC® YM-C Plus to reduce mold they were dealing with in one of PROGRESS NEW PRODUCT their sour creams. By doing this, they added 15 days to the product’s shelf life INNOVATION NEW PRODUCT INNOVATION PROGRESS PROGRESS and reduced their monthly waste by 0.5%. RURAL DEVELOPMENT GOAL: $10 BILLION R&D INVESTMENT YOUTH ENGAGEMENT TO HELP FEED THE WORLD GOAL: 4,000 NEW PRODUCTS Supporting Small Holder Farmers 2012 PROGRESS: $1.2 BILLION GOAL: GOAL: 4,000 IMPROVE NEW PRODUCTS LIVELIHOOD OF 3 MILLION The Advanced Maize Seed 2012 PROGRESS: 1,039 Adoption Program (AMSAP) in Ethiopia takes a SMALL HOLDER 2013 FARMERS PROGRESS: ANDBILLION $1.295 THEIR farm to fork approach to enhance 2013 PROGRESS: 693 productivity. The program provides farmer RURAL2012 COMMUNITIES PROGRESS: 1,039 GOAL: 2 MILLION2,268 YOUTH ENGAGMENTS REMAINING: $7.505 BILLION agronomic training, improved inputs, and greater access to credit, markets, and REMAINING: 2013 PROGRESS: 693 grain storage. DuPont is providing sample 2012 PROGRESS: hybrid seed for demonstration plots, 451,846 2012 PROGRESS: REMAINING: 169,247 2,268 facilitating field training sessions and building 2013 PROGRESS: 774,295 a network of farmer dealers to 2013 PROGRESS: 205,752 advance the utilization andREMAINING: acceptance of 773,859 high-quality inputs and production REMAINING: 2,625,001 techniques. AMSAP created 320 demonstration plots and trained more than PROGRESS PROGRESS NEW PRODUCT INNOVATION PROGRESS 4,000 farmers and extension workers in its first year alone. The program is PROGRESS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRESS YOUTH ENGAGEMENT RURAL DEVELOPMENT YOUTH ENGAGEMENT expected to eventually reach 100,000 farmers. GOAL: Cultivating Youth Engagement GOAL:IMPROVE LIVELIHOOD 4,000 NEW PRODUCTS OF 3 MILLION SMALL HOLDER FARMERS AND THEIR DuPont Crop Protection started Projeto DuPont Escola (Project DuPont School) RURAL COMMUNITIES in Brazil in 2013 to promote GOAL: 2safe MILLION YOUTH ENGAGMENTS farming in the community. The interactive 2012 PROGRESS: 1,039 2013 PROGRESS: 693 program is designed to change 2012 PROGRESS: 451,846 of children and their families about the attitudes GOAL: 20122 MILLION PROGRESS:YOUTH ENGAGMENTS 169,247 farming. Third and fourth-grade students, ages 7–11, are participating. As a REMAINING: 2,268 2013 PROGRESS: 774,295 2013 PROGRESS: 205,752 2012 PROGRESS: 451,846 show of support for teachers and technology, DuPont donates one computer to REMAINING: 773,859 REMAINING: 2,625,001 2013 PROGRESS: 774,295 each school. REMAINING: 773,859 PROGRESS PROGRESS YOUTH ENGAGEMENTYOUTH ENGAGEMENT GOAL: 2 MILLION YOUTH ENGAGMENTS 2012 PROGRESS: 451,846 2013 PROGRESS: 774,295 REMAINING: 773,859 HOLDBAC® YM Plus is a powerful new weapon against spoilage, helping to ensure the production of longer-lasting, fresher-tasting fermented dairy products and reducing food loss. 8 2014 DuPont Sustainability Progress Report F O OT P R I N T S U STA I N A B I L I T Y “DuPont continues to integrate sustainability into our global operations. Every day, our employees work collaboratively to identify sustainable best practices. We view sustainability as critical for our success both as a company and as a responsible corporate citizen. While we’ve made substantial progress, our focus is on the future. For us, sustainability is much more than a goal to be achieved; it’s an ongoing commitment. We will foster this commitment by constantly challenging ourselves, and finding new ways to further reduce our footprint.” Gary Spitzer Senior Vice President for Integrated Operations & Engineering Sustainability at DuPont Dordrecht The Dordrecht, Netherlands site demonstrated how an integrated environmental program supported by a network of energy champions can lead to dramatic improvements in our environmental footprint. Spread across more than 130 acres of land, Dordrecht is one of the largest DuPont facilities in Europe, and its product lines serve several DuPont businesses globally. Its sheer size, combined with diverse products manufactured at the site, presented challenges in reducing the plant’s environmental impact in line with the 2020 Energy Goal and other sustainability targets. The 2020 Energy Goal drives the plants to reduce energy costs by three percent every year without inhibiting an increase in production. In order to overcome these challenges, the Dordrecht team turned to DuPont’s global network of site energy champions. At DuPont, environmental improvements are not left up to each DuPont plant in isolation. Each DuPont site is part of a larger network that includes energy champions — employees selected to track global energy performance and identify key improvement DuPont Dordrecht facility, Netherlands opportunities. Once a month, the network meets with site environmental experts to collaboratively solve problems, share ideas, and identify ways to further reduce DuPont’s environmental footprint. This regular communication has resulted in tangible changes at the Dordrecht plant, with the following impacts: DUPONT 2020 ENERGY GOAL ENERGY GOAL FOR 2020 • The Dordrecht site used 14 percent less energy in 2012 than in 2005 to GOAL: REDUCE NON-RENEWABLE ENERGY USE BY 10 PERCENT PER produce the same volume. PRICE ADJUSTED DOLLAR REVENUE BY 2020 COMPARED TO A BASELINE OF 2010. WE HAVE SET A MILESTONE OF 3 PERCENT REDUCTION BY 2015. • Annual CO2 emissions have decreased by approximately 50,000 tonnes 100 annually — roughly equivalent to the emissions produced by 15,000 mediumsized cars each driving 12,000 miles per year. 90 • Water consumption has declined 28% since 2006. 80 • The site has been ISO 14001 certified for over 10 years. 70 • Employees have helped the site reduce its operating costs by over $1MM. 60 Examples like Dordrecht demonstrate the value of DuPont’s strong sustainability 50 2010 2011 2012 2013 culture, and our integrated improvement process continues. PROGRESS: REDUCED 4.4 PERCENT SINCE BASELINE 18.7% 18.4% REDUCTION IN GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS SINCE 2004 REDUCTION IN WATER CONSUMPTION IN STRESSED AREAS SINCE 2004 8.4% REDUCTION IN ABSOLUTE WATER CONSUMPTION SINCE 2004 2014 DuPont Sustainability Progress Report 9 M A R K E T-FACI N G S U STA I N A B I L I T Y Partners “Helping our customers succeed is central to DuPont’s mission as a science company. We were an early adopter of sustainability as one way to achieve that success. Therefore, we incorporate sustainability factors directly into the design and development of our products and services to give our customers a competitive edge while also protecting precious resources and the environment. We believe that scientific advances and sustainability go hand in hand to meet increasing demands while addressing pressing needs in conservation and environmental protection.” Doug Muzyka Senior Vice President and Chief Science & Technology Officer Optimizing Sustainability for Growers Using Smarter Technology DuPont Pioneer has created a new mobile tool called EncircaSM to help growers care for their farms by providing exactly what the crop needs, at the right rate and at the right time, so resources aren’t overused or wasted. EncircaSM is a suite of precision farming tools that use GPS technology to help growers make real-time, actionable decisions that can positively impact their operations’ productivity while driving down their environmental footprint. Helping growers make more informed decisions about the resources required for productive farming is one way DuPont contributes to optimal performance and sustainability. Advancing Solar Cell Efficiency with Solamet® There is a science to boosting the power output from a solar cell. Through the application of new metallization materials to the front and rear sides of solar cells, these cells are enabling greater efficiency than ever, and at less cost. Over the last 12 years, advances in Solamet® metallization pastes from DuPont have almost doubled the efficiency of solar cells. Not only does every percentage improvement result in a 5% reduction in the cost of the overall solar power generation system, today it takes just half the panels to generate the same amount of electricity that it did twelve years ago. With fewer panels needed for each system, the costs for transportation, racking and mounting components, installation and labor decrease, which means increased sustainability and reduced cost for customers. Zytel® nylon helps to improve fuel DuPont and LION Collaborate to Better Protect Firefighters economy, reduce noise, emissions and First Responders A new lightweight automotive oil sump — the lower DuPont and LION have collaborated on new gear for firefighters and first shell of the oil pan module is helping the Swedish responders that protects from the inside-out. LION, a global leader in protective commercial vehicle manufacturer Scania reduce gear for first responders, was the first company to adopt new Kevlar ® products noise, emissions and weight. The adoption of the in blends with Nomex® to provide maximum protection. Every layer of LION’s DuPont™ Zytel® nylon resin for this application firefighter protective apparel includes Kevlar ® and Nomex®. Increased hazards has enabled a reduction in the weight of the around the world, especially in growing urban environments, require advanced component by over 50 percent, or 6 kg, versus its materials that provide maximum protection for those who protect us every day. aluminum predecessor. Lightweighting commercial Kevlar ® and Nomex® are the leading protection brands, steeped in a history of vehicles translates to improved fuel economy and proven performance and advanced testing and technologies. Both LION and reduced emissions, both of which help automotive DuPont know that the best way to provide value to our first responder customers customers drive down their environmental is by listening to their challenges and needs and then responding with solutions footprints. that improve their comfort and safety in the line of duty. $2.5 BILLION 1964 45.7 MILLION $1 BILLION ANNUAL REVENUE FROM PRODUCTS THAT CREATE NUMBER OF NEW PRODUCTS OR METRIC TONS OF CO2e CUMULATIVE GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS INVESTMENT IN R&D PROGRAMS WITH DIRECT, ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND/OR SIGNIFICANTLY SERVICES THAT MAKE PEOPLE REDUCED BY CUSTOMERS AND CONSUMERS QUANTIFIABLE ENVIRONMENTAL BENEFITS FOR REDUCE GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS SAFER GLOBALLY (2007-2013) OUR CUSTOMERS AND CONSUMERS 10 2014 DuPont Sustainability Progress Report S U P P LY C H A I N S U S T A I N A B I L I T Y “At DuPont, we view our suppliers as partners in our success as a company. We are doing incredible things to make the world more DUPONT sustainable with our products, and we continue to make strides in our DuPont-owned facilities to become more sustainable. However, a successful approach to sustainability requires us to also embed our commitment to sustainability into our supply chain. An important CORE tool to help us do that is the Supplier Code of Conduct, which applies to our suppliers all around the globe. Like the DuPont Code of Conduct for employees, it’s built around our Core Values, which VALUES address all facets of sustainability.” Shelley Stewart Vice President — Sourcing & Logistics and Chief Procurement Officer The Supplier Code of Conduct SAFETY & HEALTH DuPont is built on our Core Values of Safety & Health, Environmental Stewardship, Respect for People, and Highest Ethical Behavior. Together, these serve as the ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP backbone of our company, and lay the foundation on which our sustainability RESPECT FOR PEOPLE efforts are based. The Supplier Code of Conduct sets out our expectations for suppliers around HIGHEST ETHICAL BEHAVIOR our core values. Our goal is that our suppliers, who are integral to DuPont, will embrace these values and share our commitment to sustainability. • The Code begins with Safety and Health, addressing not only workplace safety, but also the safety of the products our suppliers provide us, and includes setting safety and health goals. • Knowing that Environmental Stewardship and the efficient use of resources is an essential part of doing good business, the Code points suppliers to the principles of Responsible Care®. It also encourages them to have their own robust sustainability program to address the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, management of water use, improved energy and resource efficiency, and waste reduction, as well as the use of renewable resources in their own supply chains. • DuPont works hard to be a respected corporate citizen in this world and we value our reputation as one of our most important assets. We require compliance with rules and laws, but more so, we expect an ethical mindset when doing business with and on behalf of DuPont. • The Code ends with Respect for People, and our commitment to the guidelines of the UN Global Compact regarding worker treatment. It also includes the value of diversity and inclusion in the workforce as well as in the supply chain, and our belief that creating an environment of professionalism, dignity and respect fosters engagement, innovation, and excellence. Supplie Equally important to applying the Supplier Code of Conduct at their own r Cod e of C onduct workplace is for suppliers to cascade it down through their own contractors or vendors. No one can turn a blind eye to the treatment of employees, The Co of wh re Values of o we are environmental responsibility, or ethical behavior across the supply chain. We hold D and wh uPont are at we th stand e cornerstone for as a com pany ourselves to high standards and expect those working with us to do the same. Our goal is that our suppliers, who are integral to DuPont, will embrace these values and share our commitment to sustainability. 2014 DuPont Sustainability Progress Report 11 THIS IS DUPONT OUR GAME-CHANGING GAME-CHANGINGSCIENCE SCIENCE TRANSFORMING TRANSFORMING INDUSTRIES INDUSTRIES PURPOSE AGRICULTURE DuPont Pioneer — First company to commercialize hybrids 1926 2014 DuPont is a science company. U.S. farmer crop output We work collaboratively to find 30 150 Hybrids helped increase sustainable, innovative, marketCORN YIELD 94% BUSHELS/ ACRE BUSHELS/ ACRE driven solutions to solve some of the world’s biggest challenges, NUTRITION AUTOMOTIVE 50% DuPont food Average weight of an American car over 23 years making lives better, safer, and enzymes can prolong the healthier for people everywhere. freshness of bakery products by 1987 2010 3,200 LBS 4,000 LBS INDICES AND LISTS BIOSCIENCES DuPont light weighting DUPONT IS PROUD TO HAVE MADE THE 6 MAJOR PRODUCT LINES solutions can eliminate FOLLOWING INDICES AND LISTS IN 2014: • North America Dow Jones Sustainability Index IN THE LAST 7 YEARS. 24.2 LBS PER VEHICLE Others in development pipeline. Dow Jones Sustainability Index If just 11 lbs is eliminated from 83 million light-vehicle DuPont renewable products are engines produced in 2012, used in the following industries: • 27 Companies that Changed the World FORTUNE Magazine • Personal care • Apparel • Sporting goods • Oil and gas 275 MILLION GALLONS of refined fuel could be saved • Top 100 Best Corporate Citizens • Automotive • Electronics Corporate Responsibility Magazine MOBILE DEVICES AND DISPLAYS SOLAR/ENERGY • 50 Most Admired Companies The total number of active DuPont™ Solamet® doubled FORTUNE Magazine smartphones in the worldwide solar cell efficiency over the market will reach last 12 years. DuPont • materials are used in over 1.BY4THEBILLION Top 100 Best Places to Work for Working Mothers 200 MILLION (2014) Working Mother Magazine • Top 50 Companies for Executive Women solar panels National Association for Female Executives END OF 2013 around the world Our materials include: PROTECTION • Surfaces for unique touch and feel DuPont™ Kevlar® technology • Anti-counterfeiting protection enables body armor to be at least • Materials for improved performance and lifetime • High-strength casings 25% lighter than previous all aramid solutions i Information To view this and other DuPont publications online, visit us at www.sustainability.dupont.com and www.investors.dupont.com We welcome feedback from all our stakeholders. Please contact us at http://www2.dupont.com/Contact/en_US/corp/index.html or connect with us on Twitter @DuPont_Ability Responsible Care® is a registered trademark of the American Chemistry Council, Inc. Copyright © 2014 DuPont. The DuPont Oval Logo, DuPont™, and all products denoted with ™ or ® are trademarks or registered trademarks of E.I. du Pont de Nemours and Company or its affiliates. All rights reserved. K-24205 (12/14)
