® ® 2015 ® ModonGroup Profile ModonGroup s.a.r.l. is a progressive and innovative  HVAC  company and has been providing services in the Electrical installation for buildings  Electrical Mechanical Structural and civil Contracting low current installations  field since 2007. Mechanical installation for buildings and sanitary  Steel structures  Our success is due to the combined expertise skilled, Pipe lines installation and welding  loyal and dedicated staff, backed by a professional and Civil Work  innovative management team. Water supply and water treatment stations As ModonGroup s.a.r.l has a diverse sphere of operations  Wastewater treatment plants  Wells drilling and construction  and range of activities, we are able to offer our clients a Control panels building  complete service regarding design and execution of the Power supply systems wide range of services. The Company's image and reputation is built on integrity – that is the act of always doing for the customer what we say we will do. Our approach focuses on integrating the engineering, procurement, project management, installation and commissioning phases to ensure projects are delivered on schedule whilst minimizing the owner's risk. We pride ourselves on providing maximum value, assured quality and minimized overall cost for our customers. ® Key Areas of Expertise Planning, Investigation & Design Services ModonGroup s.a.r.l provides specific planning, investigation and design services for a variety of Hydraulic Design electromechanical, Hydraulic, Hydrogeology, civil ModonGroup s.a.r.l hydraulic design employs and structural work. proven theoretical techniques and a suite of inhouse and proprietary software (Pipe flow Expert, Water CAD). If required, ModonGroup Refurbishments and Upgrades S.a.r.l is capable of performing model tests to determine the optimum design of the hydraulic ModonGroup s.a.r.l has worked on many structures. refurbishments, upgrades and design improvements of water pumping stations. Our refurbishment work has typically included: strengthening of buildings, transformer and Geotechnical Engineering switchgear replacement, re-cabling, local service replacement, automation and control ModonGroup s.a.r.l offers a full range of upgrading, improving generator, security and geotechnical investigation and design services. fire systems. Understanding the geological and hydrogeological conditions are critical aspects of the design and construction of any open cut, retaining wall, water wells. ® Key Areas of Expertise Fabrication ModonGroup s.a.r.l specialize in steel fabricated products for industrial application Construction Services with the capacity to Process Plate work through Plasma Cutting, Fabricate, Weld, ModonGroup S.a.r.l civil engineers have over 10 years of Blast and Apply Protective Coatings. Site Construction experience, building renovation, Steel ModonGroup s.a.r.l also provides Structures, and construction of retaining walls. supplementary services such as Application of Wear Liners, Automated Welding and work with various materials including ModonGroup S.a.r.l Structural design employs proven Mild Steel, Stainless Steel Odor control theoretical techniques and a suite of in-house and unit, water Hammer Surge tank, proprietary software (Autodesk robot, Ram element Diesel Tank, Water Reservoir, connection design). If required, ModonGroup s.a.r.l is Sluice Valves, etc. capable of performing model tests to determine the optimum design of the Steel Structural Pump Station Installations ModonGroup S.a.r.l have a long association with the supply and installation of pumping and associated mechanical, electrical and instrumentation equipment used in clear water and effluent pumping stations and water quality control and treatment plants for government, municipal and private clients. ® Key Areas of Expertise General Electrical Installations Switchboard Design and Manufacturing We have three teams to accomplish electrical To support our many varied specialized field activities, installations work in our projects also; We have we design our own motor control centers, power installation supervisor whose role is to coordinate the distribution switchboards, relay panels and control daily activities of this workforce. Our supervisor is all cubicles in our engineering and switchboard design long serving employees, our teams have experience in all departments through a team of highly experienced facets of electrical work in the industrial, water and engineers, technical officers and CAD operators. wastewater, building construction, and processing plant industries, to name but a few. Electrical Engineering We have on staff qualified control systems engineers/technical officers .Our past performance working for most of the municipal councils has proven Project Resources our ability to provide electrical and control systems We have within our workforce, sufficient labor design, implementation and support services in a resources and technical ability to manage and deliver a professional and timely manner. Our business is project of this nature. We have successfully completed focused on exceeding our customer's expectations for design and construct projects within the last 6 years for provision of electrical engineering services and our clients in the water & sewage, , and electricity supply record of accomplishment in this area is the best in the industries for both private and public sector clients. A region. sample of these projects is provided below and a complete list can be found within our Company Profile document. ® List of Main Clients ® The 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. » At ModonGroup, we always have the respect to all human rights ranked at the top of our priorities list. Our commitment is therefore expressed through the actions on the ground, where each of our employees is expected to apply the understanding of those policies in their daily business activities. Our company is planning to arrange annual meetings where all the employees have the chance to share their ideas on the implementation of the principles of the United Nations Global Compact. Channels will be set up to study and follow up with any abuses reports, where complaints forms will be available for any employee to fill out anonymously. Future Plans: -Starting up discussions with local NGOs related to human rights. Any partnership opportunities as well as the results of similar discussions with local NGOs are issues that has been raised to be addressed in the second COP. The 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact HARASSMENT POLICY Because reputation is a central feature of cooperation, ModonGroup works hard towards building trust with the customers and employees. The company follows a procedure for investigating and resolving issues of harassment. This gives the employees the right to report any incidents of harassment or any event that might be considered violations of human rights or does not comply with the company’s regulations. The reports are directed to the general manager who showed great interest in personally following up with those cases. He in return addresses all the questions and concerns with an effort to keep the source of the reports confidential. Corrective actions are taken when any of the employees engages in acts of harassment and discrimination. Our policy forbids any discrimination, harassment or intimidation because of race, colour, religion, gender, age, national origin, citizenship, sexual orientation, gender identity and expression, disability or other nonjob-related personal characteristic. Every employee has rights as well as responsibilities. The company expects the employees to keep their workplace safe and healthful, and to perform their work free of the influence of alcohol or drugs. SAFETY AND HEALTH POLICY ModonGroup is committed to protect the life and health of its employees and the safety of the facilities. The employees are responsible of understanding these policies to ensure safe behaviour in daily activities. They are informed to ensure that the facilities are clean and free from any obstructions. The main emergency materials, including first aid kits and fire extinguishers are always available on site.. The 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact EMPLOYMENT EQUALITY » ModonGroup with a high percentage of female employees, whether at the HR, IT, or even the engineering departments, believes in all aspects of employment equalities. These include recruitment and promotion; equal pay; working conditions; training or experience, etc. The percentage of current female and male employees at ModonGroup offices At ModonGroup, parental leave is as well granted for those who have to care for a new-born. Those employees shall not face any threat of dismissal and have the right to return to their former employment at the same rate of pay. As part of the company’s strategy to encourage more women to work, flexible jobs are provided for mothers wanting to manage their responsibilities both at home and at work. The 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact THE RIGHT TO WATER » The United Nations General Assembly and through the Resolution 64/292 explicitly recognized the human right to water and sanitation and acknowledged that clean drinking water and sanitation are essential to the realization of all human rights. Furthermore, the UN Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights adopted General Comment No. 15 on the right to water. ModonGroup was engaged in the installation and operation of the DAYCHOUNIEH treatment and pumping station that provides potable water to the surrounding area. Regular tests are carried out to ensure the quality of the treated water being delivered. The plant includes a sector of drinking water treatment comprising decantation, filtration, and disinfection; as well as a pumping station which allows sending 10,000 m3/d of water from the source of Daychounieh towards tanks located in Mansourieh and Daychounieh. The 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact SANITATION AND WATER » «On July 2010, the UN General Assembly adopted a groundbreaking resolution officially recognizing sanitation – access to, and use of, excreta and wastewater facilities and services – as a human right. Because denying access to sanitation is denying basic human rights.» The lack of sanitation and hygiene conditions encourages the transmission of many infectious diseases. Some of those diseases may be counted as deadly to children. The dignity of old, sick, and disabled people is as well affected by the lack of sanitation. ModonGroup is engaged in the supply, installation and construction of water points and latrines for Syrian refugees in Bekaa and Zahle. A large number of refugees will benefit from the building of around 500 latrines, that will help in improving hygiene conditions among them.. The 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact LABOUR Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation » ModonGroup refrains recruiting anyone below the age of 18 and stands against the use of forced labour in any of its facilities. The company refuses any cooperation with any other company known to disrespect those policies, and discontinues any business relationship with any company that shows any pattern of violation. Future Plans: Encouraging our clients to join the UNGC by explaining to them the notability of being part of this network, as well as the importance of the implementation of the ten principles in their operations. Adding a line to the standard email signature of the employees recommending joining UNGC whether in Lebanon or abroad. The 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact FURTHER EDUCATION POLICY ModonGroup encourages staff to further their education by undertaking courses that strengthen their professional qualifications. The company arranges trainings for interested employees within the country or abroad to develop or cover any of their skills gaps. All fees and expenses that may occur are covered. This will automatically improve their ability to perform better and be more effective. PAYMENT POLICY ModonGroup is a company that is rapidly expanding its presence in the electromechanical section, with projects spread across the country. This enforces the employees to work on projects in far locations for a specific period of time. The payment policy of the company covers all the expenses related to transport and accommodation if necessary. This policy defines as well the nature and purpose of any extra payments like bonuses that may be paid when outstanding performance or achievements are recognised. The 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. » ModonGroup is investing in the use of economic instruments in the majority of its projects, as a key tool to promote long-term carbon emission reduction. As an example to the implementation of this policy, the company decided to turn to variable speed/frequency drives in order to reduce energy-related losses, where energy consumption cost falls by up to 60%. This plays an important role in CO2 emission reduction. Future Plans: Detailed case studies for all projects where VFDs are installed to highlight the reduction of energy costs, as well as the reduction of our carbon footprint. The 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact ENVIRONMENT Taking as an example one of the projects where similar drives have been installed, we were able to reach per unit an annual CO2 reduction of 16 Tons and an annual energy saving of 53% with a payback period of 3 months. The 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact CLEAN AIR – A BASIC HUMAN RIGHT Regulations are set by several international agencies such as the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), and the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) to protect against exposure to toxic chemicals at large doses. The majority of air pollution complaints are related to odour. Wastewater treatment plants odours can negatively affect the community, where the control is highly considered for protecting the environment and the community amenity. » ModonGroup is lately involved in projects related to water and wastewater treatment plants, where odour control units are strictly required to clean the air from toxic gases, mainly hydrogen sulphide, due to its dangerous affect when released to the environment. It poses a very serious inhalation hazard. The 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact ENVIRONMENT » On July 2015, ModonGroup launched an office recycling program with a slogan ǮWE RECYCLE @ MODONǯ. A discussion seminar was delivered explaining the importance and benefits of recycling at the offices. As a starting point, big recyclable cartons are placed in each of the offices with clear signage indicating they are for recyclable materials only. One of the future targets for the coming year would be the activation of a plastic and aluminium recycling program as well. The amounts of materials recycled will be highlighted in the next annual COP. As we do believe that the potential for a successful recycling program does rely on the behaviour of the employees who are producing office waste, part of this program was to ensure that each employee understands his responsibility in applying the environmental policy of the company in daily business activities. This would reflect their commitment to environmental quality even outside of work. Future Plans Recyclables statistics (Amount of recyclable waste) Launching of a new program for the recycling of Aluminium and glass. Detailed case studies for projects where VFDs are installed to highlight the reduction of energy costs, as well as the reduction of our carbon footprint. The 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. » Due to the uncontrolled behaviour of the corrupt politicians, Lebanon is today burdened with enormous loans. This is why we at ModonGroup believe that to expect the government to be corruption-free, we should start by combating this disease within our company itself and rooting it out from the beliefs of our employees at the first place. This is why we make sure that every employee does understand and know that fighting corruption and bribery is not only the duty of government or the company, but also the duty of each person with good manners and ethical behaviour. ModonGroup is recently studying the case of adopting a punishment policy against corruption. A corrupt employee may be charged if there is enough evidence to do so, or he/she may be dealt with through internal disciplinary procedures if there is insufficient evidence. »
