SAS Corporate Social Responsibility Report Table of Contents Letter From the CEO About This Report GRI Index Governance & Management Governance Structure Ethics & Regulatory Compliance Supply Chain Continuity of Business Environmental Program Environmental Governance Energy & Emissions Landfill Diversion Water Conservation Green Building Practices Biodiversity Awareness & Enagagement Employees & Culture Workplace Culture Hiring & Retaining Staff Skills Development Health & Safety Education Philanthropy K -12 Education Higher Education Philanthropy Community Engagement Donation Process Letter From the CEO The three pillars of sustainability – economic, environmental and As one of the world’s best workplaces, we can attract and retain social – are cornerstones of the SAS business model, fueling both superb people who are inspired to develop great software. Our decisions and practices to support our world and our people. business grew from managing and analyzing large amounts of SAS’ commitment to a sustainable future is evident through our data, and even today SAS still leads the ever-expanding analytics corporate responsibility efforts to prepare employees and our market. In 2014, we experienced a record 39th consecutive year of business. growth and profitability, with approximately US$3.09 billion in worldwide revenues. Our interactions, thoughts and activities are driven by data — data that is doubling almost every other year within the digital We are passionate about our responsibility in preparing the next universe. Knowledge gleaned from our company data helps us generation of innovators, which is why education is our primary serve as environmental stewards, spanning efforts across philanthropic initiative. To support that effort, in 2014 we numerous global offices. From incorporating the best design, introduced SAS® Analytics U, which provides students and teachers engineering, materials and technology available to recycling free and low-cost options for accessing SAS Analytics software and and energy usage, we follow green building standards for our training. Additionally, SAS supports a host of education initiatives design, construction and renovation projects. Protecting our promoting science, technology, engineering and math. planet is as important to us as we know it is to our community. As our world expands and evolves, I am proud and excited about SAS continues to invest in our greatest asset — our people. our company’s future and the opportunities we all have to Through better employee health, well-being and work-life contribute to a strong community and a sustainable planet. balance, we help our employees perform and excel. SAS continues to rank at the top of a variety of best places to work Sincerely, lists in the US and around the world. Happy employees help us Jim Goodnight maintain an exceptional retention rate, far above the industry CEO of SAS average. That loyalty translates into satisfied customers who benefit from long relationships with experienced, committed employees. SAS and all other SAS Institute Inc. product or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of SAS Institute Inc. in the USA and other countries. ® indicates USA registration. Other brand and product names are trademarks of their respective companies. Copyright © 2015, SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved. S138141.0715 About This Report Report basics SAS® Visual Analytics data visualization software is used to generate charts and graphs to illustrate the data and provide additional The SAS 2014 Corporate Social Responsibility Report is based on analytics capabilities. This provides far greater visibility, the calendar year Jan. 1 to Dec. 31, 2014 and updated annually. transparency and accuracy in reporting SAS’ environmental impact. All data and information pertains to SAS Institute Inc., the Charts and graphs included in the PDF documents reflect a US-based parent company for SAS, except for environmental specific time frame for gathering and analyzing data for this report. data or unless otherwise stated. The most recent report was the Executive leaders and other relevant internal stakeholders have 2013 CSR report, which was published online in June 2014. That reviewed content in this report. data is now being updated for the 2014 report. In 2014, SAS SAS welcomes your comments and questions regarding this report made strides to improve global reporting of its programs and and its corporate responsibility efforts. For questions about this initiatives, and will continue to improve reporting on offices report or its contents, please email globalreporting@sas.com. outside of the US. There have been no other significant changes during the reporting period. Scope and Boundaries Since SAS’ headquarters are in Cary, NC, the scope of this CSR The report was developed using Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) report focuses primarily on SAS United States operations. Where G4 sustainability reporting guidelines and was prepared in available, global data is provided and appropriately labeled. There accordance with Core GRI requirements. SAS’ CSR efforts focus have been no significant changes to the scope and boundaries for on four core areas: governance and ethics, employees, environSAS; however, there have been improvements in the reporting of ment, and education philanthropy. In prior reports, the company such boundaries. published a PDF document containing critical information on Because SAS is a software company, much of the company’s programs and annual initiatives. In order to provide greater transimpact is related to the operation of the company rather than the parency, SAS has expanded its Corporate Responsibility section products and services provided to customers. Externally, impacts to include both programmatic information and annual updates, generally occur related to the business practices of suppliers. which can be viewed in a PDF document by separate sections or as a complete report. The purpose for this change is to make the Examples of various impacts include: information more accessible and customizable. The website • Environmental impacts: energy use in offices and data centers, format allows for greater explanation and transparency on SAS’ waste, and construction of new buildings. practices and policies and provides space for updates to relevant • Societal impacts: compliance with local, national and internaand material topics. Over time, this website will evolve in tional laws; ethical treatment of employees, customers, suppliers, response to the needs of stakeholders, employees, customers partners and communities; supporting and fostering a strong and the community. workforce. • Financial impacts: creating value in communities where SAS operates; job creation and economic growth; supporting the community through philanthropy. About This Report page 2 At this time, SAS does not collect environmental information on • Training for next generation of employees suppliers or partners; however, the company seeks to work with • Talent development organizations that have a similar approach to reducing their • Volunteerism and community engagement environmental impact. All suppliers must abide by required ethics • Environment and compliance rules, which can be found in the Supply Chain • Energy and Emissions section under Governance & Management of the Corporate Responsibility website. • Water • Waste This report contains restatement information on energy consump• Green building tion and water usage in 2013. Updated energy data and water • Great workplace consumption has been provided in the Environmental section of the CSR website. External: Issues Relevant to Other Stakeholders, Including Restated resource consumption in the US includes: Customers, Communities, Governments, Partners, Subcontractors, Suppliers, Etc. • Energy overstated by 10,127 gigajoules and related emissions 1,727 tCO2e in 2013 due to duplicated meter report. • Privacy • Ground water overstated by 12,632 cubic meters in 2013 due to • Ethics incorrect well meter report. • Anti-Corruption • Bribery Materiality Matrix • Gift law The CSR Task Force, a cross-departmental sustainability team based • Lobbying in the US, underwent a facilitated process to determine the primary • Campaign contributions issues that affect SAS and its stakeholders. This included issues that • Export law affect the industry as a whole, peer businesses, communities, • Continuity of business customers, employees and management. Through this process, the • Migration team determined areas where SAS has a significant environmental, • Quality of support social or economic impact. These issues were then rated to determine their importance to stakeholders and/or SAS’ operations. • Diversity Using the G4 guidelines, these issues have been reported as • Philanthropy “material aspects.” • Environment Each team member then gathered information specific to these areas of impact for inclusion in this report. The focus areas of this report include: Internal: Issues Relevant to Employees and Management • Workers’ rights • Health and safety About This Report page 3 2014 Materiality Matrix About This Report page 4 Stakeholder Engagement SAS’ stakeholders include communities, employees, regulatory and governmental bodies, industry organizations, students and teachers, and business partners and suppliers. Engagement with stakeholders provides SAS with the opportunity to gain a greater understanding of the needs in the community and in the market. It allows the company to build strong partnerships with regulatory bodies and organizations within the industry, and lasting relationships with communities, employees, partners and suppliers. SAS continues to engage with stakeholders both internally and externally, including: Stakeholder Engagement 2014 Communities Employee volunteers, community Employee donations and corporate matching for DonorsChoose.org totaled nearly grants, in-kind donations and training, $135,000, funding 836 classroom projects and benefiting 95,000 students in 49 states. fundraising. SAS employees volunteered 29,000 hours, resulting in $91,750 donated to education from the Employee Volunteer Fund. Employees Enhance the SAS workplace culture by Intranet, webcasts, videos, webzines, blogs and The Hub, an enterprisewide social communicating with and informing networking platform. employees about company activities and internal and external programs. Regulatory and Domestic and international policy and Data protection and privacy; big data; copyright protections; review of legislation government legislation development on topics that targeting frivolous patent lawsuits; revision of administrative policies to ensure strong, affect SAS customers and the developquality patents are issued. ment of new products. Industry organizations Industry associations, think tanks and Public speaking engagements, development or contribution to industry position academia. papers, and one-to-one meetings. Business partners and Meetings, webcasts and representation Executive vice president for G-SIBs is a member of the boards of directors of the suppliers on boards. Atlantic Council and of the US Council for International Business. Customers Host ongoing dialogue with customers SAS interacts with customers through the SAS Global Forum conference, self-help and to answer questions and gather input assisted-help resources, focus groups, training, books, technical papers, social media, for product improvement. support communities, samples, SAS notes and focus areas, and more. Analysts Inform and solicit feedback from SAS’ Analyst Relations group is responsible for informing, influencing and soliciting industry analysts. feedback from industry analysts and thought leaders with the purpose of validating technology and corporate direction and to provide SAS with a crucial third-party perspective. By identifying important initiatives and ensuring the company’s vision and messages are understood, Analyst Relations seeks to expand analyst coverage and favorable recommendations for SAS products. Through facilitating research and disseminating findings, Analyst Relations augments the formation of marketing, sales, and R&D strategies. Students and teachers Free online and mobile curriculum SAS® Curriculum Pathways® provides free online resources and mobile apps for K-12. resources, free SAS software, teacher SAS Analytics U offers free software, training and communities for people to gain and professor training, summits and valuable analytics skills, and supports analytics degree and certificate programs at meetings, classroom volunteers. colleges and universities around the world. SAS is a regular convener of important education meetings, and focuses volunteer efforts on education. Media Relations Build awareness and shape the SAS Public relations helps build awareness and shape the SAS brand by influencing what brand through public relations. others think and say about the company. SAS uses PR to guide the flow of information to educate and persuade various public stakeholders, including the news media, bloggers, customers, prospects, analysts and partners. SAS and all other SAS Institute Inc. product or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of SAS Institute Inc. in the USA and other countries. ® indicates USA registration. Other brand and product names are trademarks of their respective companies. Copyright © 2015, SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved. S142733.0715 GRI Index Indicator Description Reference Strategy and Analysis G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision From the CEO maker of the organization Organizational Profile G4-3 Name of the organization Governance and Management>Governance Structure>Company Profile G4-4 Primary brands, products and services Governance and Management>Governance Structure>Company Profile G4-5 Location of headquarters Governance and Management>Governance Structure>Company Profile G4-6 Number of countries where organization Governance and Management>Governance Structure>Company Profile operates G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form Governance and Management>Governance Structure>Company Profile G4-8 Markets served Governance and Management>Governance Structure>Company Profile G4-9 Scale of organization Governance and Management>Governance Structure>Company Profile G4-10 Size and composition of workforce Employees and Culture>Hiring and Retaining Staff G4-11 Percentage of employees covered by None collective bargaining G4-12 Organization’s supply chain Governance and Management>Supply Chain G4-13 Significant organizational changes during None the reporting period G4-14 Precautionary approach or principle is Environmental Program>Environmental Governance>Precautionary Approach addressed by the organization G4-15 Externally developed economic, Governance and Management>Supply Chain Management environmental, and social charters the organization endorses G4-16 Memberships and Associations Education Philanthropy>Community Engagement Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries G4-17 List all entities and explain omissions Governance and Management>Company Profile; About This Report G4-18 How report content was defined About This Report>Scope and Boundaries G4-19 List of material aspects About This Report>Materiality Matrix G4-20 Aspect boundary within the organization About This Report G4-21 Aspect boundary outside the organization About This Report G4-22 Restatements About This Report>Scope and Boundaries G4-23 Significant changes in scope or boundary About This Report>Scope and Boundaries GRI Index page 2 Indicator Description Reference Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 List of stakeholders About This Report>Stakeholder Engagement G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of About This Report>Stakeholder Engagement stakeholders with whom to engage G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement About This Report>Stakeholder Engagement G4-27 Key topics and concerns raised by About This Report>Materiality Matrix stakeholders Report Profile G4-28 Reporting Period About This Report G4-29 Date of most recent previous report About This Report G4-30 Reporting cycle About This Report G4-31 Contact point About This Report G4-32 GRI ‘in accordance’ option About This Report G4-31 External assurance None Governance G4-34 Governance structure of the organization Governance and Management>Governance Structure>Company Profile Ethics and Integrity G4-56 Organization’s values, codes of conduct and Governance and Management>Ethics and Regulatory Compliance codes of ethics Economic Impact G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and CEO Letter; Philanthropy distributed G4-EC2 Financial implications and other risks and Not applicable opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at Governance and Management>Supply Chain Management North Carolina only significant locations of operation Environmental Energy G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization Environmental Program>Energy and Emissions G4-EN5 Energy Intensity Environmental Program>Energy and Emissions G4-EN6 Reduction of Energy consumption Environmental Program>Energy and Emissions G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of Environmental Program>Energy and Emissions products and services Environmental Water G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Environmental Program>Water Conservation G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of water Environmental Program>Water Conservation recycled and reused Environmental Biodiversity G4-EN12 Description of significant impacts of Environmental Program>Biodiversity activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas Environmental Emissions G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas emissions (scope 1) Environmental Program>Energy and Emissions G4-EN16 Scope 2 Environmental Program>Energy and Emissions GRI Index page 3 Indicator Description Reference G4-EN19 Reduction of GhG emissions Environmental Program>Energy and Emissions Environmental Effluents and Waste G4-EN23 Total weigh of waste by type and disposal Environmental Program>Landfill Diversion method Environmental Compliance G4-EN29 Monetary value of significant fines and total Governance and Management>Ethics and Regulatory Compliance number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations Environmental Transport G4-EN30 Significant environmental impacts of Environmental Program>Energy and Emissions transporting products and other goods and materials for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce Environmental Supplier Environmental Assessment G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers screened using About this Report environmental criteria Environmental Environmental Grievance Mechanism G4-EN34 Number of grievances about environmental Governance and Management>Ethics and Regulatory Compliance impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanism Social Employment G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee Employees and Culture>Hiring and Retaining Staff hires and employee turnover by age group, gender, and region G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees Employees and Culture>Hiring and Retaining Staff that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees G4-LA4 Type of injury and rates of injury, Employees and Culture>Health and Safety occupational diseases, lost days , and absenteeism Social Training and Education G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per Employees and Culture>Skills Development employee by gender, and by employee category G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong Employees and Culture>Skills Development learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings Social Labor Practices Grievance Mechanisms G4-LA16 Number of grievances about labor practices Governance and Management>Ethics and Regulatory Compliance filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanism Social Non-Discrimination G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination Governance and Management>Ethics and Regulatory Compliance and corrective actions taken Social Local Community G4-SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented Education Philanthropy; partial reporting local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs GRI Index page 4 Indicator Description Reference Social Anti-Corruption G4-SO4 Communication and training on antiGovernance and Management>Ethics and Regulatory Compliance>Anticorruption policies and procedures Corruption G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and Governance and Management>Ethics and Regulatory Compliance actions taken G4-SO6 Total value of political contributions by Governance and Management>Governance Structure>Public Policy country and recipient/beneficiary Social Anti-Competitive Behavior G4-SO7 Total number of legal actions for antiGovernance and Management>Ethics and Regulatory Compliance competitive behavior, anti-trust and monopoly practices and their outcomes Social Compliance G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total Governance and Management>Ethics and Regulatory Compliance number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations Social Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society G4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers screened using Governance and Management>Supply Chain criteria for impacts on society Social Grievance Mechanisms for Impacts on Society G4-SO11 Number of grievances about impacts on Governance and Management>Ethics and Regulatory Compliance society filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms Social Customer Privacy G4-PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints Governance and Management>Ethics and Regulatory Compliance regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data Social Compliance G4-PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for Governance and Management>Ethics and Regulatory Compliances non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services Philanthropy and Community Engagement PH 1 Areas of focus for philanthropy activities Education Philanthropy PH2 Monetary value of charitable contributions Education Philanthropy>Philanthropy PH3 Employee engagement in philanthropic Education Philanthropy>Community Engagement activities PH4 Board memberships by employees Education Philanthropy>Community Engagement PH5 Process for engagwing philanthropy in Education Philanthropy>Donation Process communities Governance & Management Ethics, compliance and continuity of business SAS is committed to high ethical standards in its dealings with colleagues, customers, suppliers and competitors. Robust regulatory compliance practices ensure that SAS conducts business in an honest, respectful, fair and safe manner. Guided by the company’s Code of Ethics, SAS’ compliance practices have earned the company its exceptional reputation as an ethical and responsible employer and business partner. SAS is also committed to building long-term relationships with both direct and indirect suppliers. There are a wide range of best practices to ensure the supply chain remains strong and the company is identifying the best fit for all procurement needs. Continuity of business is paramount as well, with a focus on corporate governance, information security and corporate social responsibility. Corporate Responsibility Governance and Management Governance Structure SAS is the leader in business analytics software and services, and Industries served: the largest independent vendor in the business intelligence market. SAS is committed to employing high ethical standards in its dealings Automotive Health Care Providers Manufacturing with colleagues, customers, suppliers and competitors. Maintaining Banking Health Insurance Media the great workplace at SAS requires an ethical commitment and Capital Markets High-Tech Oil and Gas accountability across all departments, positions and countries. Casinos Higher Education Retail Small and Midsize Communications Hotels Company Profile Business Consumer Goods Insurance Sports SAS Institute Inc. is a North Carolina corporation that has been privately held since its inception in 1976. Headquartered in Cary, Travel and Defense and Security K-12 Education Transportation NC, the company operates through functional divisions that include Government Life Sciences Utilities Worldwide Marketing, Sales, Research and Development, Finance, Legal and Corporate Services. SAS delivers software and related Jim Goodnight, CEO, and John Sall, co-founder and Executive Vice services to customers throughout the world. Sales activities are President, constitute the board of directors of SAS Institute Inc. conducted primarily through SAS Institute Inc. and its controlled They also serve as executive officers, overseeing corporate sales subsidiaries in approximately 140 countries. The sales subsidperformance and investment decisions across environmental, social iary entities are grouped into three regional sales divisions: the and economic interests. Goodnight and Sall are the company’s Americas; Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA); and Asia Pacific. principal shareholders. SAS Americas includes nine companies – SAS Institute Inc. and Jim Goodnight CEO eight operating subsidiaries – that provide software and services to customers in specific territories. The EMEA and the Asia Pacific divisions together include approximately 45 operating subsidiaries. SAS has a number of representative and branch offices in the Research & Development SAS Americas Canada Marketing Information Technology United States Human Resources above regions, with a total corporate presence in approximately 60 Latin America Caribbean Legal countries. Additional subsidiaries in the EMEA and Asia Pacific SAS AP Finance Asia Pacific Corporate Services regions are dedicated to conducting research and development SAS EMEA Europe Community Relations activities for SAS and its affiliates. Middle East Africa SAS Solutions OnDemand Sales Operations JMP 2014 Data: With approximately US$3.09 billion in worldwide IDeaS revenue in 2014, SAS remains an industry leader in advanced analytics and one of the largest independent vendors in the Employee rights, including employment-based compliance issues, business intelligence market. are managed through SAS’ Human Resources Division. The Ethics Learn more about SAS software products. and Compliance group in the SAS Legal Division manages other compliance responsibilities, including anti-corruption, privacy, trade, lobbying, gifts and anti-aggression laws. Environmental conservation is managed through the Facilities group in the Corporate Services Division. Governance Structure page 2 Corporate Social Responsibility Governance SAS maintains a Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Task Force comprising employees across business functions, including internal communications, legal, facilities, marketing and public relations. This group meets bimonthly to advance annual goals and priorities, and to address topics related to sustainability throughout the year. The group’s function is to ensure the integration of sustainability efforts across the business. This team works closely with various departments and communicates with SAS executive leadership to ensure that CSR policies and initiatives are considered in all aspects of the business. Public Policy SAS actively engages in public policy discussions, particularly related to the role of technologies in solving larger societal issues that challenge local, state, federal and international agencies. These challenges include delivering better and safer health care while minimizing fraud, waste and abuse; mitigating environmental impacts while consuming scarce resources more efficiently; providing better stewardship of taxpayer resources with greater government accountability; and helping governments make better use of their data assets to fulfill their missions, such as helping detect terrorist financing and money laundering schemes. SAS actively engages in public policy discussions to help protect the valuable intellectual property resources that are the underpinning of its business. SAS abides by political contribution laws and prohibits the use of corporate funds for political contributions to individual candidates. Corporate contributions may be made to political parties or national or state political party organizations if approved through established procedures. SAS records and reports all corporate political contributions in accordance with applicable local laws. SAS complies with applicable lobbying laws in its operations. Lobbyist registrations and disclosure reports are filed by SAS on a regular and timely basis. SAS and all other SAS Institute Inc. product or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of SAS Institute Inc. in the USA and other countries. ® indicates USA registration. Other brand and product names are trademarks of their respective companies. Copyright © 2015, SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved. 107773_S140218.0715 Governance & Management Ethics & Regulatory Compliance Robust regulatory compliance and training practices ensure that Training SAS conducts business in an honest, respectful, fair and safe manner. The Ethics and Compliance group at SAS has developed courses to Guided by the Code of Ethics , SAS’ compliance practices have help employees abide by the SAS Code of Ethics and applicable earned the company its valued reputation as an ethical and external rules and regulations. SAS provides this training to equip all responsible employer and business partner. SAS is committed to employees to make the right choices when ethical and regulatory chalmaintaining this reputation and conducting all aspects of the lenges arise. business in a way that promotes and reflects ethical practices. SAS compliance programs use training, policies, processes and audits to Online training was developed under the management and oversight ensure compliance in areas such as anti-corruption, international of the vice president and general counsel for ethics and compliance, trade and privacy. with input from many departments across SAS, and with ultimate approval by the chief legal officer. All training courses developed since SAS is committed to demonstrating honesty, fairness and account2012 are available in English, simplified Chinese, French, German, ability in every decision and action, including each interaction with Italian, Japanese, Portuguese and Spanish. employees, customers, suppliers and competitors. The SAS Code of Ethics helps the company define and maintain high standards for How SAS monitors completion and renewal of training varies, respect, honesty, fairness and accountability. This SAS Code of Ethics depending on relevant policies, strategies, trainings and codes. applies to every employee – at every subsidiary and in every region Online training completions are tracked by the third-party vendor that – as well as all members of the board of directors, officers appointed helped to create them, as well as by the company’s internal learning by the board of directors and agents. Failure to comply with the SAS management system. Automated reminders are sent to those who Code of Ethics or other applicable policies can result in disciplinary have not completed training as the deadline approaches, and action, up to and including termination. managers are contacted as trainings become overdue. Employees and certain contract workers are required to take some or all of the UPDATE! SAS recently substantially updated its Code of Ethics. The following training: internal version, which includes links to SAS policies and procedures, serves as a central reference for employees to respond to situations • Code of Ethics in an ethical manner consistent with SAS standards. The external • Information Security version of the Code of Ethics is available as part of this report and • Export Controls Awareness demonstrates to customers, suppliers and other stakeholders SAS’ • SAS Business Ethics in Selling, Buying and Competing commitment to being a great place to work, a great business partner, • Respect in the Workplace and a valued community member. • Foreign Corrupt Practices Act 2014 Data: In 2014, SAS did not have any substantiated and • Privacy and Data Protection for Global Companies materially negative incidents with regard to public policy, privacy, corruption, ethics, bribery, anti-competitive actions, anti-trust In addition, all employees and certain contract workers are required to violations or monopoly practices, societal impacts, the environment, take periodic refresher ethics training. labor practices, or employee discrimination or harassment; nor were there any sanctions or fines for noncompliance. SAS provides specialized training for personnel as needed. For example, California employees take Sexual Harassment: Promoting Appropriate Behavior, as required by California law. Ethics & Regulatory Compliance page 2 In-person, targeted compliance training is conducted periodically. Export Controls These courses are developed by the Ethics and Compliance group in SAS maintains an export management system complete with the Legal Division with input from the relevant functional business product licensing and screening processes that include checking units. For example, in 2014, SAS conducted anti-corruption training employees, customers and suppliers against the Office of Foreign for government sales and marketing groups, privacy training for IT Asset Control (OFAC) Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked staff, and HIPAA training for employees interacting with data in the Persons list and certain other government lists of prohibited parties. company’s health care center or associated with its health care SAS also files regular and timely anti-boycott reports as required by industry solutions. US law. Employee Feedback SAS classifies its products according to US export laws and makes Employees are responsible for appropriately communicating such classifications available to its customers at the SAS Current concerns regarding suspected unethical or illegal conduct to a Export Designation Information page. supervisor, Human Resources or the Legal Division. Specific procedures for reporting concerns are displayed on the Legal Division’s Privacy internal website. Employees may submit comments via email, The Ethics and Compliance group in the SAS Legal Division works to telephone help line, or an anonymous report or online form. ensure that SAS’ use of personal data complies with applicable laws, SAS policies and customer expectations. SAS Global Information SAS does not retaliate against anyone who reports suspected violaSecurity establishes processes and deploys technologies to protect tions in good faith. All reports of misconduct are investigated in a the confidentiality, availability and integrity of data in the custody or timely fashion. Unless the complaining individual chooses to remain control of SAS. anonymous, he or she receives feedback on the results of the investigation, to the extent allowed by applicable law. These groups work closely together to manage data privacy issues and security by, among other things, establishing information goverAnti-Corruption nance policies, standards, guidelines and processes based on regulaSAS has an anti-corruption program to provide training and monitions, business needs and industry best practices. Periodic privacy toring across the company. This program includes an online antiand security-related assessments and compliance reviews include corruption course for all new employees and certain third parties, and privacy impact assessments for newly developed or modified appliin-person, targeted training for sales, marketing, finance and other cations that may affect individual privacy interests. affected groups. In addition, SAS has implemented gift, marketing event, “revolving door,” and donation policies – as well as review The Ethics and Compliance group ensures that SAS’ externally procedures – to comply with applicable laws and customer requireposted privacy statement accurately reflects its information collection ments. These documents are available to all employees on the Ethics and use practices with respect to external parties. SAS’ privacy stateand Compliance internal website. ment is global, covering SAS US and its foreign subsidiaries and other business units. Translated versions of the privacy statement with SAS conducts advance and ongoing due diligence on subcontraccountry-specific requirements are linked to the English version. tors, partners and other third parties to verify their reputability and identify and mitigate anti-corruption risks. SAS also contractually To ensure adequate protection for the personal information of requires that its subcontractors comply with the principles set forth in employees and workers that SAS receives in the United States from its Code of Ethics, including anti-bribery provisions. its subsidiaries in the European Economic Area and Switzerland, SAS has certified that its privacy practices comply with the US-EU and UPDATE! SAS recently expanded its anti-corruption program by US-Swiss Safe Harbor frameworks as set forth by the US Department improving its audit processes, enhancing its transaction-by-transacof Commerce. SAS has also certified to the Safe Harbor frameworks tion due diligence measures and augmenting travel and hospitality for personal information that SAS’ Solutions OnDemand business expense review processes. unit receives in the United States from customers in the European Economic Area and Switzerland in connection with its hosted software operations. SAS requires all its employees to complete training on privacy and information security. SAS Global Information Security publishes a monthly information security awareness newsletter to inform employees about information security and privacy issues. SAS and all other SAS Institute Inc. product or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of SAS Institute Inc. in the USA and other countries. ® indicates USA registration. Other brand and product names are trademarks of their respective companies. Copyright © 2015, SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved. 107774_S138148.0615 Governance and Management Supply Chain SAS builds long-term relationships with both direct and indirect 2014 Data: 51 percent of SAS’ US spending was with suppliers whose suppliers. There are a wide range of best practices, tools and policies remit-to address is in North Carolina. to ensure the supply chain remains strong and the company is identifying the best fit for all procurement needs. Direct suppliers provide Supplier Diversity products or services used in creating the services SAS sells. This can As part of the Corporate Services Division, the manager of supplier include software, hardware, consultants or IT infrastructure. Indirect diversity is responsible for SAS’ supplier diversity process, including: suppliers in areas such as food services, legal and accounting, real estate, facilities services, or travel provide support for running the • Reviewing RFPs and contracts and responding to customers with business. SAS also supports local business. diversity requirements. • Preparing and providing diversity spending reports to customers. SAS uses mechanisms such as service level agreements, bench• Providing information and access to SAS’ procurement opportunimarking and supplier relationship management to monitor and ties by supporting and conducting various diversity activities and manage suppliers’ results. Suppliers are subject to ongoing antievents (e.g., sponsorships, education and attendance). corruption due diligence, which, proportionate to the level of the • Providing internal training to buyers and stakeholders regarding supplier’s business and risks presented, screens prospective the importance and value of providing access to and utilization of suppliers and relevant or high-risk individuals within those diverse suppliers and small businesses. organizations. The company also has an advance due diligence process for By developing and maintaining effective relationships with suppliers, suppliers engaged to assist in sales efforts and potential acquisitions. the company aims to create value throughout the life of each contract The process involves investigation of the supplier in levels that are based upon economy, quality, environmental preservation and social proportionate to the risks presented by the supplier, including invesvalues. SAS is a member of the National Minority Supplier Developtigating the supplier’s background, qualifications, conflicts of interest, ment Council (NMSDC) and the Women’s Business Center of North financial condition and history of regulatory violations. Carolina (WBC-NC). SAS is also represented on the boards of various minority supplier development councils and economic development The supply chain compliance program also consists of contractual initiatives. requirements for anti-corruption and ethics rules compliance for all contractors and consultants. SAS also conducts in-person and online SAS’ supplier diversity program has earned several accolades and training, expense record and expenditure reviews, and audits, as well service awards, including: Triangle Business Journal’s 2014 Leaders in as global outreach through organizations like the UN Global Diversity Award, Small Business Administration’s 2012 North Carolina Compact. SAS voluntarily provides supply chain information for the Veterans Business Champion of the Year; Small Business AdministraCarbon Disclosure Project (CDP) and Great Places to Work. tion’s 2011 North Carolina Minority Small Business Champion of the Year for both North Carolina and SBA’s Southeast Region IV; Advocate SAS uses competitive bidding to help ensure competition and of the Year by the Carolinas Minority Supplier Development Council; fairness in the marketplace for suppliers. SAS’ request for proposal and Woman Business Advocate of the Year by the Women’s Business template emphasizes the importance of corporate social responsiCenter of North Carolina. bility, including environmental stewardship and promotion of supplier diversity. Additionally, if the bidder is not a diverse company, it must provide a statement regarding its active supplier diversity programs or opportunities it has to subcontract to diverse suppliers. Supply Chain page 2 Supplier Diversity Policy Statement Suppliers and the Environment SAS customers represent a wide range of industries, people and The environmental impact of business activities extends beyond the locations – and the company seeks this same level of diversity in its SAS campus and workspaces to the entire supply chain, from supplier community. Unlike a typical manufacturing environment, the suppliers to distribution channels to product use. The Environmental creation of SAS products does not require purchasing materials or Management Program researches ways to incorporate corporate component parts, but rather relies on a highly skilled staff of technical social responsibility into procurement and reduce the environmental professionals. SAS complies with federal laws and regulations that impact of supply chain processes. To accomplish this, SAS: prohibit discrimination in employment based on race, color, religion, • Strongly encourages employees to give consideration and prefgender, national origin, age, disability or veteran status. erence to suppliers with environmental practices and programs. As a federal contractor, SAS complies with Executive Order 11246, as • Promotes the adoption of environmental principles by contracamended, and the implementing rules and regulations of the Office tors and suppliers, encouraging or requiring improvements. of Federal Contract Compliance, Vietnam Era Veterans’ Readjustment • Completes the annual Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) supply Assistance Act of 1974, and the Rehabilitation Act of 1973. chain questionnaire related to greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions inventory and related climate change management. In the area of professional services offered to its customers, SAS • Makes extensive use of green products, such as environmentally provides small business concerns owned and controlled by socially friendly cleaning supplies and low-emissions paints and products and economically disadvantaged individuals and woman-owned for campus buildings. The procurement teams routinely assist small businesses the opportunity to participate in the subcontracts it with finding the most efficient and earth-friendly options. awards to the maximum practicable extent, consistent with efficient • Maximizes investments by eliminating unnecessary purchases, performance of the contract. extending the life of assets through repurposing, selling Regarding the procurement of goods and services to support outdated equipment to employees, and donating materials to corporate operations, SAS continually seeks ways to make business educational institutions. Only then are materials processed for opportunities available to small businesses and businesses that are: responsible recycling. • Minority-owned. As a software company, SAS has limited risks and concerns in regard • Woman-owned. to raw materials, hazardous wastes and supplier practices. Because • Disabled-owned. the primary input to SAS products is intellectual property, SAS does • HUBZone-certified. not currently collect data on GHG emissions and climate change • Veteran or service-disabled veteran-owned. strategy from suppliers. 2014 Data: In 2014, SAS continued to research options for incorpoSAS encourages diverse businesses interested in more information rating corporate social responsibility elements into procurement about potential working opportunities and relationships to email processes and reducing environmental impact of supply chain supplierdiversity@sas.com. processes. As in years past, SAS completed its annual CDP supply chain questionnaire related to greenhouse gas emissions inventory and related climate change management. SAS achieved a CDP disclosure score of 88 and a B performance rating, a 6 percent disclosure score improvement from last year. The average score/rating of more than 3,400 supplier responses was 53/C. SAS and all other SAS Institute Inc. product or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of SAS Institute Inc. in the USA and other countries. ® indicates USA registration. Other brand and product names are trademarks of their respective companies. Copyright © 2015, SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved. 107775_S138475.0615 Governance and Management Continuity of Business At SAS, continuity of business (COB) is paramount, addressing Through business continuity planning, SAS exercises operational threats or hazards that may affect employees and customers and controls to ensure its long-term viability and meet the expectations of disrupt business operations. COB planning incorporates corporate its customers in an increasingly risk-conscious regulatory environment. governance, information security and corporate social responsibility. More information on SAS’ COB program can be found in the Customers can trust us with the viability of their operations because Continuity of Business white paper (PDF). of the company’s ability to provide vital customer-facing services and continue core operations. Even if SAS never experiences a business disruption, the organization continues to improve and standardize processes through planning and training on how to respond and recover from one. SAS’ global business continuity program goals are to: • Prepare employees to know what to do in a crisis. • Provide timely communications between local offices and SAS world headquarters. • Put plans in place to recover SAS’ most critical business operations that support customers. This includes annual qualification of key partner and supplier dependencies to support strategies for continued operations. • Develop backup strategies, such as providing support to customers from another office until the affected office can resume normal operations. • Avoid and minimize business interruptions through greater awareness and risk management. SAS’ COB initiative extends to all SAS offices, involving response and recovery teams from Security, Facilities, IT and Communications. These business units work together proactively to develop resilience and mitigation strategies, and, in the event of a business disruption, coordinate to execute recovery plans. SAS and all other SAS Institute Inc. product or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of SAS Institute Inc. in the USA and other countries. ® indicates USA registration. Other brand and product names are trademarks of their respective companies. Copyright © 2015, SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved. 107776_S138476.0615 Environmental Program Protecting the environment for a brighter future SAS reduces its environmental footprint with multiyear programs focused on energy conservation and solar projects, emission management, pollution mitigation, water conservation, waste reduction and recycling, procurement and green building. View environmental performance reports using SAS® Visual Analytics to see how SAS uses its own software to collect, manage, calculate and report its global environmental footprint. Top 2014 achievements: • Generated 3.8 million kWh of clean, renewably sourced energy from rooftop and ground-mounted solar systems. • Decreased energy consumption and related greenhouse gas emissions despite adding office space. Improved CDP score to 88 with a B performance rating. • Diverted 50 percent of operational waste and 88 percent of construction waste from landfills globally. • Decreased global water consumption by 1.9 percent while reclaimed water usage increased by 41 percent. • Achieved LEED® Gold certification for new office building. • Installed 18 new charging stations for employee use and dedicated premium parking for electric vehicle plug-in stations globally. Corporate Responsibility Environmental Program Environmental Governance SAS’ sustainability performance is reviewed by an executive sustainEnvironmental Mandates ability council chartered to provide guidance on conducting global The following corporate mandates provide guidance for adhering to operations in a sustainable manner. policy and establishing priorities for environmental initiatives. Implementing environmental strategies is largely the domain of • Corporate priority. Establish policies, programs and practices for the SAS Corporate Services Division Environmental Management conducting operations in an environmentally sound manner. Program. The program facilitates environmental efforts at company • Integrated management. Integrate environmental policies, headquarters in the US, collects and reports key environmental programs and practices into all functions, business units and indicators for global operations, and provides guidance and global offices. support to offices worldwide. Offices around the globe have • Continual improvement. Continue to raise the bar on perforpersonnel who manage site-specific environmental initiatives. mance, aligning with technological developments, scientific Members of the Environmental Management Program are part of understanding and stakeholder expectations. the CSR Task Force that meets regularly to address environmental • Employee education. Educate, train and motivate employees to and social responsibility initiatives throughout SAS’ business conduct activities in an environmentally responsible manner. operations. • Assessment. Conduct impact assessments before starting a new activity or project and before decommissioning a facility or leaving Environmental Policy a site. SAS is an active and committed partner in communities where • Products and services. Provide products or services that have no employees live, work and conduct business. SAS recognizes that undue environmental impact throughout the product life cycle environmental responsibility is a continuous effort that requires – from development to delivery, use and disposal. prudent use and preservation of natural resources. The company • Customer support. Advise and educate customers, distributors encourages business operations around the world to minimize and the public in the safe and environmentally responsible use, environmental impacts by exceeding all environmental regulations. transportation, storage and disposal of SAS products. To accomplish this, all employees are asked to adhere to the • Facilities and operations. Develop, design and operate facilities company’s environmental mandates, integrate environmentally and conduct activities with continual consideration for minimizing responsible practices, and seek innovative solutions to optimize resource consumption, adverse environmental impact, and waste. operational efficiencies. • Research. Conduct or support research on the environmental impacts of SAS activities and how to minimize adverse impacts. • Contractors and suppliers. Promote these principles to SAS contractors and suppliers, encouraging and (where appropriate) requiring improvements. Environmental Governance page 2 Precautionary Approach SAS supports a precautionary approach to minimizing anthropogenic impacts from business operations. This aligns with SAS’ philosophy in five meaningful ways: 1. To ensure business operations do not expose the public and environment to harm. 2. To comply with environmental regulations. 3. To encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 4. To promote environmental awareness via increased transparency and access to meaningful data so analytics can be used to make intelligent and responsible decisions. 5. To show that environmental responsibility is not just goodwill; it makes good business sense. ISO Compliance The Environmental Management Program applies best practice ISO 14001 Environmental Management System (EMS) processes and structure to include: • Using SAS® software solutions and other tools to measure and improve environmental performance. • Ensuring environmental affairs are addressed by executive management. • Addressing immediate and long-term impacts of products, services and processes on the environment. • Providing global direction about addressing environmental concerns through the allocation of resources, assignment of responsibility, and ongoing evaluation of practices, procedures and processes. • Enabling continual improvement of environmental processes. Naturally, SAS uses its own technology to measure and analyze the performance of its sustainability initiatives. SAS software calculates the company’s global carbon footprint and the impacts of business processes and mitigation initiatives. SAS solutions support the application of global standards such as the Greenhouse Gas Protocol and the Global Reporting Initiative. Adherence to global standards provides for measurement and reporting in the countries in which SAS operates. SAS and all other SAS Institute Inc. product or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of SAS Institute Inc. in the USA and other countries. ® indicates USA registration. Other brand and product names are trademarks of their respective companies. Copyright © 2015, SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved. 107777_S138147.0715 Environmental Program Energy & Emissions SAS’ Environmental Management Program assigns top priority to 2014 Data: minimizing energy consumption and related emissions from its • SAS’ environmental footprint was mitigated by ongoing investoperations. The energy and emissions management program ment in energy-efficient technologies, solar, retro-commissioning includes energy sourcing, conservation and generation, policy of primary office buildings, and adoption of LEED best practices. compliance, and employee education and engagement. Gains in energy efficiencies for office buildings globally reduced energy consumption more than 22,000 gigajoules. SAS® software improves processes for collecting, understanding and managing energy and emissions requirements for facilities • Emissions were reduced by more than 1,900 t CO2e. worldwide, increasing the ability to report and proactively influence • Global energy use and related emissions decreased in 2014, with consumption trends. The program uses SAS software to identify energy consumption decreasing by 4.3 percent and carbon reduction strategies, develop and monitor performance indicators, emissions decreasing by 3.2 percent, despite adding more than understand relationships between measures, determine initiatives 5 percent or 228,000 square feet of office space. with the greatest effect, and communicate strategy, goals and • SAS achieved LEED Gold certification for its newest office building objectives to facilitate execution. at its Cary, NC, headquarters. Building Q features rooftop solar photovoltaic panels, highly insulated exterior wall and roofing Key energy and emissions mitigation initiatives include calculating systems, highly efficient heating and air conditioning, mechanical and reporting global carbon footprint, building and maintaining systems, energy recovery units and a water-side heat exchanger. facilities to LEED® guidelines, investing in renewable energy, The building also makes extensive use of LED lighting and uses pursuing new, energy-efficient technologies for operating buildings reclaimed water for cooling towers, irrigation and toilets. and data centers, and proactively maintaining facilities to the • Use of renewable energy remains a priority for SAS as an integral highest efficiency standards. part of a strategy to reduce emissions. In 2014, SAS added a solar rooftop system on its newest LEED Gold certified office building, Emissions Management and bringing the worldwide total to nine solar energy systems. Clean, Emissions Mitigation renewable energy generation totaled more than 3.8 million kWh SAS decreased energy consumption by 3 percent for the past four this past year. years, despite staff growth of 10 percent, facilities growth of 9 • SAS continued support for electric vehicles by installing 18 new percent, and rapidly expanding data center operations to satisfy charging stations and dedicating premium parking for electric growing customer demand for computing and storage solutions. vehicle plug-in stations. Through 2014, employees at the world headquarters campus own approximately 4 percent of In 2014, 76 percent of SAS energy consumption was sourced from registered plug-in electric vehicles in the state of North Carolina. electricity suppliers and on-site solar generation. SAS joined the US Department of Energy (DOE) Workplace Charging Challenge and was awarded the DOE Leading the Charge recognition. Energy & Emissions page 2 Energy Efficiency SAS analyzes operational data to optimize development and delivery of its products and services to customers. The efficiency chart below highlights a sustainable trend of decreasing energy growth against increasing revenues. In 2014, SAS’ revenue increased, but its energy use decreased, making services more energy efficient for customers. 2014 Energy by Type 2014 Energy by Source (Gigajoules) View dynamic SAS Visual Analytics reports on SAS energy or see static charts and tables below. 2014 Energy by Region View dynamic SAS Visual Analytics reports on SAS emissions or find static charts and tables below. Energy Trend (Gigajoules) CDP SAS annually completes the CDP Supply Chain questionnaire related to greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions inventory and related climate change management. This past year, SAS achieved a disclosure score of 88 and B performance rating, a 6 percent disclosure score improvement from last year. The average disclosure score for more than 3,400 supplier responses was 53 and a C performance rating. Energy Variance (Gigajoules) Restatement: For the US in 2013, energy was overstated by 10,127 gigajoules and related emissions by 1,727 t CO2e due to duplicated meter data. Energy & Emissions page 3 Data Center Operations Energy for data center operations is the largest contributor to SAS’ environmental footprint. Over the past decade, the challenge of delivering timely information to support enterprise analytics has increased exponentially. Additional computing and storage solutions, combined with IT globalization, has increased demand for energy and data center space. To maintain the support expected by Global Emissions Variance (t CO2e) customers, SAS invested in high-efficiency technologies and design to construct a new, dedicated computing facility, emphasizing efficiency, flexibility and sustainability. Data center operations regularly achieve an average power usage effectiveness (PUE) of 1.35 or better. A PUE of 2.0 means that for every watt of IT power consumed, an additional watt is consumed to cool and distribute power. Thus a PUE closer to 1.0 indicates greater efficiency. Solar and Renewable Energy Since 2008, when SAS broke the solar energy 1 megawatt barrier for the Southeast US, the capacity of solar installations in North Global Emissions (t CO2e)0 Carolina has grown to 953 MW, ranking fourth nationally in 2014. Restatement: For the US in 2013, energy was overstated by 10,127 gigajoules and SAS proved solar was viable, and the community responded. related emissions by 1,727 t CO2e due to duplicated meter data. 2014 Data: SAS’ nine solar installations generated 757 gigajoules of clean renewable energy — a 27 percent increase from 2013. At a combined 2.2 MW in capacity, SAS’ solar farms are located on 12 acres at world headquarters in Cary, NC. The photovoltaic (PV) solar arrays generate 3.6 million kilowatt-hours of clean, renewable energy each year, reducing carbon dioxide emissions by more than 2,000 tons annually — the amount of emissions produced by consuming more than 367,000 gallons of gasoline. • Solar Farm I (December 2008): 1 MW in capacity, 5 acres, and 5,040 panels; generates 1.7 million kWh of clean renewable energy each year. 2014 Emissions by Scope • Solar Farm II (July 2010): 1.2 MW in capacity, 7 acres, and 5,236 SAS conducts ongoing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions inventory of its Scope 1 panels; generates 1.9 million kWh of clean renewable energy and Scope 2 emissions. each year. • Building C: 405 roof-mounted panels, 74 KW-capacity solar PV system; generates 100,000 kWh of electricity annually. • Building R: 702 roof-mounted panels, 169 KW-capacity solar PV system; generates 200,000 kWh of electricity annually. • Building Q: 176 roof-mounted panels, 45 KW-capacity solar PV system; generates 60,000 kWh of electricity annually. • SAS Sweden: 80 roof-mounted panels, 20 KW-capacity solar PV system generates 25,000 kWh of electricity annually. • Building T: 24 roof-mounted 4-by-10-foot solar thermal panels provide hot water for on-site cafeteria. Energy & Emissions page 4 • Building G: 42 roof-mounted 4-by-10-foot solar thermal panels provide hot water for showers and laundry for the campus gymnasium. • Building C: Eight roof-mounted 5-by-6-foot evacuated-tube type solar thermal panels produce hot water for on-site cafeteria. The system works in concert with a building HVAC chilled water system and uses additional heat extracted from water-to-water heat pumps. Solar Energy Trend (Gigajoules) Solar Energy Variance (Gigajoules) SAS and all other SAS Institute Inc. product or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of SAS Institute Inc. in the USA and other countries. ® indicates USA registration. Other brand and product names are trademarks of their respective companies. Copyright © 2015, SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved. 107778_S138478.0715 Environmental Program Landfill Diversion The SAS Waste Management Program at world headquarters • Construction projects at world headquarters achieved an measures and monitors the waste stream, with significant astounding 87.8 percent landfill diversion rate on more than 360 environmental benefits resulting from efforts at individual and local metric tons of waste. levels. For example: • SAS diverted 100 percent of e-waste from landfills by repurposing • SAS provides on-site recycling for aluminum, batteries, cardequipment for internal use, recycling and donating to educational board, electronics, magazines, glass, newspaper, pallets, paper, institutions. plastic bottles, printer cartridges, scrap metal and more. • Since 2008, the employee electronics recycling program (US) • SAS strives for 100 percent e-waste recycling by repurposing has collected more than 70 metric tons of personal electronic equipment for internal use, recycling with responsible vendors, hardware for recycling. In 2014, a record 17 metric tons of equipand donating to educational institutions. ment was collected from environmentally responsible employees. • Polystyrene-based disposables have been replaced with • SAS expanded the Green2Go program to a second headquarters compostable options. café. The reusable alternative to food to-go plastic containers has helped more than 500 participating employees eliminate • Cafeteria food waste is composted and used by SAS landthousands of containers from landfill disposal. scapers; waste vegetable oil is recycled and converted into biodiesel fuel. • A waste audit conducted for a primary headquarters building resulted in a landfill diversion rate of 58 percent. • Online resources reduce paper consumption globally. • SAS strongly encourages the use of biodegradable and recyclable materials. • Building construction projects regularly exceed 85 percent waste diversion from landfills. • Grassroots programs for employees reduce waste and encourage recycling efforts. • Since 2009, operational waste diverted from landfills has increased from 26 to 50 percent. View dynamic SAS® Visual Analytics reports on SAS landfill Operational Waste Disposal by Year (Metric Tons) diversion or see static charts and tables below. 2014 Data: Globally, SAS disposed of 2,572 metric tons of operational waste in 2014 – paper, food, cardboard, composting, aluminum and plastic, and other nonconstruction waste material. This amount is 12 percent or 352 metric tons less than 2013. Highlights from 2014 include: • SAS diverted slightly more than 50 percent of waste (almost 1,300 tons) from landfills through recycling and waste management worldwide. Operational Waste Variance (Metric Tons) Landfill Diversion page 2 Landfill Diversion Rate Trend 2014 Landfill and Recycling Rate 2014 Recycling by Material Type 2014 Operational Waste (Metric Tons) Landfill Diversion page 3 Paper Consumption Hazardous Materials Like most businesses, SAS is dependent on paper products to As a software company, SAS does not handle raw materials, conflict conduct business operations. SAS is making progress in three minerals, hazardous wastes or related supplies typical of traditional key ways: manufacturing. While risks are minimal, SAS places the utmost importance in abiding by industry best practices and governing Reduce. SAS has significantly reduced print volumes by delivering regulations, including: less physical media to customers. This includes reducing inventories • Compliance with all Occupational Safety and Health Administraand increasing efficiencies by using a print-on-demand model; tion (OSHA) regulations for handling hazardous materials. convenient access to online documentation; education and awareness campaigns; and personal choices. Since 2009, the average • Plans for Spill Prevention, Control, and Countermeasure (SPCC) annual pages of paper used by employees has dropped from that meet US Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) 2,631 to 1,483 – a 47 percent decrease. Globally, SAS used 173 regulations. metric tons of paper for printing in 2014. 2014 Data: SAS did not have any spills of hazardous materials, oil, Reuse. When SAS does print, employees are encouraged to find fuel, waste or chemicals, and did not have any fines for noncomplicreative ways to reuse scrap paper. Ideas include using scrap paper ance with environmental legislation. SAS is very careful to minimize for notes, reprinting, packaging material for shipping and on-site environmental impact as the company continues to grow. The composting. company strictly adheres to environmental regulations. Recycle. SAS recycled 249 metric tons of paper materials in 2014 – 10 percent more than 2013. The standard office paper ordered for copiers and printers has 30 percent post-consumer recycled content. Paper Use Trend (Metric Tons) Paper Use Trend (Sheets per Employee) SAS and all other SAS Institute Inc. product or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of SAS Institute Inc. in the USA and other countries. ® indicates USA registration. Other brand and product names are trademarks of their respective companies. Copyright © 2015, SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved. 107779_S138479.0715 Environmental Program Water Conservation SAS’ 900-acre headquarters in Cary, NC, and 13 owned sites reclaimed water line to additional buildings increased reclaimed globally use water for office and data center cooling, cafés, water usage 41 percent – from 26,113 to 36,915 cubic meters. gymnasiums, landscaping and employee consumption. Water • SAS installed an electrolyzed water system in a headquarters’ café conservation is of paramount importance to SAS, with many to clean, degrease and sanitize without the use of harmful chemifacilities operating in communities where water shortfalls and water cals. The system greatly reduces the amount of chemical-based use restrictions are standard. At SAS headquarters, coupling watercleaning supplies used for café operations. saving technologies and practice with increased employee awareness has resulted in significant savings. For example: • Low-flow and electronically activated plumbing fixtures greatly reduce employee water consumption, saving 63 percent more compared to standard fixtures. • Rooftop rainwater collection systems capture water for use in bathrooms. • Cooling towers are replaced with high-efficiency models that use reclaimed water. Water Trend (Cubic Meters) • Wastewater options such as reclaimed and gray water lower potable water consumption. • Reducing and customizing irrigation schedules avoids overwatering plants. • Collecting rainwater in retention ponds and cisterns minimizes stormwater runoff and provides water for landscape irrigation. • Native and drought-resistant plants and warm-season grasses require less frequent irrigation. • Timely repair of leaking pipes and the installation of low-flow Water Variance (Cubic Meters) toilets, shower heads and faucet aerators save at least 1.4 million gallons each year. View dynamic SAS® Visual Analytics reports on SAS water conservation or see static charts and tables below. 2014 Data: • SAS water use decreased by 1.9 percent in 2014, resulting in 5,456 cubic meters of water savings. This reduction reflects efficiency gains from investments in water-saving technologies, timely repairs to leaking pipes and reduced irrigation schedules. • SAS’ expanding use of reclaimed water and wastewater helps 2014 Water Percentage by Source reduce the impact on local reservoirs and minimize the energy Restatement: Groundwater was overstated by 12,632 cubic meters in 2013 due to an needed to treat water to potable quality. In 2014, extending a incorrect well meter report. SAS and all other SAS Institute Inc. product or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of SAS Institute Inc. in the USA and other countries. ® indicates USA registration. Other brand and product names are trademarks of their respective companies. Copyright © 2015, SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved. 107780_S138480.0715 Environmental Program Green Building Practices SAS strives to be a leader in environmental sustainability. Around • T5 fluorescent and LED lighting fixtures – along with individual the world, SAS is committed to making a difference. To achieve this lighting controls, motion sensors and automatic timers – save goal, SAS embraces Leadership in Energy and Environmental energy. Design (LEED®) guidelines for new construction and remodeling • A 1-acre sedum green roof minimizes stormwater runoff and insuand retrofitting existing buildings. lation, significantly reducing the heat-island effect for this SAS’ six LEED certified buildings include Platinum-level certification microclimate. for the Executive Briefing Center at world headquarters. Platinum is • Low-flow and electronically activated plumbing fixtures greatly the highest level awarded by the US Green Building Council. SAS reduce employee water consumption, saving 63 percent more holds a Silver level national membership with the US Green compared to standard fixtures. Building Council. For offices located in countries that do not use • A rainwater collection system with two 20,000-gallon cisterns LEED, SAS is incorporating country-specific best practices and captures water for use in bathrooms. pursuing equivalent certifications for new construction and • A 655,000-gallon retention pond collects stormwater runoff for maintenance. landscape irrigation. Examples of SAS’ commitment to green building practices include: SAS US, Cary, NC, Headquarters: Building D — LEED Gold SAS US, Cary, NC, Headquarters: Building C — LEED Certified Data Center Platinum Certified Office Building The 38,660-square-foot facility includes two server farms, providing Building C includes the Executive Briefing Center, café and an additional data handling for expanded SAS OnDemand offerings, office tower for employees. The Executive Briefing Center uses hosted solutions and continued R&D growth. Environmental techcutting-edge technologies to help customers learn about SAS nology designed into the building, which earned LEED Gold software. Building C achieved LEED Platinum certification for water certification by the USGBC, include a reclaimed water system and and energy conservation, the first for any building in Wake County mechanical and electrical systems emphasizing efficiency of and only the fifth in North Carolina at the time. The building operation. consumes 40 percent less energy and 50 percent less water by SAS US, Cary, NC, Headquarters: Building Q — LEED Gold integrating highly efficient technologies and sustainable features: Certified Office Building • Photovoltaic panels generate 100,000 kWh annually to support The 220,660-square-foot office building features rooftop solar photolighting and building systems. voltaic panels, highly insulated exterior wall and roofing systems, • Solar thermal panels provide hot water for the café. highly efficient heating and air conditioning, mechanical systems, • Thermal slab floor cooling uses water cooled in off-peak hours energy recovery units and a water-side heat exchanger, extensive use by building chillers to help maximize air conditioning efficiency. of LED lighting, and reclaimed water use for cooling towers, irrigation • Radiant floor heating is used in the atrium for greater occupant and toilets. The parking lot has 12 spaces designated for plug-in comfort and minimizes heat loss through the roof. electric vehicles with access to electric vehicle charging stations. • Highly efficient HVAC systems integrate economizers, enthalpy SAS US, Cary, NC, Headquarters: Building T — LEED Silver wheels, variable speed drives, and various heat recovery systems Certified Office Building to increase energy savings. Building T, at world headquarters in Cary, NC, was the first SAS building to be awarded LEED certification for an existing building. Building T is also Energy Star certified and features solar thermal Green Building Practices page 2 hot-water panels, energy-efficient lighting and automation controls, and low-flow bathroom fixtures. Building T completed advanced retro-commissioning to ensure optimal performance for all building systems. SAS Solna, Sweden: LEED Gold Certified Office Building Sweden’s newest office building was awarded LEED Gold certification. The facility features geothermal energy wells for efficient heating and cooling, rooftop solar photovoltaic panels, a sedumcovered green roof, and even on-site beehives, which provide natural honey for the cafeteria. SAS Toronto, Canada: LEED Silver Certified Office Building SAS Toronto was the first LEED-certified new office building in Canada. With rainwater harvesting and energy conservation measures saving more than 6 million kWh of energy per year, the SAS building has served as an inspiration for many other new buildings in Toronto. SAS São Paulo: LEED Certified Office Building Renovation SAS’ leased office in São Paulo received LEED certification for an office renovation project in 2013. 2014 Data: Green building highlights from 2014 include: • LEED Gold certification for SAS Building Q, the newest building at SAS headquarters. Building features include rooftop solar photovoltaic panels, highly insulated exterior wall and roofing systems, highly efficient heating and air conditioning, advanced mechanical systems, energy recovery units and a water-side heat exchanger, extensive use of LED lighting, electric vehicle charging stations, and reclaimed water use for cooling towers, irrigation and toilets. • Energy Star certification for another existing building at SAS headquarters. • Initiating efforts to pursue LEED certification for three existing buildings at SAS headquarters. SAS and all other SAS Institute Inc. product or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of SAS Institute Inc. in the USA and other countries. ® indicates USA registration. Other brand and product names are trademarks of their respective companies. Copyright © 2015, SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved. 107781_S138481.0715 Environmental Program Biodiversity SAS is careful to minimize impact on biodiversity and surrounding The SAS Austin, TX, office is located on 94 acres of mostly undishabitats as it grows and expands its operational footprint. SAS turbed land where deer and other wildlife freely roam. Only about 3 adheres to the US Green Building Council LEED guidelines for acres are used for facilities and access roads. The property has intenprotecting natural environments and promoting biodiversity in tionally been left wild and features a long, winding driveway and areas where the company operates. Of approximately 900 acres at natural walking trails surrounding the more landscaped areas around SAS headquarters, about 100 acres feature buildings, roads or the building. other impervious surfaces. The remaining 800 acres are retained as old-growth woodland, lakes and streams, farmland, natural areas The Austin property is home to several types of endangered birds and approximately 60 acres of maintained lawns, primarily for and spiders, which are protected by landscaping and conservation employee recreation and landscaping. guidelines, such as the Balcones Canyonlands Conservation Plan (BCCP). The BCCP is a joint venture of the City of Austin and Travis The company applies LEED best practice guidelines for new and County that protects habitats for locally occurring species protected existing building projects, smart land use planning and campus under the federal Endangered Species Act. SAS works closely with landscaping, such as: BCCP to maintain the natural integrity of these important habitats. • Preserving large areas of open space in construction projects to 2014 Data: In 2014, the completion of SAS’ Building Q LEED minimize disruption to local ecosystems. Gold certified office included a substantial effort to minimize • Reducing the heat island effect by installing white reflective environmental impact for both construction and ongoing operation. materials and planting sedum on rooftops. Sedum increases The building design and construction process ensured a minimal insulation, minimizes stormwater runoff and provides habitat site footprint, higher than mandated erosion and stormwater for wildlife. controls, reduced heat island impact, maximized green space, use of • Collecting rainwater from rooftop systems, retention ponds and native and drought-tolerant plants, and more. cisterns to minimize stormwater runoff and provide water for landscape irrigation. • Harvesting timber from construction sites so artisans can craft unique pieces of furniture and accent walls for buildings. • Restoring land disturbed by construction projects with native and adaptive drought-tolerant plants that help local ecosystems thrive and reduce dependence on water and chemicals. • Growing local produce for SAS cafeterias in the on-site culinary farm. SAS and all other SAS Institute Inc. product or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of SAS Institute Inc. in the USA and other countries. ® indicates USA registration. Other brand and product names are trademarks of their respective companies. Copyright © 2015, SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved. 107782_S138484.0715 Environmental Program Awareness & Engagement In addition to employing sustainability measures globally, SAS or donated to the Salvation Army. More than 300 employees promotes environmental education and awareness. Activities donated household items, including furniture and kitchen appliinclude educational campaigns, speaking engagements, SAS solar ances, sporting goods, books and loads of toys. farm visits, companywide Earth Day activities, articles on the internal • With support from the SAS employee volunteer Eco Advocates green website, white papers and webcasts. By engaging with group, SAS conducted a dumpster dive for one of its campus customers, employees, industry leaders and world leaders, SAS office buildings. seeks to extend the reach of its sustainability initiatives. • SAS volunteers spent a day revitalizing trails in the state park adjacent to the Cary, NC, campus. SAS works with leading international organizations to apply technology to address greenhouse gas emissions, as well as other envi• SAS hosted conferences for numerous environmental ronmental and social concerns. Customers use SAS® software to organizations, including the Research Triangle Cleantech Cluster generate power efficiently, promote better use of critical resources, (RTCC), EarthShare North Carolina and the Duke Nicholas Institute minimize waste, assist environmental protection agencies, and for Environmental Policy Solutions. improve the production and delivery of goods. 2014 Data: In 2014, SAS employees joined in various activities to Electric Vehicle Support and the raise awareness about reducing waste, conserving energy, Eco-Commuter Program reducing water use, and protecting the environment. SAS held SAS assigns top priority to minimizing energy consumption and weeklong Earth Week celebrations at its world headquarters related emissions from its operations. The SAS Eco-Commuter campus, while offices around the globe engaged employees with Parking Program encourages employees to mitigate the environstewardship initiatives. Some US activities included: mental impacts of their daily commute by providing specially marked • To help celebrate Earth Day, a new and improved SAS Green preferred parking spaces for plug-in electric vehicles (PEVs), lowInitiatives website was launched, giving employees a one-stop emission vehicles, and active carpool participants. Eco-Commuter resource for learning about all things sustainable at SAS. The parking includes 100 designated PEV spaces with access to 48 new global site features environmental performance reports, charging stations. SAS provides free charging for all employees and tools to help employees share ideas and get involved, and links visitors. to important resources to help SAS minimize the environmental Through 2014, employees at SAS headquarters in Cary, NC, footprint from its operations. own approximately 4 percent of PEVs in North Carolina. • SAS’ annual company celebration was a corporate social responsibility and sustainability themed festival. Employees celebrated Employees share the charging station infrastructure by following the with environmental stewardship in mind by indulging in local SAS EVSE Use Policy and Guidelines. produce, learning about volunteer opportunities with environmental organizations, and participating in a SAS sustainability The SAS Eco-Commuter Program also provides subsidized facts scavenger hunt to win prizes. employee vanpools and bike racks at all office buildings. • At SAS’ fourth annual Junk Swap, employees donated gently View SAS’ participation in the Department of Energy’s Workplace used, unwanted items that were offered free to other employees Charging Challenge. SAS and all other SAS Institute Inc. product or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of SAS Institute Inc. in the USA and other countries. ® indicates USA registration. Other brand and product names are trademarks of their respective companies. Copyright © 2015, SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved. 107783_S138485.0715 Employees & Culture Work-life balance fosters creativity and innovation SAS is recognized not only as the pioneer in analytics, but also for its corporate culture, which is anchored by meaningful work, trusted leadership and a world-class environment. The company has been ranked on Fortune’s 100 Best Companies to Work For in the US since the list’s inception, as well as several country and multinational lists that acknowledge a commitment to work/life balance. By promoting the philosophy that satisfied employees mean satisfied customers, SAS has seen a direct correlation between its workplace culture and business success, which has resulted in 39 years of uninterrupted revenue growth and profitability. CEO Jim Goodnight firmly believes that if you treat employees like they’ll make a difference, they will. Corporate Responsibility Employees & Culture Workplace Culture SAS’ engaging environment enables employees to build lasting relationships with customers and drive the innovation that sustains the company’s leadership in advanced analytics. SAS is recognized worldwide for being a great workplace and for working to ensure employees stay healthy, active and engaged. 2014 Data: In 2014, SAS earned 17 workplace culture awards, including the No. 2 ranking on the Great Place to Work Institute’s list of the World’s Best Multinational Workplaces. SAS Greece, SAS Netherlands and SAS Poland were all ranked No. 1 on their countries’ Great Place to Work lists. As part of the Great Place to Work program, SAS participates in GPTW’s Trust Index Survey. This survey aggregates data from the Fortune 100 Best Companies to Work For list to rate participating companies. SAS’ results demonstrate why it is annually recognized as a top employer in the US and beyond. Great Place to Work Trust Index Survey (US only) 100 Best SAS US Score Companies US (Average Credibility 87 85 Respect 90 86 Fairness 86 84 Pride 92 89 Camaraderie 92 89 This is a great place to 96 91 work SAS and all other SAS Institute Inc. product or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of SAS Institute Inc. in the USA and other countries. ® indicates USA registration. Other brand and product names are trademarks of their respective companies. Copyright © 2015, SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved. 107784_S138146.0615 Employees & Culture Hiring & Retaining Staff SAS cultivates the optimal environment for creativity, encouraging US Turnover Summary — 2014 employees to take risks and exceed expectations while helping them balance work and life. SAS not only invests in employee US staff turnover 2012 2013 2014 career development, but also health and well-being through several services, programs and benefits. Type Turnover number 220 300 349 2014 Data: In 2014, SAS maintained its perennially low turnover rate while sustaining its worldwide headcount. In 2014, SAS did not Turnover percentage 3% 4.5% 5.2% have any substantiated and material negative incidents with regard By age group to employee discrimination or harassment. At the end of 2014, SAS had 13,741 employees worldwide and 6,862 US employees. 19-31 32 50 45 32-44 98 105 124 Voluntary Employee Turnover 45-63 77 112 128 In the US, the average employee tenure is 11 years, compared to 64 and up 15 33 52 an industry average of 4.6 years.1 Reducing turnover reduces recruitment costs, helping the company retain knowledge and By gender deliver deeper, longer-term customer relationships. This means Female 85 126 156 SAS employees spend more time on productivity and less time training new hires on their roles in the company. SAS sees a strong Male 135 174 193 connection between employee loyalty and business success. Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2014 Data: In 2014, SAS’ voluntary employee turnover rate was 5.2 SAS’ work teams thrive on a diverse interplay of ages, backgrounds percent. The average industry turnover rate is 16.2 percent.1 and perspectives. Employees’ collective strength and passion for what they do ignites big ideas and powerful bonds. SAS continues to provide equal employment opportunity for all employees regardless of age, race, color, gender identity, religion, creed, ancestry, national origin, citizenship, marital status, sexual orientation, disability, medical condition, veteran status, pregnancy or any other protected class as defined by federal, state or local law. ________________________________________ 1 US Bureau of Labor and Statistics Hiring & Retaining Staff page 2 To promote diversity and equal opportunity, SAS engages in the following: • Standing Behind Veterans. • Women’s Initiative Network (WIN). • Treatment and Education of Autistic and Related Communication Handicapped Children (TEACCH). • Food and Service Training (FAST). • Arc of Wake County to help match people in the community with disabilities who are seeking competitive employment. • TOPS program for Wake Adult Compensatory Education. SAS provides placement opportunities for this organization. • R3, a summer student program that symbolizes SAS’ commitment to “Recognize, Recruit and Retain” women and minorities in fields of technology. SAS and all other SAS Institute Inc. product or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of SAS Institute Inc. in the USA and other countries. ® indicates USA registration. Other brand and product names are trademarks of their respective companies. Copyright © 2015, SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved. 107785_S138486.0615 Employees & Culture Skills Development SAS supports the idea that all employees have a natural desire to SAS offers a wide array of training options that enables employees to learn and grow. As part of its culture and benefits for employees, find their best learning method to meet work and career goals. SAS provides many opportunities for employees to develop, whether for specific job skills, business acumen or interpersonal Training Breakdown competence. Training includes instructor-led classes, e-learning Classroom 20% and live web training. Employees at all levels are encouraged to pursue training to keep their skills sharp and learn new techniques Webcast and video 15% to improve their professional capabilities. E-learning 63% 2014 Data: In 2014, SAS employees in the US devoted 162,224 Reading material 2% hours to professional training. Training programs include: Employee Type Average Time in Training • Leadership development. Full-time 23 hours • Interpersonal development. • Sales training. Part-time 7 hours • Technical training. 95% of employees participated 162,224 hours in professional training In addition to skills training, SAS has created a program specifically for employees pursuing leadership and management training. Courses are offered at different levels within the organization to cultivate and nurture internal talent. In 2014, SAS held 87 leadership development offerings, including 26 courses, training 854 people. SAS and all other SAS Institute Inc. product or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of SAS Institute Inc. in the USA and other countries. ® indicates USA registration. Other brand and product names are trademarks of their respective companies. Copyright © 2015, SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved. 107786_S138487.0615 Employees & Culture Health & Safety Around the globe, SAS provides a safe and healthy working enviAbsenteeism ronment for all its employees. Each SAS office manages its own By providing a safe, nurturing work environment, SAS strives to keep health and safety programs. Resources and best practices are availemployees productive and effective in their roles. One measure of able from the headquarters office in the US; however, each that success is the absenteeism rate. program is designed to fit the needs of that particular location. 2014 Data: In 2014, SAS recorded an absence rate of three days per Many SAS offices around the globe have exercise facilities on-site full-time employee. This accounts for all types of nonvacation and or have access to regional fitness clubs. All employees have access holiday time, including sick, bereavement, jury duty, military leave of to health care coverage that is tailored to the cultural norms and absence and workers’ compensation. local laws of each region. At the worldwide headquarters in Cary, NC, an on-site health care center provides comprehensive services Injuries/Lost Days — US 2 2012 2013 2014 that promote optimal health. The staff includes family nurse practitioners, physicians, registered dietitians/nutritionists, nurses, Total Employees 6,556 6,716 6,862 medical laboratory technologists, a psychologist and physical Compensation Claims 39 = 0.59% 30 = 0.45% 22 = 0.32% therapists. Lost Working Days 334 116 129 The Security and Safety and Risk Management departments investigate any incidents that pose a danger to company employees or 2 Numbers may vary based on a dynamic time frame. third parties and take measures to reduce or eliminate these hazards. These departments provide additional training and resources to help identify and prevent similar incidents from causing injury or damage to individuals. SAS also has an Ergonomics department that supports employees through personal assessments and training. The department provides further educational resources through an intranet site, which includes FAQs, tips and information about a safe work skills program for manual labor employees. It also provides an assessment request form that employees can complete for a personal work-site evaluation by one of two full-time ergonomics specialists. SAS and all other SAS Institute Inc. product or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of SAS Institute Inc. in the USA and other countries. ® indicates USA registration. Other brand and product names are trademarks of their respective companies. Copyright © 2015, SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved. 107787_S138488.0715 Education Philanthropy Meeting the challenges of the new millennium SAS CEO Jim Goodnight refers to education as the engine of economic growth. By supporting efforts that prepare more graduates for college, work and success in the 21st century, SAS continues to play a vital role in the global community. SAS focuses its philanthropic activities on creating programs at its headquarters in Cary, NC, that can be replicated elsewhere. The company provides materials and best practices to help employees at any office launch a program that is a good fit for the community and meets local educational needs. In North Carolina and around the world, SAS targets education initiatives in science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) to ensure the next generation of computer innovators has the knowledge and skills to succeed. Corporate Responsibility Education Philanthropy K-12 Education The quality of education in the K-12 system directly affects Support for 1-to-1 Learning economic growth and prosperity. In its effort to increase access to SAS was a founding partner of the North Carolina 1:1 Learning skills in the critical areas of STEM, SAS offers several products and Collaborative, a public-private partnership providing laptops, services at no cost to schools. professional development and critical support to schools in rural areas. The results from the project, now freely available, have SAS® Curriculum Pathways® and SAS® Mobile Learning Apps become best practices for schools and districts undertaking a SAS Curriculum Pathways provides interactive, standards-based 1-to-1 initiative. resources in the core disciplines for middle and high school students in traditional, virtual or home learning environments. From Triangle High Five Math Collaborative preschool children to lifelong learners, SAS mobile learning apps This collaborative effort helps mathematics teachers identify and engage students of all ages. SAS Curriculum Pathways and SAS engage highly effective instructional practices and address disparimobile learning apps are available to every educator in the world at ties in math achievement related to race and income. Schools in the no cost. In 2014 nearly 253,000 teachers and students used the free Triangle High Five partnership, which includes five public school digital resources for K-12. districts, are striving to prepare more students to be successful in SAS® Programming for High School math and achieve their highest potential. Nearly 800 elementary and SAS provides five days of training, all instructional materials, assessmiddle school teachers attended the fifth annual Math Summit at ments and teaching guides necessary to teach SAS programming SAS, a two-day professional development event. to high school students. Students will leave this course with skills that allow them to sit for the SAS Certification exam, a globally Support for STEM Careers recognized certification. These resources are available to educators SAS again held a SAS STEM Career Day, in conjunction with Hour at no cost. of Code and Computer Science Education Week, where volunteers ventured into classrooms to generate enthusiasm about careers in STEM Career Showcase for Students With Disabilities STEM. In 2014, SAS expanded the scope and impact of this event by SAS partnered with the North Carolina Museum of Natural Sciences incorporating activities and content from Code.org, as well as new to create an annual event where students with disabilities, grades computer science and statistics lessons. Volunteers engaged three to 12, interact with college students and professionals with a students with real-world examples, shared insights from their own variety of disabilities who have forged successful career paths in careers and emphasized how school prepared them for success. STEM fields. Students network with role models who are pushing Volunteer participation increased from 25 volunteers at one site in the boundaries of knowledge, building innovative products, and 2013 to over 100 volunteers at 30 schools in 2014. creating the technologies of the future. More than 200 students and chaperones attended either virtually or in person in 2014. SAS also supports other efforts devoted to improving the quality of education, including BEST NC, e-Learning Commission, Wake Education Partnership, NC Public School Forum, Business Roundtable and other nonprofits. SAS and all other SAS Institute Inc. product or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of SAS Institute Inc. in the USA and other countries. ® indicates USA registration. Other brand and product names are trademarks of their respective companies. Copyright © 2015, SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved. 107788_S138145.0715 Education Philanthropy Higher Education SAS® Analytics U Analytics Degree Programs Big data has created an unprecedented demand for analytics talent SAS partners with traditional and nontraditional graduate and underthat outpaces qualified applicants. To help fill the skills gap, SAS graduate programs around the world to create degree and certifilaunched SAS Analytics U, a broad higher education initiative that cate programs that generate the analytical talent organizations need includes free SAS software, university partnerships and engaging to make the most of big data. SAS has helped launch more than 30 user communities that support the current and next generation of master’s and undergraduate degrees and 60 certificate programs in SAS users. analytics and related disciplines. New programs in 2014 include ones at Capella University, George Washington University, Indian Institute Free Software for Higher Education of Management, University of Maryland, Michigan State University, University of Missouri, Shiv Nadar University and University of South and Adult Learners Australia. Through SAS University Edition and SAS OnDemand for Academics, professors, students, researchers and independent SAS Student Programs and Scholarships learners have free access to SAS software for teaching and learning SAS has many programs that recognize, support and propel students valuable analytics skills. Students and independent learners can toward a career in analytics or other STEM fields. Through opportunijump-start careers and make themselves highly attractive to talentties such as the SAS Student Ambassador Program, the SAS Scholar hungry employers by building analytics expertise. SAS University Award Program, the SAS Data Mining Shootout, the SAS Global Edition was downloaded nearly 161,000 times in 2014. Also, free Forum Student Scholarship Program and others, students receive SAS e-learning courses in statistics and programming were downvaluable assistance, experience, networking and professional loaded nearly 28,000 times. exposure at major SAS events. Support to Universities and Community Colleges The SAS Education Division provides training and teaching materials to help professors and instructors incorporate SAS into their teaching. Resources include slides, data sets and printable/editable files of the student manual. These materials are provided free of charge, with copyright permission for professors to use any of the content in their own class notes. SAS also provides numerous guest lecturers to universities and community colleges – at no cost to the institutions. SAS trained more than 1,100 professors in the use and instruction of analytics in 2014. SAS and all other SAS Institute Inc. product or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of SAS Institute Inc. in the USA and other countries. ® indicates USA registration. Other brand and product names are trademarks of their respective companies. Copyright © 2015, SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved. 107789_S138497.0715 Education Philanthropy Philanthropy SAS provides support to sustainable programs that help students • University of North Carolina Data Dashboard — Built by SAS, this succeed in the classroom and graduate from high school. In interactive, online database gives students, parents, policymakers particular, SAS champions programs that focus on the integration and taxpayers expanded access to detailed UNC system data to of technology that will strengthen the education system and track system performance. increase the number of students entering careers in science, • University of North Carolina Educator Quality Dashboard — Built technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM). Programs must with SAS data visualization software, this interactive online tool generate a long-term impact and affect significant numbers of enables citizens to analyze and display data on the UNC system’s people, without discrimination. Examples include: efforts to prepare more and higher-quality teachers and school • #GivingTuesday, a global day of giving. leaders for the state’s public schools. • Communities in Schools, the nation’s largest dropout prevention • Triangle High Five, a partnership committed to seeing that organization. students graduate from high school ready for higher education and careers of their choice. • Computer Science Education Week – SAS joins this national effort by providing volunteers with training, activities and mate• University of North Carolina Public Television broadcasts awardrials to work with students and pique their interest in computer winning, educational programs that are watched by more than 4 science. million viewers each week. • College and Career Ready Standards, an effort to define higher • Wake County Public Schools, the largest school district in North learning standards. Carolina and the 16th largest in the nation. • DonorsChoose.org, a national nonprofit that connects donors • Wake Education Partnership, an independent nonprofit organizawith classrooms in need. Each year, SAS matches employee tion that mobilizes business and community involvement in Wake contributions to the cause. County schools. • In-kind donations for nonprofit organizations that need • YMCA of the Triangle, with 16 facilities to meet community needs computer equipment or software. SAS gives hundreds of thouthrough programs that promote good health, strong families and sands of dollars in surplus computer hardware, office equipment solid communities. and other tangible items to community groups that can benefit from the donation. • Donations of money, software and expertise to numerous colleges, universities and community colleges around the world. • North Carolina Center for International Understanding, a program to ensure that North Carolina is the most globally engaged state in the nation. • Mapping the Nation, an online resource that reveals the importance of a globally competent workforce and citizenry. • North Carolina Science Festival, a statewide showcase of science activities. Philanthropy page 2 Contributions 2014 Data: In 2014, SAS donated nearly $31 million dollars to nonprofits across the globe. Nearly $5.3 million in community grants was managed by local offices worldwide. In the US, SAS donated more than $25 million of in-kind training, software, hardware, services, volunteer time, and surplus equipment and furniture. 2014 Donations Type Global Total Cash donations Worldwide cash $5,275,290 In-kind donations Software, hardware and $10,068,883 (US only) services Additional JMP® software $61,285 donated Value of in-kind of training for $15,101,505 students and educators Surplus equipment/ $282,015 furniture/hardware Total $30,788,978 SAS and all other SAS Institute Inc. product or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of SAS Institute Inc. in the USA and other countries. ® indicates USA registration. Other brand and product names are trademarks of their respective companies. Copyright © 2015, SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved. 107790_S138491.0715 Education Philanthropy Community Engagement As an integral part of SAS culture, the company encourages • France donated food and toys. employees to donate their talent, time and/or finances to projects • Greece collected and delivered food to a home for orphans supporting education, the environment and social welfare. Offices and abandoned children. across the globe manage programs tailored to fit the needs of their • Hungary collected toys, clothes, shoes, sporting goods and communities and the interest of SAS employees. books for an orphan’s home, as well as donations to a home for the elderly and an animal rescue organization. To foster a culture of volunteerism at SAS, the company manages • India supported a drive to increase registrations of organ and the Employee Volunteer Fund (EVF), which contributes cash to eye donors. education-based nonprofit organizations after an employee has • Ireland collected donations and launched a social media provided at least 50 hours of volunteer support in three out of four campaign to combat homelessness. quarters over 12 months. • Mexico donated gifts for babies or mothers as part of a massive baby shower to be held for pregnant low-income 2014 Data: In 2014, SAS employees in the US volunteered more women at a women’s hospital. than 29,000 hours through the EVF program, resulting in more than • Slovakia donated blood and collected winter clothes and $91,750 paid to schools across the country. Globally, SAS school bags for needy children. employees volunteer their time in the community. Whether it is • In the US, regional offices participated in blood, toy and food collecting toys at Christmas in France, adopting a local school in drives, collected clothes for the homeless, and supported animal Canada, raising money for the food bank in Pittsburgh, collecting rescues and domestic violence shelters. At SAS world headquarcoats for kids in North Carolina, or building Habitat for Humanity ters, the numbers tell the story: homes across the US, SAS employees generously give their time to improve their communities. • 400 children received clothing as part of the Salvation Army Angel Tree collection. Some SAS volunteer projects in 2014 include: • On #GivingTuesday, employees contributed nearly $10,000 to • #GivingTuesday represented the company’s most audacious DonorsChoose.org, which SAS matched. global philanthropy effort. SAS employees in 18 countries and • 20 employees worked with 100 girls on STEM activities. more than a dozen US offices joined more than 18,000 organiza• 136 pints of blood were donated to the American Red Cross. tions around the world for this global day of giving. International • Employees donated 4,338 pounds of canned goods as part of SAS efforts include: the CanOrnament display. • The SAS child care centers collected 750 pounds of canned • Argentina gathered shoes for families. goods. • New Zealand and Australia participated in blood, food and • Virtual Food Drive monetary donations totaled $3,505. gift drives. • The Food Bank was able to create nearly 22,000 meals from • China gathered winter clothing for children and families. these donations. • Austria supported an organization that provides education • In 2014, SAS employees donated over $67,000 to DonorsChoose. opportunities to needy African children. org for classroom projects; SAS matched those donations, • Czech Republic participated in a slew of activities benefiting resulting in almost $135,000 for 836 projects. A total of 94,450 senior citizens, seriously ill and disabled people. students in 49 states have benefited from the partnership. Community Engagement page 2 • SAS volunteers helped raise $153,775 for UNC-TV, the statewide • Sall Family Foundation public television network. Since 2000, SAS has helped raise more • Smithsonian National Museum of Natural History, Advisory Board than $2 million for public television. • The Center for International Understanding Council • SAS STEM Career Day. SAS STEM volunteers visited schools and • The Nature Conservancy Africa Council described their careers, how they chose their career paths, and • US Council for International Business Board of Directors – Execuhow SAS and its customers use math, science and technology. tive Council The goals are to increase student interest in STEM careers and • UNC Board of Governors courses, to help students connect what they do in school with an exciting STEM career pathway, and to familiarize them with the • Wake Education Partnership varied STEM careers at SAS and other organizations. SAS also • WildTrack provided a STEM Career Day for Teachers on the SAS campus. • World Wildlife Fund US • YMCA of the Triangle Community Board Membership SAS staff members carry the company’s corporate responsibility values outside the office by serving on the boards of community organizations that support education, disaster relief, the arts, science innovation, environmental conservation and other issues important to employees. 2014 Data: Following are some of the boards on which SAS employees served in 2014: • American Chamber of Commerce to the European Union (AmCham EU) Executive Council • Atlantic Council Board of Directors Member • American Statistical Association • BEST-NC (Business for Educational Success and Transformation in North Carolina) • CARE • Cary Academy Board of Directors • CSC Strategic Advisory Board at North Carolina State University – Board Emeritus • EDF National Council • Friday Institute for Educational Innovation (NC State) • Gillings School of Public Health (University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill) • Kids ‘N Community Foundation, Carolina Hurricanes • Nicholas School of Environment • North Carolina Community College System • North Carolina Marbles Kids Museum Board of Directors • North Carolina Museum of Art • North Carolina Museum of Natural Sciences – Friends • North Carolina Public School Forum • North Carolina Science Festival • NC State Board of Trustees SAS and all other SAS Institute Inc. product or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of SAS Institute Inc. in the USA and other countries. ® indicates USA registration. Other brand and product names are trademarks of their respective companies. Copyright © 2015, SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved. 107791_S138492.0715 Education Philanthropy Donation Process SAS’ corporate philanthropy supports strategic initiatives that SAS Community Relations Program: increase interest and achievement in STEM, with an emphasis in the region surrounding SAS world headquarters. Criteria for Donations Related to If your organization meets all the below criteria, proceed with the Education donation application process outlined under the next section, “SAS If your organization meets the above criteria, follow these steps to Community Relations Program.” apply for a donation: • Have nonprofit tax exemption status under Internal Revenue 1. Complete the SAS Donation Application listed below, making Service code 501(c)(3). sure to provide all information requested. • Have a responsible board of directors serving without 2. Prepare a brief description (three pages or less) of the project/ compensation. program to be funded or for the in-kind request, including • Show financial stability as evidenced by annual financial answers to the following questions: statements. • What is the primary mission of your organization? Describe • Employ ethical methods of publicity, promotion and solicitation your current programs and significant accomplishments. of funds. • What issue or problem does your program/project address? • Raise funds without payment of commissions, street solicitations • How does this issue relate to SAS’ educational focus, priorities or mailing of unordered tickets. and criteria? • Operate from a detailed annual budget. • What is the scope of your program? Who is your audience and/or the population to be served? (Include any available • Request funds for programs or operations with a minimal portion program or policy statements that reference geographic applied to overhead. location, socioeconomic status, or other factors that identify • Use the in-kind donation to benefit organizational members or the target audience.) constituents. • What is the program goal or expected outcome of the • The SAS Community Relations program does not consider program for which support is requested? funding or in-kind donations for the following: • What is the track record of the project/program to be funded? • Sponsorship of professional athletic or amateur sports teams (If new, discuss accomplishments of the organization.) or individuals. • How will you measure the success of the program/project and • Single events such as walk-a-thons, fundraisers, workshops, report the results to SAS? seminars, etc. 3. Provide the following supporting documentation: • Religious causes. • Political parties, candidates or issues. • A photocopy of the IRS 501(c)(3) letter. • Organizations that are in any way exclusive. • Evidence of current accreditation (for educational institutions). • Trips, tours. • An audited financial statement or detailed information on • Independent film/video productions. finances. • Requests from individuals. • A list of those currently on the board of directors and their professional affiliations. • A separate project/program budget, if applicable. 4. Return (1) the completed application; (2) description; and (3) all required supporting documentation. Incomplete applications will not be considered. Completed applications are reviewed in the order they are received. Mailing address: Community Relations SAS Campus Drive Cary, NC 27513 Note: Submitted materials will not be returned. For further information, contact CommunityRelations@sas.com. Donation Application Date: Name of Organization: Address of Organization: Contact Person: Title/Position: Address (if different from above): Telephone: Fax: Email Address: Website: How long has this organization operated in this community? The funds being sought are to be used for: Capital Campaign Operating Budget Special Project – project start and end dates: Total budget for current project: $ What percentage is being requested from businesses? Dollar amount or description of in-kind donation requested from SAS: How was this amount calculated? (include overall budget if requesting partial funding): Has your organization received previous support from SAS? Yes No If yes, list year(s) and amount(s): List three to five other major business contributors to this program and the amounts contributed: List names and positions of any SAS employees involved with your organization: Name Title Return completed Donation Application, together with all required supporting documentation, to: Community Relations SAS Campus Drive Cary, NC 27513 SAS and all other SAS Institute Inc. product or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of SAS Institute Inc. in the USA and other countries. ® indicates USA registration. Other brand and product names are trademarks of their respective companies. Copyright © 2015, SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved. 107834_S142161.0715
