di Domenico + Partners LLP UNITED NATIONS Global Compact Statement of Continued Support 12 February, 2015 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that di Domenico + Partners, LLP (dD+P) reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, John di Domenico, Principal Architecture Landscape Architecture Planning A. Human Rights: Principle 1 – Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2 – Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses John di Domenico, AIA Assessment, policy and goals Andrew Berger, AIA, ASLA Excerpt from dD+P Company Policy Manual: All employees are responsible for assuring a workplace free from any and all forms of harassment, whether it is based on race, color, religion, sex, age, ethnic origin, sexual Paul Alber, AIA, CSI preference, or disability. Any form of verbal, physical, sexual or visual harassment is illegal Ricky Liu, AIA and will not be tolerated. Kenji Suzuki, AIA Implementation Tilman Globig, AIA Excerpt from dD+P Company Policy Manual: If you are made uncomfortable by any person's behavior, request that the person stop the Allison Black behavior. Steven Borelli If the behavior continues or you believe that you have been harassed, you are required to report Ileana LaFontaine the incident immediately to one of the Partners. An immediate investigation will be conducted by a Adam Mercier, AIA Partner-In-charge to assess the severity of the situation. If deemed necessary, appropriate and Aileen Munoz severe action will be taken. Diana Rodriguez Russell Rule, AIA Measurement of outcomes dD+P Office Policies towards all forms of harassment are reviewed regularly by the Partners David Tobar and Senior Associates of the firm. There have been no reported or investigated cases of harassment within the firm in the last six years. 3743 Crescent Street  Long Island City  New York 11101  212.337.0400 | 2200 Pennsylvania Avenue NW  Fourth Floor East  Washington, DC 20037  202.507.5890 www.ddp-ny.com di Domenico + Partners LLP B. Labour: Principle 3 – Businesses should uphold freedom of association & effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4 – The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5 – The effective abolition of child labour Principle 6 – Eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment, policy and goals Excerpt from dD+P Company Policy Manual: di Domenico + Partners, LLP does not discriminate against employees or applicants for employment because of race, color, creed, religion, sex, age, marital status, national origin, sexual orientation, disability, medical condition, pregnancy or veteran's status, provided they are qualified to meet the requirements for the job. Implementation dD+P’s Partners and Senior Associates involved in all new hiring activities abide by the Office Policy in evaluation of potential new hires. New employees are evaluated based solely on competency to fulfill the professional requirements of the position being filled. Measurement of outcomes dD+P monitors hiring practices and reviews its’ Office Policies in these matters on a regular basis. There have been no cases of discrimination brought against the firm in the last six years. C. Environment: Principle 7 – Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8 – Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9 – Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Assessment, policy and goals dD+P is committed to reducing the environmental impacts of the built environment through its everyday practice by implementing construction codes and additional strategies that reduce energy usage, promote improved indoor environmental quality, and reduce the destruction of natural habitats by selecting more rapidly renewable and recycled materials for the buildings that it designs. Implementation dD+P pushes for the implementation of the US Green Building Council’s LEED program where possible and works with its clients to find solutions to meet their goals and offer solutions that are more sustainable and environmentally friendly. dD+P formed an internal “Green Team” that meets regularly to discuss issues that affect the design studio and seeks ways to promote more environmentally friendly practices both internally as well as through work it does with clients. 3743 Crescent Street  Long Island City  New York 11101  212.337.0400 | 2200 Pennsylvania Avenue NW  Fourth Floor East  Washington, DC 20037  202.507.5890 www.ddp-ny.com di Domenico + Partners LLP Excerpt from dD+P Company Policy Manual: The firm encourages all staff to seek LEED Accreditation and to maintain their Continuing Education requirements. The LEED building certification system is the industry standard for sustainable building practices and is required by many city and state agencies. In order to maintain a competitive advantage, the firm supports and encourages staff to educate themselves on sustainable building practices and establish and maintain LEED Accreditation. Measurement of outcomes LEED Certification is currently the most reliable form of measurement in the building industry to determine the level of sustainability a building design achieves. LEED Certification is verified by an independent third party, based on metrics that are updated and reviewed by the building industry. dD+P currently has several projects seeking LEED certification. In some instances, State or Federal Agencies, that dD+P does business with, will provide their own internal, sustainable design guidelines. These independent guidelines will be utilized to measure the building design against industry standards to evaluate performance in those cases. In 2012, dD+P was commissioned by the Port Authority of New York/ New Jersey to review their internal Building Sustainability Guidelines and provide guidance on updating their guidelines to current standards and benchmarks. Future projects with the Port Authority will be required to meet the goals outlined in these new guidelines. D. Anti-Corruption: Principle 10 – Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. Assessment, policy and goals dD+P does not tolerate any instances of employees participating in illegal or unethical business practices. Engaging in activities which would normally result in criminal prosecution is grounds for immediate termination. Implementation dD+P’s Senior Associates and Partners review and implement the Office Policy in terms of illegal business practices. Unethical behavior is not tolerated and regular office-wide announcements are made instructing employees on how to conduct affairs with outside consultants, clients and contractors. Measurement of outcomes There have been no instances of criminal investigations or charges brought against an employee of dD+P in the last five years in any manner including illegal business practices. 3743 Crescent Street  Long Island City  New York 11101  212.337.0400 | 2200 Pennsylvania Avenue NW  Fourth Floor East  Washington, DC 20037  202.507.5890 www.ddp-ny.com
