34 Corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility Cloetta ı Annual Report 2014 ı Cloetta’s overall goal for corporate responsibility is to build sustainable long-term value. For Cloetta, sustainable value is about growing as a company while at the same time ensuring that the people and environments that are impacted by Cloetta’s operations or products are positively affected. Cloetta’s work with corporate responsibility is purchasing of sustainable raw materials from develsteered by the Group’s Code of Conduct. The Code oping countries. of Conduct is a set of guidelines and principles for the way in which the company conducts operaScope tions and the employees’ actions in relation to Cloetta’s sustainability work primarily covers the consumers, customers, suppliers, shareholders and company’s own operations, meaning Cloetta’s colleagues. They are based on Cloetta’s core values; direct impact on the environment and people. Focus, Passion, Teamplay and Pride. Cloetta’s commitment to corporate responsibility is integrated throughout the value chain. Sustainability every day This means that aside from taking responsibility Cloetta’s continuous striving for sustainable defor the aspects that are under the company’s direct velopment is mainly focused on respect for the emcontrol, Cloetta also takes a certain responsibility ployees’ health and development, control of raw mafor indirect aspects outside of its direct control, i.e. terials and first line suppliers, manufacturing safe from raw material supplier to the recyclability of products, handling complaints/returns effectively the product packages. and reducing the Group’s environmental impact. Measures to achieve day-to-day sustainability are Cloetta’s sustainability commitment described in this annual and sustainability report Cloetta has defined three central areas for sustainwithin the affected areas, such as product safety in ability work that provide guidance in its sustainathe Production section and efforts to create a good bility commitment; greater well-being among the working environment in the Employees section. employees and consumers, reduced environmental impact from the operations and the implementation Strategic initiatives of sustainable sourcing in the supplier chain. In addition, Cloetta takes various strategic initiAll prioritised issues related to Cloetta’s sustainatives. These can consist of major investments to ability work are encompassed in these three areas. improve the working environment or reduce environmental impact, or the development of methods Greater well-being to promote management by objectives and alignEmployees ment of values. Other strategic initiatives include Cloetta is driven by a conviction that value is creatsystematic work to increase the share of natural ed by the employees, and that the ability to attract, products and continued efforts to find methods for retain and develop the best and most competent Cloetta’s sustainability commitment Greater well-being Reduced Sustainable sourcing w R esponsibility for the employees’ environmental impact w C ompliance with ethical well-being through an attractive and w E nergy consumption guidelines safe working environment in accordance with the UN’s Global Compact w Waste w A pproval of suppliers w R esponsibility for the consumers’ w E missions w P rogrammes for raw materials well-being through high and consistfrom developing countries ent quality and sustain­a ble product development with a greater share of natural raw materials Corporate responsibility 35 people is crucial for the company’s success. It is Focus on employee development Cloetta ı Annual Report 2014 ı also of the utmost importance that the safety of Cloetta works determinedly to create an our employees is continuously improved. All of attractive workplace for all employees and Cloetta’s factories adhere to the same mantra: promotes the development of a high-perform“Safety first”. ing organisation by continuously developing and training its staff, designing competitive Consumers remuneration systems, upholding an inspiring Cloetta’s responsibility for consumer well-being corporate culture and building a clear corpoincludes high and consistent quality, correct rate identity. and detailed content labelling and responsible marketing. Cloetta also strives to take responsiOrganisation for sustainability work bility for the consumers’ well-being through an Cloetta’s sustainability work is overseen by increased number of natural products – that are the Director Corporate Responsibility, who “better-for-you”. functions as a spokesman for issues related to corporate responsibility and is responsible for Reduced environmental impact identifying prioritised areas, acting as the stakeSystematic environmental management provides holders’ link to the management and supporting a foundation for Cloetta’s efforts to minimise its the implementation of Cloetta’s corporate environmental impact. Cloetta’s environmental responsibility strategy. Environmental and work is governed by the Code of Conduct, which occupational health and safety managers are states that the applicable laws and regulations found at all of the factories. shall be followed, that Cloetta’s environmental impact shall be minimised and that continuous Cloetta supports improvements shall be made in the environmenCloetta is involved in various projects primartal area. ily in its local markets but also takes part in projects at the global level. These can include Implement sustainable sourcing Focus on margin expansion and volume environmental projects that are driven within By incorporating sustainability aspects into growth the framework of Cloetta’s environmental work the company’s purchasing strategy, Cloetta By creating sustainability programmes for the and projects to promote an active and healthy creates a platform for ensuring the supply of prioritised raw material groups and comlifestyle. high quality raw materials to the factories while municating theses programmes on Cloetta’s at the same time improving the opportunities packages, the brands are further strengthened Community engagement for growers in the countries of origin to develop among customers and consumers. UTZ-certiThe local commitment to sustainable developsustainable farming. Read more on page 45. fied cocoa and palm oil certified according to ment is aimed at strengthening the surrounding the RSPO’s principles are two such examples. community but also Cloetta’s brand both within Sustainability and Cloetta’s and outside the company. This engagement is overall strategies Focus on cost-efficiency mainly focused on consideration to the local Cloetta’s sustainability commitment supports Efforts to continuously reduce the company’s environment where Cloetta’s production and is firmly grounded in the company’s overall environmental impact go hand in hand with facilities are based, but can also consist of strategies. lower costs. Decreased energy consumption other activities. Cloetta maintains an ongoing and a lower volume of waste from the factories dialogue with local authorities in the locations contribute to greater cost-efficiency. where it has factories, as well as with the media and schools/universities, among others. Cloetta’s Code of Conduct The Code of Conduct covers the entire value the suppliers, and in order to become an apCloetta is subject to a number of national and chain, from raw material to consumer, and proved supplier to Cloetta, the supplier must international laws and rules. However, Cloetta applies to all activities in all markets and undergo an approval process and accept wishes to take its responsibility further and is countries where Cloetta is represented. The Cloetta’s general supplier requirements. a forerunner in developing the content of the principles in the Code of Conduct are consistproducts. For example, Cloetta is conducting ent with: Cloetta – every day a long-term programme called NAFNAC (No w T he UN’s Declaration of Human Rights Cloetta has clearly defined guidelines for muArtificial Flavours, No Artificial Colours), which w I LO conventions tual respect and a shared set of core values. is aimed at offering a portfolio of products that w O ECD guidelines for multinational enterCloetta supports the ten principles in the UN’s contain no artificial flavours or colours. prises Global Compact and works to promote these w T he ICC framework for responsible marketin the communities and environments where Cloetta’s environmental impact ing of food and beverages the company conducts business. Special Systematic environmental management w T he European Brand Association emphasis is placed on: provides a foundation for Cloetta’s efforts to w Equality and non-discrimination minimise its environmental impact. From raw material to cherished brands w Freedom of association and collective Cloetta’s environmental work is aimed at Cloetta works with responsibility throughout bargaining complying with the applicable laws and rules, the supply chain, from raw material to finished w O ccupational health and safety engaging the employees and focusing on conproduct. Cloetta supports the relevant ILO w Working hours tinuous improvements in the environmental conventions and complies with the laws and area. Cloetta’s foremost environmental impact rules in the countries where it conducts operCloetta’s commitment to product content arises through water and energy consumption, ations. The same requirements are placed on When it comes to product content and quality, wastewater emissions, waste and transports. 36 Cloetta’s stakeholders Cloetta’s stakeholders Cloetta ı Annual Report 2014 ı Cloetta’s primary stakeholders are customers, consumers, employees, shareholders, investors, business partners/suppliers and the local community. These groups are directly critical for Cloetta’s long-term survival. In addition, there are a number of other important stakeholders. Consumer These are shown in the illustration at right. Cloetta has a continuous, organisations open dialogue above all with the primary stakeholders based on the Union expectations and requirements of each stakeholder group, see below. Government organisations Consumers Employees Schools/ Industry universities organisations Local Suppliers community Raw material Media suppliers Shareholders Customers Banks/ Non-profit financial players organisations Stockholm stock exchange Key stakeholder issues for sustainability Stakeholders Key issues – sustainability Communication and cooperation Customers/consumers w P roduct safety and quality. w W ith consumers through various surveys and via the websites and social w T he Group’s brands. media. w C lear declarations of ingredients. w Eco-friendly packages. w W ith customers through personal customer and sales meetings and w C loetta takes responsibility for the environment and via customer surveys, but also collaborative initiatives for eco-friendly working conditions as far as possible. transports. w Ethics in general. w Effective transports to the retail trade. Employees w A good and stimulating working situation. w D aily meetings to discuss occupational health and safety in the factories. w A safe working environment. w A nnual performance reviews with all employees. w H ealth and fitness activities. w S ystematic skills development activities. w Ethical issues in general. w U p-to-date information via managers, the Intranet and union representw G ood financial development for the company. atives. w T he survey Great Place to Work every other year. Shareholders and investors w S ustainable long-term financial value growth. w A nnual report, website, analyst and investor meetings, interim reports w Ethical issues in general. and the annual general meeting. Suppliers and other w Ethics and business codes in procurement. w C ollaborative projects for sustainability. business partners w P roduct safety. w S upplier evaluations, sponsorship evaluations and development w S ustainable long-term development. projects. w S upport of human rights among raw material producers. The public/society w C loetta takes responsibility for the environment and w T he local communities/municipalities around Cloetta’s factories with working conditions as far as possible. regard to the local environment. w L aws, regulations and standards. w P ublic authorities in areas related to occupational health and safety, w C loetta makes a positive contribution to development of environmental and product responsibility, schools and universities. society, including the local environment. w C ertification bodies for ISO and BRC. w Key opinion leaders. Cloetta’s stakeholders 37 Cloetta ı Annual Report 2014 ı Cloetta is active in a number of collaborative initiatives aimed at promoting more sustainable cultivation of raw materials and improving the conditions for growers in developing countries. The following collaborations are the most important. World Cocoa Foundation (WCF) Caobisco Round Table on Sustainable Palm Oil w T he World Cocoa Foundation (WCF) w C aobisco (Chocolate, Biscuit & Confecw T he Round Table on Sustainable Palm manages a range of programmes tionery Industries of the EU) supports Oil (RSPO) is committed to promoting aimed at increasing the cocoa farmers’ International Cocoa Initiatives, for examthe growth and use of sustainable palm incomes and promoting sustainable culple through the development of control oil worldwide. tivation. Examples of initiatives include and certification systems for cocoa teacher training programmes, training in production. cocoa processing, micro loans for cocoa growers and health-related issues. UN Global Compact UTZ w T he UN’s Global Compact is a strategic w U TZ Certified stands for sustainable policy initiative for businesses that are farming and better opportunities for committed to aligning their operations farmers, their families and our planet. and strategies with ten universally acThe UTZ programme enables farmers cepted principles in the areas of human to learn better farming methods and to rights, labour environment and antiimprove their working conditions and the corruption. environment. Industry organisations w A IDI (Italian Confectionery Industry). w D I (Danish Chocolate and Confectionery w I BC (Italian Branded Products Industry). Industries). w B ord Bia, Irish Food Board, (Irish industry w I SA (International Sweeteners Associaassociation). w E TL (Finnish Food Industries’ Federation). tion), Italy. w C hokofa is a Swedish industry association. w F FNLI (The Dutch Food Industry Federw V BZ (Association of the Dutch Bakery and ation). Confectionery Industry), the Netherlands. w C hoprabisco, Belgium. w H SH (The Federation of Norwegian Commercial and Service Enterprises). 38 Production and purchasing Production and purchasing Cloetta ı Annual Report 2014 ı At year-end Cloetta had 11 factories in Sweden, Italy, the Netherlands, Belgium, Slovakia and Ireland. All in all, Cloetta produced 99,500 tonnes of confectionery in 2014. Cloetta’s supply chain is responsible for production, 18001), recurring risk assessments and continuous purchasing, planning, logistics, quality, technology improvements. and safety. During the year, the top priority has One important part of this working method is been on completing the decided factory restructura systematised meeting structure for monitoring ings, integrating the new factories in Helsingborg, of results against targets, to detect both positive Sweden and Dublin, Ireland into the network and and negative deviations. Goals and results are a constant striving for continuous improvements visualised for example on displays in the facilities through Lean and Value Engineering. to provide knowledge about the current situation, which contributes to creating awareness and Production rationalisations engagement among the employees. Action can be The merger between Cloetta and LEAF, combined taken immediately in the event of deviations and with excess capacity in the production structure, systematic follow-up creates scope for proactive created opportunities to rationalise production. improvements. In 2012 Cloetta decided to close the factories in Read more about Cloetta’s environmental work Alingsås and Gävle, Sweden, and Aura, Finland. on pages 48–49. The closure of the Alingsås factory was completed during 2012. Occupational safety The factory in Aura was closed in the first Employee safety is fundamental and is the top priquarter of 2013 and the factory in Gävle terminated ority in every production facility. Continuous risk production at the end of December 2013. This proassessments and increased reporting of accidents duction has been moved primarily to Ljungsbro, and injuries contribute to greater knowledge about Sweden, and Levice, Slovakia, which reached the causes of accidents in the workplace, which full-scale production during 2014. In addition, leads to making preventative measures an integral manufacturing of a number of products has been part of day-to-day operations and minimises moved from a third party to Cloetta’s own factories the risk for accidents. The key elements of these during the year, of which the most important was activities are discussions and workshops in the Tupla for the Finnish market, which was insourced various workplaces to promote safety awareness from the third-party supplier, Natra, to a new line and influence behaviour. in Ljungsbro. With this move, the Manufacturing These systematic efforts have made it possible restructuring programme that was announced in to reduce the number of injuries at work in recent 2012 was concluded according to plan. years. In 2014 the number increased further to 18 Moving a production line is a complex process from 12 in 2013 (measured as the number of days that requires extensive documentation, careful between occupational accidents with >1 day of sickplanning, knowledge transfer, technical adapness absence). Read more in the section on a good tations and fine-tuning. Added to this is often a and safe working environment on page 51. physical relocation of machinery. Quality and product safety Management systems Cloetta places rigorous demands on quality and Cloetta has a central management system to ensure product safety. First class raw materials and correct standardised working methods in its operations. treatment and processing methods are essential for Each production unit has a locally adapted manmanufacturing of high quality confectionery. agement system that is linked to the central system. Continuous efforts are made to ensure that the Central policies, goals and procedures are broken products meet the requirements and expectations of down and implemented at the factory level. consumers and retailers. For each product there is a The management systems cover occupationquality specification describing the required flavour, al health and safety, quality, product safety and aroma, appearance, consistency and package. No azo the environment. The management systems are food colourings are used in Cloetta’s products. based on international standards (BRC Global Cloetta’s factories are certified according to Standard for Food Safety, ISO 14001 and OHSAS the BRC Global Standard for Food Safety and/or Production and purchasing 39 Cloetta ı Annual Report 2014 ı ISO 9001. BRC is a standard for assurance of supplier to production and final customer. The sysproduct safety and quality, and is one of the cortem also integrates financial planning and prices. nerstones of Cloetta’s quality management. The Cloetta works continuously to optimise its goal is for all of Cloetta’s factories to obtain BRC flows and working methods, both internally and certification. The four Italian factories, which have externally, together with customers and suppliers. previously chosen ISO 9001, started the implementation of BRC during 2012. The first three factories Purchasing have now been certified and the fourth is planned Cloetta’s largest cost items in production, accountfor certification during 2015. ing for around 60 per cent of total costs, are raw The Group’s product safety work is based on materials and packaging. the HACCP method (Hazard Analysis Critical Raw materials are purchased only from supComplaints, feedback/ Control Points). With the help of the HACCP pliers that can be verified against Cloetta’s quality, millions of consumer units sold method it is possible to analyse potential risks to product, safety and environmental requirements. the consumer. This provides a basis for steering All suppliers to Cloetta are evaluated and approved Number 8 and control of the entire process, from purchasing before they are permitted to deliver raw materials of raw materials to delivery of finished products, to the factories. The process varies depending 7 in order to eliminate and minimise all conceivable on the type of supplier and the type of material 6 consumer risks. delivered. Certain suppliers are physically audited Both the BRC standard and EU food product at regular intervals by Cloetta’s employees. Cloetta 5 legislation require traceability of raw materials and collaborates closely with its largest raw material 4 products. This traceability has been assured and is suppliers, among other things through automated tested regularly. Cloetta has a detailed action plan order and delivery processes that are adapted to 3 to enable rapid recall of a product from the market raw material consumption in each factory. 2 if needed. Cloetta’s range includes products that are produced by other manufacturers. The bulk of contract 1 Planning and logistics manufacturing in 2014 was used for chocolate and 0 Effective production planning leads to lower capital for specific packaging solutions. External produc2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 tied up in the form of inventories of both raw mation is outsourced only to manufacturers following Feedback from individual consumers who terials and finished products, at the same time that approval by Cloetta, according to the same high point out a defect or deficiency in a product it increases the service level. Delivery reliability quality standards that apply to production in is extremely valuable in Cloetta’s pursuit of Cloetta’s own factories. External manufacturers continuous improvements. is one of the most critical parameters for the retail Returns are measured in the number per trade. Cloetta has a very well developed planning are evaluated and tested regularly. millions of consumer units sold (one consumer system that integrates the entire value chain from unit = a bag, a box, etc.). 40 Production and purchasing The eight principles of Lean Cloetta ı Annual Report 2014 ı 1. H ave a long-term, sustainable customer focus that is shared by all employees. 2. M aintain a continuously even process flow from raw material to customer delivery, with the lowest possible inventories and waiting times. 3. H ave standardised processes to maximise safety and quality and to create opportunities for continuous improvement. 4. Encourage people to do things right the first time, i.e. have a culture where the individual operator immediately stops a machine or process that is not working correctly in order to find the root cause of problems. 5. H ave operators and teams that understand the processes and the company’s values, grow in their jobs and teach others. Consumer and customer feedback learning-driven culture. This is conducted through 6. H ave a culture in which each individual identifies how problems Each market has a Consumer Service unit that systematic work on lean processes and Value Engiarise and improvements can be receives, investigates and responds to product neering. Now that the Manufacturing restructuring made. Decisions shall be based complaints and returns. As part of its investigation, programme has been completed, greater attention on observations. Consumer Service always contacts the factory in can be focused on continuous improvement. 7. D evelop a teaching and empowquestion to find the underlying causes of possible In 2013 the production strategy was shaped ering organisation and utilise quality problems. into a long-term vision – “Lean 2020”. This reflections and follow-up to The affected factory then uses the information vision is based on benchmarking of world class optimise operations. provided by the return/complaint to systematically production. To clarify this ambition, five targets 8. M ake factand team-based find the causes of any defects and thereby eliminate have been set for areas such as machine efficiency, decisions after weighing different them. energy consumption and reduction of inventories. possibilities, but implement The targets will be met through lean processes decisions quickly. Focus on Lean 2020 and tools. In 2014 the programme was further discussing how, not whether, to Cloetta works constantly to decrease costs and developed through the formulation of roadmaps to improve. reduce waste. Key success factors in the producachievement of these targets and by developing the tion process include long-term and day-to-day organisation that will deliver the results. efforts to achieve continuous improvements and a Roadmap to Lean 2020 Increase reliability and flexibility w Learn to improve and eliminate the root causes of Improve the flow problems w Achieve base stability w Faster and more flexible (continued improvement Deliver according to demand (pull) 2020 changeovers in machine efficiency and w B etter understanding and output) w Achieve balanced delivery maintenance of machinery w Value stream mapping: w R educe dependency on Goals w R educe waste reduce bottlenecks external parties through w P rovide operators with ontraining and support of w I mprove resourcegoing training and give them operators so that they do efficiency per line greater responsibility things right the first time to a w R educe waste w S horter lead times and greater extent increased frequency w I mprove energy-efficiency w B e a world class producer w Lower inventory levels w B alance between direct and indirect costs Production and purchasing 41 Success factors for production Cloetta ı Annual Report 2014 ı Cloetta ensures long-term profitability through continuous improvements. Engaged employees Safety Good communication about strategies, goals, etc., creates engaged A safe working environment is a fundamental right for each employee. employees who understand the business and how their work contributes to the Group’s total results. Delivery reliability High and even quality Good production planning is decisive for effective production and low The goal is to always deliver safe products with the right flavour, warehousing costs, but also for delivery reliability to the customers. appearance and consistency according to their respective specifications. Flexibility Cost-efficiency A production line is often used for several different products. Rapid Cloetta’s sales are based on large volumes. Cost-efficiency is neceschangeovers and cleaning are vital for high machine capacity utilisation. sary to offset the effects of competition. Flexibility also means that each employee is able to work on more than one line. 42 Production and purchasing Factories Cloetta ı Annual Report 2014 ı Production by factory 2014, tonnes  Silvi Marina, Italy, 1,100 tonnes San Pietro in Casale, Italy, 2,500 tonnes   Dublin, Ireland, 2,200 tonnes Helsingborg, Sweden, 2,900 tonnes  Gordona, Italy, 6,200 tonnes   Levice, Slovakia, 22,200 tonnes Sneek, the Netherlands, 6,600 tonnes  Cremona, Italiy, 6,700 tonnes   Ljungsbro, Sweden, 21,400 tonnes Turnhout, Belgium, 14,900 tonnes  Roosendaal, the Netherlands, 17,600 tonnes  Ljungsbro Helsingborg Dublin Sneek Roosendaal Turnhout Levice Gordona Cremona San Pietro in Casale Silvi Marina Overview of factories Levice, Slovakia Ljungsbro, Sweden Roosendaal, the Netherlands Production volume 22,200 tonnes Production volume 21,400 tonnes Production volume 17,600 tonnes in 2014: in 2014: in 2014: Number of plant Approx. 665 Number of plant Approx. 315 Number of plant Approx. 160 employees: employees: employees: Number of 10 production lines, Number of 12 production lines with online Number of 5 production lines, machine lines: 31 packaging lines machine lines: packaging, machine lines: 9 packaging lines Largest brands: Malaco, Red Band, Läkerol, 3 packaging lines, Largest brands: Red Band, Malaco, Venco, Chewits, Venco, Läkerol Dents, 1 chocolate production centre Lakrisal Mynthon Largest brands: Kexchoklad, Ahlgrens bilar, Manufacturing Starch moulding, coating and Manufacturing Starch moulding, extrusion, Center, Polly, Plopp, Sportmethods: compression of pastilles methods: coating, hard-boiled candy, soft lunch, Juleskum Certifications: BRC Global Standard for boiled candy and chewy toffee Manufacturing Chocolate production and Food Safety manufacturing methods: moulding, starch moulding, Certifications: BRC Global Standard for coating and wafer production Food Safety Certifications: BRC Global Standard for Food Safety and ISO 14001 Production and purchasing 43 Cloetta ı Annual Report 2014 ı Turnhout, Belgium Cremona, Italy Sneek, the Netherlands Production volume 14,900 tonnes Production volume 6,700 tonnes Production volume 6,600 tonnes in 2014: in 2014: in 2014: Number of plant Approx. 120 Number of plant Approx. 110 Number of plant Approx. 100 employees: employees: employees: Number of 2 production lines, Number of 8 production lines, Number of 5 production lines, machine lines: 4 packaging lines machine lines: 23 packaging lines machine lines: 19 packaging lines Largest brands: Malaco, Red Band Largest brands: Sperlari, Galatine, Largest brands: Sportlife, XyliFresh, King, Jenkki Manufacturing Starch moulding Extra Starka, Läkerol Manufacturing Rolling and scoring of chewing methods: Manufacturing Hard boiled candy manufacturmethods: gum, coating of chewing gum, Certifications: BRC Global Standard for methods: ing, compression of milk candies manufacturing of hard boiled Food Safety and nougat production candy manufacturing and Certifications: ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and lozenges OHSAS 18001 Certifications: BRC Global Standard for Food Safety and ISO 14001 Gordona, Italy Helsingborg, Sweden San Pietro in Casale, Italy Production volume 6,200 tonnes Production volume 2,900 tonnes Production volume 2,500 tonnes in 2014: in 2014: in 2014: Number of plant Approx. 80 Number of plant Approx. 45 Number of plant Approx. 90 employees: employees: employees: Number of 3 production lines, Number of 6 production lines, Number of 4 production lines, machine lines: 6 packaging lines machine lines: 5 packaging lines machine lines: 10 packaging lines Largest brands: Sperlari, Red Band, Largest brands: Nutisal Largest brands: Dietor, Dietorelle, Läkerol, Fruttil, Kick, AKO, Hopea Toffee Manufacturing Dry roasting, frying, coating Sisu Manufacturing Starch moulding and toffee methods: of nuts Manufacturing Manufacturing of sweetener and methods: manufacturing Certifications: BRC Global Standard for methods: starch moulding Certifications: BRC Global Standard for Food Food Safety Certifications: BRC Global Standard for Safety, ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and Food Safety, IFS Food Standard OHSAS 18001 Version 6, ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 Dublin, Ireland Silvi Marina, Italy Production volume 2,200 tonnes Production volume 1,100 tonnes in 2014: in 2014: Number of plant Approx. 70 Number of plant Approx. 50 employees: employees: Number of 1 production line, Number of 4 production lines, machine lines: 10 packaging lines machine lines: 10 packaging lines Largest brands: The Jelly Bean Factory Largest brands: Saila, Läkerol Manufacturing Starch moulding and coating Manufacturing Coating and compression of methods: methods: pastilles, liquorice production Certifications: BRC Global Standard for Certifications: BRC Global Standard for Food Food Safety Safety, ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 44 Raw material costs Raw material costs Cloetta ı Annual Report 2014 ı Raw materials and packaging account for around 60 per cent of total production costs. In terms of value, the most significant raw materials are sugar, glucose syrup, polyols, cocoa, milk powder, and packaging. In 2014, the purchasing prices for raw materials decreased somewhat for many of Cloetta’s commodities, except for cocoa and nuts. Overall, the total cost for Cloetta remained largely unchanged. The most important materials that Cloetta The prices of agricultural commodities are customs duties that have pushed up sugar prices purchases are commodities for which the price naturally also affected by supply and demand, in the EU to a level higher than the global maris set on the international European commodi.e. the size of the harvest and consumption of ket price in recent years. In 2014, EU intervenities exchanges, either directly as in the case of food products. In recent years, speculative tradtion and the increased attractiveness of sugar cocoa or indirectly as for glucose syrup, whose ing of agricultural commodities has increased imports have led to lower prices. price is mainly determined by the price of wheat considerably, which has contributed to greater and corn. This means that Cloetta’s purchasing price volatility. Cocoa costs for these items are dependent on market The price of cocoa has once again risen in the pricing. The total cost for raw materials is also Suppliers past year. The cocoa price is often subject to affected by more efficient use in the factories. Cloetta uses several suppliers for the majority of sharp fluctuations that are partly explained by Cloetta has a central purchasing unit that its raw materials, but significant consolidations the fact that the cocoa exchange is comparativecan ensure more efficient purchasing both by have taken place among the suppliers and this ly small and therefore of interest for speculation. consolidating and by exploiting local purchasing has sometimes made it difficult to find alternaThe cocoa price is naturally also dependent on opportunities. As a rule, the central purchasing tive suppliers. The ten largest suppliers of raw the level of supply, i.e. the harvest and trends in unit pre-purchases the most important raw materials and packaging account for 41 per cent demand. Furthermore, the cocoa bean price has materials so that they are accessible for a period of the total purchasing volume. been affected by a long-term deficit perspecequal to 6–9 months of production. This also All suppliers to Cloetta are evaluated and tive, the Ebola threat and El Niño risk in Côte creates predictability in prices and financial approved before they are permitted to deliver to d’Ivroire, from which most of Europe’s cocoa is outcomes, since cost decreases affect Cloetta’s the factories. Read more on page 45. sourced. purchasing costs at a certain delay. This often makes it possible to avoid temporary price Cost trend Other raw materials and packaging swings in the commodities market. Sugar The price of wheat and corn has a powerful In recent years the sugar price has reached influence on the price of glucose syrup. The Agricultural policy record levels. The EU consumes some 16 million good harvest in 2014 has decreased glucose The prices of most of Cloetta’s raw materials are tonnes of sugar annually, but produces only prices. The price of polyols (sweetener) is less affected by agro-political decisions regarding around 13 million tonnes that are permitted affected by grain prices and has therefore not subsidies, trade barriers, etc. The EU’s new for use in manufacturing of food products. The fallen. The cost of nuts, particularly hazelnuts agricultural policy reform, which was passed in deficit is an effect of the partial deregulation and and almonds, has risen significantly, mainly as a 2013, will among other things end the current quota system that have applied in the EU. At result of poor harvests. system of sugar quotas with effect from 2017. the same time that there is a shortage of sugar Purchasing costs for packaging materials in Europe, imported sugar has been levied with have been stable. Breakdown of raw material and packaging costs Other 32%   Packaging 23%  Sugar 16% Polyols 5%  (sweetener) Glucose syrup 6%   Cocoa 10% Milk powder/milk products 8%  Sustainable sourcing 45 Sustainable sourcing Cloetta ı Annual Report 2014 ı Sustainable sourcing in Cloetta’s supply chain is a prioritised area. By incorporating sustainability aspects into the company’s purchasing strategy, Cloetta creates a platform for ensuring the supply of high quality raw materials to the factories while at the same time improving the opportunities for growers in the countries of origin to develop sustainable farming. First of all, sustainable sourcing at Cloetta is about having control one step back in the supply chain, i.e. to the first line of suppliers. Raw materials are purchased only from suppliers that can be verified against Cloetta’s requirements for quality, product safety and sustainability. All suppliers to Cloetta are evaluated and approved before they are permitted to deliver to the factories. The process varies in relation to the risks, type of supplier involved and which raw material is delivered. Certain suppliers are evaluated and tested by Cloetta’s employees via physical visits according to an established schedule. Secondly, sustainable sourcing at Cloetta is about directly addressing different types of social, environmental and economic challenges that are found in the value chain beyond first line suppliers of specific raw material groups. Cloetta’s sustainable sourcing programme is based on external certifications and/or verification according to the guidelines defined in Cloetta’s Code of Conduct. In 2014 Cloetta evaluated all raw material for the West African cocoa growers to develop groups and prioritised them based on the existing sustainable farming. sustainability challenges and Cloetta’s opportunities to address these challenges. Sourcing of cocoa West Africa accounts for around 70 per cent of the Evaluation methodology total global harvest of cocoa beans. There cocoa is In prioritising Cloetta’s raw materials portfolio, the cultivated by three million small growers, where following aspects have been taken into account: each farm consists of an average of 2–4 hectares w W hat are the sustainability challenges for each of land and produces an average of 1–2 tonnes of raw material cocoa beans per year. Local intermediaries then w W hat types of sustainability initiatives have been distribute the raw materials to the international defined cocoa wholesalers and exporters, after which the w Is this a strategic raw material for Cloetta cocoa is sent to Europe. Every year, Cloetta buys w How large are the volumes purchased by Cloetta approximately 2,700 tonnes of cocoa in the form of w Can Cloetta create and manage sustainability cocoa liquor, cocoa butter and cocoa powder from projects independently suppliers in Europe. w W hat are the delivery and quality risks Low productivity for cocoa farmers Cloetta buys sustainable cocoa The West African cocoa farmers face a number of In 2014 Cloetta changed over to sustainable cocoa economic, social and environmental challenges, of from UTZ-certified farmers. This means that all which low productivity on the farms is one of the cocoa and chocolate that is delivered to Cloetta’s most critical. Limited knowledge about how to culfactories are UTZ-certified. For Cloetta it is vital tivate high quality cocoa in an efficient manner is a to address the challenges facing the cocoa growers fundamental cause behind the farmers’ productivin West Africa. By switching to sustainable cocoa ity problems. The farmers are also struggling with from UTZ-certified farmers, Cloetta creates a aging cocoa trees and reduced soil fertility at the platform for ensuring a supply of high quality cocoa same time that they often lack the means to finance to the factories while providing better prospects investments in new plants, fertilisers, etc. 46 Sustainable sourcing Cloetta ı Annual Report 2014 ı UTZ-certified cocoa – for a better future if cultivated in a sustainable manner it can be therefore expand and strengthen its collaboraWith UTZ-certified cocoa, the growers are an important source of income and economic tion with the RSPO, particularly with regard to assisted in building a better future with susdevelopment in these countries. However, conserving the rainforests. tainable farming practices. Through the UTZ there are a number of environmental and social programme, they are provided with training in challenges associated with production of palm Cloetta’s palm oil policy better farming methods, improved working conoil, such as deforestation in environmentally Cloetta’s palm oil policy goes beyond that which ditions and sustainable growing. The farmers sensitive areas, which has a negative impact on is required in the RSPO standard and states that are also given support to buy better plants. All in the entire ecosystem. by the end of 2015, Cloetta’s suppliers must have all, this generates more income and creates betDue to the urgency of combating the longa fully traceable pipeline back to known mills. ter prospects for the individual farmers while term negative effects of palm oil production, By 2020 the same pipeline must be traceable better safeguarding the environment. Cloetta has decided to formulate a sustainable down to known plantations. To earn UTZ certification the farmer must plan that contributes to preserving the rainforIn addition, Cloetta will only buy oils and meet strict requirements, which are closely ests for future generations. Consequently, in its fats from suppliers that can verify that the palm monitored by an independent third party. These palm oil policy Cloetta declares a commitment oil plantations comply with local laws in the requirements include better farming methods to zero deforestation by implementing new ways countries of origin and guarantee that producand farm management, safe and healthy workof working with its suppliers of oils and fats tion is carried out in a sustainable manner and ing conditions, the abolishment of child labour containing palm oil. according to Cloetta’s policy. No later than in and protection of the environment. Some of Cloetta’s products contain small 2017, Cloetta’s suppliers must be able to verify Read more about UTZ certification at amounts of palm oil. However, Cloetta does not that the plantations are run sustainably in www.utzcertified.org. buy pure palm oil but only oils and fats that concompliance with Cloetta’s policy. Furthermore, tain derivatives of palm oil to a varying extent. Cloetta will not permit palm oil extraction in Palm oil In total, Cloetta uses less than 0.003 per cent of primary forest, peatlands, areas with protected From a sustainability perspective, there are a global palm oil production. forest or areas where slash and burn farming is number of problems surrounding cultivation All palm oil (part of the content in an oil or used in plantation operation. and production of palm oil and palm kernel oil. fat) that is purchased by Cloetta is covered by As a result, in April 2014 Cloetta adopted a new GreenPalm certificates in accordance with the Compliance with the policy palm oil policy that is aimed at preventing deRoundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO). In 2014 a process to monitor compliance with struction of rainforest in the countries of origin This means that for each tonne of palm oil that Cloetta’s policy was defined. So far, 82 per cent of and increasing the traceability of the palm oil is used in production, Cloetta pays a premium all of the palm oil purchased by Cloetta has been that Cloetta uses indirectly. to palm oil producers that work according to audited according to the new policy and these Palm oil is a high-yield crop that is one of the RSPO standard. Today, RSPO is the most volumes meet Cloetta’s requirement for Cloetta’s the most traded vegetable oils in the world. widely supported method for achieving sustainsuppliers to have a fully traceable pipeline back Malaysia and Indonesia account for around 90 able palm oil production. However, Cloetta has to known mills by the end of 2015. The remainper cent of total global palm oil production, and decided that this standard is not enough and will ing 18 per cent will be audited during 2015. Goals for sustainable sourcing Goal 2020 Outcome 2014 Responsibility for raw material producers Responsibility for raw material producers w S ustainability programmes implemented for all prioritised raw matew A method for evaluating sustainability challenges for Cloetta’s raw rials by 2020. materials was developed. w B y the end of 2015, Cloetta’s suppliers of oils and fats must have a w T he process for monitoring compliance with Cloetta’s palm oil policy fully traceable pipeline of palm oil fractions back to known mills. By was defined. the end of 2020, the same pipeline will be traceable back to known w 8 2 per cent of the palm oil indirectly purchased by Cloetta has been plantations. verified against Cloetta’s policy (goal for 2015). w 1 00 per cent of the cocoa and chocolate purchased by Cloetta will w At the end of 2014, all cocoa and chocolate purchased by Cloetta be UTZ-certified. was UTZ-certified. Sustainable sourcing 47 Cloetta ı Annual Report 2014 ı questions for Nick Kouassi N’Guessan Nick is a cocoa farmer in Côte d’Ivoire and is participating in the UTZ programme, which Cloetta has chosen to take part in. Does everyone in your family work with cocoa? “Aside from my work, In my family we have always had cocoa trees – my I love football! ” father was a cocoa farmer, and his father before him. But not everyone in my family is in cocoa. Through the profits we have made, two of my brothers have been able to carry on their education after school. What kind of changes have you seen since joining the UTZ programme? Many! Our farm produces more: we harvested 1.2 tonnes in 2011-2012 and were able to increase this to 1.825 tonnes in 2013-2014. In this way the UTZ programme has enabled me to build my house. And it also means that we can afford gas for cooking. The increase in production is because of what I have learned at training and in the field schools. I have always kept the plantation clean and tidy, but now I have also learned that we must cut the shoots, cut off dead branches and rid the area of any diseased pods for the field to produce well. My trees date from 1998. As those trees stop producing, I am successively replacing them with the CNRA variety, which is more productive. Before joining the programme, I did not know about the different varieties. And of course the first positive result of the programme is the premium. How could things be improved for cocoa farmers in Côte d’Ivoire? I think it is very important that small producer groups are helped to increase their income in many ways, not only through cocoa but also for example though market gardening. To do this, it would help farmers if they had more access to inputs like fertilisers. How could things be better for you? I would help me a lot if the road was improved leading to our farm, so that we could take cocoa to the cooperative more easily. Kouassi N’Guessan Nick lives about 12 km from Daloa in Côte d’Ivoire, where he works with his brother on What does the future hold? the family’s cocoa plantation of around 4 hectares. Through the profits from cocoa farming he has made two If I make a little more money, I plan to install a fish ponds. The next goal is to build a chicken farm, if business is good. Nick also organises football tournasolar panel to provide light and watch television to ments and his favourite team is Chelsea. follow the news. 48 Lower environmental impact Lower environmental impact Cloetta ı Annual Report 2014 ı Cloetta’s greatest environmental impact arises through water and energy consumption, wastewater emissions, waste and transports. Viewed over the entire life cycle of the products, the most significant environmental impact arises in raw material and packaging production. Energy consumption Cloetta works to reduce its environmental impact Environmental goals 2020 through systematic environmental management. Continuous reduction of the company’s environMWh/prod. tonne mental impact is a central component of Cloetta’s 2.5 Environmental work sustainability management. One important part of Cloetta complies with the statutory environmental this work is the formulation of long-term goals and 2.0 Goal 2020 requirements and the Group is not party to any action programmes with clearly defined roles and 1.83 environmental disputes. Environmental initiaresponsibilities in order to meet the targets. For 1.5 tives are an integral part of Cloetta’s operations this purpose, Cloetta has defined three long-term and environmental aspects are taken into account environmental goals that extend until 2020: when making decisions. Frequent evaluation and w Have reduced energy consumption in relation to 1.0 follow-up of measures increase awareness about the produced volume by 5 per cent. the effects of different working methods on the w Have reduced CO2 emissions (from used energy 0.5 environment. types) in relation to the produced volume by 5 per cent. 0.0 Systematic environmental work w Have reduced the volume of waste in relation to 2011 2012 2013 2014 All of Cloetta’s factories conduct systematic envithe produced volume by 25 per cent. ronmental management that includes action plans The base year for the above-mentioned reduction Waste and monitoring in a number of different areas. Six targets is 2014. of the eleven factories are certified according to the Kg/prod. tonne ISO 14001 standard. Working methods 80 In 2015 all production units that already had Every year, Cloetta carries out an assessment of 70 ISO14001 certification will be added to Cloetta’s environmental aspects to identify the existing risks multi-site certificate. The four factories that are not and opportunities. Cloetta has an action plan that 60 yet certified will be added to Cloetta’s multi-site defines and governs the activities to be carried out Goal 2020 50 certificate at a rate of one factory per year. in order to reduce the company’s environmental 49.3 impact. 40 Central environmental management system 30 To ensure the use of a structured and systematic Environmental impact and priorities 20 approach to Cloetta’s environmental issues, a Environmental impact in the confectionery decision was made in 2014 to implement a central industry arises among other things from water and 10 environmental management system encompassing energy consumption, wastewater emissions, waste 0 the entire Group. and transports. Certain environmental effects are 2011 2012 2013 2014 The goal is to develop and integrate the also caused by coolants, other chemicals, noise and environmental management system together with particles. Outside Cloetta’s direct influence, there Cloetta’s central ERP system. A fully integrated is also significant environmental impact connected CO2 emissions methodology creates better potential to live up to to production of raw materials and packaging. Kg/prod. kg the Code of Conduct and deliver results in line with The priorities for Cloetta’s environmental work 0.5 Cloetta’s production policy. have been set based on how the direct operations impact the environment, the extent of this impact, 0.4 0.3 Goal 2020 0.33 Key environmental performance indicators 2011 2012 2013 2014 0.2 Total energy consumption, GWh 226 215 219 202 Energy consumption per produced tonne, MWh 2.32 2.23 2.21 1.93 0.1 CO 2 per produced kilo, kg 0.46 0.42 0.39 0.35 Wastewater per produced tonne, m 3 4.4 5.0 4.0 2.9 0.0 COD* per produced tonne, kg 22.6 28.1 26.7 16.6 2011 2012 2013 2014 Waste per produced tonne, kg 70 80 72 66 CO 2 equivalents linked to the Group’s use of Recycled waste. % 64 49 71 80 different energy types. Transports are excluded. Figures excluding Helsingborg and Dublin. * See next page. Lower environmental impact 49 Origin Green Cloetta ı Annual Report 2014 ı The Jelly Bean Factory, which was acquired by Cloetta in 2014, is based in Dublin, Ireland. The industry association Bord Bia, the Irish Food Board, has developed a sustainability programme for Irish food and beverage producers, both large and small – Origin Green – in which The Jelly Bean Factory is a member. The programme members cover the entire food chain from individual farmers to large industrial companies as well as national agencies such as the Irish Food Board. “At The Jelly Bean Factory we are committed Via Origin Green, the members collaborate in the initiative through to striving for sustainable development, and action plans in a number of areas such as sourcing of raw materials, environmental issues in the manufacturing process and social sustainability, being a member of Origin Green is therefore including employee well-being, community initiatives and responsibility an important cornerstone for our business.” for health and nutrition. Richard Cullen, The Jelly Bean Factory the probability of unplanned environmental events Transports Energy sources occurring, the requirements of public authorities Since 2014 Cloetta calculates CO2 emissions from Pellets 4%  Oil 0 % and other stakeholders and, finally, the extent to transports which Cloetta is responsible for. In 2014 Steam 12%   Electricity 37% which Cloetta can influence development. The pri46 kg of CO2 was released per tonne transported. oritised areas for Cloetta’s environmental work are: To reduce both freight costs and CO2 emissions, w Energy consumption Cloetta uses stackable pallets for transports Total 202 GWh w Waste volume, type and recycling between the factories and finished inventory. Furw Carbon reduction thermore, Cloetta chooses transporters the have two-level trailers and extra long bodies and that use Gas 43%   District Energy consumption a combination of road/rail/water transports, when heating 4% The Group’s aggregate energy consumption during possible. If viable, without jeopardising product the financial year was around 202 GWh (219). quality, refrigerated transports are avoided. Wastewater Approximately 25 per cent of the total energy usage is independent from the production volume, i.e. Wastewater m3/prod tonne The volume of wastewater was 2.9 m3 (4.0) per 5 related to heating and cooling of properties, while 75 per cent is directly linked to production. produced tonne. One key environmental target is to improve 4 Waste management the wastewater quality. Cloetta rates this quality All of Cloetta’s production units pre-sort their among other things in terms of COD (Chemical 3 waste. The goal is to continuously develop waste Oxygen Demand), which measures the amount of management and reduce the total volume of prooxygen consumed in complete chemical decomduction-related and other waste. A decrease in raw position of organic compounds in water. There are 2 material waste has a positive impact on both the enseveral projects underway to improve the quality of vironment and the Group’s total costs. At present, the wastewater, see example above. 1 79.7 per cent of the waste is recycled. Packaging 0 Emissions The packaging materials must perform several 2011 2012 2013 2014 Alongside efforts to reduce energy consumption, functions, such as protecting the product on its Cloetta is also working to choose energy types way to the consumer, enabling easy handling of the with the smallest possible negative impact on the product and communicating the brand. The most COD* environment. For that reason, the total amount commonly method for consumer packaging is soKg/prod. tonne of energy used is converted to the amount of CO2 called “flexibles”, a material that can be recycled or 30 equivalents generated by the chosen energy types. incinerated. 25 Goals for reduced environmental impact 20 Goal 2020 Outcome 2014 15 Energy consumption Energy consumption 10 w R educe energy consumption in relation to the prow Energy consumption in relation to the duced volume (MWh/tonne) by 5 per cent. produced volume reduced by 12.7 per cent. 5 Waste w R educe the volume of waste in relation to the proWaste duced volume (kg/tonne) by 25 per cent. w Waste volume in relation to the produced 0 volume reduced by 8.8 per cent 2011 2012 2013 2014 Carbon dioxide emissions w R educe CO 2 from production in relation to the proCarbon dioxide emissions * C OD (Chemical Oxygen Demand) duced volume (kg/kg) by 5 per cent. w C O 2 in production in relation to the promeasures the amount of oxygen consumed duced volume reduced by 10.3 per cent. in complete chemical decomposition of organic compounds in water. 50 Employees Employees Cloetta ı Annual Report 2014 ı Cloetta is driven by a conviction that value is created by the employees, and that the ability to attract and retain the best and most competent people is decisive for the company’s future. Cloetta works determinedly to create an attracIn 2014 the focus was on analysing the various tive workplace for all employees and promote the country/factory and department results in greater development of a high-performing organisation detail. The results were discussed and reviewed on by continuously developing and training its staff, an in-depth level in order to understand the underdesigning competitive remuneration systems, uplying factors. In many groups, these activities were holding an inspiring corporate culture and building tied together with the work previously carried out a clear corporate identity. in connection with the roll-out of Cloetta’s shared values. In 2014 many groups formulated “Golden Employee survey Rules” for the group they worked in, with reference – Great Place to Work to Cloetta’s core values. These “Golden Rules” To create an attractive workplace for all employees, expanded on the areas for improvement that were it is essential that there is a genuine interest in identified in the employee survey. understanding how the employees see their place of In most of Cloetta’s organisations, the main work, i.e. what they appreciate and what they find focus areas have been related to improving comlacking or are simply dissatisfied with. munication both between the management and According to Great Place to Work, the best employees and between departments. workplaces are built through day-to-day relationThis means: ships. From the employees’ perspective, a good w Clarifying What workplace is one where you: w Clarifying Why w TRUST the people you work for w Sharing both mistakes and successes so that w Have PRIDE in what you do, and everyone can learn from each other. w E NJOY the people you work with. In order for this to be possible it is vital to trust each other. Cloetta conducted the recurring employee survey “Great Place to Work” at the end of 2013. The reThe right expertise sponse rate was 85 per cent and Cloetta achieved a Cloetta is committed to continuously renewing and Trust Index © of 60 per cent. The target for the next utilising the Group’s aggregate expertise. Compesurvey is to reach 63 per cent. tent employees that are given scope to realise their full potential create the conditions to maintain Cloetta’s HR wheel Update of job descriptions and preparations for Employee evaluation: JAN the upcoming evaluation process DEC w Individual goals V FE NO B w Individual development measures Skills development with a focus on the organTarget levels established isation’s challenges for the coming year OCT MAR Strategic plan SEP APR Salary review AU G AY Semi-annual follow-up of employee evaluation M JUL JUN Management review Cloetta’s HR work follows an annual cycle with activities aimed at building and raising the level of expertise in the organisation. Most of  uccession planning wS the activities in Cloetta’s HR wheel as described above are primarily w Identification of new and follow-up of existing talents attributable to salaried employees. Employees 51 Cloetta ı Annual Report 2014 ı Cloetta’s position as an attractive and innovative of their jobs with responsibility for home and Age distribution partner not only for the employees but also for family. The Group therefore supports flexible work Number the customers, suppliers and business partners. A arrangements like flex-time and part-time hours, 700 learning-driven organisation that works in project when possible. form and the use of interdisciplinary teamwork in 600 day-to-day activities are important components of A good and safe working environment Cloetta’s skills development. All skills development Efforts to improve and develop the working 500 is designed to support Cloetta’s strategies, to be environment are a natural aspect of operational 400 business-oriented and to promote the individual’s development and the goal is to create a good physinterests and needs. ical working environment and a healthy working 300 The main focus areas are to develop the right climate where each individual can feel secure people for the right jobs and to continuously clarify and pursue personal development. One essential 200 and improve roles, responsibilities and working part of a secure working environment is to ensure 100 methods throughout the organisation. Cloetta that no one is subject to discrimination or sexual strives to be an attractive employer in the markets harassment. Cloetta aims to be a workplace where 0 where the company is active and thereby retain diversity and the different qualities, knowledge <25 26–35 36–45 46–55 56> valuable employees. and skills of all employees are respected regardless All recruitment takes place locally with of gender, religion, ethnic background, age, race, the support of centrally developed tools. For all sexual orientation, etc. Occapational accidents (average days between accidents positions, the selection is based on an agreed set In production, employee safety is always the with >1 day of sickness) of competencies against which the candidates’ top priority. All factories carry out continuous risk performance is measured among other things using assessments to minimise the risk for accidents. All Days 25 psychological tests. incidents and injuries are followed up and reported. Goal 2015 23 days The Lean method is used to prevent and reduce Relationship between the production-related occupational injuries. Thanks 20 company and the employees to these systematic efforts, the number of occupaCloetta strives to uphold a relationship of mutual tional injuries has been reduced in recent years. 15 respect and trust between the company and its Each manager is responsible for avoiding occuemployees. This also steers the company’s way of pational illnesses and accidents through follow-up 10 working with the European Works Councils, local and corrective measures. Cloetta’s HR department company councils and trade unions organisations. has developed tools that are used together with Cloetta complies with the applicable laws and regmanagers with personnel responsibility for early 5 ulations in the countries where the Group is active detection of signals that could be caused by illness and respects local norms and values. In addition, and could lead to a risk for long-term absence. 0 the Group’s principles are consistent with the 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 relevant International Labour Organization (ILO) Trust in leadership and in each other Cloetta has continued to work with attitudes conventions. As a leader, it is vital that you dare to trust in toward risks, improvements in the equipment Cloetta encourages a good balance between both your own leadership and in others. It is also and implementation of policies. The use of discussions and workshops promotes safety professional and personal life. It is important to essential to understand each other and why difawareness, which is critical in changing help both men and women combine the demands ferent individuals behave the way they do. In 2014 behavior. 52 Employees Cloetta continued the roll-out of the leadership tool the existing salary level and the year’s performance Management Drives to a large number of managers are key parameters in the framework that has now Cloetta ı Annual Report 2014 ı and their immediate teams. Management Drives been established. is based on the use of a questionnaire among other things to identify the drives for each employee, Number of employees what energises them and what drains them of enerThe average number of employees in 2014 was gy. By making both managers and employees aware 2,533 (2,472). The increase is due to the acquisiof their own profiles and thereby which working tions of Nutisal and The Jelly Bean Factory, but methods suit them best, this is now laying the founwas offset somewhat by the factory restructurings The leadership tool Management Drives has dation for moving forward in 2015 with the launch that were carried out successively during 2014. continued during 2014. of Cloetta’s Leadership Dimensions connected Of the total number of employees, 57 per cent are to Management Drives. The goal is to recognise employed under collective agreements and 43 per how to best develop your own leadership in a way cent are salaried employees. that boosts motivation and performance in your immediate team, through trust, understanding and A flat organisation for shorter communication. decision-making processes Cloetta has around 2,500 employees in 14 counNew salary framework tries who are active in sales and marketing, producOne major factor in how employees perceive the tion, innovation and support functions. Cloetta’s attractiveness or their workplace is the feeling that head office is located in Stockholm. Management Drives Colour sessions in 2014. they are fairly paid and that there is a well supportCloetta is organised according to function ed salary structure in the company. and its commercial organisation is separate from For several years Cloetta has been working the supply chain organisation. Personnel, finance closely with one of the major consulting companies and administrative units are found in each main to develop an optimised framework and strategy market and serve as support functions for both for Cloetta’s remuneration/salary structure. All the local sales and marketing organisation and for positions at Cloetta have been evaluated and plotproduction. Responsibility for business developted on a matrix where comparable jobs are ranked ment, corporate communications, business control, similarly regardless of company or function. This marketing strategies, HR and certain financial achas then been supplemented with a salary structure tivities like tax, financial administration, insurance At the Great Place to Work gala in Helsinki in that is benchmarked against other food producing and financial control are handled by central staffs. February 2014, Cloetta Finland was named companies in each country. The results provide an one of the best workplaces in Finland. excellent basis for upcoming salary reviews, where Goals for greater well-being Goal Outcome 2014 Employees Employee w T he number of days between occupational w T he number of days between work-related accidents with >1 day of sickness absence will accidents with >1 day of sickness absence exceed 23.0 days in 2015. amounted to 18. w G reat Place to Work – the Trust Index will w G reat Place to Work – Trust index, 60 per exceed 63 per cent in 2016. cent. Gender distribution Employee categories Employees by country 31 December 2014 31 December 2014 Norway 2% qqDenmark 1% Ireland 3% q qOther 1% Men 50%   Women 50% Salaried Employees Belgium 4% u t Slovakia employees under collective 27% agreement 57% Finland 7% u 43%  The Netherlands 14%u Italy 18% u t Sweden 23% NetherEmployees Slovakia Sweden Italy lands Finland Belgium Ireland Norway Denmark UK Germany Other Total Average no. of employees 677 586 464 343 185 105 77 41 34 8 7 6 2,533 – of whom, women 446 277 190 94 152 24 31 20 17 6 3 5 1,265 Sickness absence, %, 5.8 3.5 6.7 4.8 2.3 4.0 1.8 5.7 1.1 – 2.8 Employees 53 Cloetta ı Annual Report 2014 ı Core values Cloetta has four core values that guide the way of working and acting, both within and outside the company. These core values are Focus, Passion, Teamplay and Pride. Focus is about doing the fundamentals with self-confidence, ambition and a “will do” attitude. Focus means continuous, diligent work across the essential parts of our business. We will only be successful by focusing and delivering on prioritised activities. We therefore treasure the ability to be a role model in execution, consistently being practical and fact-based, creating clarity, setting priorities, making consistent choices and always having a sense of urgency, speed, drive and discipline as well as the agility to change and adapt when required. Blended with a “will do” mentality, built on self-confidence, ambition and realism, Focus brings both success and the admiration of the competition. Passion is about “going the extra mile”, being positive and having fun. Passion is at the core of our business and characterises all of our actions. It releases the energy and inspiration that provide us with the drive to develop, produce and market great products that, in turn, make our customers and consumers as passionate about them as we are. It feeds the drive to take ownership, to realise goals and to win. We therefore treasure the ability to inspire and motivate, to see change as an opportunity, to go the extra mile, and to be positive and to have fun. Passion manifests itself in the way we understand the business, deal with customers, help each other to succeed and communicate about Cloetta. Teamplay is about mutual responsibility: doing your part and supporting each other. Teamplay is based on both individual and mutual responsibilities and mutual support for one another. It extends beyond Cloetta, reflecting in the way we aspire to cooperate with our external stakeholders, customers and suppliers. We therefore treasure the ability to understand, value and respect people, to address each other in a creative, open and transparent way, to communicate with honesty and without fear and to share knowledge and learn together. Teamplay manifests itself in cross-functional cooperation, shared learning and together acting as “One Cloetta”. Pride is about being proud of our company, our brands, our products and our personal contribution. Pride is the driving force that motivates Cloetta’s employees to perform to the best of their ability and to take ownership of the company’s direction. It is about pride in both your own and your colleagues’ contribution to the company, its brands and its products. Pride is fuelled by the employees’ confidence and belief in Cloetta as a company and as an employer. This is based on a safe and sustainable working environment and a working relationship based on mutual trust. We nurture a company culture that empowers people with insight into our business goals and vision, so that everyone feels engaged and committed to where we are headed as a company. Open lines of communication encourage employees to take responsibility for their jobs and take pride in what they do. 54 Greater well-being Greater well-being – better for you Cloetta ı Annual Report 2014 ı Many consumers are seeking genuine raw materials and more healthy or functional confectionery/snacks. For Cloetta, it is therefore vital to offer a wide range of products with varying compositions and in different packaging alternatives. Around 33 per cent of Cloetta’s revenue comes from sugar-free products. Fewer calories with stevia Nuts In order to offer products with a reduced calorie content, stevia plays Nuts are a natural source of many vital nutrients and also contain antioxa important role for Cloetta’s products. Stevia is a plant native to South idants. Cashew nuts are rich in iron, folic acid and zinc, peanuts (which America whose leaves contain an intense and natural sweetness. are actually seeds) are rich in protein and contain high levels of Vitamin Cloetta uses stevia extract in a number of different products, such as B3, almonds (actually seeds) are rich in Vitamin E and pistachios are Läkerol, chewing gum, Dietor and Dietorelle. very rich in antioxidants. Better dental health with xylitol Clear declaration of contents Production of the sweetener xylitol, which has fewer calories than natural Cloetta works continuously to develop responsible and clear information sugar, was originally started in Finland in the 1970s through extraction about the contents of our products via packages and the website. from birch sap. Today xylitol is extracted from many hardwoods and corncobs. Xylitol protects from tooth decay. Goal 2015 – Returns Number 8 7 6 Goal 2015 5.9 5 Genuine and natural raw materials 4 Goody Good Stuff and The Jelly Bean Factory are two examples of products where Cloetta has fully implemented the idea of 100 per cent 3 natural ingredients. All artificial colours and flavours have been replaced 2 by natural fruit and plant extracts and all other food additives have been Returns are measured in the eliminated. 1 number per millions of consumer units sold (one consumer unit = a Furthermore, both Goody Good Stuff and The Jelly Bean Factory are 0 bag, a box, etc.). free from allergens and contain no animal-based gelatine, which makes 2011 2012 2013 2014 the products suitable for vegetarians and people with food allergies.
