Page 1/8 Contact person: Eunice Kisilu Address: P.O BOX 16491-00100 Email: christine@diasporadesignbuild.com,eunice@diasporadesignbuild. Phone: 020-3588300, 0724940567, 0729000162, Brief description of nature of business Diaspora Design Build Ltd (DDBL) was founded in May 2002 by Architect Gad Opiyo; DDBL (www.diasporadesignbuild.com) is the pioneer provider of Construction services in Kenya. Our service is known for excellence. We have been quite successful in turnkey projects offering Building & Construction Works, Road Construction & Civil Works, Energy & Petroleum Installation, Mechanical, Electrical and Power Works. The company operates mainly in the East African region of Kenya, Rwanda, Tanzania, Burundi, Congo, South Sudan and Somalia. Scope of this COP Diaspora Design Build Ltd reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and AntiCorruption. In this our annual communication on progress we describe our actions to integrate the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We are also committed to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Page 2/8 Human Rights UN Global Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection of Compact internationally proclaimed human rights principles Principle 2: Business should ensure that they are not complicit in human covered: rights abuses Commitment  We are committed to support and respect the protection of international human right.  The refusal to participate or condone human rights abuses  We also encourage our employees to join labour movements  We also ensure conducive working environment.  We also give good pay.  Every employee has a right to form and join trade union for the protection of his interest  Our company does not complicit any abuse of Human rights A brief description of our Processes or Systems  `In DDBL some of the human right policies and implementation Human Rights process are; commitment, due diligence process, performance indicators and goals to our entire employee, remediation process.  Our stakeholders also hold personal meetings and dialogue with Current affected groups. They also do formal reporting, websites, newsletters. Activities implemented in the last year  Suggestion box to all sites for grievance mechanism  Training of employees on first Aid  Consultation with stakeholders and suppliers Measurement of outcomes and value added for our company  Has helped us to understand basic concepts such as human rights, rightsholders, impact etc  Periodic review of results by senior management.  We feel that if we treat our workers with respect and certain dignity that they will be more productive and loyal towards us. Page 3/8 Activities planned for next year  We are planning to put in place monitoring system and indicators that can give us information on human rights. Human Rights  We are planning to do research on communication channels which will help us collect information on our human rights and how to address them. Future  Strengthen grievances mechanisms. Labour Rights Principle 3: Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining UN Global Principle 4: Business should support the elimination of all forms of forced Compact and compulsory labour principles Principle 5: Business should support the effective abolition of child labour covered: Principle 6: Business should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Commitment  The support of freedom of association and recognition of the collective bargaining.  The abolition of compulsory labour  The abolition of child labour  Provision of employee medical cover.  We have policies that clearly state employee rights and responsibilities and their compensation and benefits. Labour Rights  Elimination of all forced labour. A brief description of our Processes or Systems Current We have Suggestion box and grievance mechanism in all our sites and also we create awareness to all our employees and organizing trainings on labour rights and policies. We also seek consultation from our employees and other stakeholders and also have human resource policies and procedures supporting the labour principles. We treat every applicants and every employee equally. The procedures and policies in regards to remuneration, hours of work and rest, paid Holidays, maternity leave, Security of tenure, advancement, social security and occupational safety and health are documented. Page 4/8 Every worker taking up appointment in our organisation is served with a job offer letter. Upon the job offer letter he/she will receive the appointment letter stating the terms and conditions of service, the voluntary nature of employment, the freedom to leave and any penalties that may be associated with the departure or cessation of work. Activities implemented in the last year  Allowing employees to join labour movement  Training to HRM on Labour rights Measurement of outcomes and value added for our company Due to the fact that we follow the above strategy we do have satisfaction in our work force. The workers are all treated equally and they are happy, motivated and energy to work. A discriminated worker is not a happy worker and therefore he/she will not be of much use. Frequent training programs in this regard give our workers value addition and boost their performance. Activities planned for next year Labour Rights  Continue training our employees on Human rights  The end of discrimination among workers. Future  Train stakeholders on forced and compulsory labour. Environment Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to UN Global environmental challenges Compact Principle 8: Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater principles environmental responsibility covered: Principle 9: Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Page 5/8 Commitment  We are committed in initiatives that demonstrates environmental responsibility  We are also committed in promotion of the diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. A brief description of our Processes or Systems Usage of water is done in controlled ways to avoid any damage to the existing water source. Upon completion of any projects, all disturbed areas are returned to their originality to ensure no future damage is done to the environment including implementation of mitigation measures such as erosion control measure. Activities implemented in the last year Environment  Ensure that an effective policy is maintained to prevent injuries, loss or damage to property or risks to persons whether employed by the company Current or not, but affected as a result of site activities.  Initiate actions to eliminate or reduce risks to safety and health. Measurement of outcomes and value added for our company We are happy that we are in a position to communicate with our stakeholders the importance of being environmental conscious, to ensure the awareness of all the stakeholders. With this measures we can proof our customers that we are participating in the effort of environmental friendliness. Activities planned for next year We are planning to switch to methods which are more environmental friendly by way of:  Using air conditioners with energy saving inverter Environment  All our waste being directed to recycle circle. Future Page 6/8 Anti-corruption UN Global Compact Principle 10: Business should work against corruption in all its forms, principles including extortion and bribery covered: Commitment  We are committed in the promotion and adoption of initiatives to counter all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery and also ensuring that we have ethical practices.  We are committed to be in compliance with all relevant laws, including anticorruption.  We are committed in doing all our tenders without receiving any bribe. A brief description of our Processes or Systems  Establishing controls over promotional expenses, travel, entertainment, sponsorships and gifts and over regulatory relationships.  Training employees and clearly conveying the company’s principles and policies. Anti-corruption  Applying the parent company’s internal controls at subsidiaries and joint ventures and having someone at the parent company oversee compliance. Current Activities implemented in the last year  Training employees on ethics  Communication and training for all employees on the anti-corruption commitment.  Internal checks to ensure consistency with the anti-corruption commitment  Participation in voluntary anti-corruption initiatives. Measurement of outcomes and value added for our company  Employing senior, qualified staff in the corporate compliance organisation  Establishing controls over promotional expenses, travel entertainment, sponsorships and gift and over regulatory relationship.  Training employees and clearly conveying the company’s principles and policies Activities planned for next year  Better risk management and compliance Anti Encouraging and supporting employees on anti-corruption. corruption  Encouraging and supporting employees in resisting corruption Future  Motivating employees. Page 7/8 How do you intend to make this COP available to your stakeholders? DDBL intends to share existing COP with stakeholders through annual report and company’s website where stakeholders expect to read about the company’s economic, social and environment. Donations, awards We support the community in various activities among them are:  Paying taxes  Making goods and services that people want. Page 8/8
