SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Sustainability Performance Snapshot The table below shows quantitative data that reflects More performance data, including qualitative data, is available in the individual sections for each focus our performance in areas that have been identified area in this report, as well as in the Sustainability as material to our businesses and stakeholders. section of our website. 2014 2013 2012 Sustainability at Sembcorp is about striving for excellence and continuous Economic improvement in identifying, understanding and responding to evolving Capital and Portfolio Management1 environmental, social and governance challenges facing our businesses. Turnover (S$ million) 10,895 10,798 10,189 Net profit (S$ million) 801 820 753 Return on equity (%) 15.2 17.1 17.5 Return on total assets (%) 7.5 9.1 9.5 Total debt-to-capitalisation ratio 0.40 0.23 0.30 MANAGING SUSTAINABILITY Total debt-to-capitalisation ratio (less cash and cash equivalents) 0.26 Net cash 0.05 Total shareholder returns2 (%) (15.6) 7.7 33.7 At Sembcorp, we believe in building sustainable Sembcorp’s Board of Directors oversees the businesses that deliver long-term shareholder business affairs of the Group and is collectively People People Development value and growth. We believe that a truly responsible for the long-term success of the Employee turnover (voluntary and non-voluntary) (%) 18.4 12.4 10.8 sustainable business not only creates economic company. The principal duties of the board include Training cost per employee (S$) 706 520 366 value, but does so in a way that creates benefit providing leadership on the Group’s overall strategy, for its stakeholders. taking into consideration sustainability issues. The Health, Safety and Environment Environmental, social and governance (ESG) board also ensures the adequacy of the Group’s Occupational Health and Safety3, 4 considerations are embedded in our business framework for risk management and internal Number of fatalities5 0 0 0 decisions and processes. We believe that taking ESG controls, including ethical standards. Injury rate per 200,000 man-hours6 0.47 0.27 0.53 Lost day rate per 200,000 man-hours6 9.38 4.54 9.36 considerations into account helps us to understand Sembcorp’s Sustainability Steering Committee our risks and responsibilities in a holistic manner, (SSC) provides strategic direction for the Climate Change and that when our strategy and business decisions management of sustainability-related risks and Direct greenhouse gas emissions7 (million tonnes of CO2 equivalent) 5.7 5.8 5.3 are informed by ESG concerns, we are better opportunities and guides the development and prepared to respond to the challenges we face. improvement of frameworks, policies, guidelines Environmental Protection Sembcorp’s management of its sustainability and processes for the effective management of Water withdrawal (million m3) 1,593.0 1,502.2 1,588.5 issues is centred on five focus areas (see Focus Areas sustainability issues. The SSC is a high-level Waste disposal8 (thousand tonnes) 43.1 31.7 30.8 Hazardous waste (thousand tonnes) 12.6 9.4 9.4 and Material Issues table on page 129). Sembcorp’s committee chaired by the Group Chief Financial Non-hazardous waste (thousand tonnes) 30.5 22.4 21.4 key sustainability principles are set out in our Officer, and comprises senior executives across Sustainability Policy. These principles are applied various functions, including asset management, Community through the management systems and processes human resources, health, safety and environment Community contributions (S$ million) 2.49 1.8 0.9 of Sembcorp’s operations. We aim for continuous (HSE) and corporate relations. Notes: improvement of our sustainability management At the business unit level, economic, operational, Please refer to the section on Reporting Framework and Scope on page 127 for details on our scope. systems, and evaluate our management approach as well as health and safety issues and other risks 1 Financial figures reported are for the Group, including Sembcorp Marine, as per audited financial statements. by benchmarking it against industry best practice. are reviewed by the operations head at bi-monthly 2 Source: Bloomberg We adopt a precautionary approach to avoid or business unit management meetings, and 3 Occupational health and safety data from our solid waste management operations in Singapore and Zhumadian China Water Co are excluded in this summary. Data from our Singapore solid waste management operations, which have a different risk profile, can be found on page 147. We were unable to include data from minimise negative impacts through preventive performance in these areas is evaluated against our Zhumadian operations due to unavailability of data. measures and tracking of leading indicators. internal targets. 4 Occupational health and safety data excludes data from projects under development / in construction. 5 Health and safety data covers employees and contractors engaged to work on our sites. In 2014, there were three fatalities involving members of the public who A list of our policies, certified facilities as well were involved in road traffic accidents with company vehicles. These are reported on page 146. as memberships and participation in external Sustainability contact 6 200,000 man-hours is roughly equivalent to the total number of hours worked by 100 full-time employees in a calendar year. 7 Data covers operations that produce direct greenhouse gas emissions from the combustion of fossil fuel. initiatives is available in the Sustainability section Sembcorp welcomes feedback on our sustainability 8 Waste disposal data excludes waste that is collected and incinerated for our customers. of our website. issues and reporting at sustainability@sembcorp.com. 9 Figure excludes contributions by Sembcorp Marine. Contributions including Sembcorp Marine amount to S$5.8 million. 124 BUILDING A GLOBAL COMPANY SEMBCORP INDUSTRIES ANNUAL REPORT 2014 125 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Materiality Sembcorp’s Materiality Matrix Materiality analysis is a key process enabling were prioritised using a materiality matrix, Sembcorp to define the sustainability issues that charting their level of significance to Sembcorp HIGH are of greatest significance to our businesses and and our stakeholders according to clearly defined Sustainability Urbanisation our stakeholders over the long term. We believe criteria based on the AA1000AS five-part strategy our focus on materiality is vital as we seek to materiality process. Industrialisation Importance to external stakeholders Stakeholder make progress on our sustainability journey, The materiality assessment and review were engagement drive performance and transparency, and embed conducted with input from an independent Globalisation Included sustainability into the Group’s culture. sustainability consultant. To enhance the robustness PROCESSES MEGATRENDS in print report Sembcorp focuses our reporting on 11 material of our materiality assessment, feedback from our and / or company issues, grouped into five focus areas. Each focus stakeholders, including shareholders, financial website Governance Growing area is owned by an appointed SSC member. institutions, the investment community, regulators, framework energy needs The five focus areas and 11 material issues customers, suppliers and non-governmental Risk management are recognised by both internal and external organisations, was incorporated. The survey, Global water stakeholders, and are listed on page 129. For each commissioned in 2012, was conducted by an scarcity Not Reporting on material issue, we report the sustainability context, independent firm to ensure anonymity for key performance Climate change reported the relevance to Sembcorp, and our management respondents. Respondents agreed on the whole indicators approach and performance. with the issues identified as material for Sembcorp. LOW Sembcorp conducted a materiality review Survey responses also helped to refine aspects of in 2013, building on our first formal materiality the material issues that our key stakeholders were Importance to internal stakeholders assessment in 2011. Sustainability issues were interested in, and gave us input on how we could identified in line with Global Reporting Initiative better communicate the issues. (GRI) guidelines. The materiality review took into In 2014, we integrated sustainability account GRI’s Electric Utilities Sector Supplement, considerations into our approach to risk Reporting Framework and Scope Environmental data provided is specific to the Dow Jones Sustainability Index and other management, in order to create a more robust This report was prepared in accordance with GRI Sembcorp’s Utilities businesses only. New acquisitions relevant frameworks and peer reviews. These issues materiality and risk assessment process. G4 Core requirements. Our GRI content index is and subsidiaries are given one year, or more where available in the Sustainability section of our website. required, to integrate their reporting systems with Sembcorp operates across six continents. Our that of the Group. Thereafter, their sustainability three key businesses comprise Utilities, Marine and data will be reported externally upon the collection Urban Development. As our Marine business is of a full calendar year of data. Data pertaining to separately listed in Singapore and reports its entities divested during the year is excluded from activities separately, it is excluded from this report. this report. We aim to work towards external The period under review pertains to January 1 to assurance of the report. December 31, 2014, and the information provided in this report relates to subsidiaries of Sembcorp. It Data Measurement and Quality excludes joint ventures, partnerships and associates All data measurements are in line with GRI G4 for which Sembcorp does not have management recommendations for our chosen indicators. and / or operational control. Data reported in the Greenhouse gas (GHG) emission factors are based Governance, Risk and Compliance, People, HSE on the 2006 Intergovernmental Panel for Climate and Community sections is specific to businesses in Change (IPCC) guidelines, except for those relating to operation, and excludes projects in construction. our operations on Teesside, UK, which use emission 126 BUILDING A GLOBAL COMPANY SEMBCORP INDUSTRIES ANNUAL REPORT 2014 127 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT factors adapted from the US Environmental HIGHLIGHT MATERIAL ISSUES approach to the relevant material issues and Protection Agency and the 2013 and 2014 Engaging Our Stakeholders our performance against each issue. Government Greenhouse Gas Conversion Factors We group our material issues into five focus areas, A snapshot of Sembcorp’s quantitative for Company Reporting issued by the UK’s Sembcorp actively participated in Singapore aligned with how we drive success for the company. sustainability performance data is presented Department for Environment, Food & Rural Affairs International Water Week 2014, using this Under each focus area, we discuss our management on page 125. and Department of Energy & Climate Change. industry event as a platform to engage peers, While there are inherent limitations to the partners, customers and governments through Focus Areas Material Issues accuracy of data, Sembcorp seeks to minimise forum and roundtable discussions. Topics errors and irregularities through the strengthening ranged from water solutions for the chemical Economic of internal controls. and refining sector and industrial parks, to approaches to solving the future water • To deliver long-term value and growth • Capital and portfolio management Stakeholder Engagement challenges of industries. Sembcorp also hosted • Operational reliability • Innovation We recognise the importance of engaging our China’s Minister for Water Resources, Chen Lei, • New income streams stakeholders to encourage open communication at our facilities on Jurong Island, and discussed and build relationships, and employ a range of with him the advanced water management platforms to this end. The frequency of ongoing solutions that will support China’s growth and Governance, Risk and Compliance engagement with our stakeholders varies with sustainable development. For more insights on • To maintain high standards of behaviour and integrity • Governance and ethical business their concerns and needs as well as with the our participation in Singapore International and be best in class for governance practices • Risk and regulatory compliance topics of engagement. Water Week, please go to the Events section In 2012, we conducted a stakeholder mapping under News and Multimedia of our website. exercise to review and define our stakeholder People groups. This was done in accordance with the AA1000 Stakeholder Engagement Standard by • To provide a fair, diverse and inclusive workplace, and • People development continually improve our human resource management an independent consultant. Stakeholders were and people development mapped based on their level of influence and interest, using a structured approach. The level of stakeholder interest against each material issue Health, Safety and Environment was also reviewed and a survey was conducted to invite feedback on our material issues from • To instil sound and practical health and safety management • Occupational health and safety as part of our workplace culture, and protect the environment • Climate change selected key stakeholders. in the conduct of our business activities and generation of our • Environmental protection More information on the platforms we use to products and services through good environmental practices regularly engage our stakeholders can be found in the Sustainability section of our website. Community • To be a responsible business, making a positive contribution • Community integration to our communities 128 BUILDING A GLOBAL COMPANY SEMBCORP INDUSTRIES ANNUAL REPORT 2014 129 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT HIGHLIGHT Economic Operational reliability Management approach To deliver long-term value and growth The reliability of our assets is vital not only for our Developing World-class Capabilities Capital and portfolio management reputation, but also for our long-term profitability. The Group has put in place robust frameworks and Why this is material Our Group is heavily invested in the Utilities In late 2014, we announced the development of processes to ensure our investment and business Long-term economic viability is at the core of business, which involves the sustained operation of the Sembcorp Global Asset Management System. decisions take into account long-term Sembcorp’s approach to building sustainable energy and water facilities for prolonged periods. The system will allow Sembcorp to centralise considerations. Since 2003, we have implemented a businesses. The Group drives its economic The business is committed to long-term customer the management of its energy and water plants system of financial discipline across all subsidiaries, sustainability by monitoring and managing the contracts and its products and services, such as from around the world and will put Sembcorp joint ventures and associates. Potential acquisitions following key facets of its business: capital and power, steam, water and wastewater treatment, at the forefront of using predictive analytics in and growth opportunities are evaluated based on portfolio management, operational reliability of are essential to its customers. Proper care and the operation of utility plants. strict investment guidelines. Depending on criteria assets, innovation and business development maintenance of our assets ensure that their useful The system will comprise a process such as project value and country risk, approval for for new income streams. life, and therefore their ability to generate stable optimisation module, which will benchmark projects may involve the Senior Management recurring income and a reliable supply of products plant performance data and provide automatic Committee, the board and / or its Executive Capital and portfolio management and services, is sustained throughout our long alerts for any abnormalities; a troubleshooting Committee or Risk Committee. Sembcorp’s businesses often involve large-scale, investment horizon. module using predictive analytics to help The Group actively manages its risk portfolio. long-term projects requiring significant initial Sembcorp’s technical experts address operational This includes monitoring balance sheet liquidity capital outlay. Strong financial health and a Innovation issues the minute they occur; and a predictive ratios and country risk profiles. For more disciplined approach to investment are therefore We recognise the importance of technology and maintenance module to identify potential information on risk management at Sembcorp, necessary for us to succeed. At the same time, innovation in maintaining and enhancing our equipment problems, prevent unexpected please refer to the Risk Management and Internal as Sembcorp continues to grow, we believe it is relevance, profitability and competitive advantage. shutdowns and allow for more optimised Controls chapter of this annual report. important for us to maintain a balanced portfolio This includes applied research and development scheduling of maintenance. of businesses across various geographical regions and improvements to optimise our operations and The advanced system will allow Sembcorp Operational reliability and business segments with the appropriate level enhance our efficiency, as well as the adoption of to better harness its collective global expertise, Reliability is of foremost importance in the of risk. Capital allocation, including the new technologies and methodologies with wider drive operational excellence and optimise asset management of our assets, from the design phase geographical distribution of our investments, sustainability benefits. performance for enhanced reliability, availability to the operation and maintenance phases. In the is hence managed from this perspective. and cost effectiveness. design and construction phases, consideration is New income streams given to installing sufficient operational flexibility To deliver long-term growth, the company and selecting quality equipment. In the operation continuously explores new business opportunities and and maintenance of assets, regulatory and maintains a pipeline of upcoming projects, including manufacturers’ standards are adhered to. Efforts are both greenfield and brownfield investments. continually made to optimise use of the equipment. The reliability of our plants is monitored through monthly performance indicators for which senior management has oversight. Technical audits and checks are also conducted on our plants. 130 BUILDING A GLOBAL COMPANY SEMBCORP INDUSTRIES ANNUAL REPORT 2014 131 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Innovation To provide a platform for future growth, Supply Chain Management Sembcorp’s Technology Advisory Panel, comprising we identify and develop a healthy pipeline of our Chairman, Group President & CEO and other projects. We also seek to grow through strategic We recognise that our supply chain has a material Supplier diversification invited experts, provides strategic direction for partnerships with our customers, by continuously impact on the efficiency and effectiveness of our Our efforts to ensure supply chain security include Sembcorp’s technology and innovation programmes. developing innovative and competitive solutions operations. From our engineering, procurement diversifying supply to mitigate concentration risk. It oversees the application of significant emergent to meet their evolving needs. and construction contractors to fuel and spare For instance, Sembcorp’s operations in Singapore technologies in the energy and water sectors, We actively invest in sustainable and parts suppliers, Sembcorp’s procurement policy maintain at least one primary and one secondary and provides guidance to Sembcorp’s leadership green business lines which will give us an guides our assessment of suppliers and supplier for key spare parts and consumables on technological trends and opportunities. edge in an increasingly resource-scarce world. contractors to ensure that they are chosen for wherever possible. The panel is supported by an in-house Group Applying a disciplined approach, we employ their ability to deliver over the long term and Technology department. a stringent evaluation process for all our operate in a responsible manner. Fuel procurement Headed by our Chief Technology Officer, projects and investments. Fuel comprises a significant cost component our Group Technology department oversees our Requirements for suppliers for Sembcorp’s power and steam generation research and development as well as innovation 2014 performance Sembcorp has stringent requirements for its operations. Security of fuel supply is also efforts. Besides tracking our investment in Sembcorp’s financial performance and key economic suppliers. In Singapore for instance, our suppliers essential to the sustained performance of our innovation and the corresponding returns, we indicators can be found in our Group Financial go through an extensive pre-qualification process assets. In view of this, we established a Fuel also track indicators such as number of projects Review chapter and Financial Statements in this which vets their ability to sustain their business. Management department to focus on issues such screened, to ensure that we have a pipeline of annual report. This includes checks on areas such as their as security of supply, price fluctuations and fuel innovation projects for development and We officially opened the Sembcorp Technology financial viability, human resource policy and mix. To further diversify our fuel mix and tap implementation in a timely manner. & Innovation Centre in Singapore, which serves as litigation history. The vendors’ capabilities are also sustainable sources, Sembcorp has increased To further encourage innovation from the a focal point for our testing, optimisation and reviewed, taking into account the qualifications our use of alternative fuels and renewables. bottom up, Sembcorp’s !DEA Awards programme research and development activities in both energy and experience of their personnel and track For instance, in Singapore, our solid waste also recognises innovative ideas and efforts across and water. We announced the development of the records. Suppliers’ HSE records and processes, management operations provide a reliable supply the Group. Past winning entries have included Sembcorp Global Asset Management System, which as well as their labour conditions and community of waste wood for our woodchip boiler plant, process innovations resulting in cost savings and will enhance our management of our global portfolio impact, are also considered. We value the while in our biomass power plant in the UK, improved HSE performance, and innovations in of facilities and lead to greater reliability, availability, opportunity to positively influence our suppliers waste wood from sustainably-managed forests, the development of new products and services. optimisation, as well as cost savings. In addition, we for greater HSE awareness and social responsibility, sawmills and arboricultural residues is used as Ongoing engagement with venture capitalists, are strengthening our team of technical specialists and believe that securing a pool of suppliers with fuel. A case study on how we deliver value across technology companies and tertiary research who will be employed to troubleshoot technical a shared commitment to sustainability will the energy and water value chain is available in institutes enables us to keep abreast of the latest issues for our plants worldwide. We expanded our mitigate operational and reputational risk. the Economic portion in the Sustainability section technological advancements. In looking at new team to continue the development of Virtual Brain, of our website. technology, we prioritise innovations for our the system we are developing for predictive operations’ identified needs, while also considering maintenance and optimisation of our operations. more general proposals. We successfully implemented equalisation-hydrolysis (EQ-H), a wastewater treatment technology we New income streams developed in-house, which offers commercial and Sembcorp’s Group Business Development & environmental benefits through improving effluent Commercial department is structured and resourced quality while reducing power and chemical to pursue new business opportunities with agility consumption as well as biosludge production. and focus. Dedicated teams look into growing our The technology was applied in a full-scale pilot businesses in both existing as well as new markets. project at our facilities in Zhangjiagang, China. 132 BUILDING A GLOBAL COMPANY SEMBCORP INDUSTRIES ANNUAL REPORT 2014 133 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Two patents were filed to protect our innovations income base. We will also review our global supply providing a common platform for the evaluation Sembcorp complies with the Code of in Virtual Brain and EQ-H. chain, and aim to harmonise our procurement of new business opportunities. In addition, risk Corporate Governance 2012 issued by the We announced the formation of the Sembcorpprinciples globally. management provides our board and shareholders Monetary Authority of Singapore and reports EMA Energy Technology Partnership, a S$10 million We will continue to identify and develop new the assurance that key enterprise and business risks our governance processes and activities with research and development fund by Sembcorp and innovative technologies and build on our faced by the organisation have been identified, reference to principles set out in the Code. and Singapore’s Energy Market Authority (EMA) culture of innovation through recognition and assessed and managed via appropriate risk to support the translation of innovative energy implementation of !DEA Awards projects and other mitigation and controls. Risk and regulatory compliance solutions from laboratory to market, benefitting ad-hoc innovation proposals. In the near future, Sembcorp is committed to high standards Enterprise risk management the power industry and our operations. We we expect to implement further phases of the of regulatory compliance, as non-compliance with The Group has an enterprise risk management strengthened and re-launched the !DEA Award to Virtual Brain project and develop it for application applicable laws and regulations may subject us to (ERM) framework in place. The Group’s risks are reward not only implemented solutions, but also in other water treatment processes. We target to statutory and regulatory fines and even result in managed through reviews of major occurrences ideas and suggestions that could potentially create launch the first joint call for proposals seeking material litigation with severe negative impact on and key risk areas at management meetings, risk sustainable value for Sembcorp’s businesses and funding under the Sembcorp-EMA Energy our reputation, financials and licence to operate. assessments at the investment appraisal and due operations. We also earmarked seven research Technology Partnership in 2015. diligence stages, monitoring of key risks through and development projects in areas related to our HIGHLIGHT a quarterly System of Financial Discipline businesses to be jointly explored with the National Governance, Risk and Compliance Strengthening Governance submission or as required, and reporting of University of Singapore over the next few years. To maintain high standards of behaviour departmental and business unit level risks by New projects added to our growth pipeline and integrity and be best in class for In 2014, we formulated a new policy and all employees via the ERM reporting process in 2014 include the acquisition and upgrade of an governance practices manual covering internal controls for the Group and risk committee meetings. existing wastewater treatment plant in Lianyungang and its businesses. These documents provide Lingang Chemical Industrial Park in China’s Jiangsu Why this is material a clear framework for what constitutes an Governance assurance framework Province. Sembcorp was selected by the Jiangsu Governance and ethical business effective and adequate system of controls. Sembcorp adopts a governance assurance Environmental Protection Department to improve Responsible business conduct ensures the longIt also provides guidelines on the appropriate framework, which comprises four lines of defence: industrial wastewater treatment operations at the term viability of our business, and builds trust and segregation of duties and a checklist of internal industrial park, with the potential for the project to confidence with stakeholders. We commit to high controls for our business units to put in place. i. Business governance / policy management serve as a model to be replicated at other industrial standards of behaviour and integrity in everything ii. Management assurance parks in Jiangsu. We also acquired a stake in we do and comply with all laws and regulations iii. Independent assurance NCC Power Projects, which is currently building wherever we operate. We believe in conducting Management approach iv. Board oversight a 1,320-megawatt supercritical coal-fired plant in business legally, fairly, honestly and with integrity, Governance and ethical business Andhra Pradesh, India. This project will double our and expect the same of those with whom we do Sembcorp is led by an effective board mainly For more information on Sembcorp’s governance thermal power generation capacity in India and business. Sembcorp has zero tolerance towards comprising independent non-executive directors. and risk management systems, please refer to the increase our footprint in the country’s growing fraud, bribery and corruption. The board is collectively responsible for the longCorporate Governance Statement and Risk power market. term success of the company. Part of its role is to Management and Internal Controls chapter in this Risk and regulatory compliance ensure the adequacy of the Group’s control and risk annual report. Going forward Risk management is integral to Sembcorp’s framework and standards, including ethical The Group will continue to maintain a disciplined approach to operating sustainably. We actively standards, and that obligations to key stakeholders Training and performance management approach towards managing its financial position equip our management with tools to manage and are understood and met. Several board committees The Group provides awareness training and and portfolio. We will further deepen our asset control risks arising from existing business activities have been established with written terms of workshops on ERM, fraud risk management and management as well as business development and and investment decisions. Risk management helps reference to assist the board in the efficient business continuity management on a periodic basis. commercial capabilities, optimise plant performance to preserve our bottom line by reducing the discharge of its responsibilities and provide Desktop exercises for crisis management, emergency and grow our asset portfolio for a greater recurring likelihood and impact of potential losses, while independent oversight of management. response drills and business continuity exercises are 134 BUILDING A GLOBAL COMPANY SEMBCORP INDUSTRIES ANNUAL REPORT 2014 135 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT also conducted regularly to validate and fine-tune With the increased threat of disease epidemics, People We continually stay abreast of latest our procedures and plans, so as to ensure that we strengthened our readiness to respond to To provide a fair, diverse and inclusive developments and industry best practice through the Group can respond effectively to crises pandemic outbreaks through table-top exercises workplace, and continually improve our memberships and participation in external and emergencies. and emergency response drills in Singapore, the our human resource management and organisations such as the Singapore National Remuneration for senior management is tied Middle East and South Africa. This included people development Employers Federation, the Temasek Human to risk management and governance performance simulating a World Health Organisation declaration Resource Council and The Conference Board, indicators relevant to their roles. More details on that an infectious disease had reached pandemic Why this is material as well as numerous local roundtable groups. senior management remuneration and reward can phase, and the activation of response measures People development For further details of our approach and be found in the Corporate Governance Statement such as isolation and contact tracing procedures. Employees play a vital role in achieving our business initiatives on labour relations, remuneration and in this annual report. As part of our continuous review of policies, strategy and goals. To be a high performance employee welfare and engagement, please refer Sembcorp introduced a business continuity organisation, it is crucial to develop a competent, to the People portion in the Sustainability section 2014 performance management (BCM) policy which defines the BCM capable and motivated workforce that can meet of our website. This year, we continued to make progress in governance and implementation framework, and the business challenges of today and tomorrow. the global implementation of our fraud risk provides guidance to our operations in their The nature of our business is such that we HIGHLIGHT management framework. All our subsidiaries business continuity planning activities. require specialist technical expertise. Some of the Investing in People have completed fraud risk assessments for their As a testament to our ongoing commitment markets in which we operate lack a qualified labour respective cash-handling and procurement to excellence in corporate governance, financial force with the necessary technical skill sets that our In 2014, we focused our efforts on processes where applicable. We also continued reporting and disclosure, Sembcorp was ranked third business requires. In other markets, these skill sets implementing our competency framework, to communicate our policy of zero tolerance on The Business Times Governance & Transparency are highly sought after across other industries. with the aim of improving competencies of towards bribery and corruption through our Index in Singapore. We also won top awards in Additionally, the commercial and regulatory managers and employees across the different fraud awareness sessions for employees. three out of five categories at the 2014 Singapore environment in which we operate is growing in functions of the organisation. We launched In 2014, we continued to roll out our groupCorporate Awards. These included gold awards for complexity. Therefore, there is a critical need to company-wide training programmes to equip wide governance assurance framework to promote Best Managed Board and Best Annual Report for attract, retain and develop competent employees our employees in aspects of functional and a consistent approach and understanding with companies with S$1 billion and above in market who possess a deep understanding of the core competencies, such as coaching skills, regard to our risk and controls assessment process capitalisation, as well as the gold award for Best company and industry. performance management, presentation and and methodology. This aims to strengthen the Chief Executive Officer in the same category, We believe that the career opportunities and writing skills. This training is ongoing across risk and controls assessment process and also which was awarded to Sembcorp Industries’ Group structured development framework we offer are our organisation. provides a framework for self assessment of President & CEO Tang Kin Fei. In addition, we were key to attracting, motivating and retaining talent. risk-based controls. also named runner-up for the Singapore Corporate In addition, a policy and manual governing Governance Award under the category of companies internal controls were developed to provide our with S$1 billion and above in market capitalisation at business units guidance in implementing, the 15th Securities Investors Association (Singapore) strengthening and maintaining an effective and Investors’ Choice Award 2014. adequate system of internal controls. We also continued to use forensic data analytics as a tool to Going forward uncover red flags and identify any gaps in internal Sembcorp will continue to improve our risk controls to be addressed. management, governance and compliance In 2014, a total of two significant fines processes. As part of building the right risk amounting to S$214,000 were incurred by our management culture, regular risk awareness operations in Chile and China. We have looked into refresher training and risk assessment workshops these incidents to ensure a non-recurrence. will be conducted. 136 BUILDING A GLOBAL COMPANY SEMBCORP INDUSTRIES ANNUAL REPORT 2014 137 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Sembcorp’s Core Competency Framework the right people are in the right jobs, and Five Key Principles of Fair Employment can be deployed in the right locations. Practices Endorsed by Sembcorp ii. Competency framework Recruit and select employees on the basis The competency framework spells out the INSIGHT of merit (such as skills, experience or ability competencies and behaviours expected of Monitors and anticipates industry-specific • external and internal developments to perform the job), and regardless of age, a Sembcorp employee. The framework is • Thinks strategically, broadly and deeply race, gender, religion, marital status and deployed through recruitment, assessment, • Translates insights into decisions, actions, innovations and results family responsibilities, or disability development and career progression. This ROLE MODEL framework is also an evaluative tool that • Mentors, creates space for and Treat employees fairly and with respect highlights areas of developmental need, • empowers people to step up Conveys vision, passion and implement progressive human resource not only for the individual, but also for the INTEGRAL and sense of purpose INTEGRITY management systems organisation as a whole to address. • Aligns interests of external and • Embraces alternative and • Takes ownership and bears internal stakeholders opposing viewpoints responsibility • Embraces opportunities outside • Has courage to do the right thing Provide employees with equal opportunity iii. Development journeys one’s comfort zone and takes charge • Makes the right trade-offs across • Builds high-performing crosscompeting objectives to be considered for training and Employees are developed through on-thefunctional / cross-cultural teams development based on their strengths job learning, exposure and formal training and needs to help them achieve their as well as a mentorship programme for full potential high-potential employees. Management approach wherever we operate. While our operations span Human resource policies and structure six continents where labour laws, regulations and Reward employees fairly based on their ability, The framework aligns the development of the Our human resource management approach is practices differ widely, we are committed to high performance, contribution and experience organisation and individuals, addressing both based on the key aspects of strategic workforce standards of human resource management globally. organisational needs and employee aspirations. planning, our competency framework and creating We abide by local laws wherever we operate, Abide by labour laws and adopt the Tripartite development journeys for our employees. including abiding by and exceeding minimum wage Guidelines on Fair Employment Practices Performance appraisals The Senior Management Committee, supported requirements where such laws exist. Examples of All employees undergo half-yearly performance by the Group Human Resources department, other diverse regulations our global operations appraisals, where performance against expectations, is responsible for setting key policies relating to comply with include the Broad-based Black training needs and targets for the coming year are our employees. Economic Empowerment Amendment Act 2013 People development discussed and agreed upon by employee and The Group is committed to preserving and in South Africa, and localisation requirements for People development is a key focus of our company’s supervisor. As an assessment of core competencies respecting human rights in our operating locations. our operations in Oman and the UAE. strategy, and is driven at the board level by the and areas for improvement is embedded in the Sembcorp fully supports basic principles of fairness For the convenience of our employees, our Executive Resource & Compensation Committee. appraisal format, going through the appraisal process and opportunity as well as dignity, respect and local human resource policies, as well as all other Sembcorp developed the My Career Journey @ also helps to inculcate our core values in every non-discrimination. With our headquarters based company policies and guidelines, are readily Sembcorp framework to identify, develop and deploy employee, and provides clarity on the competencies in Singapore, we abide by the approach to human available and accessible on our intranet. employees to take up roles across the organisation. and functional skills needed for their development. rights taken by the Singapore government, and The framework encompasses three aspects: endorse the Employers’ Pledge of Fair Employment Employee learning and development Practices under Singapore’s Tripartite Alliance for i. Strategic workforce planning To promote learning and development throughout Fair and Progressive Employment Practices. We do Precise growth areas within Sembcorp are the organisation, all supervisors are given the not hire forced or child labour, and comply with mapped, giving us a clear picture of skills and mandate to oversee and drive the development local regulations restricting forced or child labour capabilities required. This helps us ensure that of their employees. 138 BUILDING A GLOBAL COMPANY SEMBCORP INDUSTRIES ANNUAL REPORT 2014 139 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our engineers and technicians receive up-toDeveloping local capability 2014 performance Going forward date technical training by experts. All employees We believe in recruiting and retaining local talent The continued implementation of our In 2015, we will focus on implementing the learning are also encouraged to attend professional courses as a long-term investment and strategy for our competency framework and the enhancement and development framework for employees. The relevant to their roles. operations. This leads to knowledge transfer and of our learning and development framework framework will be guided by a learning strategy, We offer employees the opportunity to develop capability development for the local community. were our main areas of focus in 2014. and lays out a model to chart the most efficient and their careers and gain international exposure Localisation plans play an important part in our We remain committed to meeting our localisation relevant way to execute learning needs. through job rotations and attachments in different strategy for the sustainable growth of our overseas targets. In 2014, three Omani employees undercultural and operational settings. We currently have projects. Targets are set to progressively localise our went a customised training programme in Singapore. more than 50 employees of different nationalities overseas operations’ workforce across all positions, The programme consisted of on-site training at our seconded from our Singapore offices to various including management positions, in line with each operations, as well as workshop sessions. overseas operations. We also provide internships jurisdiction’s regulatory and operating environment. and industrial attachments which offer students Where operations commence in a new market, and Sembcorp scholars practical experience and employees who are seconded from our head Employee Turnover1 (%) Training Cost Per Employee1 (S$) exposure to our operations while they undergo office to start up the operations are given a clear their studies. responsibility to develop local talent. Capability 20 1,000 18.4 We support our employees in their pursuit of development plans are designed for local employees 16 800 continuous improvement and higher qualifications hired and with the gradual localisation of the team, 706 and also sponsor selected employees who wish to the number of expatriates seconded from head 12 12.4 600 10.8 520 pursue higher qualifications in fields of study office is then progressively reduced. 8 400 relevant to their work. To develop our leaders, the All employees are given the same development 366 company sponsors senior executives to undergo opportunities across the Group, and at our overseas 4 200 programmes at leading institutes such as Harvard operations, local employees are also encouraged Business School, The University of Pennsylvania to develop their professional and managerial skills 0 0 Wharton School, INSEAD and Temasek’s Business through international exposure, such as on-the-job 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 Leadership Centre. Sembcorp scholarships are also training in Singapore or at other Sembcorp Employee turnover rose to 18.4% in 2014. This Training cost per employee in 2014 increased by 36% offered to promising students at various tertiary operations around the world. increase was mainly due to the restructuring of our to S$706 compared to 2013. This can be attributed institutions, following which a comprehensive business on Teesside in the UK. The restructuring to an increase in in-house training courses held in development plan is mapped out to groom them was carried out in close consultation with the local conjunction with the implementation of our competency for management positions. union, with mutually agreed selection criteria and framework. The increase was also partially due to As an industry leader in various sectors, restructuring process. In 2014, our voluntary engagement efforts with overseas business units turnover was 11.0%. resulting in improved reporting. Sembcorp encourages our employees to share and exchange best practices through platforms 1 The data covers both voluntary and involuntary turnover of permanent 1 Training data covers both permanent and contract employees of such as seminars, roadshows and local and employees of Sembcorp and its subsidiaries, excluding Sembcorp Marine. Sembcorp and its subsidiaries, excluding Sembcorp Marine. The rest of the indicators in the People section relate to permanent employees of international conferences. Sembcorp and its subsidiaries, excluding Sembcorp Marine. Unless otherwise stated, all People data reported relates to Sembcorp’s permanent employees. For more performance data, please refer to the People portion of the Sustainability section of our website. 140 BUILDING A GLOBAL COMPANY SEMBCORP INDUSTRIES ANNUAL REPORT 2014 141 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Health, Safety and Environment to provide competitive and reliable energy and Management approach HSE policy and guidelines To instil sound and practical health and water solutions to customers and communities, HSE management is embedded alongside Sembcorp’s Group HSE Policy articulates our safety management as part of our workplace while mitigating the impact of climate change. compliance with legal and regulatory requirements commitment to our stakeholders with respect culture, and protect the environment in the in work processes applicable to all phases of to HSE. It is available in the Sustainability section conduct of our business activities and Environmental protection Sembcorp’s business – from business development of our website. generation of our products and services Sembcorp recognises its duty to conserve and project development, to asset management. The Group’s HSE guidelines outline the roles through good environmental practices the natural environment and resources whilst We strive for continuous improvement in our and responsibilities of the relevant departments going about its businesses. Our businesses HSE performance, and apply an integrated and business units, in line with the Group HSE Why this is material consume primary resources and it is in these management approach in accordance with Policy. The guidelines are endorsed by the board’s Occupational health and safety areas that our responsible stewardship can the Plan-Do-Check-Act methodology: Risk Committee. Business units under the Effective occupational health and safety management have the greatest impact. management and operational control of Sembcorp prevents and mitigates health and safety-related must comply with the requirements set out in the incidents, protects our workforce and helps to HSE guidelines, and must monitor performance HIGHLIGHT T P reduce disruption to our operations. It also ensures AC N relating to standardised key HSE indicators based LA compliance with applicable laws and regulatory Strengthening the Management Standardised on our 4/0 targets. The 4/0 targets refer to: zero requirements in all the countries we operate in. Management HSE policy harm to people, zero damage to the environment, and Governance of HSE review framework and We regard the health and safety of our people management zero damage to assets and zero non-compliance as top priority, and seek to provide a working Excellence in HSE is a journey which requires with legal and regulatory requirements. environment that exceeds regulatory obligations for constant vigilance and striving for continuous The Group HSE department coordinates our our employees and others who work on or visit our improvement. In 2014, we reviewed our global HSE efforts across our business units and Audits, gap Training, premises. We are also committed to enforcing safe frameworks for health and safety management analysis and awareness and establishes HSE reporting structures. It works closely working practices within our sphere of influence. and formulated a plan to enhance and monitoring cross-learning with regional HSE coordinators to ensure the E strengthen them. The plan, which was CHCK DO effective and timely management of HSE issues Climate change endorsed by our board’s Risk Committee and across the Group. Our businesses are exposed to potential regulatory, spearheaded by our Group President & CEO, Sembcorp encourages the implementation of physical and supply risks related to climate change, aims to encourage a greater level of behavioural internationally recognised HSE management systems and as a company we also recognise the threat that observation and intervention by employees and across our operations. For detailed disclosure of climate change presents to the planet. We adhere contractors, so as to prevent accidents and Sembcorp’s HSE Strategy certifications achieved by Sembcorp’s businesses, to and support common policy positions adopted near-misses. Key elements of the plan include please refer to the Awards, Memberships and by governments on climate change, whilst keeping the formulation of Sembcorp Life Saving Rules, Leadership commitment Certification portion of the Sustainability section abreast of the wider body of academic and as well as the setting up of Safe Operation • Board-level oversight of our website. institutional research related to the subject. Committees at our operational and project • HSE initiatives led by senior management We believe that our businesses can leverage sites to strengthen the management of HSE. Training and audits innovative technology and renewable resources Continuous improvement Adequate and relevant training is key to • Implementation of key HSE requirements improving our HSE performance. Training • Standardisation of management systems needs arise from various situations, including new appointments, legal and / or regulatory Effective communication requirements, as well as risk control and business • Reinforce HSE processes through needs. These needs are identified and the effective communication appropriate training implemented. 142 BUILDING A GLOBAL COMPANY SEMBCORP INDUSTRIES ANNUAL REPORT 2014 143 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT The Group HSE department also organises an Project and asset life cycle risk assessment Environmental protection in the most effective and energy-efficient manner. annual global workshop. The workshop updates and prevention At Sembcorp, we aim to ensure adequate resources Treatment processes applied include mechanical, business units on our HSE priorities and facilitates As risk assessment is the cornerstone of effective are allocated to maintain environmental quality chemical, biological or membrane technologies, the sharing of best practice case studies across a health and safety management, we seek to ensure where we operate. or a combination of a number of these. range of topics, including technical performance that all hazards have been identified and their risks Environmental studies are carried out in Furthermore, we are able to use treated effluent and cross-cultural HSE management. This helps assessed at all relevant stages of the project and accordance with national and / or international from our wastewater treatment facilities to produce our business units to learn from one another and asset life cycle: from pre-bid due diligence study, standards and methodologies for new major high-purity water for industrial use, such as high improve their HSE performance, and supports their to design, construction, operation and projects and expansions. These studies include grade industrial water and demineralised water. planning of the following year’s goals and initiatives. decommissioning phases. environmental impact assessments, environmental By integrating wastewater treatment, water Periodic HSE cross-audits are also conducted for We implement suitable control systems, baseline studies and pollution control studies. All reclamation and water supply in a closed loop, our overseas operations to ensure compliance and such as engineering safeguards (including guards, recommendations put forth from the assessments Sembcorp helps its customers reduce their promote continuous improvement. interlocks and local exhaust ventilation) and form part of our management of HSE risks and are environmental impact and conserve water resources. procedural safeguards (including permits to work, incorporated in the planning, design, construction Sembcorp also owns and operates large-scale Occupational health and safety adequate training and supervision) to prevent harm and commissioning of new plants. water reuse and seawater desalination facilities, We are committed to preventing and reducing to people and equipment at the point of risk. which offer a sustainably-sourced, high-quality workplace injuries and occupational illnesses We emphasise the importance of providing and Atmospheric emissions water supply for industries and households in through active management of risks associated maintaining adequate workplace controls Our management approach to reduce fuel water-scarce areas. with our activities and services. The Group HSE throughout the entire operation process. consumption and increase energy efficiency also Management System requires our business units to helps to reduce atmospheric emissions. In addition, Waste and spills have programmes in place to manage occupational Climate change we minimise atmospheric emissions through various Sembcorp actively develops capabilities to recover health hazards and the risk of occupational illnesses. As a global energy player, we recognise that technologies, including catalytic convertors and energy from waste. An example is our Sembcorp For example, it is a requisite for every operating site investing in energy-efficient, renewable and adjusting combustion temperatures for nitrogen Woodchip Boiler Plant in Singapore, which uses to appoint a dedicated HSE officer to support the low-carbon technologies not only helps manage oxide (NOx ) and carbon dioxide (CO2) control. woodchip processed from waste wood collected management of HSE issues in accordance with our emissions, but also makes business sense. We are Emission levels are monitored at our energy plants, by our solid waste management arm to produce requirements and procedures. Monthly safety committed to setting achievable energy efficiency where emissions are significant. economical and renewable steam. This demonstrates inspections are conducted, and findings are and renewable energy targets, and developing our capability to manage the entire energy-fromrecorded, analysed and tabled for discussions. strategies to mitigate the impact of our operations Water waste value chain and leverages synergies between Examples of safe practices in operating units on the environment. Sembcorp’s facilities are able to effectively treat our energy and solid waste management businesses. include mandatory precautions, such as permits to We adopt a four-pronged approach to multiple streams of industrial wastewater to meet In addition, all hazardous waste generated by work, to ensure that our employees and contractors climate change: effluent discharge standards, including effluent our operations or collected by us on behalf of our are equipped with the right training and equipment with a wide-ranging chemical oxygen demand customers is disposed of in accordance with local when performing potentially hazardous work. • Maintaining a diversified generation portfolio and salinity. Our comprehensive water sampling regulations. In the instance of an emergency arising Identifying critical risk and safety elements for high • Growing our renewable energy business and testing regime ensures consistent compliance from major spillage or hazards at our industrial risk activities, such as work at height and lifting as part of a balanced portfolio with such standards. facilities, emergency response plans will be activated. operations, and ensuring strict adherence to safety • Energy-efficient power and water facilities In designing our various wastewater treatment requirements are also key controls enforced on • Active stakeholder engagement facilities, we employ a specialised configuration of our sites. treatment processes targeted at the expected For further details on Sembcorp’s approach to feedwater profile, in order to treat the wastewater climate change, please refer to the HSE portion in the Sustainability section of our website. 144 BUILDING A GLOBAL COMPANY SEMBCORP INDUSTRIES ANNUAL REPORT 2014 145 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 performance Injury Rate Per 200,000 Man-hours1, 2 Direct Greenhouse Gas Emissions1 It is of utmost importance to us that our operations Life Saving Rules. The rules, which apply to all n Subsidiaries in operation excluding solid waste (million tonnes of CO2 equivalent) do not pose a risk to the safety of our employees, employees and contractors working on our management operations contractors or local community. It is therefore with premises, set out clear and simple “dos” and n Solid waste management operations in Singapore3 deep regret that we report that our company “don’ts” for high risk activities. These rules aim 2.00 7.0 vehicles were involved in three fatal road traffic to bring about a greater level of awareness, 1.70 6.0 5.8 accidents, two in Singapore and one in South observation and intervention among our employees 1.60 5.7 1.50 5.3 1.43 5.0 Africa. In Singapore, the first accident involved a and contractors, so as to prevent accidents and 1.20 4.0 waste truck colliding with a cyclist while reversing near-misses. Non-adherence to these rules may into a bin centre. The second took place while one result in the immediate removal of the employee or 0.80 3.0 of our company’s waste trucks was travelling on a contractor from site as well as disciplinary action, 0.53 0.47 2.0 highway, when a motorcyclist in an adjacent lane depending on the severity of the infraction. 0.40 0.27 1.0 skidded under our truck. In the first case, the driver A workshop spearheaded by our Group President 0 0 was found to be at fault and dismissed from his & CEO and attended by the heads of key business 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 employment with us. In the second case, the driver units was held in December to launch and was cleared of wrongdoing and subsequently communicate this initiative. Injuries were largely due to human factors, which Direct GHG emissions remained steady in 2014. returned to work. In South Africa, our company We recognise that adherence to plans and will be addressed in a group-wide health and safety The marginal decrease in GHG emissions was due to vehicle collided with a pedestrian on a public road, procedures is the first line of defence against improvement plan for 2015. Recognising the greater slightly lower generation volume at our operations exposure to risk of injury in our solid waste management in Oman and the UAE, as well as the retirement of and investigations are still ongoing. In all three incidents, and aim to tighten our validation and operations, we have taken steps to prevent injuries. coal-fired assets on our Wilton International site in cases, the drivers were immediately suspended verification process to ensure these plans and These include installing a “mobile eye” system on our the UK, in line with Sembcorp’s strategy to transform from work while investigations were ongoing. procedures are implemented properly. fleet to alert our drivers of impending danger, cameras the site into a green hub. The company and these employees fully cooperated We remain committed to ensuring the on our vehicles to assist our drivers, and refresher with authorities conducting investigations into the efficiency of our operations while optimising training and lessons learnt workshops for the crew We report emissions from the combustion of biomass incidents. Assistance was also rendered to families our use of resources. In 2014, we finalised our as ongoing programmes to continuously improve separately, in accordance with GRI guidelines. These of the deceased, our drivers and their families. plans for two energy efficiency initiatives for performance in this area. emissions amounted to 1.1 million tonnes of CO2 Drivers who returned to work underwent counselling our operations in Singapore. We re-designed equivalent in 2014 compared to 0.7 million tonnes 1 Occupational health and safety data includes employees and contractors. in 2013. The significant increase was due to the beforehand to ascertain their ability to resume an existing boiler to use our customers’ process 2 200,000 man-hours is roughly equivalent to the total number of hours worked by 100 full-time employees in a calendar year. aforementioned shift towards biomass at our UK their duties. Corrective measures were put in place by-product as fuel, thereby eliminating the need 3 Occupational health and safety data for our solid waste management operations, and the doubling of biomass-fuelled where necessary to prevent recurrence, and the for natural gas as fuel for steam production. operations in Singapore is reported separately as this business employs generation capacity in Singapore. manual labour to a greater degree and has a different risk profile from lessons learnt were shared with other drivers and We also developed the Sembcorp Energy Optimiser. our other businesses. 1 Emissions data covers entities that produce direct GHG emissions from crew members through briefings. This online tool selects the most efficient and the combustion of fossil fuel. It excludes emissions from anaerobic This year, with the endorsement of our board’s reliable mix of assets and fuel inputs to use based wastewater treatment plants, as well as emissions from the use of diesel in vehicles and maintenance and servicing equipment. CO2 , Risk Committee, we developed a group-wide health on energy demand and prices, in order to achieve CH4 and N2O emissions are included in the calculation of direct GHG and safety improvement plan. Adherence to the higher reliability and efficiency. emissions. HFCs, PFCs, SF6 and NF3 emissions are excluded. Global Our NOx emissions were 3,162 tonnes and our warming potential factors used are from the IPCC Fourth Assessment plan is mandatory for all our subsidiaries, including Report for the 100-year time horizon. projects in development. Key elements of this sulphur oxide (SOx ) emissions were 732 tonnes in plan include the formation of Safe Operation 2014. Water discharged in 2014 amounted to Committees on our sites, as well as the Sembcorp 1,089 million cubic metres. 146 BUILDING A GLOBAL COMPANY SEMBCORP INDUSTRIES ANNUAL REPORT 2014 147 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Water Withdrawal (million m3) Waste Disposal1 (thousand tonnes) Community ensure consistency and acceptable standards, n Hazardous waste To be a responsible business, making a community integration is managed at the local level. n Non-hazardous waste positive contribution to our communities Sembcorp’s global corporate social responsibility (CSR) framework establishes a strategic and 2,000 50 Why this is material consistent approach for our charitable contributions Community integration and community investments. We focus on fostering 1,588.5 1,593.0 40 1,500 1,502.2 Sembcorp provides solutions that are essential to environmental stewardship as well as improving the 30 everyday life. We view our support and contribution living standards and quality of life of the 1,000 30.5 to our host communities as a part of our licence to communities we are in. 20 21.4 22.4 operate. We are therefore committed to assessing 500 and responsibly managing our impact, as well as 10 investing in our local communities. 9.4 9.4 12.6 0 0 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 HIGHLIGHT Inspiring the Next Generation Water withdrawal increased by 6% in 2014 from Hazardous waste disposed increased by 34% against of Energy Leaders Environment Community the previous year, primarily due to increased activity the previous year. This increase was due to the higher from our water utilities business in Singapore and reliability of our operations, resulting in longer runs We are committed We are committed to In 2014, we announced a partnership with the Middle East. which produced a larger volume of ash. Non-hazardous Singapore’s EMA to launch the Sembcorpto fostering improving the living waste increased by 36%. This increase was due to the aforementioned longer boiler runs at our operations, EMA Energy Challenge. This national annual environmental standards and quality and a second boiler at our woodchip boiler plant in competition aims to nurture and inspire stewardship in our of life of the Singapore coming onstream, both of which contributed youths in Singapore to become future energy community through community, such as For more information on our HSE performance, to larger volumes of ash. Major maintenance activities professionals. Participants will take part in contributions to through providing please refer to the HSE portion in the Sustainability also contributed to the disposal of metal scrap. sharing sessions by industry experts and sustainability and access to energy and section of our website. plant visits, and will then get to apply their environmental water, social welfare 1 The data excludes waste that is collected and incinerated knowledge to real-life challenges faced by initiatives. and education. Going forward for our customers. power professionals in an exciting game. This While we have made improvements to our initiative will complement what the students management of HSE, we recognise that there is learn in school, show them what the life of much more to do. In the area of health and safety a power engineer is like, and support the Our CSR framework also aligns the tracking management, we are determined to strive for have been installed on most of our vehicles and government’s drive to attract more young and reporting of our community contributions with continuous improvement and instil a stronger, more monthly driver briefings using footage taken people into the local energy industry. guidelines set by the London Benchmarking Group. pervasive safety culture. Ensuring responsible and from vehicular recordings will be held to share This allows us to account for our total community safe operations remains our top priority. We will lessons learnt, and further promote safe driving. giving using standard definitions and valuations, while focus on establishing Safe Operation Committees A driver’s handbook with safe driving tips which Management approach ensuring that contributions recorded are meaningfully in our global operations, as well as implementing is currently available in English will be translated The needs of one community can be very different spent on community investment activities. and enforcing the Sembcorp Life Saving Rules. into Chinese and Malay languages. from another’s, and it is our belief that our local Assessing and responsibly managing our impact In our solid waste management operations, we We plan to implement our zero natural gas operations will be in the best position to understand on local communities is key to successful community plan to implement a mandatory defensive driving boiler project and Sembcorp Energy Optimiser at those needs and partner local stakeholders to help integration and acceptance. Environmental impact refresher course for drivers to improve their safety our Singapore operations after necessary regulatory address them. Therefore, while the Group provides studies are carried out in accordance with national awareness. Real-time digital recording cameras approvals have been received. the strategic framework, tools and guidelines to and / or international standards and methodologies 148 BUILDING A GLOBAL COMPANY SEMBCORP INDUSTRIES ANNUAL REPORT 2014 149 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CASE STUDY for new major projects and expansions. Some of We continue to be committed to creating economic these studies include social impact assessments and social benefit for the communities in which Making a positive impact in Salalah, Oman The local population has benefitted from the and social management plans which are we operate. Our products and services such as the marked improvement in the quality of water. implemented through the various stages of provision of energy and water contribute to thriving The accessibility of potable water is a key In the past, Dhofar’s groundwater was at the site’s development. local economies and healthy local communities. concern in the Middle East. Historically, risk of contamination from factors such as We seek to nurture open communication in For more information on our community groundwater formed the main source of saline intrusion and surface pollution. Filtered the communities we operate in. At our local sites, initiatives, please refer to the Sembcorp in Our water for the community, resulting in issues groundwater used by residents also had a high various communication platforms including Communities page on our website. such as the risk of over-extraction. concentration of calcium and other minerals, community liaison panels and meetings, and With the opening of Sembcorp’s Salalah resulting in health impacts from consumption, telephone and email exchanges are utilised to Community Contributions1 (S$ million) independent water and power plant (IWPP), a chalky residue left on the skin after a bath, connect with our communities. the first large-scale seawater desalination facility as well as sediment collection on washed crockery 2.5 2.4 in the Salalah system, today 85% of the water and utensils. With the supply of desalinated water 2014 performance 2.0 needs in the Dhofar governorate are instead met from Sembcorp’s Salalah IWPP, residents now enjoy In 2014, Sembcorp and Sembcorp Marine contributed 1.8 through the plant’s 69,000 cubic metres per day a supply of good quality drinking water from a S$5.8 million across our global operations in 1.5 capacity. The plant currently supplies water to safe source and an improved quality of life. terms of charitable contributions and community approximately 170,000 people. Furthermore, the development of Sembcorp’s 1.0 0.9 investments. Excluding Sembcorp Marine’s The reliable provision of good quality Salalah IWPP has led to a significant contribution contribution, S$2.4 million in cash, time and in-kind 0.5 desalinated water has enabled the region to to the local economy. During the construction donations were contributed by Sembcorp. The reduce its withdrawal of groundwater. At the and development phase of the plant, monies paid contribution supported initiatives in aid of causes 0 same time, this has helped to meet the rapidly to local businesses amounted to OMR45 million, 2012 2013 2014 including youth development, environmental increasing demand for water in the area. or approximately S$150 million. and water conservation education, as well as In 2014, our community contributions in cash, time apprenticeships and job training programmes. and in-kind increased by 27% compared to 2013. During the year, we presented the Festival of This is mainly due to our contribution to enhance Biodiversity in partnership with Singapore’s National the Sembcorp Cool House, a temperature-controlled Parks Board (NParks). The event engaged more than glasshouse at the National Orchid Garden within the 15,000 members of the public on Singapore’s Singapore Botanic Gardens. As part of Singapore’s Jubilee celebrations, Sembcorp has committed to environment heritage and conservation. We received donate S$10 million over four years to establish the recognition for our support of environmental Sembcorp Cool House as a world-class destination conservation with NParks naming a 100-year-old of educational and scientific value. heritage tree in the Singapore Botanic Gardens 1 Data excludes contributions by Sembcorp Marine. after our company. This is a rare honour only given to a handful of companies who have made significant contributions over the years Going forward to the greening of Singapore. We will continue to enhance our Group’s frameworks 73% of our operations had local community and guidelines, including the integration of impact engagement and / or development programmes. assessments into our investment approval process. 150 BUILDING A GLOBAL COMPANY SEMBCORP INDUSTRIES ANNUAL REPORT 2014 151 INVESTOR RELATIONS At Sembcorp, we are committed to ensuring that all capital market players have supported by the Accounting and Corporate FTSE ST Oil & Gas Sector Index’s negative 23%; easy access to clear, reliable and meaningful information on our company in Regulatory Authority and the Singapore Exchange. but against the broader market, this was below In 2014, Sembcorp also improved its ranking the Straits Times Index’s positive 10% return order to make informed investment decisions. on the Governance and Transparency Index (GTI) and the MSCI Asia Pacific ex-Japan Industrials and became the third-highest ranked company on Index’s flat performance. the GTI. A well-respected ranking exercise by the Based on feedback from shareholders and in line In the context of constantly evolving requirements the dbAccess Asia Conference, the Citibank ASEAN National University of Singapore Business School’s with Sembcorp’s commitment to deliver shareholder of disclosure, transparency and corporate governance, Investor Conference, the Macquarie ASEAN Centre for Governance, Institutions and value, we paid an interim dividend for the first we aim to provide investors with an accurate, Conference and the Morgan Stanley 13th Annual Organisations in collaboration with CPA Australia time to shareholders, increasing the frequency of coherent and balanced account of the Group’s Asia Pacific Summit. We also continued to organise and The Business Times, the GTI assesses the dividend payments to twice a year. For the financial performance. Sembcorp has a dedicated investor site visits to our facilities on Jurong Island, Singapore transparency of 644 Singapore-listed companies’ year 2014, an interim tax exempt one-tier dividend relations team and communicates with the investing to provide analysts and investors a first-hand look at financial disclosures as well as their governance, of 5 cents per ordinary share was declared public through multiple platforms and channels. our operations and allow them to gain a better ethics and rigour in financial reporting. and paid to shareholders in September 2014. These include group briefings to analysts, investors understanding of Sembcorp’s capabilities and In addition, a final tax exempt one-tier dividend and the media; one-on-one meetings with operational track record. of 11 cents per ordinary share has been proposed, shareholders and potential investors; investor TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN subject to approval by shareholders at the next roadshows as well as the investor relations section annual general meeting. Together with the interim of our corporate website. In addition, company COMMITMENT TO GOOD Sembcorp Industries’ last traded share price in dividend, this brings our total dividend for FY2014 visits and facility tours are also organised to help CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 2014 was S$4.45, and the company ended the to 16 cents per ordinary share. investors gain insights into the Group’s operations. year with a market capitalisation of S$8.0 billion. As a strong endorsement of Sembcorp’s excellence The company’s share price averaged S$5.16 during in corporate governance management and the year, registering a high of S$5.55 in April SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION PROACTIVE COMMUNICATION disclosure, Sembcorp won top awards in three out and a low of S$4.10 in December. Daily turnover WITH THE FINANCIAL COMMUNITY of five categories at the 2014 Singapore Corporate averaged 2.1 million shares. In May 2014, we paid In 2014, institutional shareholders as a group Awards. These included gold awards for Best out a final tax exempt one-tier dividend of 17 cents continued to dominate Sembcorp’s shareholder During the year, senior management and the Managed Board and Best Annual Report for per ordinary share for the financial year 2013, base. Other than our major shareholder Temasek investor relations team continued to actively engage companies with S$1 billion and above in market comprising a final ordinary dividend of 15 cents Holdings which held 49.5% of our shares at the with the financial community. We held over 150 capitalisation, as well as the gold award for Best per ordinary share and a final bonus dividend of end of 2014, institutional shareholders accounted one-on-one and group meetings with shareholders, Chief Executive Officer, which was awarded to 2 cents per ordinary share. for 33.3% of our issued share capital or 66% of analysts and potential investors. These included Sembcorp Industries’ Group President & CEO Tang Falling oil prices, exacerbated by the decision free float, while retail shareholders1 and unidentified non-deal roadshows to international financial Kin Fei. The Singapore Corporate Awards celebrate of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting shareholders2 held 17.2% of issued share capital or centres. In the Asia Pacific, we covered Singapore, the best in corporate governance among listed Countries (OPEC) to maintain oil production levels, 34% of free float. In terms of geographical spread, Malaysia and Australia; in Europe, England, Scotland companies, as well as individuals who, through sparked a sell-off in oil and gas-related stocks excluding the stake held by Temasek Holdings, and Switzerland; and in North America, Canada their corporate practices, have helped to raise globally. The negative sentiment on the sector has our largest geographical shareholding base was and the US. We also participated in six investor Singapore's standard of governance and disclosure. had an impact on the performance of Sembcorp Europe with 14% of issued share capital, followed conferences: the Credit Suisse 17th Annual Asian The awards are organised by the Institute of Industries shares, and for 2014, total shareholder by shareholders from North America and Asia Investment Conference in Hong Kong, and in Singapore Chartered Accountants, the Singapore return stood at negative 16%. In relative terms, which accounted for 12% and 9% of our Singapore, the Maybank Invest ASEAN Conference, Institute of Directors and The Business Times, and this performance compared favourably against the company’s issued share capital respectively. 1 Retail shareholders include private investors, brokers, custodians and corporates 2 Unidentified shareholders mainly include shareholders that fall below the threshold of 250,000 shares 152 BUILDING A GLOBAL COMPANY SEMBCORP INDUSTRIES ANNUAL REPORT 2014 153 INVESTOR RELATIONS Share Ownership by Investor Category Share Ownership by Geographical Distribution Average Monthly Sembcorp Industries Share Price and Straits Times Index in 2014 (rebased) n Strategic n Singapore n Institutions n Asia (ex-Singapore) n Sembcorp Industries 110 n Retail* n Europe n Straits Times Index n North America n Rest of the world 100 Sembcorp Straits Industries Times Month (S$) Index 4% January 5.36 3,115.88 90 February 5.36 3,049.97 14% March 5.31 3,112.51 80 33.3% April 5.42 3,232.84 May 5.40 3,262.56 49.5% 54% 12% June 5.37 3,280.43 70 July 5.45 3,305.89 1% August 5.25 3,318.53 7.4% September 5.18 3,314.09 60 October 4.93 3,220.49 15% * November 4.66 3,312.97 9.8%** December 4.30 3,312.21 50 JAN FEB MAR APR MAY JUN JUL AUG SEP OCT NOV DEC * Includes private investors, brokers, custodians and corporates ** Shareholders not identified mainly include those that fall below * Shareholders not identified mainly include those that fall below the the threshold of 250,000 shares threshold of 250,000 shares As at December 31, 2014 As at December 31, 2014 Average Monthly Traded Volume of Sembcorp Industries Shares in 2014 (thousands) 4,000 3,000 Month Average Volume (‘000) January 1,722 February 1,717 March 2,567 2,000 April 2,206 May 1,497 June 1,529 July 1,062 August 2,536 1,000 September 1,878 October 2,638 November 3,665 December 2,752 0 JAN FEB MAR APR MAY JUN JUL AUG SEP OCT NOV DEC 154 BUILDING A GLOBAL COMPANY SEMBCORP INDUSTRIES ANNUAL REPORT 2014 155
