United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2015 Financial Report 2014 Financial Report 2014 of NRW.BANK Contents 2 Corporate Responsibility 34 Report on Public Corporate Governance 50 Declaration of Conformity 51 Report of the Supervisory Board 52 Management Report 88 Balance Sheet 92 Income Statement 94 Notes 128 Cash Flow Statement 130 Statement of Changes in Equity 131 Reproduction of the Auditor’s Report 132 Responsibility Statement 133 Members of the Advisory Board for Housing Promotion 135 Members of the Parliamentary Advisory Board 136 Members of the Advisory Board 140 Organisation Chart 142 NRW.BANK at a Glance This is an unofficial translation of the Finanzbericht 2014 (German Financial Report 2014) and is provided for convenience purposes only. In the event of any ambiguity, the German text will prevail. Financial Report 2014 1 Corporate Responsibility Corporate Responsibility As the development bank for North Rhine-Westphalia, NRW.BANK is committed to the principles of corporate In addition, NRW.BANK has defined the core responsibility. The Bank believes that the social, elements of its corporate mission in its corporate environ­mental and economic aspects associated with mission statement. this responsibility are inseparably linked. Responsibility Rules on compliance and money laundering is a conscientious, transparent and ongoing process prevention are integral elements of NRW.BANK’s geared to its employees, its customers and society for business processes. They are designed to help NRW.BANK. the Bank prevent corruption, bribery and money laundering. In addition, NRW.BANK has installed For the past ten years each of NRW.BANK’s Annual binding regulations for the confidential treatment Reports has included a report on corporate responsi­ of information, for example company and business bility and how it is put into practice. The performance secrets, by its employees. indicators presented in this chapter relate to 2012, To safeguard its competition-neutral status, 2013 and 2014 and cover NRW.BANK’s two head NRW.BANK complies with the principle of nonoffices in Düssel­dorf und Münster. discrimination. When commissioning third parties, NRW.BANK The “Principles of Corporate Responsibility at will pay attention not only to cost-efficiency but NRW.BANK” contain rules as to how the Bank deals also to environmental protection, energy efficiency, with its general processes, its client groups, its em­ female promotion and social aspects in accordance ployees, climate and environmental protection as with applicable legal regulations. well as corporate citizenship within its approach to To confirm its sustainability targets, NRW.BANK sustainability. These principles and the five areas also will verify their attainment at regular intervals form the basis for the annual sustainability report, and join national and international initiatives or thereby defining the relevant contents for the Bank. sign the voluntary commitments developed by such initiatives. For instance, NRW.BANK has 1 Living up to Our Corporate Responsibility signed the ten principles of the UN Global Compact, the Finance Initiative of the United Nations Environment Programme as well as the German NRW.BANK considers sustainability to be a Diversity Charter. ­central guiding principle and a key criterion in NRW.BANK reviews its day-to-day work processes taking decisions on business policy. This credo is in light of sustainability-related aspects. The reflected in all phases of NRW.BANK’s corporate Bank will continue to improve the sustainability activities, starting from its strategic and business of its business activities and make the progress policy decisions to the shaping of its range of achieved measurable wherever possible. Focal products and services down to the implementation points of these efforts include the integration of of specific financings, its capital market activities sustainability-related issues into departmental and its offering of consulting services. tasks, products, guidelines and processes as well One of the essential cornerstones of the sustain­ as the integration of sustainability aspects into ability strategy pursued by NRW.BANK is trans­ the credit and investment processes. parent and responsible treatment of its owner, NRW.BANK publishes regular reports on the customers, employees and its stakeholders at further development of its internal guidelines as large. NRW.BANK lives up to this commitment well as its activities in the individual areas and based on its Public Corporate Governance Code. the progress achieved. 2 Financial Report 2014 The NRW.BANK’s statutes (section 5, para. 1) and Its tasks primarily include: the Act on NRW.BANK (section 3, para. 1) oblige the Bank to follow the principle of sustainability in the perdevelopment, communication and review of the formance of its tasks which underlines the importance Bank-wide Compliance framework, of this topic for the development bank. Sustainability is managing the compliance risk whilst taking other also a general principle of overriding importance in the risk types into account, especially reputational and Bank’s strategy. operational risks, preparation and further development of Bank1.1 Statutory Framework and Internal Regulations specific risk analyses to assess the appropriateness The Bank complies with the statutory provisions and effectiveness of the principles, resources and ­applicable in Germany. NRW.BANK has additionally processes, formulated internal guidelines addressing various advising and supporting the management and the aspects of sustainability to put corporate responsibility business units of the Bank, into practice in the context of its own business activity. implementing risk-oriented controls of the security processes and procedures, 1.1.1 Labour Standards and Human Rights ongoing reporting to the Managing Board and the Compliance with human rights and with the labour Bank’s bodies, standards that are applicable in Germany as well as reporting suspicions to the prosecuting authorities, the rejection of child and forced labour are a matter organisation of regular training and raising of course for the Bank as laid down in NRW.BANK’s employees’ awareness as well as Principles of Corporate Responsibility. exchange with the regulatory authorities. 1.1.2 Equal Opportunities and Principle of 1.1.4 Data Protection Non-discrimination NRW.BANK has regulated all activities in the area of NRW.BANK is committed to promoting mutual respect data protection and banking secrecy regulations in a and avoiding discrimination in order to offer its em­ set of written policies and instructions to ensure that ployees a fair and good working environment. This information is handled responsibly and confidentially. is why equal opportunities and the principle of non-­ Compliance with these policies and instructions is discrimination are laid down in the Principles of Cor­ mandatory for all employees. porate Responsibility and in special internal guidelines. The Bank meets its statutory training obligations 1.1.3 Compliance and Money Laundering Prevention relating to data protection and information security The business model of NRW.BANK relies on the con­ towards its staff. fidence placed in the Bank’s expertise, performance and integrity by its customers, business partners, 1.1.5 Sustainable Procurement employees, owner and the public. Compliance with Material sustainability aspects are mandatory also in regulatory and statutory provisions as well as with the context of NRW.BANK’s procurement processes internal requirements forms an important basis for this. for construction, delivery and other services. Based on the Act against Restraints of Competition (GWB) Such compliance is an integral element of all workflows and the prevailing wage law for public procurement and processes within NRW.BANK. The “Compliance” (TVgG-NRW), aspects of environmental protection, department works independently of the Bank’s operaenergy efficiency, female promotion, the balance of tions in order to ensure compliance with all Bank-wide work and family life or the prohibition of child labour rules and regulations, which are primarily based on are mandatorily binding within NRW.BANK. the requirements of the Securities Trading Act and the Minimum Requirements for Risk management. It also Accordingly, the Bank places orders which exceed the supports all measures aimed at preventing money EU limits in accordance with the Construction Contract laundering, terrorist financing and other criminal acts. Procedures (Part A) as well as the Regulations on Contract Awards for Public Supplies and Services (Part A) Financial Report 2014 3 Corporate Responsibility and the Regulations on Contract Awards for Independent 1.2 Initiatives and Memberships Professional Services. Before placing orders worth In accordance with its Principles of Corporate Respon€ 25,000 or more, the Bank additionally performs an sibility, NRW.BANK also contributes to tasks identified audit in accordance with section 8 of the North Rhineoutside its own business activity. Since 2009, the Westphalian Anti-Corruption Act (KorruptionsbG). This Bank has been a member or signatory of the following way, the Bank can rule out bribery, fraud, influence initiatives: peddling, restrictive agreements and other forms of corruption. German Diversity Charter UNEP Finance Initiative The integration of environmental aspects into the proUN Global Compact curement of office materials is an important element of NRW.BANK’s procurement policy. The focus is placed In 2014, NRW.BANK was additionally active in various not only on the use of sustainable office materials but associations, e.g. as an ordinary member of the Associa­ also on sustainable ordering and logistic processes. tion of German Public Sector Banks and the European Association of Public Banks and as a guest of the North NRW.BANK supports the employment of people with Rhine-Westphalian Banking Association (Bankenvereidisabilities at its locations in Düsseldorf and Münster. nigung NRW) and the Cooperative Association of the In the past fiscal year, the Bank again commissioned Rhineland and Westphalia (Rheinisch-Westfälischen workshops for disabled to provide such services as Genossenschaftsverband). washing and cleaning. This is yet another way in which the Bank ensures its corporate responsibility towards 1.3 Sustainable Products society. In accordance with its principles, NRW.BANK con­ tinuously optimises its business activities with regard 1.1.6 Public Corporate Governance Code to sustainability. In this context, the Bank focuses on The Bank’s amended Public Corporate Governance incorporating sustainability aspects in its promotion Code came into force on January 1, 2014. products. For many years, the Bank has implemented transparency In the context of the established internal “Launch of and responsibility in its dealings with its target groups. New Products” process, each of NRW.BANK’s promotion In early 2006, NRW.BANK was one of the first publicproducts was again checked for sustainability-related sector companies in Germany to adopt a Public Cor­ risks as well as for compliance with the Principles of porate Governance Code and to officially commit itself Corporate Responsibility before being launched or to this standard of corporate governance. expanded in 2014. 1.1.7 Freedom of Association and Right to Collective 1.3.1 NRW.BANK.Green Bond 2014 Bargaining To establish a close link between its environmentally The Bank’s staff council represents the interests and oriented promotion programmes and its own funding in needs of the employees of NRW.BANK based on the the international capital market NRW.BANK launched a North Rhine-Westphalian State Staff Representation special product, the “Green Bond”, in 2013. Act. The staff council is responsible for monitoring compliance with applicable laws, regulations, collective While the proceeds from the Bank’s regular bonds are bargaining agreements and labour agreements and used also to support social and economic aspects of its informing the employees of both head offices at the promotion business, the funds raised under the Green annual staff assembly. Bond programme are exclusively used to refinance previously defined environmental promotion projects As a public-law institution NRW.BANK is subject to the from North Rhine-Westphalia. collective bargaining agreement for the private sector and public banking industry. It implements the collecFollowing its debut in 2013, NRW.BANK successfully tively agreed results for its employees under collective issued its second Green Bond, a € 500 million 4-year. agreements. For the majority of employees not covered transaction in October 2014. While “Water” and by collective agreements they are voluntarily imple“Energy” were again chosen as the topical fields, mented. 4 Financial Report 2014 this year’s focus was placed on “Energy”, with approx. To be selected and designated for funding from the € 370 million being earmarked for investments in this Green Bond 2014, projects needed to fulfil a specific area. profile including a commitment date in the current calendar year and the relevance in terms of the themes defined for the Green Bond. The funded measures serve to reduce and avoid adverse environmental Water 26% impacts on the climate (mitigation) and to deal with the consequences of climate change (adaptation). Energy 74% NRW.BANK assured investors that the proceeds from the Green Bond would be used to fund loans granted in 2014 for projects in the fields of water management, energy efficiency, renewable energy and electric mobility. In an internal selection process, the Bank identified suitable promotion projects from both fields and clearly Development projects totalling € 500 million were marked them as designated investment targets for its financed with the help of NRW.BANK’s Green Bond: 2014 Green Bond. This approach ensures that the idea of sustainable investments is implemented in a responsible manner. Field Topic Number of Projects Funded Promotion Volume Water River renaturation 1 130,000,000 € Energy Construction/renovation of public buildings 1 250,000,000 € Energy NRW.BANK.Effizienzkredit 21 37,164,000 € Energy NRW.BANK.Energieinfrastruktur 7 82,836,000 € The objective was to make a contribution to reducing In view of the regional economic and ecological imporcarbon emissions and improving water quality. The tance for North Rhine-Westphalia, NRW.BANK additioBank used the proceeds from the Green Bond to nally decided to again support the renaturation of the facilitate the construction of more than 20 wind turbine River Emscher. Therefore, proceeds of € 130 million generators, for the replacement of local transport from the 2014 Green Bond were used to support various vehicles by more environmentally-friendly models as measures implemented by Emschergenossenschaft. well as for investments in more energy-efficient and The Bank thus helped to create a modern and effective resource-efficient production plants to list a few. sewage system and to considerably improve the water quality and biodiversity and, hence, the environmental The proceeds from the bond were also used to fund quality in general. The NRW.BANK.Green Bond 2014 the construction of new, as well as the renovation of contributed to financing the construction of 31 km new, existing, North Rhine-Westphalian universities and modern sewage canals and renaturation of another buildings of Bauund Liegenschaftsbetrieb NRW. 10 km of river sections based on the progress made in These projects included the construction of the Energy rebuilding the sewage canals. Campus Lab of the Ruhr West University in Bottrop and the complete refurbishment of buildings contaminated For the first time, the Bank had the environmental by PCB and asbestos at Düsseldorf’s Heinrich-Heine benefit and the quality of the projects chosen for the University and Bochum’s Ruhr University. 2014 Green Bond were analysed and assessed by an Financial Report 2014 5 Corporate Responsibility external rating agency. In its “Second Opinion”, oekom 1.5 Responsible Marketing research confirmed the thoroughly sustainable concept In keeping with its sustainable procurement policy and of the second bond. conforming with the provisions of the TVgG-NRW the Bank considers important aspects of corporate responProject examples funded by the bond, background sibility. This also applies when purchasing supplies and information and the documentation for the awarding contracts for marketing services. NRW.BANK.Green Bond 2014 are published by the Bank at www.nrwbank.de/greenbond. The Bank’s advertising materials are also geared to sustain­ability. Thus, since many years the bank uses 1.4 Stakeholder Dialogue environmentally-friendly items made from recycled or NRW.BANK has defined its key stakeholders with renewable, biodegradable materials. regard to corporate responsibility and maintains a transparent and regular exchange with them. Sustainability is also considered in the events organised and offered by NRW.BANK. In the past fiscal year, the Bank held two seminars especially for environmentally Stakeholders interested target groups on “Energy-efficient production – from energy management to process optimisation” and “Energy-efficient construction – practical knowGuarantor Employees ledge for builders”. End borrowers Rating Agencies Responsible marketing for NRW.BANK also means confidential treatment of customer information. The House banks Bank therefore decided and stipulated in writing not to Initiatives/ NGOs use typical sales-oriented advertising measures based Suppliers on customer data such as letters or mailings. Customers Media may only be addressed individually by their account ... manager within the scope of the regular customer Investors service. The Bank’s Data Protection Officer is involved in all dialogue-based marketing measures based on customer data. By developing new and expanding existing promotion products, the Bank supports the North Rhine-West­ 1.6 Sustainability Ratings phalian government’s social and infrastructural measures Since a number of years NRW.BANK’s sustainability as well as its energy and climate protection targets. The performance has been rated by specialist agencies. The cooperation is based on trusting communication and ratings focus on “Environmental, Social, Governance”. coordination with the state of North Rhine-Westphalia. The Bank again obtained good sustainability ratings in the past fiscal year. The annual financial report is the most important ­communication tool used by NRW.BANK to supply its Rating agency oekom research AG rates the sustaina­ stakeholders with transparent information about its bility of issuers on a scale from A+ to D–. NRW.BANK corporate responsibility. The sustainability portal on scored a “C” rating, with the additional “Prime” rating the Bank’s website provides additional information. classifying the Bank as a sustainable investment. In the NRW.BANK continuously expands the information Sustainalytics rating, NRW.BANK scored 64 points out offered and in 2013 added a new page about its Green of 100 possible points. The imug sustainability assessBond programme. ment rates NRW.BANK in the upper quartile of the six rated national development banks. 6 Financial Report 2014 Sustainability Ratings imug oekom research Sustainalytics Rating positive Prime No. 72 of 350* * Above the peer group average. 2 Designing Sustainable Promotion for Clients Living”. They form the basis of NRW.BANK’s promotion strategy and denote the target areas in which ­ NRW.BANK’s promotion activities are to take effect. NRW.BANK provides its financing and advisory Each field of promotion comprises specific promotion services creatively, competently and responsibly themes which outline the promotion focal points of the for the benefit of businesses, municipalities and Bank. They are elaborated in NRW.BANK’s promotion the people in North Rhine-Westphalia. strategy. Each promotion product is assigned to a In accordance with its sustainability strategy, ­promotion theme. NRW.BANK specifically promotes and funds projects and programmes designed to improve The expansion and refinement of the product portfolio living conditions, social development as well are driven by the promotion policy principles. They are as environmental and climate protection in adopted by the Board of Guarantors and NRW.BANK’s North Rhine-Westphalia. In its capacity as the promotion strategy which builds on these principles. development bank for North Rhine-Westphalia, Together they facilitate the consistent and sustainable NRW.BANK specifically supports investments development of the promotion business taking into which take the North Rhine-Westphalian economy account the political guidelines of the North Rhineand infrastructure forward. The Bank uses part Westphalian government. The shared fundamental of its own income for its promotion activities. objective of the Bank and the state government is NRW.BANK’s promotion activities are geared to to develop sustainable promotion solutions for the funding projects of proven economic viability economy, the municipalities and the people in North while taking its customers’ interests into account Rhine-Westphalia. and paying particular attention to environmental protection needs. Projects with unacceptable environmental impacts or unacceptable negative Promotion Services Provided by NRW.BANK impacts on social development are excluded from NRW.BANK’s support to the extent that such exclusion is permissible within the legal frameInfrastructure SME work under which NRW.BANK operates. Municipalities g See Start-ups vin d Li & & w th Sustainable behaviour is a central objective of Housing Gro Housing Exports NRW.BANK’s business model. The sustainability ob­ jective essentially determines the structure and scope De ve on i lop ct of the Bank’s promotion and development products. ment & Prote Environment/ Education Climate/Energy In terms of contents, NRW.BANK’s promotion offerings are divided into three fields of promotion: “Seed & Innovation Growth”, “Development & Protection” and “Housing & Financial Report 2014 7 Corporate Responsibility The free provision of monetary and non-monetary 2.1 Seed & Growth resources for the promotion business – referred to as Small and medium-sized enterprises are considered “Förderleistung” – is an integral element of the Bank’s a key driver of the dynamic economic development in promotion strategy. Interest waivers are a central comNorth Rhine-Westphalia. With a view to strengthening ponent of NRW.BANK’s “Förderleistung”. These may the framework conditions for competitiveness and result from “margin waivers” by the Bank in the form employment in the SME sector, NRW.BANK offers an of reduced interest rates charged for promotion loans. extensive range of promotion products and services They may also result from “investment waivers” where tailored to the needs of small and medium-sized enterthe Bank uses equity capital to extend non-interestprises. bearing or low-interest promotion loans and thus refrains from using this equity capital for alternative The previous year’s very good promotion result of interest-bearing investments. Other components of the € 2.9 billion was once again exceeded. It stood at “Förderleistung” include risk assumptions and free € 3.2 billion in this field of promotion in the past fiscal services and provisions, for example advisory services year. The new credit volume rose over the respective for customers and support services for multipliers and prior year figures in all three promotion themes of this house banks. field of promotion. In view of companies’ relatively low spending propensity and their high internal financing To fund its promotion activities, NRW.BANK uses funds strength, this result is especially positive and confirms, made available to it by KfW Bankengruppe, Landwirtin particular, the attractiveness of promotion loans schaftliche Rentenbank, the European Investment Bank for SMEs. As of October 2014, however, demand for as well as the Council of Europe Development Bank promotion loans declined which had been anticipated (CEB). The Bank serves as a conduit for the federal for quite some time in view of the overall economic promotion programmes of KfW Bankengruppe and environment. Landwirtschaftliche Rentenbank in its capacity as the central institution of the North Rhine-Westphalian The various promotion solutions in this field of promotion savings banks. primarily aim to compensate for the financing obstacles typically encountered by small and medium-sized In spite of the challenging economic environment, enterprises because of their size. NRW.BANK uses a NRW.BANK’s new promotion business continued wide range of financing instruments for the promotion the positive trend of the previous years in 2014. New of SMEs such as low-interest promotion loans, risk promotion business remained high, with NRW.BANK assumptions and equity strengthening solutions. The committing promotion funds totalling € 8.9 billion. different promotion products cover the entire lifecycle This means that the result for the year 2014 was down of a company – from seed finance to the supply of by only 3.7% on the previous year’s € 9.2 billion. The capital for growth projects and support in difficult chart below shows a breakdown of the total promotion situations. volume by fields of promotion: 2.1.1 Start-up NRW.BANK supports business start-ups in North RhinePromotion Volume by Fields of Promotion in % Westphalia with a wide range of financing solutions and advisory services within the “Seed” promotion theme. Development & In terms of volume, the NRW.BANK.Gründungskredit Protection 16 is the most important promotion product in this pro­ Housing & motion theme. It offers interest-subsidised loans for Seed & Living 48 start-up projects and newly established companies to Growth 36 cover working capital requirements and investment projects with a minimum volume of € 25,000. In 2014, NRW.BANK supported a total of 1,981 start-up and 8 Financial Report 2014 consolidation projects with loans totalling € 431.5 million preneurial experience, represent an important source (2013: 2,026 projects; € 398.3 million) under this proof finance for high-tech start-ups. They not only provide gramme. Since December 2014, the programme has capital but usually also give active support to the been open to companies in the consolidation phase for management in order to avoid or manage typical issues up to five years after the start of business which means encountered by start-up businesses. Business Angels that a larger group of eligible applicants can now benefit already assist in phases that are usually ignored by from its especially favourable terms and conditions. As early-phase investment companies, which often makes part of the expansion of the group of eligible applicants, them the only available source for raising equity capital the Bank also introduced the option to apply for a release in the immediate start-up phase. In the context of the from liability for companies that have successfully win NRW.BANK Business Angels Initiative, NRW.BANK operated in the market for two years and whose credit brings together capital-seeking innovative firms and requirements exceed € 125,000. Business Angels. The Bank also advises company founders in the effective preparation of their talks Micro start-ups with credit requirements of up with Business Angels. to € 25,000 are supported by the Bank via the NRW/EU.Mikrodarlehen, which is funded by the EuroIn summer 2014, NRW.BANK introduced another pean Regional Development Fund (ERDF) and the state instrument for the effective support of innovative of North Rhine-Westphalia. Applications for promotion business start-ups in the form of the NRW.BANK.Venture funds under the latter programme are channelled Center. This specialist advisory unit for technologythrough the STARTERCENTERS in North Rhine-Westoriented up-and-coming business founders from uniphalia which, acting as NRW.BANK’s cooperation partversities and research institutions as well as innovative ners, provide promotion advice to potential company start-ups serves as a one-stop agency and pools the founders and accept their loan applications. As no advisory services of NRW.BANK for research and collateral is required for the micro loans, they also development teams, potential company founders and allow unemployed people to set up self-employed start-ups and combines them with other promotion and businesses, thereby facilitating their return to working advisory offerings in the market. For a 2-year pilot life. To increase the attractiveness of this programme, phase, additional advisory activities at universities and the fixed standard interest rate was reduced significantly research institutions are planned in order to raise in the third quarter of 2014. aware­ness among potential company founders in innovation-driven disciplines. Additionally, they strive to Enterprises launching innovative and technically new identify innovative projects that are suitable for uni­ products and services in the market are of special versity spin-offs. Up-and-coming company founders importance for the competitiveness and innovative and founder teams benefit from additional support for strength of an economy. Usually, however, loans are not their specific spin-off plans in the form of expertise in a suitable financing option for such high-tech start-ups the field of technological start-ups and financing as because of the usually high and unpredictable risks in well as a well-positioned network. combination with high capital requirements. Instead, these businesses need equity capital as well as entre2.1.2 SMEs preneurial support for their management. The German Ensuring access to low-interest loans for established seed capital market is, however, characterised by SMEs is one of the key objectives of the promotion high inefficiencies. To stimulate this market, the theme “SME”. The NRW.BANK.Globaldarlehen “Mittel­ NRW.BANK.Seed Fund is available as a fund investor stand” programme provides favourably priced refinanto regional seed funds in North Rhine-Westphalia. cing for local banks. The latter are contractually obliged NRW.BANK invests in these regional funds alongside to pass on the benefits from this global loan to their private investors. SME borrowers in the form of favourable terms on business loans. Local banks’ demand for this promotion Besides investment companies, “Business Angels”, for product increased appreciably compared to the prior instance wealthy individuals with comprehensive entreyear. However, standardised low-interest loans for Financial Report 2014 9 Corporate Responsibility working capital and capital expenditure are the main To strengthen the equity capital of well-established promotion instrument under this promotion theme,. SMEs, the NRW.BANK.Mittelstandsfonds offers external in particular the NRW.BANK.Mittelstandskredit and mezzanine capital in the form of dormant shareholdings NRW.BANK.Universalkredit programmes. worth between € 1 million and 7 million. This source of external capitalisation is aimed at companies where The NRW.BANK.Mittelstandskredit remained the focus is on flexible adjustment to the internal NRW.BANK’s highest-volume promotion programme cash flows and a more effective orientation towards in 2014, even though the exceptionally high result the characteristics of classical equity capital. When the of the previous year was not matched. In 2014 some first generation of the fund was fully invested, a follow4,453 companies availed themselves of low-interest up fund with a committed capital of € 75 million was loans for their capital expenditure and working capital launched in March 2014 in order to ensure the continued needs, with the total volume amounting to € 1.4 billion availability of funds under this scheme. (previous year: 5,204 companies, € 1.5 billion). The NRW.BANK.Universalkredit consolidated its position Apart from the provision of funding, the complexity as the second pillar of the development bank’s SME of economic contexts puts a premium on targeted promotion activities, recording an exceptional expansion information on promotion funds as well as specific by 28.9%. This positive development was driven by the advice for prospective recipients of promotion funding. advantages of the NRW.BANK.Universalkredit in the In recent years NRW.BANK has therefore increasingly form of a streamlined application procedure and great developed its advisory services into a complementary flexibility with freely selectable maturities between three pillar of its spectrum of services. The existing offerings and ten years. The Bank’s total lending under this for SMEs in general – the promotion and finance conprogramme amounted to € 710.7 million (previous year sulting service and the Service Centers – attracted € 551.2 million). lively demand in 2014 as well. Given the good availability of credit in the marketplace, consulting sessions focused NRW.BANK continued to expand its range of releases on forward-looking and cost-oriented company finance from liability for borrowers’ local relationship banks solutions with promotion components as well as (referred to as “house banks” in German) in order to borrowers’ potential for improved communication give access to promotion loans to SMEs with a limited with external providers of capital. ability to post collateral. As a result, NRW.BANK today offers house banks 50% releases from liability for 2.1.3 Exports loans to commercial companies upwards from certain Foreign investments aimed at tapping into the growth minimum loan amounts. This optional promotion prospects of international markets and raising a element is available for loans to companies which can company’s competitiveness in the globalised marketdemonstrate a successful two-year track record in the place are of great importance also to SMEs. The same market. As an alternative to the release from liability, is true for the export of goods and services. For several most of the promotion programmes offer the option of years, the Bank has funded capital investment projects applying for an indemnity bond from Bürgschaftsbank abroad through its NRW.BANK.Auslandskredit proNRW. In the case of higher-volume loans to companies, gramme under its promotion theme “Exports”. In the NRW.BANK.Konsortialkredit – Gewerblicher Mittel­ May 2004 this programme was complemented by stand programme offers local relationship banks the aid-free working capital loans which enable the Bank possibility to partner with NRW.BANK, with the latter to support export-related activities such as the underwriting risk sub-participations of up to 50% and creation of an international distribution network. making cash contributions upwards from € 1 million. The NRW.BANK.Ausland Export programme offers Totalling € 166.5 million in 2014, this offering recorded NRW.BANK back-up guarantees for banks which issue an impressive increase of 27.4% over the previous year. export guarantees for SMEs and their export activities. 10 Financial Report 2014 To support the export activities of North Rhine-West€ 1.4 billion, with the bulk of the promotion volume, phalian mid-sized companies, NRW.BANK has teamed € 1.3 billion, remaining allocated to the promotion up with ZENIT GmbH to sponsor NRW.Europa, the theme “Environment/Climate/Energy”. North Rhine-Westphalian node in the European Commission’s Enterprise Europe Network. Working 2.2.1 Environment/Climate/Energy on behalf of NRW.Bank, NRW.Europa provides general The NRW.BANK.Effizienzkredit programme supports information and case-specific advice on available EU energy saving and energy efficiency projects under­ funding and other public promotion instruments for taken by commercial companies. To qualify for access exporters. This includes, in particular, information to these particularly low-interest loans, companies and advice on funding options for foreign investments must demonstrate that the new facilities will meet certain undertaken by North Rhine-Westphalian companies. minimum requirements in terms of energy savings or efficiency. Low-interest loans for raising the energy efficiency of privately owned buildings are available Promotion Volume “Seed & Growth” to property owners under the NRW.BANK.Gebäude­ by Promotion Themes and in € Million sanierung programme. The latter can also be used for projects aimed at improving the environmental or barrier3,500 free standards of such properties. 3,000 50 521 Research and development projects undertaken within 41 34 485 the framework of the “Masterplan Elektromobilität 2,500 423 2,607 Nordrhein-Westfalen” are eligible for low-interest loans 2,399 2,388 under the NRW.BANK.Elektromobilität programme. 2,000 Investments in energy infrastructure, e.g. in power 1,500 generation plants, the construction of energy storage capacities and the construction and maintenance of 1,000 networks can qualify for promotion loans under the NRW.BANK.Energieinfrastruktur programme. The latter 500 targets both commercial companies, municipally owned companies and private investors. 0 2014 2013 2012 Companies which invest in cogeneration technology by SME Start-ups Exports converting or expanding existing plants or constructing new cogeneration plants can qualify for promotion funding under the NRW/EU.KWKInvestitionskredit 2.2 Development & Protection programme. This programme can offer particularly The Bank’s products in the field of promotion “Develop­ attractive terms because it is refinanced using funds ment & Protection” support investments in the protection from the ERDF and the state of North Rhine-Westphalia. of resources, in the implementation of innovation and in educational projects. NRW.BANK has successively The NRW.BANK.Hochwasserschutz programme is a expanded its offering in this field of promotion in recent addition to NRW.BANK’s environmentally themed recent years. The year 2014 saw the excellent result promotion offering. This programme offers attractive of the previous year (€ 1.5 billion) almost repeated at complete financing packages for capital projects in the Financial Report 2014 11 Corporate Responsibility field of water management and flood control. These While order funding loans are repayable at maturity, low-interest loans complement the grants available project funding loans are repayable in instalments. from the state of North Rhine-Westphalia. Eligible Loan volumes can range between € 5,000 and € 25,000 borrowers include local and regional governments as for both types of loan. In order to accommodate the well as water management boards constituted by particular financing needs of this target group, borrowers special statute and associations formed under the are not required to post collateral. Due to the unique Water Association Act. nature of this promotion funding programme, applications for these loans are accepted by NRW.BANK 2.2.2 Innovation directly, which is in contrast to most other promotion Loans from the NRW.BANK.Innovationskredit programme loans which are accepted and processed by borrowers’ are available under the promotion theme “Innovation”. local relationship banks. These loans are meant to support medium-sized companies’ investments in adding new, technologically The NRW.BANK.Kreativwirtschaftsfonds focuses on advanced products to their product ranges or in the particularly profitable growth markets within the adoption of high-tech production processes. In the year creative and arts sectors where firms are using inno­ 2014, very low-interest loans totalling € 47.2 million were vative and simple concepts to disrupt existing market approved, partly combined with an optional release structures. Consumer Internet, e-commerce and softfrom liability for the borrower’s local relationship bank ware are three examples. The fund concentrates on seed handling and processing the loan application. and early-phase finance, making available equity or mezzanine capital between € 250,000 and € 3 million For many years, young and innovative companies based to creative and arts firms with promising growth in North Rhine-Westphalia have benefited from success­ prospects. To make the fund even more attractive, ful co-investments by NRW.BANK. Made through the the investment criteria were expanded during the two NRW.BANK.Venture Fonds investment vehicles, these year 2014. equity investments are predominantly open minority stakes between € 0.5 million and € 5 million, with the 2.2.3 Education Bank envisaging a maximum investment period of In March 2014 NRW.BANK launched the seven years. NRW.BANK committed funds totalling NRW.BANK.Moderne Schule programme in its field € 10.6 million during the reporting period. In terms of promotion “Education”. Aimed at municipal school of the lifecycle of a company, this type of investment operators and municipal school associations, this covers the period following the early start-up phase programme offers long-term loans at highly attractive during which entrepreneurs are eligible for seed terms with maturities of 20 or 30 years for the con­ funding from the regional seed funds supported by struction and refurbishing of school buildings. Loan the NRW.BANK.Seed Fonds programme. applications are received directly by NRW.BANK. Promotion funds worth € 53.2 million have been comThis promotion theme places a special focus on firms mitted since the launch of the programme. in the creative and arts sectors of the economy. The NRW.Kreativkredit and the NRW.BANK.Kreativwirt­ schaftsfonds are two sector-specific promotion proPromotion Volume “Development & Protection” grammes designed to provide targeted support to the by Promotion Themes and in € Million creative and arts sectors and to strengthen the profile of North Rhine-Westphalia as a location for this sector. 1,500 64 60 76 15 54 149 1,000 1,323 1,331 1,198 The new NRW.Kreativkredit programme was launched in October 2014 to provide promotion funding for small firms or sole traders in the creative and arts sectors of 500 the economy. Funding is available either for concrete orders (order funding) or for activities performed without 0 a concrete order or contract, with the maximum duration 2014 2013 2012 of the order or project being limited to 12 months. Environment/Climate/Energy Innovation Education 12 Financial Report 2014 2.3 Housing & Living fessional and human resources to support cooperation The activities of NRW.BANK in this field of promotion between public and private investors in the context of are designed to improve housing and living standards public private partnership projects. and encourage forward-looking urban development. Key elements needed to reach these goals include the 2.3.2 Infrastructure promotion of (social) housing to ensure high-quality A well-functioning infrastructure is an essential prereand affordable living. Comprehensive promotion in this quisite for economic growth in a region. NRW.BANK’s area depends on comprehensive public services provided financing products for the expansion of general infraby solidly funded municipalities as well as on an approstructure grouped in the promotion theme “Infra­ priate infrastructure which is in line with requirements. structure” amounted to € 569.1 million in the reporting Moreover, the promotion efforts in the individual period. promotion themes “Housing”, “Municipalities” and “Infrastructure” need to be coordinated and related in The capital expenditure needed to maintain and expand order to contribute effectively to the structural developNorth Rhine-Westphalia’s infrastructure frequently ment of a city and its neighbourhoods. requires private capital to be mobilised. This is the purpose of the NRW.BANK.Infrastruktur programme In the year 2014 the promotion volume in the field which offers private investors opportunities to fund “Housing & Living” amounted to € 4.3 billion, slightly social and public infrastructure projects at favourable down on the previous year’s figure of € 4.8 billion. terms. The Bank also supports infrastructure projects This mainly reflected lower demand in the promotion through customised structured finance solutions as theme “Municipalities”, owing to the fact that banks well as a range of special programmes. The latter are and savings banks offered local authorities clearly imdesigned to stimulate selected partial areas of infraproved funding terms. Even so, this remains the largest structure. promotion theme at € 2.3 billion, followed by “Housing” at € 1.4 billion. At the end of 2013 the Bank launched NRW.BANK.Bau­ denkmäler. This promotion programme provides low2.3.1 Municipalities interest promotion loans to fund capital expenditure on During the reporting period NRW.BANK remained a maintaining and refurbishing buildings listed as public reliable partner to municipalities in North Rhine-Westmonuments and buildings listed as being particularly phalia. A promotion volume of € 2.1 billion once again worthy of preservation because of their fabric and/or made the NRW.BANK.Kommunalkredit, whose purpose structure. Compared to the previous grant regime is to ensure and strengthen municipalities’ ability operated by the state government, the net benefit of to act, the main product in the promotion theme the new loan-based promotion scheme for applicants “Municipalities”. In addition, the Bank offers two co­ is several times higher, given that their entire project ordinated programmes, NRW.BANK.Kommunal Invest is now eligible for a low-interest loan. This probably and NRW.BANK.Kommunal Invest Plus, which are explains why demand for this promotion programme, designed to finance municipalities’ investments in their at € 39.6 million, clearly surpassed the original pro­ municipal infrastructure, in their operating companies jections. and in their municipal associations. Through its NRW.BANK.Breitband programme, Apart from providing funds, NRW.BANK supports NRW.BANK funds investments in the creation of a municipalities through its advisory offering. The Bank technology-neutral state-wide broadband network in regularly informs municipalities and municipally owned North Rhine-Westphalia. The focus is on the purchase companies on their eligibility for certain types of and laying of fibre-optic cables. The maximum sales promotion funding. In addition, it supports them on revenues cap was dropped in 2013, thereby giving questions of inter-municipal cooperation, the developlarger companies, too, access to the promotion proment and implementation of municipal action plans as gramme for the expansion of the broadband network. well as the management of public buildings and facilities In addition, the fixed-interest period can be extended with a view to ensuring their financial sustainability. to a maximum of 30 years in individual cases. This During 2014 NRW.BANK also made available pro­ means that NRW.BANK offers support also for projects Financial Report 2014 13 Corporate Responsibility with long investment horizons and loan maturities loans worth € 63.3 million for the acquisition and which are frequently not available from commercial con­s truction of owner-occupied housing plus more banks. To analyse the status quo of broadband availability than € 393.3 million for the new construction of rentin North Rhine-Westphalia and draft recommendations controlled and occupancy-controlled flats. Newly for future action, NRW.BANK commissioned a study in launched promotion measures raised the attractiveness conjunction with the North Rhine-Westphalian governof the rented housing promotion programme by 17.2% ment. Expected to become available in spring 2015, compared to the previous year. the results of this study will also inform the further develop­ment of the Bank’s promotion activities for Demographic change is leading to an increased need for broadband expansion. high quality housing concepts for seniors. NRW.BANK’s promotion offerings make an important contribution to Conflicts in the Middle East led to a strong rise in the the creation of a housing stock which ensures the con­ number of asylum seekers during the reporting period. tinued provision of housing for a population whose age This development has increased the need for functional structure and composition is subject to change. Under and dignified refugee accommodation. Against this the state government’s WoFP plan, NRW.BANK makes background, NRW.BANK launched the promotion proavailable low-interest loans both for the construction of gramme NRW.BANK.Flüchtlingsunterkünfte in Decemcare homes and the creation of care places and for the ber 2014, offering very low-interest promotion loans reduction of barriers in the existing housing stock. The with 20-year maturities to local authorities obliged to year 2014 saw demand for loans to fund the removal of house refugees under the Flüchtlingsaufnahmegesetz barriers almost double compared to the previous year. (FlüAG) Act. The loans can be used to purchase, build Complementing the Bank’s activities in the area of social or modernise refugee housing. Under the terms of the housing promotion, the NRW.BANK.Pflege und Betreu­ programme, applications can be made also by legally ung programme offers low-interest capital expenditure independent operating companies owned by eligible loans for care homes and facilities operated by not-forlocal authorities. These loans are processed and disprofit entities. These loans can be used, for instance, to bursed directly by NRW.BANK. finance modernisation and refurbishment projects. In addition, promotion loans are available to fund the con2.3.3 Housing version of conventional care facilities into alternative Social housing promotion programmes have special nursing and care concepts. importance in the context of the promotion theme “Housing”. The relevant promotion loans are applied for with the approval authorities of the local governPromotion Volume “Housing & Living” ments and disbursed directly to the recipients. The by Promotion Themes and in € Million promotion activities reflect the state of North RhineWestphalia’s annual housing promotion plan (Wohn5,000 712 raumförderungsprogramm, WoFP) which operationalises 635 3,124 the general lines of the state promotion policy into 4,000 569 2,787 concrete promotion rules and regulations. 2,279 3,000 NRW.BANK’s social housing promotion programmes are designed to support, in particular, the creation 2,000 of affordable, high quality housing for lower-income 1,000 1,430 1,419 1,462 households. Especially for households with children and handicapped persons, this ensures continued access to sensibly priced housing even in conurbations 0 with rising rents. As part of its work towards this 2014 2013 2012 promotion objective, NRW.BANK made available Housing Municipalities Infrastructure 14 Financial Report 2014 3 Assuming Social Responsibility for Employees policy is also designed to give men the possibility to achieve a better balance of work and family life NRW.BANK is a forward-looking and socially and thus helps to take equal opportunities at work responsible employer under public law. The Bank forward and to stabilise them. is especially committed to a responsible human W hile there can be no doubt that a positive resources and training policy as well as to fair working environment is conducive to high per­ dealings with all employees. formance and excellent achievements, the most NRW.BANK complies with international stanimportant preconditions are good qualifications dards – such as human rights, the UN Convention as a basis to start from, as well as possibilities on the Rights of the Child for the protection of for further development. This is why NRW.BANK children against exploitation (Art. 32) as well as attaches top priority to excellent vocational the rejection of forced labour – as well as with training, constant further training and individual national laws and labour standards. The right of development. In this context, the Bank respects all employees to organise and the active support the individual potential, needs and interests of of statutory co-determination play an especially its employees, which is not least reflected in its important role in this context. signing of the “German Diversity Charter”. As part of its corporate responsibility, NRW.BANK attaches great importance to avoiding discrimina­ tion. The Bank’s “Fairness at Work” convention not only prohibits all forms of discrimination The knowledge, commitment and performance of the within NRW.BANK but also describes measures staff are important factors which underpin the longto prevent discrimination and defines rules term success of the Bank’s business activity. The relating to employees’ right to file complaints. strategic objectives of the Bank’s Human Resources For NRW.BANK, fair dealings with its employees activities therefore include winning and retaining also means creating a corporate culture in which qualified employees and preserving their skills and partnership and cooperation, openness, mutual performance to ensure that NRW.BANK can success­ respect and esteem are values that are endorsed fully fulfil its tasks as the development bank of North by all. Together with dialogue-oriented processes, Rhine-Westphalia now and also in future. these values lay the basis for a positive and productive working climate. From this overriding goal, the Bank derives three fields For NRW.BANK, assuming responsibility for its of action which ensure that all activities and measures employees means creating an attractive working support the accomplishment of the strategic objectives: environment, for example through high job safety, securing junior staff, facilitating development and modern health management and regulations maintaining performance. supporting a good balance of work and family life. 3.1 Securing Junior Staff A s a modern development bank, NRW.BANK “Securing junior staff” sums up NRW.BANK’s commitbelieves that the functional and social skills of ment to training young people and improving their women are indispensable. The Bank therefore qualifications. In accordance with this goal, permanent aims to give women at all levels equal professional employment contracts are offered to all trainees who opportunities and to take this into account also complete their training programmes with good results. with regard to the exercise of mandates and the To ensure that junior staff can integrate smoothly into Bank’s investments. The Bank’s family-friendly the Bank’s existing workforce, their training is carefully aligned with the Bank’s needs in general and the Financial Report 2014 15 Corporate Responsibility individual business units’ needs in particular. This who are happy to pass on their knowledge and their constant balancing leads to changes in the number of ex­p erience with current and future trainees and apprenticeships and traineeships as well as to amendapprentices. ments in terms of the course curricula and the job roles the young people are trained for. For example, Given NRW.BANK’s current age structure, the aim of NRW.BANK will convert its clerical apprenticeship “securing junior staff” will remain in the Bank’s focus. programme from “office communication assistants” The Bank wants its trainees to replace at least part of to “banking clerks” effective August 1, 2016. The the employees who will retire from the Bank in the dual-track study courses “Bachelor of Arts, Banking & coming years. The high quality of vocational and proFinance“ and “Bachelor of Science, Business IT” orgafessional training at NRW.BANK is reflected not only nised in conjunction with Hochschule für Oekonomie & in the excellent results scored by its graduates – as can Management in Düsseldorf have repeatedly been ad­ be seen from the fact that the best graduates at state justed to changed market conditions and changes in and federal level repeatedly came from NRW.BANK in internal qualification requirements, thereby demon­ recent years – but also in the multiple awards garnered strating the Bank’s effective cooperation with this by NRW.BANK for being the best corporate apprenticeacademy. ship and traineeship sponsor according to the Düsseldorf and North Westphalia chambers of commerce. While Both the attractiveness of the training courses offered such accolades frequently encourage young people to and the Bank itself benefit from these developments. opt in favour of a traineeship or apprenticeship with As a result, NRW.BANK was able to meet its goal of NRW.BANK, their decision to remain with the Bank securing motivated and qualified junior staff for the even after completion of the training programme strongly Bank also in the year 2014. In summer 16 young people depends on the career prospects on offer. started their apprenticeships and traineeship pro­ grammes at NRW.BANK, including nine for the office 3.2 Facilitating Development management course and five for the Bachelor of Arts Personal career prospects make a key contribution to programme and two for the Bachelor of Science prosuccessful staff retention at NRW.BANK. This includes gramme. challenging tasks which encourage professional and personal growth as well as the possibility to get to learn Most of the graduates who completed their courses and new topics and to assume responsibility. Of course this programmes during the reporting period once again needs to be complemented by the prospect of earning decided to stay with NRW.BANK, with 21 out of a total higher salaries in the future. of 25 accepting the offer of permanent employment. Moreover, seven of the 14 apprenticeship graduates NRW.BANK offers its employees a wide range of from the office communication assistant course were develop­ment opportunities by filling vacant positions among the year’s best graduates in their respective according to the motto “internal promotion is preferable districts and received honourable commendations from to external hiring”; this means that vacant positions are the Düsseldorf and North Westphalia chambers of advertised publicly only if and when no suitable candicommerce. dates can be found among the employees or the trainees. These results would not have been possible without the A large part of the positions which became vacant commitment shown by the almost 200 trainers in the during 2014 were once again filled from the Bank’s own Bank’s individual business units. Their enthusiasm for internal human resources. Following several years of vocational training is catching – every year the circle largely identical headcount, the number of permanent of trainers is joined by internally trained graduates employees recorded a slight rise in 2014. Part of this 16 Financial Report 2014 growth and the required balancing of fluctuation was as the previous collectively agreed scheme. The objective achieved by offering permanent employment to apprenis to avoid a blockage in the career pipeline for the Bank’s ticeship graduates and by reintegrating employees younger employees which would lead to increased returning from parental leave. Less than half of the 86 fluctuation in this group of employees. As in previous new hirings resulted from the conversion of temporary years, the pre-retirement option accounted over a third employment to permanent employment, external hiring of the age-related resignations. as well as transfers of employees from Portigon AG. In addition, NRW.BANK also continues to support efforts The number of age-related resignations will stay at a being made as part of the restructuring of Portigon AG high level also in the coming years. Forward-looking with a view to identifying employment prospects for planning ensures that measures to retain know-how Portigon employees outside of NRW.BANK and its within the Bank are taken at an early stage and that the subsidiaries. development opportunities arising from the retirements for junior staff are used effectively in accordance with As in the previous years, staff fluctuation at NRW.BANK the Bank’s strategic objective. remained low at 2.5%. Of the 32 employment relationships ending during the period, 10 were terminated and This future-oriented planning also includes employee 22 occurred for age-related reasons. interviews within the performance review process: at least once a year, all executives of the Bank hold an While employees are no longer entitled to the collecinterview with each of their employees to provide feedtively agreed pre-retirement scheme, NRW.BANK has back on their accomplishments and performance in the decided to introduce a company-specific pre-retirement past year and to plan the tasks for next year. Building scheme in order to manage the Bank’s age structure on these interviews, future development opportunities and the rising share of older employees. The companyand the steps required to implement them are discussed specific scheme offers the same terms and conditions as well. Age Structure in % 21 18 15 12 9 6 3 0 up to 20 21–25 26–30 31–35 36–40 41–45 46–50 51–55 56–60 over 60 years years years years years years years years years years 2014 2013 2012 Financial Report 2014 17 Corporate Responsibility 3.2.1 Life-long Learning NRW.BANK’s comprehensive catalogue of regular Knowledge and experience are indispensable when seminars covers a range of professional subjects both it comes to grasping and mastering new challenges. at basic and specialist level, aspects of methodological NRW.BANK supports its employees through a wide and behavioural competence as well as structured variety of HR development measures. Apart from and multi-layered leadership skill acquisition. This classical seminars and support in completing degree catalogue has been developed and refined in recent (bachelor or master) courses, this also includes job years, with current professional subjects being added rotation schemes and other temporary assignments. in response to actual demand on an ongoing basis. NRW.BANK assists employees in obtaining the aboveWhile the introduction of new IT applications and the mentioned qualifications and degrees by bearing (part topicality of numerous new banking-related subjects of) the study and examination fees and releasing emled to a notable increase in seminar attendance in the ployees from work for exams and their preparation but years 2012 and 2013, overall seminar enrolment figures also by organising networks and learning groups. There returned to their prior level in 2014. is great interest in this programme especially among former trainees, who represent 55 of the currently 74 participants. Accordingly, the highest demand is Internal Seminar Attendance by Topics for Bachelor and Master degrees. The Bank regularly reviews the qualifications offered in the context of the 244 1,200 development programme with regard to the require286 296 ments of the specialist business units and the market 900 28 situation and adjusts them where necessary. In 2014 168 158 the Bank added two degree courses, namely “Business 600 733 248 658 Management & Business Psychology” (Bachelor of Science) and “Risk Management & Treasury” (Master 300 86 of Science) to the career development portfolio. 316 0 In addition, NRW.BANK offers its employees a com­ 2014 2013 2012 prehensive range of seminars for professional and Specialist Management IT Methods/Behaviour personal growth. Most of these seminars are held internally.1) Over time this form of training has proven to be a great success and has met with a very positive response from all employees due to the high quality Consequently the 56.9% decline in enrolment figures of courses offered and how pertinent they are to the for internal seminars is due to saturation and transfer Bank’s needs and requirements. For several years effects from the previous years. This demonstrates e-learning and blended learning courses have been how appropriately NRW.BANK timed its employees’ offered not only for statutory and compliance related pro­fessional preparation for the numerous complex subjects but also for foreign language and IT skills as regulatory challenges which required a great amount well as behavioural and methodological competence. of work during the year 2014. 1) I nternal seminars are all events organised exclusively for the Bank’s employees at NRW.BANK’s special request and whose contents and concepts thus closely meet the Bank’s concrete requirements and needs; such seminars may be held by in-house or external trainers. 18 Financial Report 2014 The year-on-year decline in enrolment figures for While NRW.BANK’s seminar programme is essentially ­methodological and behavioural seminars amounted open to all employees on an equal basis, individual to 13.3%. offerings are tailored to the needs of specific groups of employees. In late 2013 the Bank started a series of While the year 2014 also saw a decline in the number workshops specifically for women who, in their majority, of executive seminars organised, the number of seminar still have to shoulder the dual burden of managing a days remained close to the previous year’s high level household with children while filling a job role at the at 350. This reflects the fact that the programmes for same time, often resulting in them missing out when it executives with initial and long-standing leadership comes to taking important career steps. Designed to experience were maintained at the prior years’ level. show participants new ways of organising their job and Given that relatively few new executives joined the private lives in an efficient way which is conducive to a Bank in 2014, there was less demand for the typically good work-life balance, this series is being continued. shorter seminars attended by junior executives. So is another series of events launched in 2013. These workshops target more experienced and older Employees enrolled in a total of 372 external seminars. em­ployees, highlighting topics such as knowledge, A similar percentage of these events as in the previous relation­­ship, conflict and change management. years, 84.1%, were professional seminars dealing with specific topics. Organising these internally would not 3.2.2 Equal Opportunities and Fair Working make sense, given that the subject matters addressed Conditions by these seminars are only relevant for individual emTwo human resources issues received particular attenployees. tion at NRW.BANK during the year 2014, namely the targeted increase in the number of women in highersalary positions and executive positions as well as emRatio of Internal and External Seminar Attendance ployees’ satisfaction with the possibilities to balance work and family life. 100% 372 345 399 The Bank laid the foundation for this balance back in 75% the year 2008 when the labour agreement “Job and 1,215 1,356 Family” was signed. Since then NRW.BANK has steadily 650 50% expanded its varied range of available support measures. Its working time arrangements include variable working 25% hours, flexible and personalised part-time working models and alternating home work schedules as well 0% as a diverse range of optional leaves of absence. These 2014 2013 2012 arrangements assist employees in meeting both their Internal External professional and their family-related obligations. Additional support is available in the form of subsidised child care as well as advice and support from an external Seminar attendance in 2014 revealed an almost perfectly service provider for employees with child and dependent balanced gender distribution, with female employees care needs. NRW.BANK also has framework agreements accounting for 510 and men for 512 enrolments. This in place with child care facilities in the respective also reflects the respective gender shares in the workneighbourhoods of its dual head offices. The Bank’s force. offering on job and family balance is complemented by information events, articles and lectures. In addition, lectures on long-term care issues were held at both NRW.BANK head offices in the year 2014. Financial Report 2014 19 Corporate Responsibility The key figures for the reporting period reflect the The year 2014 saw a slight rise in the number of women acceptance, and thus the success, of these offerings in management positions. This development was driven and measures. The number of employees working part by two factors. First, selected female employees were time has increased significantly overall. The part-time encouraged to take specific career steps. Second, conpercentage of women in specialist and project managesistent compliance with the Bank’s internal guidelines ment roles has risen to 50.8%. At the same time, 9.2% on filling management positions led to a further increase of all NRW.BANK managers have availed themselves of in the number of female employees in management the option to reduce their working hours by up to 40%. positions. During the reporting period, women there­ Young fathers are making active use of parental leave, fore accounted for 47.1% of all newly created or newly in some cases also taking more than the standard two filled management positions at NRW.BANK. As at months or by way of reducing their regular working December 31, 2014, the number of women in manageweeks. An increasing number of mothers are taking a ment and executive positions up to Managing Board maximum of 12 months parental leave and return to the level stood at 27.2%. Bank early. Women and Men in Management Positions in % 25 22 20 17 15 12 10 9 8 6 6 5 5 5 5 2 2 1 0 0 31–35 36–40 41–45 46–50 51–55 56–60 over 60 years years years years years years years Men Women Laying out the excellent framework conditions for the In addition, the Plan describes all measures and offerings promotion of women and the achievement of a job-family used by the Bank to raise the share of women in higher balance, NRW.BANK’s revised Equal Opportunities paid specialist and management roles. Progress is also Plan presents the objectives attained to date. The Plan measured by way of the regular publication of key equal references the instruments and agreements published by opportunities statistics on NRW.BANK’s Intranet. NRW.BANK including the “Principles for Collaboration, Communication and Leadership”, the mission statement, In 2014 the Managing Board and the business unit heads the “Fairness at Work” labour agreement as well as the confirmed the 2006 “Principles for Collaboration, human resources planning and development strategy. Communication and Leadership” as well as the mission 20 Financial Report 2014 statement of NRW.BANK following an in-depth dis­ staff council, the social officer, building management cussion. This endorsement confirms that, apart from as well as the managers and executives – any strains their responsibility for the Bank’s economic success, identified by the survey are usually eliminated in an the executives of NRW.BANK and all employees place unbureaucratic way. great importance on fair and open-minded collaboration in the spirit of partnership. It is for this reason that NRW.BANK has established two working groups to the “Fairness at Work” labour agreement was con­ address the health protection issue to the benefit of cluded already back in 2007; drafted along the lines all employees: of Germany’s Allgemeines Gleichbehandlungsgesetz (AGG) act, this internal agreement is designed to The Occupational Safety Committee advises the prevent discriminatory and unfair practices. The Equal Bank on all matters of occupational safety as well Opportunities Officer serving as the designated com­ as accident prevention. Its members comprise plaint recipient under the AGG did not receive any representatives of the Bank, the staff council, relevant reports during the year 2014. NRW.BANK the company doctor, the representatives of the views this fact as a positive confirmation of its internal severely disabled, a safety officer and the occupaculture which is characterised by respect and mutual tional safety officer. esteem. The Health Working Circle meets twice per year. It is comprised of the HR executive in charge of 3.3 Maintaining Performance health management, the company doctor, the social counsellor, the occupational safety officer, the 3.3.1 Occupational Safety and Strategic Health representatives of the severely disabled as well as Management a representative of the staff council. Its mission is Good working conditions and exemplary health and to further develop the strategic health management safety policies form part of NRW.BANK’s corporate and to decide and implement concrete measures. responsibility towards its employees. For many years, the Bank has implemented this in the context of its “Mental Health – a Life in Balance” was the main annual strategic health management system which has been theme chosen by the Working Circle for the year 2014. expanded continuously since 2006. Services range Following the very well attended launch lectures, from a company doctor to a social worker offering conNRW.BANK offered its employees a year-long pro­ fidential help to a variety of offerings revolving around gramme of free measures and activities addressing such topics as preventive medicine, nutrition and a variety of topics related to nutrition, exercise and sports. relaxation. For NRW.BANK, health means much more than just the All current occupational health and safety measures as absence of illness. Its health promotion activities therewell as NRW.BANK’s future plans are detailed in the fore aim to encourage healthy behaviour and reduce annual health report which is available to all members avoidable strains in the workplace. Therefore, the focus of the workforce. is on the question “what keeps people healthy”? Preventive check-ups, no matter how expertly planned An important tool to identify strains in good time is a and performed, cannot entirely prevent illnesses. This systematic hazard analysis. All employees are regularly is why NRW.BANK started to optimise its post-illness asked about potentially hazardous circumstances and reintegration management system already in 2013. The stress factors at work. Thanks to the collaboration purpose of this optional and voluntary service for embetween the responsible persons – especially the ployees returning after a prolonged illness is to develop occupational safety officer, the company doctor, the a set of personalised support and reintegration measures Financial Report 2014 21 Corporate Responsibility which take their working environment into account. are becoming increasingly important especially since These measures are meant to support their reintegration people are entering the work place at an earlier age after a long absence and help stabilise their health. due to the education reforms that have shortened the The Bank is very much aware of the sensitive personal school and university tenure and the higher statutory issues touched by this process and attaches the utmost retirement age. NRW.BANK offers its employees a importance to ensuring absolute confidentiality and sabbatical concept which allows for up to two months’ data protection. unpaid leave of absence in addition to the paid vacations. The concept ensures that employees remain fully 3.3.2 “Leave of Absence for Special Reasons” covered for social security purposes. Ten employees Good working conditions are important but sometimes availed themselves of this possibility during the year 2014 one needs to take time off from work in order to recharge and another five have already applied for a sabbatical one’s physical and emotional batteries. Such sabbaticals in 2015. 3.4 NRW.BANK Personnel in Figures 2014 2013 2012 absolute in % absolute in % absolute in % Total number of permanent employees1) 1,283 100.0% 1,256 100.0% 1,258 100.0% by sex – women 660 51.4% 642 51.1% 642 51.0% – men 623 48.6% 614 48.9% 616 49.0% by company location – Düsseldorf 871 67.9% 847 67.4% 841 66.9% – Münster 412 32.1% 409 32.6% 417 33.1% by type of employment – full time 989 77.1% 991 78.9% 1,005 79.9% – part time 294 22.9% 265 21.1% 253 20.1% by function group – management (incl. Managing Board) 232 18.1% 232 18.5% 228 18.1% – specialists/project workers 428 33.3% 395 31.4% 384 30.5% – case workers 471 36.7% 467 37.2% 477 37.9% – secretaries 45 3.5% 46 3.7% 48 3.8% – non-commercial functions 51 4.0% 55 4.4% 55 4.4% – special functions2) 6 0.5% 6 0.5% 6 0.5% – apprentices 50 3.9% 55 4.4% 60 4.8% by remuneration – collective pay (incl. apprentices) 862 67.2% 847 67.4% 861 68.6% – non-collective pay (incl. Managing Board) 421 32.8% 409 32.6% 397 31.6% Total number of apprentices 50 55 60 – new apprenticeships 16 20 22 – completed apprenticeships 25 18 20 – hiring ratio (unlimited) 84.0% 72.2% 80.0% Average age, total 43.4 43.1 42.5 Average service life 16.0 16.2 15.8 Departures, total (excl. apprentices) 32 2.5% 30 2.4% 55 4.4% – due to termination 10 0.8% 10 0.8% 19 1.5% – due to age 22 1.7% 20 1.6% 36 2.9% 1) e  xcluding employees on parental leave 2) exempted staff representatives, Equal Opportunities Officer, Occupational Safety Officer. 22 Financial Report 2014 4 Climate and Environmental Protection ment to putting sustainable operation and resource efficiency into practice in its day-to-day business. The Bank constantly aims to improve this data basis; as a NRW.BANK’s resource efficiency and its active result, the 2014 eco-balance is the first to include all contributions to North Rhine-Westphalia’s marketing materials and also provides a more stringent public life are an integral part of its corporate breakdown into short-haul and long-haul flights. responsibility for the present and future generations. The development bank reports its performance indicaMinimised use of resources and the utilisation tors in an open and detailed manner in order to ensure of a large share of environmentally friendly and, transparency towards its different stakeholders. preferably, renewable resources are essential elements of the Bank’s activities aimed at shaping 4.1 Basis for Reporting a high-quality living environment. NRW.BANK lives up to this responsibility by 4.1.1 Scope and Period of Reporting taking into account all resources used in its The performance indicators presented here have been business processes. For example, the Bank aims taken from the eco-balance2) which shows and assesses to implement the state of the art whenever it the ecological data of NRW.BANK and the resulting comes to constructing or converting buildings environmental impact for the year 2014. The Bank for its banking operations. As part of its ongoing operates at two locations in Düsseldorf and a building improvement process, the Bank also recognises complex in Münster. the key importance of sensitising its employees to the importance of making responsible use of To ensure maximum data quality, NRW.BANK has resources. collected the consumption and flow data (input and output) for the period from November 1, 2013 to October 31, 2014. The data for the spaces, vehicles and employees are published in the environmental In its capacity as the development bank for North Rhinereport for the period ended October 31, 2014. Westphalia, NRW.BANK is committed to implementing the North Rhine-Westphalian government’s guiding 4.1.2 Data Collection and Reference Values principle of “sustainability”. When it comes to using As the data are collected in accordance with the VfU resources and producing carbon emissions, NRW.BANK standard, they can be compared with data of companies therefore pursues an “avoidance before reduction” applying the same standard. The basis is formed by the policy. VfU’s revised guidelines in conjunction with the conversion factors of the 2013 update. In spite of this great commitment, it is impossible to entirely avoid emissions. In the past fiscal year, the The number of employees provides the basis for the Bank therefore decided to neutralise the emissions formation of relative environmental performance indiproduced in 2013 for the first time through climate cators (per-capita consumption). Part-time employees protection projects in developing and emerging countries are added up to full-time employees, and temporary with the help of certificates from the NRW.BANK.Klima employees are covered for the duration of their employcertificates programme. This strategy will be continued ment. Staff numbers of 1,348 for 2012, 1,347 for 2013 for the emissions produced in 2014. and 1,353 for 2014 were taken as the basis. Eight years ago NRW.BANK started to collect and assess its environmental performance indicators accor1) V  erein für Umweltmanagement und Nachhaltigkeit in Finanzinstituten. ding to the VfU1) standard. The resulting figures provide 2) The environmental figures were collected in cooperation with Büro a reliable data basis for NRW.BANK’s ongoing commitWiRkung from Grevenbroich. Financial Report 2014 23 Corporate Responsibility To calculate water consumption per employee, the NRW.BANK is aware of these problems and has issued number of working days was fixed at 250 days. As units clearly defined travel guidelines aimed at reducing of measurement Kg or t, kWh, km or m³ were used for employees’ business trips to a minimum. The travel all accounts of the eco-balance. guidelines ensure that preference is given to video and telephone conferences, local public transport and rail 4.2 Building Energy travel. In the field of building energy, NRW.BANK continues to rely heavily on resource-efficient energy sources. All The fact that average carbon emissions of the Bank’s of the Bank’s buildings are heated using district heat vehicle fleet continue to be reduced successfully is not which is particularly environmentally friendly. least due to the fact that the Bank seeks expert advice when it comes to selecting new company cars. Average Moreover, 100% of the electricity purchased by the emissions were reduced by 4.8% from 144.7 g/km in Bank in 2014 was green electricity generated by run-of2013 to 137.7 g/km in 2014. river hydropower plants. Average Fleet CO2 Emissions in g/km Energy Consumption 2014 2013 2012 160 kWh kWh kWh Heating energy 157 150 – total 4,433,420 4,733,010 4,892,730 – per employee/year 3,276 3,515 3,629 145 140 Electricity consumption 138 130 – total 5,802,897 5,739,099 5,672,010 – per employee/year 4,287 4,262 4,207 120 2014 2013 2012 Total heating energy consumption again reflects the weather-related reduction. Absolute consumption declined by 6.3%, while per-capita consumption was Total kilometres travelled by NRW.BANK’s employees reduced by 6.8%. were again reduced in 2014 and declined by 6.6% to 4,324,270 km. This is equivalent to 3,195 km travelled Electricity consumption remained almost stable at a per employee which is 6.0% below the prior year level. low level compared to the previous year with absolute consumption rising by a moderate 1.1% and per-capital Business Travel 2014 2013 2012 consumption by 0.6%. km km km 4.3 Business Travel Rail 870,804 955,831 985,682 Maintaining business relationships and ensuring Road* 2,660,988 2,785,373 2,811,009 smooth and effective coordination between different Short-haul flights 328,557 339,565 330,178 branches of locations is of great importance for a Long-haul flights 463,921 496,806 658,344 company. But today’s high mobility requirements also entail considerable environmental problems. Business Total 4,324,270 4,577,575 4,785,213 trips are therefore an important aspect in assessing a km per employee 3,195 3,399 3,549 company’s environmental performance. * All kilometres travelled by the Bank’s company cars, rental cars and private vehicles. 24 Financial Report 2014 Business Travel in % Paper Consumption* 2014 2013 2012 kg kg kg 100 Total 46,620 47,840 49,239 11 11 13 8 7 7 kg per employee 34.4 35.5 36.5 75 61 61 59 * Printing and copier paper, excl. printed matter, envelopes and marketing materials. 50 25 Besides the quantity consumed, the quality of the paper 20 21 21 used is also an important item in the eco-balance. The 0 table below shows the paper used excluding envelopes, 2014 2013 2012 printed matter and marketing materials: Rail Road Short-haul flights Long-haul flights Paper Grades 2014 2013 2012 % % % The reduction in business travel was achieved evenly Recycled paper 53.0 4.6 6.0 across all means of transport consequently their relative Primary fibre shares remained almost stable compared to the previous paper, ECF 1) 24.0 83.7 79.0 years. Car travel continues to account for the biggest Primary fibre share of total business travel, followed by rail travel paper, TCF 1), with 20.1% (2013: 20.9%) and air travel with 18.3% wood-free 0.1 0.0 0.1 (2013: 18.2%). Primary fibre paper, FSC2) 22.9 11.7 14.9 91.2% of the rail travel was provided carbon-free by 1) Elemental chlorine-free (ECF), totally chlorine-free (TCF). Deutsche Bahn AG meaning that the calculation of 2) Forest Stewardship Council (FSC). carbon emissions covered only 71,406 km travelled on local transport. The figures show that the decision to no longer use The reporting of short-haul and long-haul flights was virgin fibre paper for printers and copiers taken at the improved by breaking down multi-leg flights into segend of 2013 has successfully been put into practice. ments, thereby achieving a more accurate presentation. The percentage of recycled paper has increased more than tenfold which means that over half of the total 4.4 Paper paper used in 2014 was recycled paper. NRW.BANK The eco-balance covers all paper used for office pur­ intends to further accelerate this positive trend going poses including printed matter such as letterheads and forward. envelopes. For the past fiscal year, the eco-balance for the first time also comprises marketing materials such 4.5 Water as annual reports, brochures, and flyers. Water is an important and valuable resource whose protection is actively supported by NRW.BANK. Grey Total paper consumption in the fiscal year amounted water from the air scrubbers and recooling systems to 65 t or 48 kg per employee. Given that marketing is used for the Bank’s sanitary facilities, and watermaterials were included for the first time, it does not efficient technologies are specified for retrofits and make sense to compare total paper consumption with new installations. that of the previous year. The comparison with the prior year figures therefore exclusively covers printing and Process and copier paper, as in the previous years. This comparison Drinking Water 2014 2013 2012 again shows a reduction in paper consumption by 2.6%. Total consumption 21,281 m3 19,206 m3 19,895 m3 Daily consumption per employee 62.9 l 57.1 l 59.0 l Financial Report 2014 25 Corporate Responsibility Water consumption nevertheless rose by 10.8% in 4.7 Greenhouse Gas absolute terms and by 10.1% per employee compared Greenhouse gas emissions are an important indicator to the previous year. This increase applies to both head for assessing a company’s environmental performance. offices and is due, among other things, to an increase The calculation of this performance indicator covers in the space occupied. all the above-mentioned environmentally relevant consumption figures and wastes of NRW.BANK as well as 4.6 Waste the quantity of emergency power diesel used. The 2014 eco-balance covers the following waste types: paper (incl. documents shredded), mixed packaging, food residues, waste fats, green waste, used electronic CO2 Emissions 2014 2013 2012 devices, glass, residual waste, sludge from the com­ kg CO2 kg CO2 kg CO2 pany’s own water treatment and fluorescent lamps. Electricity 68,474 193,060 132,521 Heating energy Taking all waste types into account, the Bank produced incl. emergency a total of 371.6 t of waste in 2014. This is equivalent power diesel 444,602 473,726 488,503 to 274.6 kg of waste per employee and represents a Business travel 876,431 938,595 984,397 reduction of 6.1% in total waste and by 6.6% in waste Paper 77,951 68,606 74,244 per employee compared to the previous year. Drinking water 15,939 14,386 14,901 Waste 96,746 88,418 85,978 The following table shows the amounts of waste ­produced exclusively as a result of the banking activity Total emissions1) 1,580,143 1,776,790 1,780,544 and excluding waste primarily produced in conjunction CO2 per employee 1,168 1,319 1,321 with the operation of the kitchen. Offset by climate certificates2) 1,580,143 1,776,790 0 Total 0 0 1,780,544 Waste Volume 2014 2013 2012 1) Differences due to rounding t t t 2) Wind power. Waste paper 55.4 53.6 56.1 Document shredding 43.0 82.3 56.6 CO2 Emissions by Producers in % Residual waste 108.9 108.6 113.1 DSD (“Green Dot”) 3.2 3.4 3.0 100 12 10 10 56 53 55 Total* 210.4 247.9 228.9 75 kg per employee 155.5 184.1 169.8 Recycling ratio* 48.3% 56.2% 55.4% 50 * excl. other and kitchen waste, 26 differences due to rounding. 25 28 27 0 4 11 8 With regard to the waste from banking activities, the 2014 2013 2012 much lower level of document shredding in the fiscal Electricity Heating Energy Business Travel year led to a reduction of 15.1% in total waste, of Other (waste, paper, drinking water) 15.5% in waste per employee and of 7.9% in the recycling ratio compared to the previous year. In 2014, NRW.BANK’s carbon emissions totalled 1,580.1 t which is equivalent to 1,167.5 kg per employee. This represents an 11.0% reduction in total carbon emissions which is primarily due to the fact that electricity from renewable sources is now used at all NRW.BANK locations in Düsseldorf. 26 Financial Report 2014 Direct and Indirect CO2 Emissions at NRW.BANK in 2014 Greenhouse Gas Sources Scope 11) Scope 21) Scope 31) Total2) kg CO2 kg CO2 kg CO2 kg CO2 Electricity 68,474.2 – renewable 68,474.2 Heating energy 444,602.1 – District heat 434,475.2 – Emergency power diesel 8,539.6 1,587.3 Travel 876,430.7 – rail 3,413.2 – road 521,553.6 236,827.9 – short-haul flights 64,068.6 – long-haul flights 50,567.4 Paper 77,950.6 – ECF, TCF, FSC 38,868.9 – recycled 39,081.7 Water 15,939.2 15,939.2 Waste 96,746.2 – waste incineration 95,116.2 – special waste 1,630.0 Total2) 530,093.2 434,475.2 615,574.7 1,580,143.1 kg CO2 per employee 1,167.5 1) Distinction between direct and indirect emissions: Direct greenhouse gas emissions come from sources owned or controlled by NRW.BANK. Indirect greenhouse gas emissions result from the business activity of NRW.BANK – their sources are owned or controlled by third parties. In accordance with the “Greenhouse Gas Protocol”, emissions are divided into three categories depending on the degree of influence exerted by NRW.BANK: – Scope 1: all direct emissions – Scope 2: all indirect emissions produced, for instance, in the generation of electricity, steam or thermal energy sourced by NRW.BANK from external sources – Scope 3: all other indirect emissions in the field of logistics, material consumption, supplies and disposal. This also includes the emissions produced by service providers or manufacturing companies and their upstream suppliers. 2) Differences due to rounding. The 1,580.1 t of carbon emissions produced as a result of the business operations were voluntarily offset by the social and regional balance of its activities in the Bank through the purchase of certificates from two North Rhine-Westphalia. wind farm projects in India. NRW.BANK’s efforts are guided by its resolve to foster creativity and ideas as well as responsible action. In this context, the Bank focuses on 5 Showing Commitment to Society sponsorships related to education (academic, cultural and economic) in North Rhine-West­ phalia for a young target group.  s part of its commitment to society and under A In accordance with the guidelines set by the its remit as a development bank, NRW.BANK Supervisory Board, NRW.BANK makes neither endeavours to shape a subsidiarity-based and direct nor indirect donations to political parties project-related collaboration with its partners on or party-related foundations. Moreover, the Bank a medium to long-term basis in order to create places no advertisements in their publications. the required continuity. The Bank strives to ensure Financial Report 2014 27 Corporate Responsibility NRW.BANK also lives up to its corporate responsibility 5.1.1 ROCK YOUR LIFE! Münster through its contributions to public and community ROCK YOUR LIFE! assists young people from socially life in North Rhine-Westphalia. Suitable measures are disadvantaged backgrounds for a successful career supported in accordance with the Bank’s “Guidelines start. Participating school children benefit from comfor Corporate Citizenship and Other Services”. prehensive career choice information and advice backed up by personalised support as they work towards an The Bank is committed to making its decisions on apprentice­ship or seek admission to a secondary grants and sponsorships transparent and comprehenschool. The project was initiated by young people and sible and has established a formal internal process students who now act as mentors for the school children. for this purpose. All requests received regarding the sponsorship of projects are documented centrally by 5.1.2 Project “Wir haben Energie!” the Bank and voted on using standardised assessment Innovative teaching ideas and projects on the use of criteria. One essential precondition for approval is that renewable energies and environmental protection were the resources made available by NRW.BANK exclusively promoted by the project “Wir haben Energie! Ideen. benefit projects in North Rhine-Westphalia. Proposed Unterricht. Innovationen.”. This competition was sponsorships and grants are voted on by the Managing organised jointly by NRW.BANK and Stiftung Partner Board on a quarterly basis. für Schule NRW. school children at twelve schools in North Rhine-Westphalia dealt with the “Energiewende”, In 2014 the Bank approved grants and sponsorships Germany’s transition to a renewable energy regime, totalling € 0.7 million in its three defined fields “Society in the following categories: & Social Affairs”, “Arts & Culture” and “Science & Education”. The following chart illustrates the breakHigh-voltage learning – “Energiewende” at school down of the budget in line with the number of requests “Energiewende” – What’s in it for me personally received during the year: – Jobs and professions in the energy sector So what colour is electricity really? Yellow? Green? COLOURFUL! – An artistic look at the “EnergieSponsorship by Fields in % wende” Society & Social Minister for School and Further Education of the State Affairs 14 North Rhine-Westphalia Sylvia Löhrmann presented the awards to the project teams chosen by a professional Science & jury. The winners came from the Ingeborg-Drewitz Art & Education 47 comprehensive school in Gladbeck, the Mechernich Culture 39 secondary modern school and the Im Vestern secondary modern school in Ahaus. 5.1.3 Universities The year 2014 saw the Bank continue its support for academic institutions focusing on the finance and 5.1 Science & Education housing sectors. Annual basic grants were received by: The Bank’s concept of corporate citizenship calls for the promotion of creativity and ideas as well as Institut für Kreditund Finanzwirtschaft responsible action. The Bank consequently focused on at Ruhr-Universität Bochum sponsorships related to education in North Rhine-WestCentre for Financial Research phalia in 2014. The following projects from the field of at University of Cologne “Science & Education” were sponsored by the Bank: European Center for Financial Services at Universität of Duisburg-Essen Institut für Raumplanung at TU Dortmund University Institut für Kreditwesen at University of Münster 28 Financial Report 2014 Since 2013 NRW.BANK has also funded 3-year grants In 2014 the Bank committed to funding a 3-year grant for two students at the above universities under the at the Ruhr Graduate School in Economics in Essen. Deutschlandstipendium scheme. 5.1.4 Additional Measures in the Field of “Science & Education” Organisation/Project Measures Supported Target Group Vocational training sponsorships Bearing the cost of vocational training Secondary school graduates since 2009 for ten apprenticeships in service companies working for NRW.BANK Arbeiterkind.de, Honorary mentoring programme to encourage School children from families with Berlin, Landesgruppe NRW children to study by supporting them from the no or only few university graduates start of study to graduation Die Stiftung Erinnern Ermöglichen, Support of the foundation which arranges School children Düsseldorf visits to the Auschwitz memorial for schools in North Rhine-Westphalia School cooperation with Initiation of career guidance projects School children two secondary schools and two grammar schools in Düsseldorf and Münster ESE Ethnologie in Schule und Project “Support diversity – live diversity: School children Erwachsenenbildung e. V., Münster promote cultural identity in inclusive school classes” for years 5, 6 and 7 Schutzgemeinschaft Deutscher Sponsorship of the Youth Forest Games School children Wald, Landesverband NRW e. V., which are meanwhile attended by more than Oberhausen 40,000 primary school children annually; contribution to the funding of the “Waldmobil” in the Ruhr region Wellenbrecher e. V., Dortmund A school class project on the prevention Children and youths of violent behaviour Deutsches Jungforscher Netzwerk Promotion of productive exchange between School children, students juForum e. V., Karlsruhe science-minded young people from different and postgraduates disciplines of the natural and engineering sciences with a focus on North Rhine-Westphalia Tilbury House, Cologne Support of Cologne’s junior academics at the Students international debating tournament Münsteraner Willem C. Vis Inter­na­ Support of junior academics during a Students tional Commercial Arbitration Moot simulated legal negotiation NRW.BANK.Studienpreis Award for diploma, master and PhD theses Students “Wohnen & Stadt” outlining feasible recommendations for action or helping to advance the promotional and structural policy concepts in North RhineWestphalia MUIMUN Arbeitsstelle English-language conference “Münster Students Forschungstransfer, University International Model United Münster Nations (MUIMUN)” in Münster for students from all over the world Financial Report 2014 29 Corporate Responsibility Organisation/Project Measures Supported Target Group 4th Schlaun competition, Münster Sponsorship of the competition on “Standort Master students/graduates Oberhausen” designed to find solutions for of urban planning, architecture, urban planning and development landscape planning and civil engineering WWU Münster, Institute for The “Global Entrepreneurship Summer Master and postgraduate students Business Management in the School” project is designed to inspire students of natural sciences, business Chemistry and Pharmaceuticals from the Westphalia region and students from administration and economics Department other countries to start their own businesses while at the same time encouraging inter­ national networking Die Gaste, Turkish newspaper, Symposium on “Language ability of children Academics and scientists Düsseldorf from migrant backgrounds and problems of language acquisition and language teaching” 5.2 Arts & Culture programme “JeKits – Jedem Kind Instrumente, Tanzen, In 2014 NRW.BANK’s sponsoring activities in the field Singen”. The purpose of JeKits is to provide access to “Arts & Culture” continued to focus on the promotion musical instrument playing, dancing or singing as an of young talent. aesthetic experience for groups of kids. 5.2.1 Concerts by Young Artists and Corporate 5.2.2 NRW.BANK.Kunstkalender Volunteering For the tenth time in the series, NRW.BANK invited The bank continued to support cultural events at its two young photographers to submit their application for the locations by making available its premises as concert design of the NRW.BANK.Kunstkalender. The theme venues: chosen for the 2015 edition of this annual calendar was “Humanity’s Companions – Trees in NRW” and As part of the biennial “summerwinds” festivals for numerous impressive entries were received. The first woodwind music, the “Signum FIVE” sextet performed place was awarded to Joshua Alexander Hoffmann from in NRW.BANK’s staff cafeteria in Münster. Kürten, with Jennifer-Christin Wolf from Hennef and Claudia Hettwer from Hamburg finishing second and In November the same venue hosted the fourth classical third, respectively. music concert in the “CHAPEAU classique” series. Cello player Konstantin Manaev joined the Berlin-based The theme of the 2016 calendar will be “Departure and Camerata chamber orchestra comprised of six internaDestination – Bridges in NRW”. tional soloists with European credentials, for two wellreceived concerts. Both events were organised by the 5.2.3 Promotion of the Arts Bank jointly with the Gesellschaft zur Förderung der In 2013 the Bank started two cooperative schemes with Westfälischen Kulturarbeit e. V. the Düsseldorf and Münster arts academies as part of which two-year exhibitions were staged on the Bank’s 2014 was the sixth year of NRW.BANK’s sponsorship of premises in both cities. During 2014 a number of guided the “Düsseldorf Festival”, with concerts by the “Grandtours of these arts exhibitions were held for members brothers” duo and the “Tobias Preisig Quartett” being of the general public: staged in the foyer of its Düsseldorf building on two nights. The class of professor Rita McBride developed several location-specific arts projects, partly NRW.BANK employees volunteered at all four concerts, involving objects and members of NRW.BANK in serving beverages and snacks to the guests. The Düsseldorf. “Group Effect” was the title of an proceeds amounting to € 2,600 were donated to the exhibition staged by 15 of her students whose 30 Financial Report 2014 work looked at the relationship between reality Two exhibitions which will remain on show in and fiction, work and play, material and idea. Münster until year-end 2015 present a work titled In Münster 23 students from the class of Professor “Zusammenspiel von Reflexion und DurchlässigJulia Schmidt explored the architectural, economic keit” by Melanie Bisping and Clara Napp as well as and social structures of NRW.BANK during a Sujin Seo’s work “Leuchttreppe”. Both works were full semester. The results were presented in the created as part of an NRW.BANK-sponsored comexhibition “Flamingo” in 2014. petition at the Münster Arts Academy. 5.2.4 Additional Measures in the Field of “Art & Culture” Organisation/Project Measures Supported Target Group Städtischer Musikverein zu Support for the “SingPause” (singing break) Primary school children Düsseldorf e. V. at primary schools lit.COLOGNE lit. COLOGNE event in general and the children Children and youths and youth programme offering readings for school classes in particular Kunst gegen Sucht e. V., Project “Mobiles Theater”: performance of a School children Düsseldorf play on dependency prevention at schools and follow-up work with school children Förderverein JO! Junge Oper e. V., Teams of young singers fresh out of School children Detmold training visit schools to perform operas in age-appropriate formats Gesellschaft zur Förderung der Promotion of promising young artists as well Up-and-coming artists Westfälischen Kulturarbeit e. V., as concept development and organisation of Münster cultural events in the fields of art, music and literature in Westphalia Stiftung Klavier-Festival Ruhr, Grants for young pianists, competition winners Up-and-coming artists Essen and first-time performers Ruhrtriennale, Gelsenkirchen Support of innovative mediation formats at the Up-and-coming artists international arts festival which focuses on promoting young talent and aims to establish the Ruhr area as an important cultural location pro Gitarre e. V., Münster Proficiency classes for young guitar players Up-and-coming artists “NEW DÜSSELDORF POP” Workshops at the fair Up-and-coming artists (music fair) Beathoven Bonn, Creativity and Cultural project “Rhein Jam Hip-Hop-Festival Up-and-coming artists Innovation, Bonn 2014”: hip-hop competition Kunsthalle Düsseldorf gGmbH “TAU” exhibition organised by the Düsseldorf Up-and-coming artists art academy in the KIT (Kunst im Tunnel) Landesmusikakademie NRW Support of musical (further) training and the Lay musicians, music teachers, promotion of young talent school and up-and-coming musicians Project “kunst:dialoge at Museum Project in the context of which students of Students/Artists Ludwig”, Cologne art history introduce visitors to modern and contemporary art in a dialogue as part of their own education Financial Report 2014 31 Corporate Responsibility Organisation/Project Measures Supported Target Group Internationale Kurzfilmtage Sponsorship of the short film festival and Up-and-coming filmmakers Oberhausen gGmbH support of the NRW competition especially for productions from up-and-coming filmmakers from North Rhine-Westphalia Kino Gesellschaft Köln NRW KINOTAG, where movies from NRW Diverse are presented to a broad audience in special features 5.3 Society & Social Affairs The “Schmetterling e. V.” charity in Emsdetten is renovating the climbing scaffold in the garden on 5.3.1 Eine Welt Netz NRW, Münster the inclusive Montessori children’s house. Up to In 2014 NRW.BANK continued to support the “Eine 90 children aged two and older, including children Welt Netz NRW” initiative which organises projects with special needs, visit this preschool which also to strengthen kids’ and youths’ awareness of our runs inclusive parent-child groups for one to two world. The “Eine Welt Mobil”, a white van packed with year-olds. teaching materials for school children from year 3 and The Max Ernst Museum Brühl of the Landschaftsolder, responds to strong demand from schools for verband Rheinland received support for its “Kunston-site support. The teaching units introduce school café” and “Kunstcafé aktiv” events for people with children to such topics as climate change, energy dementia who are given tours of the museum once consumption, fair trade, the rain forest and responsible a month. In addition, workshops held in a “fantasy garment production. lab” encourage dementia sufferers to remember hidden feelings through the experience of art. 5.3.2 Christmas Activity and Donation Marking the seventh year of this Christmas activity, 5.3.3 Storm Relief Donations NRW.BANK employees once again supported charitable On June 9, 2014, hurricane Ela damaged or destroyed institutions looking after children and youths. Two large far in excess of 40,000 trees in Düsseldorf. NRW.BANK Christmas trees at the Bank’s dual head offices in has made a donation to support the restoration and Düsseldorf and Münster were decorated with stars replanting efforts. In addition, the Düsseldorf branch inscribed with suggestions for presents and donations of the DLRG (German lifeguard association) received for the benefit of the Regenbogen and Königskinder a grant towards the reconstruction of its local centre children’s hospices, the Düsseldorf and Münster cancer which was heavily damaged by the hurricane. support charities, the “Raum_58” project in Essen as well as the Düsseldorf and Münster food banks. Apart The greater Münster area was ravaged by an exceptional from the presents to individual children, employees series of storms in the night from July 28 to 29, 2014. donated a total of € 11,693 to the aforementioned A donation from NRW.BANK contributes to the renovacharities; this sum was doubled by NRW.BANK. tion of the library in the Kinderhaus district of the city. In addition, the Bank’s annual Christmas donation benefited the following charities: 32 Financial Report 2014 5.3.4 Additional Measures in the Field of “Society & Social Affairs” Organisation/Project Measures Supported Target Group Gewerkschaft der Polizei Colouring books on the topic of “road safety” Kindergarten kids/ Elementary school children Kalker Kindermittagstisch e. V., Funding lunches and other aids for up to Children Cologne 150 children SOS-Kinderdorf e. V. Extension of a family house in the SOSChildren Kinderdorf Lippe for a Kinderdorf family with six boys and girls Bundesstiftung Kinderhospiz Dissemination and publication of the children’s Terminally ill children (institutions in North Rhine-Westhospice concept phalia) TrauBe Köln e. V. Grieving support Children, youths and young adults Bundesverband Deutsche Tafel e. V. Food banks in North Rhine-Westphalia which Children, senior citizens collect excess food of immaculate quality and distribute it to people in need. Special support for children’s food banks and projects for senior citizens Düsseldorfer Drogenhilfe e. V. Support of charitable, economic and social Drug addicts and groups threatened projects by dependency draußen! e. V., Münster Creation of life improvement prospects Homeless and unemployed people through the “draußen!” street magazine Asphalt e. V./fiftyfifty, Düsseldorf Support offerings for the homeless Homeless people muTiger-Stiftung, Prevention of violence through education, Adults Gelsenkirchen/Düsseldorf enlightenment and training for greater confidence and courage in everyday situations Bundesanstalt Technisches HilfsSupport of the THW, 99% of whose members Diverse werk, Landesverband NRW (THW) volunteer to provide disaster relief Financial Report 2014 33 Report on Public Corporate Governance Report on Public Corporate Governance in the Year 2014 The fiscal year 2014 and, hence, the Bank’s corporate Bank has complied with the recommendations of the governance activities were strongly influenced by the Public Corporate Governance Code. In accordance with implementation of the directives and regulations adopted Clause 1.3.2 of the Public Corporate Governance Code, by the European Parliament in 2013, namely CRD IV deviations from these recommendations are disclosed (Capital Requirements Directive IV) and CRR (Capital and explained in the following Declaration of Conformity. Requirements Regulation), which are relevant for The duty to issue this declaration is laid down in NRW.BANK. Among other things, they led to the ­Section 30 para. 8 of NRW.BANK’s statutes. amendment of the German Banking Act (KWG), the Remuneration Ordinance for Institutions (InstitutsAs part of a reorganisation, the function of the Public VergV) and the Minimum Requirements for Risk Corporate Governance Adviser was transferred to the ­Management (MaRisk). This, in turn, had an impact Head of Strategy/Communications/Board Office in the on NRW.BANK’s corporate governance structure. past fiscal year. The PCG Adviser and his predecessor, In addition, the Public Corporate Governance Code respectively, were involved in all public corporate (PCGK) of NRW.BANK was revised against the backgovernance issues throughout the past fiscal year. ground of the adoption of the Public Corporate Governance Code of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia 2 Guarantor and Board of Guarantors and put into force on January 1, 2014. The State of North Rhine-Westphalia is the guarantor and sole shareholder of NRW.BANK. The guarantor 1 General Information ensures that NRW.BANK can fulfil its tasks (institutional As the development bank for the State of North Rhineliability) and is liable for the obligations of NRW.BANK Westphalia, NRW.BANK has been commissioned by (guarantor liability). the government to support the state and its municipal corporations in meeting their public tasks, particularly The guarantor exercises its ownership and voting in the fields of structural, economic, social and housing rights by way of the Board of Guarantors. The Board of policy. It is not least against this background, that Guarantors is composed of members in virtue of their NRW.BANK is fully committed to responsible and office – according to the statutes of NRW.BANK these transparent corporate governance and supervision are the Minister for Economics of the State of North vis-à-vis the public and the guarantor as well as Rhine-Westphalia, the Minister for Finance of the State ­investors, customers and employees. of North Rhine-Westphalia as well as the Minister for Housing of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia – and Since 2006, NRW.BANK has reported annually on of members appointed by the guarantor. One appointed the corporate governance efforts undertaken by member of the Board of Guarantors resigned from office NRW.BANK on the basis of its own Public Corporate and went into retirement with effect from September 30, Governance Code, which reflects the specific require2014. As of December 31, 2014, no new member had ments of the Bank. While the amended Public Corporate been appointed by the guarantor. Governance Code of NRW.BANK, which came into force on January 1, 2014, is based on the Code of the The voting rights of the sole guarantor, the State of State of North Rhine-Westphalia, it also takes into North Rhine-Westphalia, on the Board of Guarantors ­account the specific public mission and the particularities are exercised unanimously by the “voting agent”. of the competition-neutral public-law development The voting agent and the chairperson of the Board of bank, which is largely budget independent. Besides Guarantors are members appointed by the guarantor. legal and statutory provisions, which only have a ­descriptive function, it also includes recommendations The Board of Guarantors discusses the overall strategy and suggestions that go beyond the legal requirements. of NRW.BANK presented by the Managing Board and adopts the principles of the business, promotion and For the past fiscal year, the Managing Board and the risk policies contained therein at the recommendation Supervisory Board declare, for the first time, that the of the Supervisory Board. 34 Financial Report 2014 The Board of Guarantors held two meetings during the 3 Managing Board fiscal year. In March 2014 it adopted a set of revised The Managing Board is responsible for independently statutes, which came into force on March 13, 2014. managing NRW.BANK according to commercial prinBesides the implementation of the requirements of ciples. In doing so, the Managing Board observes all Section 25d KWG, Section 10 No. 12 of the statutes relevant legal provisions, the statutes of NRW.BANK, stipulates that the Board of Guarantors is responsible the Public Corporate Governance Code of NRW.BANK for amendments to the Public Corporate Governance and the directives adopted by the Supervisory Board as Code of NRW.BANK. The amendment of the statutes well as the rules of procedure for the Managing Board. was approved by the regulatory authority, the Ministry The Managing Board also ensures that legal provisions of Interior and Municipal Affairs. A decision by the and the Bank’s internal directives are observed and Board of Guarantors regarding the benchmarks pursuant complied with by the Bank’s investments. to Section 6 para. 1 of Law on the Promotion and Use of Housing for the State of North Rhine-Westphalia The Chairman of the Managing Board, Mr Dietmar P. (WFNG) was not required in 2014, as a multi-year Binkowska, resigned from office with effect from benchmark decision for the years from 2014 to 2017 April 30, 2014. This resulted in a reorganisation of the was made by the Board of Guarantors in 2013. Managing Board, as part of which Mr Klaus B. Neuhaus, member of the Managing Board, was appointed In addition, the Board of Guarantors decided to con­ ­C hairman of the Managing Board with effect from tinue the existing directors’ and officers’ liability in­ May 1, 2014. Especially against the background of the surance policy (D&O insurance) for the members of the required organisational separation between front office Managing Board, the Supervisory Board and the Board and back office as required under MaRisk, the reducof Guarantors. A deductible of 10% of each damage but tion of the Managing Board to three members led to of no more than 1.5 times the fixed annual remuneration an adjustment of the organisational structure and a was agreed for the first time in the past fiscal year. modification of the powers and responsibilities of the Managing Board members. In accordance with the Increasing requirements in the banking environment MaRisk requirements, the former business unit “Risk and constant regulatory amendments make regular Management” was split up into the business unit “Risk further training indispensable for the members of the Control” and the business unit “Credit Management”. Board of Guarantors. Back in 2011, NRW.BANK already As a result of these modifications, the rules of procedure adopted a qualification budget for mandate holders, for the Managing Board were revised in the fiscal year. which originally applied only to the members of the Supervisory Board and was later extended to the In the second half of the year, the appointment of ­members of the Board of Guarantors. In agreement Mr Dietrich Suhlrie as member of the Managing Board with the PCG Adviser, the members of these bodies was renewed for another five years. With regard to the may individually take part in further training offerings senior management positions, the Managing Board at the expense of the qualification budget. Moreover, adopted principles, in the past fiscal year, which are NRW.BANK has developed a further training concept based on the requirements of Section 32 KWG regarding and organised a customised proficiency seminar on the suitability assessment of managers. In accordance “bank management and bank regulation” for the with Clause 3.3.4 of the Public Corporate Governance members of the Board of Guarantors in spring 2014. Code, the objectives of the State Equal Opportunities A joint advanced seminar on “credit risk management” Act as well as an appropriate representation of both was offered to the members of the Supervisory Board genders are observed when it comes to filling manageand the Board of Guarantors in autumn 2014. The ment positions. The process for filling vacant positions seminar series will be continued in 2015. is supported by the Equal Opportunities Officer of Financial Report 2014 35 Report on Public Corporate Governance NRW.BANK. Where candidates have the same pro­ operation between the Managing Board members, with fessional and personal qualifications, preference is the Bank’s bodies and its employees is characterised by given to women. As of December 31, 2014, women held trust and openness. 27.2% and men 72.8% of the management positions of the 1st to 5th level of the Bank. 47.1% of all new The Managing Board members avoid situations that management positions or management positions to be may lead to personal conflicts of interest. In the event refilled were filled with women in 2014. of a conflict of interest, they immediately disclose it to their fellow Board members and the Supervisory Board. After a hearing by the Supervisory Board, a RemuneraThis requirement was met in the fiscal year. tion Officer and a Vice Remuneration Officer were appointed by the Managing Board in the past fiscal The members of the Managing Board are committed year. According to the Remuneration Ordinance for to integrity in office. They strictly comply with the Institutions, it is a key task of the Remuneration Officer ­prohibition of accepting benefits. Invitations to events to monitor the appropriateness of the remuneration are accepted exclusively in the interests of the Bank. systems of the workforce. In doing so, he liaises closely with the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and Secondary activities on Supervisory Boards or com­ reports to the Managing Board and the Supervisory parable controlling bodies of enterprises are performed Board of NRW.BANK. only after they have been approved by the Supervisory Board. The Supervisory Board mandates of the incumThe business, promotion and risk strategy defined by bent Managing Board members are confined to com­ the Managing Board puts the strategic positioning of panies in which NRW.BANK holds an interest. The the Bank, which is defined in the principles, into more respective approvals of the Supervisory Board have concrete terms, discusses it with the Supervisory Board been obtained. The remuneration received has been and its committees, adopts it and ensures that it is disclosed to the Bank and is shown in the Annual Report. put into practice. The overall strategy is geared to the sustainable development of NRW.BANK. Similar to the Supervisory Board and the Board of ­Guarantors, D&O insurance has been taken out for the In the fiscal year, for the first time, an external managemembers of the Managing Board. A deductible of 10% ment consultancy was commissioned to carry out an of each damage but of no more than 1.5 times the fixed evaluation of the managing bodies as defined in Section annual remuneration was agreed for the first time in 25d para. 11 KWG. The Nomination Committee dealt the past fiscal year. with the evaluation of the Managing Board and presented the results to the Supervisory Board. The management The members of the Managing Board undergo con­ consultancy commissioned at the initiative of the tinuous further training in order to keep their knowcommittee conducted a survey using anonymous ledge, especially with regard to the regulatory framequestionnaires. In addition, data was collected by way work and risk management, up to date. of a document analysis and a benchmark comparison. The self-evaluation of the Managing Board members, 4 Supervisory Board the external valuation by the members of the Super­ The Supervisory Board oversees the management visory Board, the document analysis and the benchactivities of the Managing Board and is involved in the mark comparison arrived at the conclusion that the long-term positioning of the Bank. In accordance with members of the Managing Board are able and sufficiently the Minimum Requirements for Risk Management, experienced to effectively and efficiently conduct the the integrated business, promotion and risk strategy Bank’s business activities. The evaluation also confirmed is discussed with the Supervisory Board – ­following that the members of the Managing Board fulfill their preliminary consultation in the Promotion and Risk tasks in an independent, unbiased and selfless manner. Committee. With regard to the principles of the Decisions by the Managing Board are taken efficiently, business, promotion and risk policy, which defines the effectively and free from personal interests. The co­ framework of the strategic activity, the Supervisory 36 Financial Report 2014 Board submits a resolution proposal to the Board of citizenship activities. The number and the duration of Guarantors. the meetings held by the Supervisory Board and the committees in the fiscal year were in line with the The Chairman of the Supervisory Board coordinates the Bank’s requirements. No member of the Supervisory work of the Supervisory Board and chairs its meetings. Board attended less than half of the meetings. He regularly liaises with the Managing Board, notably the Chairman of the Managing Board, also outside the In conjunction with the evaluation of the Managing meetings during regular talks. Where necessitated by Board, the Nomination Committee also, for the first urgent events, the Chairman of the Supervisory Board time, dealt with the evaluation of the Supervisory Board informs the Supervisory Board and convenes an extraand presented the results to the Supervisory Board. ordinary meeting if required. Two extraordinary meetings According to the assessment, which was conducted in of the Supervisory Board were held in the fiscal year analogy to the evaluation of the Managing Board, the 2014. The Chairman of the Supervisory Board also Supervisory Board rated its own performance mostly ensures that all Supervisory Board members comply positively. The document analysis did not arrive at a with the confidentiality obligation. different result. In view of the increasing requirements and amendments of banking supervisory law, individual To ensure the efficiency of the work of the Supervisory recommendations were made, e.g. in conjunction Board, preliminary discussions are held in the com­ with the better use of the existing offerings for further mittees which focus on the respective issues. The full training. Supervisory Board is informed about these preliminary discussions by the respective chairpersons of the comNo business or personal relations that give rise to a mittees. Irrespective of the above, the documents used material and no temporary conflict of interest exist for discussion at the committee meetings are available between the members of the Supervisory Board and to the Supervisory Board members that are not comNRW.BANK. No relevant conflicts of interest were mittee members for information purposes upon request. disclosed to the Supervisory Board in the fiscal year. In accordance with the legal requirements of Section Similar to the Managing Board and the Board of 25d KWG, two new committees of the Supervisory ­Guarantors, D&O insurance has been taken out for the Board – the Nomination Committee and the Remuneramembers of the Supervisory Board. A deductible of tion Committee – were established with effect from 10% of each damage but of no more than 1.5 times the January 1, 2014. The work of the Nomination Com­ fixed annual remuneration was agreed for the first time mittee focuses on the selection and appointment of in the past fiscal year. members of the Managing Board and the Supervisory Board and their evaluation. The Remuneration Com­ The members of supervisory bodies must have the mittee primarily addresses tasks relating to the remuknowledge, skills and experience that are required to neration systems of the Managing Board and the workexercise their control function and to assess and superforce. Prior to this date, the Supervisory Board had vise the Managing Board. In this context, financial already established a Risk Committee and an Audit in­stitutions are put under an obligation to use appro­ Committee in accordance with legal requirements. priate human and financial resources to assist the The required cooperation between the Remuneration members of the Supervisory Board to take up their Committee and the Risk Committee has been laid down mandate and to allow them to undergo further training in the committees’ rules of procedure and an active in order to keep the required expert knowledge up to process has been implemented. In addition, there is date (Section 25d para. 4 KWG). As outlined in the a Promotion Committee, which primarily addresses paragraph on the Board of Guarantors, a qualification various aspects of the promotion policy and the pro­ budget exists for this purpose, which may be used by motion business. The Executive Committee prepares the each member of the Supervisory Board, in agreement meetings of the Supervisory Board, among other things, with the Public Corporate Governance Adviser. In addiand decides on the budget for the Bank’s corporate tion, NRW.BANK arranges further training measures Financial Report 2014 37 Report on Public Corporate Governance that specifically meet the special demands made on the 7 Accounting members of the Supervisory Board. In this context, The annual financial statements and the management an advanced seminar on “credit risk management” report of NRW.BANK are prepared by the Managing specific­ally tailored to the Bank’s requirements was Board and audited by the auditor in accordance with offered to the members of the Supervisory Board and the provisions of the German Commercial Code (HGB) the Board of Guarantors in autumn 2014. and the Ordinance Regarding Accounting for Banks and Financial Services Institutions (RechKredV). The Audit 5 Cooperation between the Managing Board and the Committee as well as the Supervisory Board discuss Supervisory Board the results of the audit with the auditor. The Board The cooperation between the Supervisory Board as of Guarantors resolves on the approval of the annual the controlling body and the Managing Board as the financial statements, formulates a profit appropriation managing body continues to be characterised by an open proposal and appoints an auditor. and trusting dialogue in the interest of NRW.BANK and its guarantor, the State of North Rhine-Westphalia. The At the recommendation of the Audit Committee and dialogue at the meetings is complemented by an ongoing the proposal of the Managing Board and in consultation exchange, especially between the Chairmen of the with the North Rhine-Westphalian Court of Audit, the Super­visory Board and the Managing Board but also Board of Guarantors appointed KPMG AG Wirtschaftsbetween the Managing Board and the Chairmen of the prüfungsgesellschaft, Düsseldorf, as auditors of individual committees. NRW.BANK’s financial statements for the period ended December 31, 2014 at its March 2014 meeting. The Managing Board informs the Supervisory Board regularly, promptly and comprehensively about all 8 Governmental Control ­aspects of planning, business development, risk situation, Government control over NRW.BANK is exercised by risk management and compliance that are relevant for the Ministry of the Interior of the State of North RhineNRW.BANK as well as about important changes in the Westphalia, with respect to social housing promotion in economic environment. In the past fiscal year, this was cooperation with the Ministry responsible for Housing. done by additional memorandums that complemented The purpose of this control is to ensure the lawfulness the documents used to prepare the meetings. In the of the activities of NRW.BANK. second half of the year, the documents were, for the first time, provided electronically via a secure data room. 9 Remuneration Report This is expected to make the cooperation between the NRW.BANK reports on the key elements of the Managing Board and the Supervisory Board even more ­remuneration systems for its executive and controlling efficient going forward. bodies and its employees. This report is in keeping with the requirements of the Bank’s internal Public 6 Transparency Corporate Governance Code, the North Rhine-WestCreating transparency towards the public, its owner, phalian Transparency Act, the Management Remunerathe supervisory body, investors, customers and em­ tion Act and the Remuneration Ordinance for Institutions ployees is of particular importance to NRW.BANK. (InstitutsVergV) of December 16, 2013 in conjunction Transparency forms the basis for open communication, with Article 450 of Regulation (EU) No. 575/2013. trusting cooperation and sustainable corporate governance. 9.1 Remuneration of the Members of the Supervisory Board NRW.BANK publishes the Annual Report, the Disclosure The concept of a remuneration structure which is not Report and the financial calendar on its website. In the dependent on the business performance primarily context of its investor relations activities, the Bank reflects the underlying idea according to which the regularly reports the latest corporate news. The Report generation of profits is not the primary business objecon Public Corporate Governance and the Declaration of tive. The remuneration of the Supervisory Board and Conformity of NRW.BANK are published as part of the its committees consists of a work remuneration that Financial Report and as a separate document on the is unrelated to the meetings held and an additional Internet. ­meeting-related fee. As specified by the Board of 38 Financial Report 2014 ­ uarantors, the work remuneration and the meeting G 9.2 Remuneration Strategy and Control attendance fee are identical within the Supervisory The State of North Rhine-Westphalia is the sole owner of Board and its committees. No distinction is made NRW.BANK. Every year, the Bank’s Board of Guarantors between a member, the vice chairperson or the chairadopts the principles of the business, promotion and person. Besides this remuneration, travel expenses risk policy within the meaning of Section 10 No. 9 of its incurred by mandate holders are adequately refunded. statutes, which form the basis of NRW.BANK’s strategic The payment of value added tax depends on the positioning as the development bank for North Rhine­respective tax status of the individual members. Westphalia. These principles and the business, promotion and risk strategy derived from them constitute the Besides the remuneration paid to the members of overall strategy, which also complies with the regulatory the Supervisory Board, the members of the Board of requirements of MaRisk. Guarantors, the Advisory Board for Housing Promotion, the Advisory Board of NRW.BANK and the Parliamentary The remuneration strategy is not a separate strategy that Advisory Board also receive individual remuneration forms part of the overall strategy but derives strategic on the basis of the resolution passed by the Board of business requirements for achieving the strategic Guarantors. The respective remuneration complies with ­objectives from the overall strategy. Additional requirethe principles above, but the absolute amount varies ments result from the statutes of NRW.BANK, its based on the different tasks and specific responsibilities. ­corporate culture and values. An itemised disclosure of the remuneration received by To meet these requirements, the remuneration strategy the individual members of the Supervisory Board, the formulates the remuneration principles of NRW.BANK Board of Guarantors and the Advisory Boards can be and defines measures for their implementation. The found in the notes to the Financial report (page 116 remuneration strategy thus defines the basis for im­ et seq.). plementation in NRW.BANK’s remuneration system. Overall strategy Corporate culture and values • Business strategy • Statutes • Promotion strategy • Mission statement • Risk strategy • Principles of Corporate Responsibility at NRW.BANK Legal framework Strategic business requirements Cultural requirements Remuneration strategy Remuneration principles Remuneration system Financial Report 2014 39 Report on Public Corporate Governance The above sources result in the following principles for These strategic requirements derived from the overall NRW.BANK’s remuneration strategy, which serve to strategy form the framework for NRW.BANK’s remunera­ secure the Bank’s sustainable performance. tion strategy, taking the corporate culture and values into account. This results in the following remuneration T  arget-oriented incentives implementing the principles: strategy The remuneration system creates structures that  ia a consistent top-down process and a reverse V support the implementation of the targets and bottom-up process, the remuneration system – objectives defined in the overall strategy. Incentives linked to the appraisal system – of NRW.BANK that help achieve the targets are supported, while ensures the alignment with the overall strategy disincentives that are apposed to the targets are and supports its implementation. prevented. All elements of NRW.BANK’s remuneration system Risk orientation must meet the requirements of the conservative The remuneration system supports NRW.BANK’s remuneration policy of a competition-neutral consistent conservative risk policy and does not development bank whose primary objective is not encourage undesirable risk-taking. the generation of profits. Resource efficiency Fixed remuneration geared to the respective Being the central promotion platform, NRW.BANK’s require­ments forms the basis of NRW.BANK’s main task consists in designing the promotion remuneration system to secure the livelihood of products efficiently and with a minimum impact on its employees. the state budget. In the context of its conservative Variable remuneration components create targetinvestment strategy, NRW.BANK generates suroriented incentives to meet the individual requirepluses which are mainly used for the promotion ments without supporting the taking of disproporbusiness and to secure the Bank’s performance. tionately high risks. The remuneration system considers these principles The disbursement of variable remuneration comof a cautiously operating public-law development ponents is linked to the performance of the Bank bank. At the same time, NRW.BANK is subject to and the degree to which targets and objectives are all banking-specific requirements and requires achieved and/or tasks fulfilled by the departments employees with the corresponding qualifications. and the individual employees. The fulfilment of Long-term motivation qualitative requirements plays an important role in NRW.BANK pursues a long-term, sustainable this context. business model and is a future-oriented public-law NRW.BANK’s remuneration system comprises employer acting in a socially responsible manner. consistent and transparent remuneration rules. The Bank aims to strengthen the ties with its employees as well as to support their health, their These remuneration principles must be fulfilled by all ability to work and their motivation. NRW.BANK components of NRW.BANK’s remuneration system. is particularly committed to a responsible human Amendments to NRW.BANK’s remuneration system resources policy and fair dealings with each other. and their implementation are agreed with an in-house The motto “internal promotion is preferable to “Remuneration Commission” at least once a year as external hiring” underlines the Bank’s sustainable well as on special occasions. This Commission is comand respectful human resources policy. The remuposed of the Heads of Internal Audit, Human Resources, neration system supports this human resources Credit Management (back office) and Risk Control, the policy, which is aimed at trusting, long-lasting Compliance function as well as the “Remuneration cooperation and creates incentives for the necessary Officer” as defined in Section 23 of the Remuneration long-term motivation of the workforce. Ordinance for Institutions (InstitutsVergV). The Heads of Finance and Legal as well as two representatives of the overall Staff Council complement the Remuneration Commission as guests. The tasks and the composition 40 Financial Report 2014 of the Remuneration Commission have been laid down 9.3 General Conditions for Appropriate Remuneration in NRW.BANK’s internal written instructions. Ever since its inception, NRW.BANK has, in agreement with its guarantor, geared its remuneration systems Based on the statement by the Remuneration Com­ and parameters towards its promotion tasks. Against mission, the Managing Board decides on amendments the background of its promotion-oriented character, the to the remuneration system for the Bank’s employees. Bank bases its remuneration structure exclusively on No external advisory services were used in the definition regionally and/or nationally used remuneration para­ of NRW.BANK’s remuneration policy. meters and ensures that the amounts of its remuneration do not exceed the market level for comparable positions. The Supervisory Board of NRW.BANK is the responsible This is examined applying external standards: main controlling body with regard to the remuneration systems. It decides on the contents and the appropriate­  he fixed salary for employees under collective T ness of the remuneration systems for the members of agreements is based on the “Manteltarifvertrag the Managing Board based on a review and recom­ für das private Bankgewerbe und die öffentlichen menda­tion by the Remuneration Committee, which, in Banken” (basic collective agreement for privateturn, is supported by the Remuneration Officer. The sector and public-sector banks). Two consecutive same applies to the supervision of the appropriateness wage groups are allocated to each position under of the remuneration systems for the Bank’s employees collective agreement. The lower group represents and to the assessment of the effects of the remuneration the entry into the position, while the upper group systems on the Bank’s risk, capital and liquidity situation. represents the final target position. In addition, The latter was also reviewed by the Risk Committee on individualised extra pay is possible for each position, November 27, 2014 in accordance with Section 25d which is capped at € 1 below the next higher para. 8 KWG. group. This means that in individual cases, the fixed remuneration may be up to approx. 10% At four meetings in the fiscal year 2014, the Supervisory above the respective collective wage group. Board addressed remuneration-related issues including For positions not covered by collective agreements, the hearing of the Remuneration Officer and the Vice remuneration comparisons of two con­sultancy Remuneration Officer prior to the appointments. The firms, Towers Watson, Frankfurt am Main, and Remuneration Committee as defined in Section 15 hkp, Frankfurt am Main, are used to determine InstitutsVergV and Section 25d para. 12 KWG held two market indicators for NRW.BANK, which supply meetings. This committee is composed of the following benchmarks for the remuneration possibilities. members: These benchmarks are based on the median of a peer group of German banks previously defined  inister Garrelt Duin (Chairman), Ministry of M by the Managing Board. The market data obtained ­Economic Affairs, Energy and Industry of the are adjusted for obvious extremes, checked against State of North Rhine-Westphalia comparable positions within the Bank and reviewed Minister Michael Groschek (Deputy Chairman), for adequate differentiation from the next higher Ministry of Building, Housing, Urban Development and lower reporting levels. Salary increases and Transport of the State of North Rhine-Westmay be decided by the managers only within the phalia limits of these benchmarks. Salaries exceeding Minister Dr. Norbert Walter-Borjans (Deputy these limits are decided by the Managing Board Chairman), Ministry of Finance of the State of on a case-to-case basis. In accordance with North Rhine-Westphalia NRW.BANK’s Company Car Directive, business Lutz Lienenkämper, member of the Assembly of unit and department heads of the Bank may be North Rhine-Westphalia / Parliamentary State granted a company car (also for private use). Secretary of the CDU Parliamentary Group in North Rhine-Westphalia Director Frank Lill and Director Thomas Stausberg (representatives of the employees of NRW.BANK) Financial Report 2014 41 Report on Public Corporate Governance 9.4 Features and Success Factors for the Variable managers are responsible for transferring these strategic Remuneration objectives to the employees in an adequate manner In accordance with Section 18 para. 2 InstitutsVergV, using the “PUR” (planning and feedback) appraisal NRW.BANK has, on the basis of Regulation (EU) system. Relevant changes occurring in the course of a No. 604/2014 dated March 4, 2014, conducted a risk year must be updated in this system. This way, it is analysis of employees with material influence on the ensured that the assessment-relevant and bonus-relevant overall risk profile; as of December 31, 2014, the Bank planned objectives and tasks of all employees are has identified 63 “risk takers” – in addition to the three adjusted in the event of strategy changes. Managing Board members and the 14 unit heads – based on their function and/or the amount of their In accordance with Section 19 para. 3 No. 3 ­remuneration. These persons are believed to have ­InstitutsVergV, the amount of the provisions for the ­“material influence on the risk profile of the Bank”, variable remuneration to be paid out in April for the according to the definition under regulatory law. The previous reporting year is defined by the Managing disclosure duties pursuant to Section 16 InstitutsVergV Board on the basis of a ratio system that reflects the in conjunction with Art. 450 of Regulation (EU) sustainable total performance of NRW.BANK. This No. 575/2013 exclusively relate to these persons, all quantitative assessment is complemented by the of whom are not covered by collective agreements. ­t argets agreed between the Supervisory Board and The information provided below therefore focuses on the Managing Board as well as by a qualitative assessthe Managing Board remuneration and on the remunement of the overall risk situation, which also takes ration systems for employees not covered by collective into account the effects of the payout of the variable agreements, although large parts of the description remuneration on the risk and capital ratios. The variable also apply to employees covered by collective agreeremuneration components are paid out only after the ments. responsible bodies have dealt with the annual financial statement. The necessary connection between the strategic ­corporate objectives agreed with the owner and the The income statement (to HGB) of the past reporting remuneration system of NRW.BANK is ensured by a year forms the basis which justifies the creation of systematic planning and assessment process. A con­ ­appropriate variable remuneration for the members of sistent top-down process ensures that the corporate the Managing Board and all employees of the Bank. objectives are communicated to employees at the down-stream levels. For this purpose, the individual Since 2011, NRW.BANK has used a key performance requirements derived from the strategic corporate ratio system including an assessment matrix to ensure ­objectives are documented in writing in the context of a that the total amount of the variable remuneration is in tasks and objectives planning process at the beginning line with the performance. When measuring the total of the year. The achievement of these objectives is performance, such ratios are used which reflect the ­reviewed in an annual feedback process and documented goal of sustainable performance of a development bank in a performance assessment. The short, medium and while considering the risks taken as well as the capital long-term objectives of the Bank are laid down in the and liquidity costs (total performance ratio: GEK I-III). “Objectives agreement and results assessment” between The actual economic performance achieved is to be the Supervisory Board and the Managing Board, in used as a benchmark. The income statement shows a which not only the quantitative objectives but also the result for the year that reflects all realised gains and material qualitative and content-related objectives of losses as well as all discernible anticipated losses the Bank are agreed. The Managing Board uses the (imparity principle). Accordingly, a result in the HGB Bank’s planning and assessment system to transfer the income statement is always conservative, includes objectives agreed with the Supervisory Board to the all risk allowances and provisions that are necessary business units. The business unit heads and all senior for loss-free valuation (individual allowances, general 42 Financial Report 2014 allowances, provisions) and may thus serve as the basis the result for an individual year. When weighting the for the measurement of the total performance in the individual annual results, the current assessment period meaning of the InstitutsVergV. As the net profit for should have the highest relevance, which subsides over the year to HGB may additionally include reserves for time. A weighted three-year average is thus calculated future special risks arising from the banking business, as follows: these allowance reserves in the income statement must first be neutralised to calculate the economic  ast reporting year p 3/6 performance, as they are not based on any specific previous reporting year 2/6 discernible risks and thus distort the actual result for year prior to previous reporting year 1/6 the period. The opposite applies when reserves are released. In addition, the promotion and development The Interpretation Guide to the Ordinance on the Super­ funds, which are booked in the commercial balance visory Requirements for Institutions’ Remuneration sheet of NRW.BANK, must be neutralised. These also Systems for Section 7 InstitutsVergV stipulates that act as a burden on the bottom line but are at the same ”In the case of a negative overall performance of the time an important performance feature of a developinstitution, the determination of the total amount of ment bank (in contrast to a commercial bank). This the variable remuneration within the meaning of means that changes in reserves occurring in the course section 45 (2) sentence 1 no. 5a KWG is generally not of a year, promotion and development funds spent as permissible“. NRW.BANK defines negative overall perwell as extraordinary one-time effects outside the formance as follows: When all three total performance ­regular banking business must be taken into account as ratios are negative, no volume or only a very low volume adjustment items. The result is a total performance ratio is made available. If the withdrawal from the reserve of the Bank which includes all income and expenses has increased compared to the previous years, it is of the period including income and expenses from the possible to make available a bonus volume of no more risks that have actually materialised or are anticipated than 25% of the sum total of the base rates for the in the respective period (GEK I). variable remuneration only on the basis of a detailed qualitative analysis of the reasons for the losses incurred In the context of an ex-ante risk adjustment, the resulting in conjunction with a positive outlook. Regardless of all performance ratio is then extended performance ratios, the total performance of the Bank is defined as negative if the 340f reserves are used up t hrough the consideration of standard risk costs entirely, which means that no variable remuneration is for anticipated risks (GEK II) as well as fixed for the fiscal year. through the consideration of adequate interest on the economic capital to cover unexpected default, The identification of the relevant performance and market, liquidity and operational risks (GEK III) sustainability ratios and their translation into a reason­ able, requirements-oriented system for the variable The ratios thus determined are the total performance remuneration were the task of Risk Control and Finance ratios of NRW.BANK in the meaning of the in consultation with Human Resources. This was agreed InstitutsVergV. with the Remuneration Commission, which fully supports the procedures. According to Section 10 para. 2 InstitutsVergV, the variable remuneration received by executives shall be The total available volume is allocated to the Bank’s based on a multi-year assessment period. NRW.BANK business units based on a decision by the full Managing applies this requirement to all employees, as it makes Board, which takes into account the achievement of the more sense for a development bank that operates qualitative and strategic objectives as well as base rates sustain­ably to assess the remuneration-relevant per­ for the variable remuneration. As a general rule, the formance on the basis of a multi-year period instead of available volume is not broken down further to subFinancial Report 2014 43 Report on Public Corporate Governance pools of the business units. Within the department Neither the members of the Managing Board nor the pools, the relative share of each individual is calculated employees of NRW.BANK are legally entitled to variable on the basis of their fixed salary and the assessment remuneration. Guaranteed entitlements are generally of the achievement of objectives and their personal ruled out under NRW.BANK’s rules and regulations; performance-relevant behaviour in the context of the individual exceptions were permitted only in exceptional annual planning and assessment process described cases and only in the first year of employment. above. This pool model ensures that the maximum ­volume defined by the Managing Board for the variable 9.5 Deferral and Payment Conditions remuneration is not exceeded. NRW.BANK has, As part of the implementation of the InstitutsVergV, for all members of the Managing Board and the the Bank has put a cap for the variable remuneration at risk takers of the 2nd reporting level (business 40% of the total remuneration (i.e. max. two thirds of unit heads) as well as the fixed remuneration). This cap may be raised (to no for all other risk takers receiving variable more than 40.71% in 2015) in individual cases only remunera­tion of € 50,000 or more, if variable remuneration components are deferred in defined a deferral period of four years for accordance with Section 20 InstitutsVergV (see below). ­Managing Board members and of three years for all other risk takers within the meaning of Section 20 As in the two previous years, the average variable repara. 1 and 2 InstitutsVergV for 60% of the variable muneration of the employees not covered by collective remuneration (see C + D in chart below); pursuant agreements amounted to 21% of the total annual salary. to Section 20 para. 5 InstitutsVergV in conjunction Given NRW.BANK’s function as the development bank with Section 19 para. 2 InstitutsVergV, these of North Rhine-Westphalia, there is an appropriate deferred amounts are subject to a differentiated relation between the fixed salary and the variable malus regulation, which may lead to a reduction or remuneration. The amount of the variable remuneration complete cancellation of the variable remuneration rules out a significant dependence of employees on this within the deferral period, payment. Nevertheless, the individual amounts are high with an additional one-year period for assessing enough to provide the required effective incentives as the sustainable value increase of the Bank having defined in the bank strategy. been fixed for 50% each of the directly granted variable remuneration and the deferred variable remuneration within the meaning of Section 20 para. 4 InstitutsVergV (see B + D in chart below). 20% A Cash variable (immediate payment) 20% 40% B Sustainability variable Granted immediately (with 1-year holding period) C 30% Cash deferral (pro-rata payment) 100% 60% 30% Variable remuneration deferred Sustainability deferral D determined on the basis of over 4 years (Managing Board) (pro-rata payment following the objectives achieved or 3 years (risk takers) additional 1-year holding period) 44 Financial Report 2014 The malus reservation relates to individual misbehaviour, tion comparison complemented by additional information serious mistakes resulting in considerable losses (caused taken from the annual and remuneration reports. Based by individuals or groups of employees) as well as to on the total remuneration received by the Managing Bank-wide performance ratios. Individual misbehaviour Board members of this peer group, the remuneration (including undutiful and unethical behaviour) has been received by the Managing Board of NRW.BANK is linked to labour law definitions and differentiated by below the median, in some cases even materially. Comdegrees of severity. Serious mistakes are divided into pared to other large development banks the Managing mistakes falling under operational risks and mistakes Board remuneration of NRW.BANK is at a medium resulting from the lending business, equity investments level, although NRW.BANK was the only bank within and price losses. As soon as differentiated threshold this group having to meet the requirements of a values are exceeded, an investigation by Risk Control “significant institution” by the fiscal year 2014. and other independent control units is triggered. A Bank-wide malus is applied – also in defined steps – In accordance with the InstitutsVergV, the actual variable when the reserves established for anticipated losses remuneration of the Managing Board – similar to the are fully used up and/or as soon as regulatory capital variable remuneration of the risk takers – for the past is consumed; as a strict side condition, compliance reporting year is defined on the basis of the Bank’s with a minimum solvability coefficient (Pillar I) and a total performance ratios, a qualitative overall risk minimum buffer for higher future requirements (Pillar II) assessment and the achievement of the complementary is assumed. The Managing Board decides on the extent objectives agreed with the Executive Committee (as of of the malus application based on a recommendation by the fiscal year 2015: Supervisory Board) and limited by a “malus commission”, which is composed of the heads a cap for variable payments defined by the Bank. of internal control units and the Remuneration Officer. The objectives agreed with the Executive Committee The requirements for payment of the variable remunera­ (as of the fiscal year 2015: Supervisory Board) reflect tion components that are subject to the sustainability the special demands made on a development bank and arrangement are considered to be met when the net take into account that the generation of profits is not asset value of NRW.BANK as of December 31 of a year the main business purpose. In accordance with the is not lower than at the beginning of that year. The corporate policy, which is geared to the sustainable basis is formed by the “adjusted basic net asset value at development of the North Rhine-Westphalian economy, the beginning of the year”, which is composed of balance the local municipalities and the people in the state, sheet equity plus free allowance reserves adjusted for the agreed objectives are divided into superordinate owner-initiated capital changes. It is compared with the objectives to be achieved over a long to medium term “net asset value at the end of the year”, which is also and objectives to be achieved within one year. Both adjusted for defined adjustment items. If the net asset the long/medium-term objectives and the short-term value at the end of the year is below the adjusted basic objectives are derived from the bank strategy. They net asset value at the beginning of the year, the variable reflect the “principles of the business, promotion and remuneration components that are subject to the risk policy” adopted by the Board of Guarantors and sustain­ability arrangement are discounted at pre-defined the regulatory requirements. steps (5 to 100%), depending on the amount by which the year-end net asset value is below the net asset value In the past reporting year, the variable payments for at the beginning of the year. the previous year were, in accordance with Section 20 InstitutsVergV, again subject to the Bank’s sustainable 9.6 Composition of the Managing Board Remuneration total performance. Payment of these amounts will be The remuneration of the Managing Board is regularly deferred over a period of four years (deferral and reviewed for appropriateness. For this purpose, sustain­ability component). In implementation of the NRW.BANK participates in an annual comparison of differentiated interpretation aid dated January 1, 2014 Managing Board salaries performed by an external for the amended Remuneration Ordinance for Institutions remuneration consulting firm. This comparison covers (InstitutsVergV), the deferral period will be extended the market data of Germany’s top 30 banks, with the to four years starting with the bonus for the fiscal year data of the banks directly participating in the remunera­ 2014, which will be paid out in 2015; as a result, the Financial Report 2014 45 Report on Public Corporate Governance payment including the sustainability component extends In the event of invalidity and when reaching the age of over a total of five years. retirement, Mr. Neuhaus benefits from a pension similar to those for civil-servants in Germany. This warrants The partial amounts of the variable remuneration for 75% of the pensionable salary, taking into account the the reporting years 2011, 2012 and 2013 that are subpension from the statutory pension insurance as well as ject to the sustainability and malus arrangement reserve the pension from an additional pension insurance. The and due in April 2015 will be paid out following the pensionable salary is 69% of the fixed annual salary. respective review and decision by the Bank’s responsible bodies in the first quarter of 2015. Mr. Stölting benefits from a pension commitment pursuant to the German Civil Servant’s Pension Act For a detailed presentation of the remuneration received (Beamten­versorgungsgesetz) as amended from time to by the individual Managing Board members, refer to time. Depending on the number of pensionable service page 113 in the notes. years, the maximum pension entitlement is 71.75% of the pensionable salary reachable at the age of 65. The After Managing Board Chairman Dietmar P. Binkowska pensionable salary is 69% of the fixed annual salary. resigned from office with effect from April 30, 2014, The amount of the pension in the event of invalidity Mr Klaus B. Neuhaus was appointed Chairman of the depends on the entitlement achieved as well as on the Managing Board in April 2014 with effect from May 1, additionally agreed attributable period credited at the 2014. time the insured event occurs. In the case of Mr. Stölting, the pension from the statutory pension insurance and On November 27, 2014, the Supervisory Board decided – the pension from additional pension insurance will be at the recommendation of the Executive Committee – to counted towards the pension no earlier than from the reappoint Mr Dietrich Suhlrie member of the Managing time they are granted. Board with effect from June 1, 2015, with his contractual terms remaining unchanged. Mr. Suhlrie benefits from a contribution-linked pension commitment. In the context of this pension commitment, In the event of accident or illness and in the event of a personal pension account with a starting component premature termination or non-renewal of the contractual has been set up for him, into which annual pension relationship before reaching the age of 62, all three components are paid. The pension component is calcuincumbent members of the Managing Board are enlated at an individual contribution rate on the basis of titled to the following benefits: 69% of the fixed annual salary. The pension account carries an interest rate of 6%. At the time the insured In the event of an inability to work caused by an accident event occurs, the pension capital built-up in the or illness, the fixed annual salary will continue to be ­account – in the event of invalidity, plus additional compaid for an unlimited time but no longer than the end ponents, if applicable – is actuarially converted into a of the employment relationship. After the end of the pension. employment relationship, all members of the Managing Board receive a life-long pension, in analogy to the After the death of a Managing Board member, their pension granted in the event of invalidity. dependants receive a reduced pension. Widows receive up to 60% of the pension. The children of the Managing Members of the Managing Board are not entitled to Board members are entitled to 20% of the pension if pension if the Bank terminates the employment relation­ they are orphans and to 12% of the pension if they ship for reasons attributable to the Managing Board have lost one parent. member. While any pension benefits paid out to Mr. Neuhaus The members of the Managing Board are entitled to and Mr. Stölting will be adjusted in accordance with pension benefits as they reach the age of retirement the linear changes applicable to pensions paid by the or in case of invalidity. In the event of their death their state of North Rhine-Westphalia, the pension paid to dependants are also entitled to benefits. All commitMr. Suhlrie will be increased by 2.0% p. a. ments are contractually unforfeitable or unforfeitable by law because of the number of years served. 46 Financial Report 2014 As Mr. Neuhaus and Mr. Stölting benefit from commitments that are similar to those for civil servants, they are exempted from statutory pension insurance but receive benefits as defined in the North Rhine-Westphalian “Beihilfeverordnung” in the event of illness. The expenses for the pensions of the Managing Board members and the present values of the obligations are shown in the notes on page 115. 9.7 Disclosure Pursuant to Art. 450 of Regulation (EU) Nr. 575/2013 No. 1 g et seq. Quantitative information regarding the Managing Board remuneration Composition of the Remuneration for the Year 2014 Performance-linked variable Number of remuneration Total Remuneration beneficiaries1) Non-performance-linked remuneration committed in 2014 remuneration for mandates3) Fixed Other remuneration benefits2) 4 € 1,878,830 € 2,773,997 € 564,000 € 5,216,827 € 165,750 1) Pro-rated remuneration up to the departure of the former Managing Board Chairman on June 30, 2014. 2) Severance payments and non-monetary benefits in money’s worth (primarily company car for private use). 3) Remuneration received in 2014 for mandates / shown incl. VAT. Both the fixed remuneration and the variable remunera­ tion are paid in cash. There is no compensation in the form of shares or similar instruments. Only the other benefits comprise remuneration components in the form of non-monetary benefits (primarily company cars for private use). Complementary Information Regarding the Variable Remuneration Number of Amount eneficiaries Variable remuneration for the year 2013, committed in 2014 € 564,000 4 – thereof paid out in 2014 € 112,800 4 – thereof deferred € 451,200 4 Deferred variable amounts from the years 2011 – 2012 € 732,700 4 – thereof vested and paid out in 2014 € 281,800 4 – thereof vested in 2014 but not paid out because of sustainability arrangement € 112,700 4 – thereof not yet vested in 2014 € 338,200 4 – thereof reduced in 2014 €– 0 Financial Report 2014 47 Report on Public Corporate Governance Information Regarding Other Remuneration Benefits Number of Amount beneficiaries Sign-on bonuses paid or guaranteed payments made in 2014 €– 0 Severance payments made in 2014 € 2,679,000 1 – thereof single highest amount € 2,679,000 Persons whose remuneration in 2014 exceeded € 1.0 million € 3 – 3.5 million 1 For a breakdown of the payments to the Managing Board members by names, please refer to page 113 of the notes. Quantitative information regarding the remuneration of the risk takers Composition of the Remuneration for the Year 2014 Non-performancelinked variable remuneration Number of Non-performance-linked committed Total Remuneration Segment beneficiaries1) remuneration in 2014 remuneration for mandates Fixed Other remuneration benefits2) Programmebased Promotion 16 € 2,050,812 € 175,862 € 634,300 € 2,860,974 € 16,835 Other Promotion/ Liquidity Management 26 € 3,122,344 € 35,375 € 1,311,600 € 4,469,319 €– Staff/Services 36 € 4,394,703 € 247,554 € 1,296,900 € 5,939,157 €– 1) employees who were identified as risk takers in 2014, incl. new entries / departures in the course of the year (excl. Managing Board). 2) Benefits in money’s worth, mainly for company cars. Both the fixed remuneration and the variable remunera­ tion are paid in cash. There is no compensation in the form of shares or similar instruments. Only the other benefits comprise remuneration components in the form of non-monetary benefits (primarily company cars for private use). 48 Financial Report 2014 Complementary Information Regarding the Variable Remuneration Number of Amount1) beneficiaries3) Variable remuneration for the year 2013, committed in 20141) € 3,242,800 77 – thereof paid out in 2014 € 2,644,000 77 – thereof deferred € 598,800 15 Deferred variable amounts from the years 2011 – 20122) € 1,070,610 18 – thereof vested and paid out in 2014 € 411,490 18 – thereof vested in 2014 but not paid out because of sustainability arrangement € 163,860 18 – thereof not yet vested in 2014 € 495,260 18 – thereof reduced in 2014 €– 0 1)  elating to employees who were identified as risk takers in 2014, incl. new entries / departures in the course of 2014. R 2) Incl. deferred amounts for risk takers who have left the Bank in the meantime. 3) One new entry as of October 1, 2014 without variable remuneration in 2014. Deferred amounts only for risk takers identified up to and including December 31, 2013. Information Regarding Other Remuneration Benefits Number of Amount beneficiaries Sign-on bonuses paid or guaranteed payments made in 2014 €– 0 Severance payments made in 2014 €– 0 – thereof single highest amount €– Persons whose remuneration in 2014 exceeded € 1.0 million €– 0 Financial Report 2014 49 Declaration of Conformity Declaration of Conformity The amended Public Corporate Governance Code requirements of the Code are met. Against the backof NRW.BANK came into force on January 1, 2014. ground of the statutory regulations regarding the comThe Managing Board and the Supervisory Board of position of the Supervisory Board, which provide, NRW.BANK jointly declare that the Bank essentially for instance, for members by virtue of office and the complied with the recommendations of the Public appointment of additional members by the guarantor, Corporate Governance Code of NRW.BANK in 2014. the possibilities of the Supervisory Board in this context Deviations from the recommendations which make are limited, however. It should also be noted that the sense and are necessary are made transparent and employee representatives on the Supervisory Board are justified below in accordance with Clauses 1.3.5 and elected directly by the workforce, which means that the 1.4 of the Code. composition of the elected representatives cannot be influenced by the Supervisory Board. Target Agreement between the Managing Board and the Supervisory Board Submission of Resolution Proposals to the According to Clause 3.4.2 of the amended Public Super ­visory Board Corporate Governance Code, targets should be agreed Contrary to Clause 5.1.5, documents required for between the Managing Board and the Supervisory ­decisions were, in exceptional cases, submitted to the Board before the beginning of each fiscal year. As the members of the Supervisory Board less than 14 days amended Code came into force on January 1, 2014, the prior to the meeting. This was due, for instance, to targets for the fiscal year 2014 were – in keeping with current developments or the close timing of the comthe previous years’ practice – addressed and agreed mittee and Supervisory Board meetings. Due to the at the meetings in March 2014 based on the 2014 availability of the Managing Board for answering financial statements. As the process has been revised questions, the preparation of the Supervisory Board in the meantime, the targets for the fiscal year 2015 meetings by the Executive Committee and the possibility were agreed at the meetings in November 2014. This for extensive consultations at the meetings, it is nevermeans that the recommendation of the Public Corpotheless ensured that all issues are addressed in sufficient rate Governance Code will be complied with in the detail. future. Succession Planning for the Managing Board Employment Contract of Dietrich Suhlrie The long-term succession planning for the Managing When Dietrich Suhlrie was reappointed as member of the Board defined in Clause 5.1.8 will be developed by the Managing Board, a new employment contract was signed Managing Board and the Nomination Committee on the because of the term of the previous contract. The new basis of the evaluation performed in 2014 and be subcontract does not contain a provision regarding a mitted to the Supervisory Board in 2015. severance pay cap as defined in Clause 3.4.2, as such a provision was not contained in the previous employThe Managing Board and the Supervisory Board of ment contract. NRW.BANK remain committed to the Public Corporate Governance Code and intend to comply with its recomDiversity in the Composition of the mendations also in future unless transparent and justified Supervisory Board exceptions appear sensible and necessary. In the fiscal year 2014, women represented 13.3% of the Supervisory Board members, while men represented 86.7%. This means that the 30% minimum requirement NRW.BANK for both genders stipulated in Clause 4.5.1 was not met. March 2015 It is a key task of the newly established Nomination Committee to support the Supervisory Board in developing an objective to promote the representation of the The Managing Board underrepresented gender on the Supervisory Board The Supervisory Board as well as a strategy to achieve this objective. Going forward, the Nomination Committee and the Super­ visory Board will do what is possible to ensure that the 50 Financial Report 2014 Report of the Supervisory Board Report of the Supervisory Board In accordance with the tasks imposed on it by law, the The Board of Guarantors approved the proposed strategy statutes and the Public Corporate Governance Code, at its meeting on December 11, 2014. the Supervisory Board held six meetings including two extraordinary meetings in the fiscal year 2014. Another KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft carried out 21 meetings were held by the Committees composed of the audit of the financial statements for 2014 and the the members of the Supervisory Board: five meetings statement of financial condition of NRW.BANK and of the Executive Committee, four meetings of the Proissued an unqualified audit opinion. motion Committee, two meetings of the Audit Committee and five meetings of the Risk Committee including The Supervisory Board and the Audit Committee one extraordinary meeting. Due to amendments to ­formed from among its members discussed in detail the German Banking Act, which were caused by the the report of the external auditors on the results of CRD IV Implementation Act and came into force on their audits. Following the final result of the audit, January 1, 2014, a new Nomination Committee and a they raised no objections. new Remuneration Committee were established. The Nomination Committee held one meeting. Moreover, At its meeting on March 27, 2015, the Supervisory one resolution by the Nomination Committee was Board approved the financial statements and the adopted by way of a written vote. The Remuneration ­s tatements of financial condition established by the Committee held one meeting. In addition, one joint Managing Board and proposed that the Board of meeting each was held by the Executive and the Nomi­Guarantors approve the financial statements for the nation Committee, the Executive and the Remuneration year 2014. As in the previous years, no consolidated Committee and the Nomination and the Remuneration financial statements were prepared, as the Bank is Committee. not obliged to do so under commercial law. Regular reports kept the Supervisory Board apprised of the Bank’s situation and of all essential business events Düsseldorf/Münster, March 27, 2015 during the period. The Supervisory Board discussed and approved all transactions requiring its approval in accordance with legal or statutory provisions and addressed important matters of business policy in ­detail. In this context, the consultations also focused on the change in the Managing Board chairmanship Garrelt Duin as well as the renewal of the employment contract of Chairman of the Supervisory Board Mr Suhlrie and his appointment as member of the Managing Board for another five years. In accordance with regulatory requirements and the provisions in the statutes, the Supervisory Board addressed the business, promotion and risk strategy for the years 2015 to 2018, which had previously been discussed by the Promotion Committee and the Risk Committee. The principles of the business, promotion and risk policies were submitted for approval to the Board of Guarantors, which is the competent body under the Bank’s statutes. Financial Report 2014 51 Management Report Management Report of NRW.BANK for the Fiscal Year 2014 1 Fundamental Information about NRW.BANK as the market, where the Bank has established itself as a State Development Bank of North Rhine-Westphalia ­reliable market participant. NRW.BANK generates its NRW.BANK is the state development bank of North own income within the parameters of its conservative Rhine-Westphalia (NRW). It has the public mission to investment strategy. This income is used to finance its support its sole guarantor, the state of North Rhinedevelopment and promotion activities, to secure the Westphalia, in the completion of its structural and ecolong-term viability of the Bank, also with regard to the nomic policy tasks. NRW.BANK is competition-neutral creation of its own, non-interest-bearing provisions and and provides the full range of lending tools while at the reserves, and to finance the banking operations. The same time contributing its banking expertise to promouse of own resources, e. g. to reduce the interest rates tion and development processes. The Bank pools the on promotion loans, is a key aspect of NRW.BANK’s promotion and development programmes of the state business model. To fulfil its public mission, the Bank of North Rhine-Westphalia, the Federal Republic of uses all standard financing instruments. For this purpose, Germany and the European Union and combines them it primarily grants loans, underwrites guarantees and with its own equity and debt products and advisory makes equity investments. services. 1.2 Objectives and Strategies 1.1 Business Model The Bank’s activities are geared towards sustainability. The business model of NRW.BANK is that of a largely For details, refer to the “Principles of Corporate budget-independent development bank with an integra­Responsibility at NRW.BANK”. ted promotion and development policy. According to the “Verständigung II” agreement of March 1, 2002 NRW.BANK liaises closely and constantly with its between the EU Commission and the German govern­executive bodies and ensures the appropriate degree ment, NRW.BANK is a legally independent development of transparency in implementing and refining its tasks. bank engaging in competition-neutral structural and development business which permanently benefits The overall bank strategy is structured into two levels: from institutional and guarantor liability as well as from The first level consists of principles, which, according an explicit funding guarantee from its guarantor. To to the statutes, are adopted by the Board of Guarantors; complete its mission, the Bank uses the resulting the second level is the strategy level, which, according possibilities for funding in the international capital to the Minimum Requirements on Risk Management Resolution by the Board of Guarantors Principles of (pursuant to statutes) Business policy Promotion policy Risk policy Strategy pursuant Economic environment to MaRisk is the responsibility Business and resource strategy Promotion strategy Risk strategy of the Managing Board in con­sul­tation with Capital markets business Investment and Contents of the fields Capital cover Promotion business the Supervisory funding strategy of promotion Board and its committees HR planning and Promotion themes Economic capital development strategy Organisational and IT strategy Concentration limits Quantitative budget 52 Financial Report 2014 (MaRisk), is the responsibility of the Managing Board. The promotion strategy is implemented in the The principles of the business, promotion and risk policy ­“Programme-based Promotion” segment and the define the framework of strategic action. The business, “Other Promotion/Liquidity Management” segment. promotion and risk strategy puts the strategic positioning The Programme-based Promotion segment comprises of the Bank which is defined in the principles into more the Business Units Promotion Programmes, Housing concrete terms and leads to a multi-year quantitative Promotion, ­Advisory Services & Infrastructure Finance budget. as well as the equity investments managed as part of the NRW.BANK’s mission as a development bank and The focus of the overall bank strategy is on the promotion the Syndicated Loans Midcap from the Corporate strategy, which reflects the special importance of the ­Finance Business Unit. The Other Promotion/Liquidity promotion business. The business strategy defines the Management segment consists of the Business Unit orientation of the investment strategy and the funding Capital Markets including Municipal Financing. activities as well as resource-related aspects such as human resources and IT. The risk strategy addresses With regard to the capital market business, NRW.BANK the risk-relevant aspects of the strategy and is integrated continues to adapt its activities to the changed environwith the promotion and business strategies. ment resulting from the financial market crisis and is reducing its business volume and total assets as planned. The overall bank strategy is geared to NRW.BANK’s While the buy-and-hold strategy continues to be pursued public mission to support the state of North Rhinefor portfolio investments, the capital market business is Westphalia and its local and regional governments in being scaled down primarily through maturing investcompleting their public tasks. Material business activities ments as well as through portfolio-enhancing and riskas defined in the Minimum Requirements on Risk reducing measures. ­Management (MaRisk) are the promotion business and the capital market business. 1.3 Internal Management System For its internal management, NRW.BANK generally The current strategy continues the proven business uses controlling concepts and methods which have model of a largely budget-independent development proven their worth and are commonly used in the bank. Focal points of the promotion strategy include banking sector. NRW.BANK’s objectives and targets support for the necessary adjustments and expansion are primarily geared to providing its guarantor, the of the infrastructure, urban redevelopment and social state of North Rhine-Westphalia, with long-term support housing promotion, support in the transition to green in performing its structural and economic tasks. energy as well as assistance to North Rhine-Westphalia’s municipalities in completing their tasks. Moreover, Due to NRW.BANK’s public mission as the development NRW.BANK remains committed to constantly refining bank of North Rhine-Westphalia, development and its development and promotion products and processes promotion is the primary business objective. with a view to increasing the efficiency of its development and promotion activities. The preservation of the Bank’s net asset value has been defined as a key condition for the Bank’s internal In the context of its highly qualitative and theme-oriented management. NRW.BANK defines the net asset value promotion business, NRW.BANK operates in three fields as the equity capital as shown in the balance sheet with of promotion: Housing & Living, Seed & Growth and all its components adding allowance reserves. Development & Protection. These fields of promotion are divided into promotion themes, for which qualitative Reflecting the public development mission, net volume objectives and measures are defined. The measures of new commitments represent a key performance result in specific promotion products. The promotion indicator used for controlling purposes. Other banking instruments used by NRW.BANK mainly include lending performance indicators include operating income, products, equity finance and advisory services. administrative expenses, total assets and the business Financial Report 2014 53 Management Report volume as well as economic capital in the context of Order intake in the manufacturing sector also suffered the risk-bearing capacity calculation under the going from the weaker world economy and stagnated over the concern perspective. For all key performance indicators, year as a whole. Capacity utilisation was only average. there are defined budget values which are regularly Against this background, spending on plant and equipsubjected to plan/actual comparisons as well as scenario ment increased only moderately in spite of low interest and forecast analyses in order to provide appropriate rates and good access to loans. control stimuli. Thanks to the mild winter at the beginning of the year, Net volume of new commitments comprises the the construction sector was characterised by special ­commitments for promotion funds made in the current economic activity, which lost momentum as the year fiscal year. Operating income comprises net interest progressed, however. The overall trend in the con­ income and net commission income as well as net struction sector remained upward in 2014. The services ­income from trading operations and the other operating sector also exhibited a more positive performance than result. Internal management is performed at Business in the previous year. This reflects robust consumer Unit level. Due to its status as a development bank, spending (+1.1%). Government spending also picked up generating profits is not the key objective of NRW.BANK. by 1.0%. The public sector primarily benefited from Profits generated are used to finance the development the lower interest rates and high employment. The and promotion activities and to maintain the banking resulting financial scope was partly used to increase operations as well as to establish allowance reserves. investments. Government net lending/borrowing Administrative expenses comprise personnel expenses ­(including social insurance) was balanced in 2014. At as well as operating expenditure. The business volume 0.9%, Germany’s rate of inflation was low, primarily comprises total assets, contingent liabilities, other due to the fact that the euro was strong for quite some commitments as well as administered funds. time as well as to the decline in the prices of mineral oil products. A Bank-wide limit is defined each year for economic capital as determined in the context of the calculation 2.1.2 The North Rhine-Westphalian Economy of the risk-bearing capacity under the going concern Similar to Germany’s gross domestic product, North perspective and allocated to the key risk types and Rhine-Westphalia’s GDP showed an upward trend Business Units. compared to the previous year, although the increase lagged behind nationwide GDP growth. This is mainly 2 Report on Economic Position due to North Rhine-Westphalia’s stronger orientation 2.1 Economic Climate towards the eurozone and Russia as well as to its specific sectoral structure. As a result, NRW was hit harder by 2.1.1 The German Economy the moderate growth in the eurozone economy than the Growing by 1.5% on an annual average, the German other federal states. The increasing slowdown in the economy proved surprisingly robust in 2014. Benefiting economy due to geopolitical tensions was also reflected from a very mild winter, much of this growth was in the NRW.BANK.ifo Business Climate Index. Having achieved in the first quarter, however. Expectations of improved at the beginning of the year, the index dropped a sustainable economic recovery, which had prevailed sharply until mid-year and then moved mostly sideways. until mid-year, were dashed in the summer months. The economy stabilised towards the end of the year. This The North Rhine-Westphalian construction sector development was primarily attributable to the difficult showed a much better performance than in the previous global economic environment, which led to growing year, with private housing construction growing uncertainty in the Germany economy. The sanctions ­particularly strongly. In terms of building permits, imposed on Russia and the weak economic activity in the ­multi-family houses showed the best results. Current eurozone had a particularly adverse impact. Although construction projects mainly focus on densely populated world trade lost momentum, exports made a positive areas. The dynamic construction activity is not fully contribution to growth; at 0.4 percentage points of reflected in social housing promotion, however. GDP, this contribution was relatively low, however. 54 Financial Report 2014 2.1.3 Financial Markets occur for individual promotion programmes, starting Tensions in the financial markets continued to subside with those offering especially high interest rate subsidies. in 2014. This was primarily reflected in the lower yields on eurozone government bonds and the reduced Besides subsidised interest rates for loans, NRW.BANK spreads between periphery bonds and core bonds. offers promotion instruments on which low interest Much of this was attributable to the monetary policy rates have no adverse impact. It takes over risks from pursued by the European Central Bank (ECB), which borrowers’ local relationship banks, makes available was very expansionary and included unprecedented equity financings and provides advice on the effective non-standard measures. In June 2014, the ECB decided use of promotion possibilities. to reduce the deposit facility to below zero and to launch conditional long-term refinancing operations. In Just like the low-interest environment, other factors September, the ECB additionally launched a purchase influence the promotion business. For instance, programme for covered bonds and asset-backed securiexpecta­tions of a weaker economy and increased geoties. The main refinancing rate was cut to 0.05% and political uncertainty have a dampening effect on the the medium-term outlook of very low interest rates was propensity to invest, which can be stimulated by confirmed. ­promotion tools only to a limited extent. In addition, the ECB’s tasks were expanded significantly 2.2 Course of Business as the central bank became the supervisory body for 2014 was a successful fiscal year for NRW.BANK. the banks in the eurozone, which marked an important milestone in the implementation of the banking union. Demand for promotion products remained strong. In November 2014, 120 leading European banking At € 8.9 billion (2013: € 9.2 billion), net volume of new groups – including 21 from Germany – were placed commitments remained below the prior year level but under the supervision of the ECB; these represent 82% slightly exceeded the Bank’s expectations. of the assets of the eurozone banking sector. NRW.BANK is one of these banks. Save for one exception, all German Among the promotion loans extended in accordance banks fully passed the Comprehensive Assessment, with the house bank principle, the standardised credit which had been carried out previously and included an programmes such as NRW.BANK.Mittelstandskredit asset quality review, a risk assessment and a stress and NRW.BANK.Universalkredit were met with partitest. NRW.BANK’s results in the Comprehensive cularly high demand. ­A ssessment are described in chapter 5.1 of the Risk and Opportunity Report. The situation in the social housing promotion segment was more differentiated, with demand for the promotion The continued low interest rates are increasingly of rented dwellings picking up, while demand for pro­weighing on the profitability of the German banking motion funds for owner-occupied housing declined. sector. In phases when interest rates are low, the interest margin tends to decline. A low interest environment Thanks to its good creditworthiness and active investor may have an impact on the promotion business of a service NRW.BANK was able to issue its bonds at development bank, especially with regard to interest favourable conditions, thus further strengthening its rate subsidies. The relative attractiveness of a developlong-term funding base. ment loan over a non-subsidised loan is based on an interest rate advantage over the standard market rate. In the context of the business, promotion and risk The attractiveness of promotion loans would decline if strategy, NRW.BANK continued to consolidate its capital market rates were to sink below a level which no longer market portfolio. While the buy-and-hold strategy allows to pass on a full interest rate advantage to lenders, ­continues to be pursued for portfolio investments, the as would obviously be the case in a situation where portfolio was reduced primarily in the context of market rates decline to zero percent. If current interest ­maturities as well as through portfolio-enhancing and rates drop further, such a situation could theoretically risk-reducing measures. Financial Report 2014 55 Management Report Total assets amounted to € 143.8 billion on € 381.4 million (2013: € 400.7 million), which exceeded December 31, 2014 (2013: € 145.3 billion). The the Bank’s expectations. The Bank used its very good business volume stood at € 162.5 billion (2013: operating result to strengthen its regulatory equity € 164.0 billion). These figures were in line with capital and its risk-bearing capacity. ­ex­pectations. The table below shows NRW.BANK’s results of operaIn the fiscal year 2014, NRW.BANK posted operating tions from January 1 to December 31, 2014 broken income before risk provisions/valuation adjustments of down by segments: Programme-based Other Promotion/ Promotion Liquidity Management Staff/Services NRW.BANK Total 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 € millions € millions € millions € millions € millions € millions € millions € millions Net interest income 211.2 209.7 268.9 255.1 –15.1 28.3 465.0 493.1 Net commission income 20.2 18.6 83.5 51.0 –0.4 –0.6 103.3 69.0 Net income from trading operations 0.0 0.0 5.4 6.1 0.0 0.0 5.4 6.1 Other operating result 9.7 12.4 0.1 0.1 13.1 17.6 22.9 30.1 Administrative expenses –81.0 –76.7 –29.2 –27.7 –105.0 –93.2 –215.2 –197.6 – Personnel expenses –41.6 –39.9 –6.6 –6.3 –75.4 –69.8 –123.6 –116.0 – Operating expenditure –39.4 –36.8 –22.6 –21.4 –29.6 –23.4 –91.6 –81.6 Operating income before risk provisions/ revaluation adjustments 160.1 164.0 328.7 284.6 –107.4 –47.9 381.4 400.7 Risk provisions/ revaluation adjustments –108.1 –104.6 –125.3 –109.3 –125.8 –161.7 –359.2 –375.6 thereof: allocation to fund for general banking risks 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 –80.0 –135.0 –80.0 –135.0 Taxes on income and revenues –0.8 –1.4 0.0 0.0 –5.7 –7.0 –6.5 –8.4 Net income/ loss for the year 51.2 58.0 203.4 175.3 –238.9 –216.6 15.7 16.7 Active Employees (number) 539 529 48 47 696 680 1,283 1,256 56 Financial Report 2014 The Programme-based Promotion segment comprises Other Operating Income the Business Units Promotion Programmes, Housing Other operating income amounted to € 22.9 million Promotion, Advisory Services & Infrastructure Finance (2013: € 30.1 million). The decline is primarily as well as the equity investments made as part of ­attributable to higher allocations to pension provisions NRW.BANK’s mission as a development bank and the for employees and pensioners of Portigon AG who are Syndicated Loans Midcap from the Corporate Finance entitled to a pension under the laws relating to civil Business Unit. servants. In the fiscal year 2013, responsibility for managing and handling pension payments passed to The Other Promotion/Liquidity Management segment NRW.BANK according to a contractual arrangement consists of Capital Markets including the Municipal with Portigon AG. Financing. Thanks to the positive trend in net interest income, the The Staff/Services segment comprises the Service and projected sharp decline in operating income failed to Staff Business Units such as IT/Organisation/Internal materialise. Services, Risk Control and Finance as well as the ­Strategic Equity Investments held as part of the public Administrative Expenses mission. At € –215.2 million, NRW.BANK’s administrative ­expenses exceeded the prior year level (2013: 2.3 Net Assets, Financial Position and Results € –197.6 million) but remained in line with the of Operations projections. 2.3.1 Results of Operations Personnel expenses increased by € 7.6 million Net Interest Income to a total of € –123.6 million in 2014 (2013: At € 465.0 million, net interest income was slightly € –116.0 million). lower than in the previous year (2013: € 493.1 million). Due to more favourable funding conditions and high On the one hand, the increase is due to one-time income from money-market transactions, however, the ­expenses in conjunction with changes on the Managing decline was not as strong as had been expected in view Board. On the other hand, collective bargaining agreeof the reduced capital market investments and the ments led to a 2.4% rise in wages and salaries with much lower interest rates. effect from July 1, 2014 for a slightly higher headcount. Net Commission Income Operating expenditure rose by € 10.0 million to Net commission income increased by € 34.3 million € –91.6 million (2013: € –81.6 million) primarily because to € 103.3 million (2013: € 69.0 million), primarily of audits performed by the ECB in the context of the ­because of the previous year’s accounting change for Comprehensive Assessment, increased regulatory levies collateralised debt obligations (CDO). The changes had and higher IT infrastructure costs. an adverse effect on the bottom line in fiscal 2013, which will be offset by positive effects from the Risk Provisions/Revaluation Adjustments ­systematic release of the deferred item on the liabilities Risk provisions/revaluation adjustments amounted side. The accounting changes only related to the to € –359.2 million in the fiscal year 2014 (2013: ­presentation according to the accrual principle, while € –375.6 million). the risk profile of the transactions remained unchanged and stable. NRW.BANK again used its good operating result to strengthen its risk-bearing capacity in accordance Net Income from Trading Operations with its strategy. An amount of € 300.3 million (2013: NRW.BANK’s trading book contains short-term trading € 345.1 million) was allocated to allowance reserves. transactions with interest rate products. In the fiscal Of this amount, € 220.3 million (2013: € 210.1 million) year 2014, net income from trading operations amounted related to allowance reserves as defined in section 340f to € 5.4 million (2013: € 6.1 million). HGB, while € 80.0 million (2013: € 135.0 million) related Financial Report 2014 57 Management Report to the fund for general banking risks pursuant to on the previous year primarily because of the good ­section 340g HGB. Part of the allocation to allowance result from infrastructure and corporate finance. reserves pursuant to section 340f HGB in an amount of € 175.6 million (2013: € 190.6 million) was calculated Net commission income remained largely constant at for credit risks from loan and securities transactions € 20.2 million (2013: € 18.6 million). based on statistical assumptions. At € –108.1 million (2013: € –104.6 million), risk The remaining next expenditure of € 58.9 million provisions/­revaluation adjustments were slightly higher (2013: € 30.5 million) breaks down into € 20.6 million than in the previous year. (2013: € 20.1 million) relating to risk provisions in the lending and equity investment business and At € –20.0 million, risk provisions for the lending busi€ 38.3 million (2013: € 10.4 million) relating to the ness exceeded the prior year level (2013: € –14.1 million), results of sales and revaluations in the securities and primarily because of individual allowances in the foreign exchange business. ­Corporate Finance Business Unit. Net Income In 2014 NRW.BANK allocated a total amount of NRW.BANK posted net income of € 15.7 million for € 84.1 million (2013: € 90.3 million) to allowance the fiscal year 2014 (2013: € 16.7 million), which ­reserves for the promotion segments. will be paid out towards federal interest expenses pursuant to section 14 of the Act on NRW.BANK At € 268.9 million (2013: € 255.1 million), net interest (NRW.BANK G). income in the Other Promotion/Liquidity Management segment was up by € 13.8 million on the previous year. Segment Results Higher earnings than in the previous year were generated Net interest income in the Programme-based Promotion thanks to more favourable funding conditions and segment comprises the results of the promotion ­money-market transactions as well as to one-time ­segments and remained stable in comparison with the ­effects related to liquidity management. previous year at € 211.2 million (2013: € 209.7 million). The segment’s net commission income increased by At € 183.1 million (2013: € 187.4 million), the Housing € 32.5 million to € 83.5 million (2013: € 51.0 million), Promotion Business Unit made the biggest contribution which is mainly attributable to the previous year’s to the segment’s result. Due to the low interest rates, ­accounting changes for CDO transactions and the many borrowers took advantage or their contractual ­resulting systematic release of a deferred item on the right to repay their loans in full or in part at any time liabilities side. without having to pay a prepayment penalty. These unscheduled repayments led to a decline in interest Risk provisions/revaluation adjustments amounted to income. As in the previous year, the liquidity received € –125.3 million (2013: € –109.3 million) and were was used for the early repayment of internal long-term ­primarily influenced by the allocations to allowance funding liabilities with the aim of further reducing reserves for the capital market business in the amount the Bank’s interest expenses. In 2014, total interest of € 91.1 million (2013: € 99.5 million). expenses declined as the liabilities repaid in the ­previous year led to reduced interest payments. In addition, a net result from the securities and ­derivatives business in the amount of € –34.2 million The business trend in the other promotion segments (2013: € –9,8 million) million was posted as a result was positive, with net interest income up by € 5.8 million of the following effects. As in the previous years, 58 Financial Report 2014 NRW.BANK withdrew and repaid certain outstanding The Staff/Services segment’s net interest income securities at the request and the initiative of the final ­declined to € –15.1 million (2013: € 28.3 million). This investors. Reasons for investors to return the securities was due to a lower discount rate for pension provisions include, for instance, maturity extensions, the exchange on the one hand and to lower income from strategic for coupons at the current market interest rate and the investments on the other hand. optimisation of existing lines. In the long term, this will improve the Bank’s funding base and strengthen Risk provisions/revaluation adjustments of its profitability, as the Bank may make new issues € –125.8 million (2013: € –161.7 million) were at current conditions. The withdrawal resulted ­in­f luenced by allocations to the fund for general in net ­losses on securities sales of € –127.9 million banking risks and additional allowance reserves. (2013: € –118.1 million). 2.3.2 Financial Position In the past fiscal year, NRW.BANK changed the Being the state’s development bank and benefiting ­accounting for securities which are acquired together from institutional liability, guarantor liability and with a hedge (so-called asset swap packages). As a an explicit funding guarantee from its guarantor, result, the balance sheet increased by € 0.5 billion and NRW.BANK shares the same excellent rating with a revaluation result of € –27.3 million was posted. Due the state of North Rhine-Westphalia. to the corrected accounting periodisation of expenses and income, the release of the balance sheet items As in the previous years, Fitch Ratings, Moody’s and affected (swap premiums, premiums, discounts) will Standard & Poor’s reviewed NRW.BANK’s credit ratings lead to additional interest income in the following in 2014. Moody’s upgraded NRW.BANK’s outlook to ­years. The risk profile of the transactions is unchanged, “stable” in March 2014. This upgrade followed the which means that the Bank incurred not additional adjustment of the outlook for the Federal Republic of charges. Germany and its federal states. The Bank’s good ratings were once again confirmed by all three agencies. There were contrary developments in the prices and valuations of securities and (hedge) derivatives from the total portfolio in the amount of € 121.0 million (2013: € 108.3 million). List of current ratings Fitch Ratings Moody’s Standard & Poor’s Long-term rating AAA Aa1 AA– Short-term rating F1+ P-1 A–1+ Outlook stable stable stable The Other Promotion/Liquidity Management segment ­ rogrammes, which essentially consist of the Global p is responsible for the funding of NRW.BANK. As a Commercial Paper Programme to cover maturities of up ­development bank benefiting from a state guarantee, to twelve months and the Debt Issuance Programme to NRW.BANK continued to experience strong demand cover medium and long maturities as well as tap issuance for its debt. NRW.BANK catered to investors’ need for programmes. Euro-denominated issues attracted the state-guaranteed, liquid bonds and again consolidated highest demand, followed by the US dollar and the its market presence with further benchmark issues in British pound. Short-term funding under the Global 2014. During the fiscal year NRW.BANK placed debt in Commercial Paper Programme, especially in US dollars, a net amount of € 9.6 billion (2013: € 9.9 billion) with again met with high demand in 2014 and was again the a wide international investor base. To optimise its most favourable source of funding for NRW.BANK over ­f unding, NRW.BANK continues to use its funding the course of 2014. Financial Report 2014 59 Management Report The liquidity ratio as of the reporting date was 3.7 2.3.3 Net Assets (2013: 3.6) and thus well above the regulatory required As of December 31, 2014, NRW.BANK’s total assets minimum of 1.0, which was met at all times throughout were down, as planned, by € 1.5 billion to € 143.8 billion the year. As of December 31, 2014, the Liquidity (2013: € 145.3 billion). The table below shows the ­Coverage Ratio to be determined in accordance with the ­condensed balance sheet. Capital Requirements Regulation (CRR) stood clearly above 1 and thus above the minimum of 0.6 required as of January 1, 2015. Assets Dec. 31, 2014 Dec. 31, 2013 € billions € billions Receivables from banks 33.7 34.3 Receivables from customers 60.2 60.9 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 42.9 43.9 Investments in non-affiliated and affiliated companies 2.4 2.4 Other assets 4.6 3.8 Total assets 143.8 145.3 Liabilities Dec. 31, 2014 Dec. 31, 2013 € billions € billions Liabilities to banks 39.7 40.7 Liabilities to customers 19.3 20.4 Certificated liabilities 58.2 58.1 Provisions 2.1 2.0 Subordinated liabilities 2.2 2.4 Fund for general banking risks 0.7 0.6 Equity capital 17.9 17.9 Other liabilities 3.7 3.2 Total liabilities 143.8 145.3 At € 33.7 billion, receivables from banks were down by NRW.Bank’s highest-volume development programme € 0.6 billion on the previous year (2013: € 34.3 billion). handled according to the house bank principle. The promotion business handled according to the house bank principle is included in this balance sheet Receivables from customers decreased by € 0.7 billion item. Under this method, customers file an application to € 60.2 billion (2013: € 60.9 billion). In the securities for promotion funds with the house bank, which passes business, the portfolio of registered securities increased it on to NRW.BANK. NRW.BANK then makes the funds by € 1.1 billion to € 7.9 billion, while the portfolio of available to the customer through their house bank. In note loans was reduced by € 0.8 billion to € 11.0 billion. 2014, the NRW.Bank. Mittelstandskredit loan remained Social housing promotion loans amounted to 60 Financial Report 2014 € 19.8 billion. As a result of the unscheduled repayments, funded to a lesser degree through Landwirtschaftliche they were € 1.0 billion lower than in the previous year Rentenbank, the European Investment Bank (EIB) and (2013: € 20.8 billion). the Council of Europe Development Bank (CEB). The balance sheet item “bonds and other interestLiabilities to customers decreased by € 1.1 billion to bearing securities” declined by € 1.0 billion to € 19.3 billion (2013: € 20.4 billion). This item primarily € 42.9 billion (2013: € 43.9 billion). comprises registered instruments and note loans. At € 17.1 billion, the portfolio of registered instruments At € 2.4 billion, the book values of NRW.BANK’s equity was down by € 1.1 billion on the previous year (2013: investments in non-affiliated and affiliated companies € 18,2 billion). At € 1.4 billion, note loans remained remained nearly unchanged. unchanged. Liabilities to banks declined by € 1.0 billion to Certificated liabilities of € 58.2 billion (2013: € 39.7 billion (2013: € 40.7 billion), primarily due to € 58.1 billion) were more or less on a par with the lower money market borrowings. The promotion loans ­previous year. mostly funded through KfW Bankengruppe, which are paid out on the assets side primarily in the form of the Equity capital as defined in the German Commercial NRW.BANK.Mittelstandskredit and NRW.BANK.GrünCode (HGB) was almost unchanged at € 17.9 billion. dungskredit according to the house bank principle, showed a very positive trend and increased by The table below shows equity and risk position € 0.4 billion on the previous year to € 22.6 billion. The amounts under the CRR as of December 31, 2014: largely programme-driven lending business is also Risk exposure amounts and capital ratios Dec. 31, 2014 Dec. 31, 2013 € millions € millions Risk weighted exposure amounts (standardised approach) 43,008.9 45,984.5 Risk exposure amount for position and foreign exchange risks 24.1 37.5 Operational risk (basic indicator approach) 1,128.4 1,137.5 Risk exposure amount for credit valuation adjustment 1,367.0 938.0 Total risk weighted assets 45,528.4 48,097.5 Common Equity Tier 1 capital 18,254.4 17,973.2 CET1 capital ratio 40.09% 37.37% Own funds 19,991.7 19,809.2 Total capital ratio 43.91% 41.19% The regulatory capital requirements were complied with at all times in the fiscal year 2014. The CET1 capital ratio reflects the Bank‘s high capitalisation, which is indispensable for the development and promotion ­business and serves to fund the development and ­promotion loans. 3 Report on Post-Balance Sheet Date Events No events of special importance occurred after the end of the fiscal year. Financial Report 2014 61 Management Report 4 Report on Expected Developments that unused production capacity is a little above average, capital spending should be predominantly driven by 4.1 General Information replacement and rationalisation of the capital stock This Report of Anticipated Developments contains rather than by capacity expansion. Against this back­forward-looking statements relating to the overall ground, commercial construction will probably accelerate ­e conomic environment as well as to NRW.BANK’s only little. The normalisation of spending activity is ­business, net assets, financial position and earnings supported by the attractive financing environment, position. Such statements are based on expectations which is characterised by very low interest rates and and assumptions derived from information available good access to lending. Low interest rates alone will not at the time of preparation. As such they involve risks be sufficient, however, to cause a strong expansion of and uncertainties beyond the control of NRW.BANK production capacity in Germany. Demand for investment including, in particular, the development of the general loans is therefore not very likely to pick up significantly. economic environment and the situation in the financial markets. This means that the actual events occurring By contrast, housing construction should provide in the future may deviate from these statements, stronger stimulation as a result of high employment ­expectations and assumptions. and low interest rates. Compared to 2014, however, momentum may slow down somewhat because of the 4.2 Development of the Economic Environment extended low-interest phase, the discussion about real Once the temporary weakness is out of the way, the estate bubbles in densely populated areas and the partly upward trend in the German economy and the favourable very high property prices. framework conditions should increasingly prevail in 2015. Against this background, GDP growth should show a The generally good domestic development should be moderately positive trend in 2015. This is suggested by reflected in rising government revenues. In view of the both export-related and domestic economic reasons. anticipated increase in wages and salaries, income tax The export outlook should improve as the economy revenues are expected to grow, in particular. A moderate recovers, the euro continues to depreciate and the oil increase is on the cards also on the spending side, due, price declines, all the more so as the low oil price should among other things, to the additional funds for the also stimulate the economy in other oil-importing transport infrastructure, urban development and social ­countries. housing construction as well as the effects of the German “Pflegestärkungsgesetz” (“Care Sector Strengthening Private consumption is expected to have a particularly Act”). Relief on the spending side should come from positive impact on growth. Households’ purchasing the further reduction in interest expenses. A balanced power benefits from rising incomes and is additionally government budget is projected for 2015. being stimulated by the slump in the oil price. The ­stable labour market situation and the pay rises agreed NRW.BANK projects a real GDP growth rate of approx. for 2015 so far suggest that wages and salaries will 1.25% for 2015. The economy should pick up somewhat increase notably. more strongly in 2016 with growth expected to reach approx. 1.5%. The increased geopolitical tensions and Due to the economic uncertainty, investments in 2014 the latest political developments in Greece mean that were lower than originally expected. There have been the downside risks to the forecast predominate, all the no signs yet that the geopolitical tensions will subside more so as the economic recovery in the eurozone is materially in 2015. Provided, however, that no additional likely to remain fragile and requires further support disruptions occur which may affect the spending climate, from economic policy reforms. the projected slight recovery in the world economy will lead to moderately higher spending propensity, Due to the sharp drop in energy prices, Germany’s rate especially among export-oriented companies. Given of inflation should remain far below the 2% mark in 62 Financial Report 2014 2015. The introduction of the statutory minimum wage in Under the framework conditions projected above, net Germany means, however, that stronger price increases, new commissions of NRW.BANK are expected to be especially for services, are on the cards. Consequently somewhat less dynamic in 2015 compared to the inflation is expected to be only slightly lower than in ­previous years. 2014. By contrast, reduced inflation expectations for the common currency area as a whole suggest that The Bank expects to increasingly participate in larger eurozone inflation will be much lower. In conjunction financings to support, for instance, growth investments with increasing discussions about deflation, this was by larger midcaps as well as infrastructure projects in probably one of the reasons why the European Central North Rhine-Westphalia. Bank decided to make comprehensive government bond purchases already in late January 2015. NRW.BANK is the largest provider of municipal finance in North Rhine-Westphalia. In keeping with its mission, The performance of the North Rhine-Westphalian ecothe Bank will continue to focus on financing and pronomy should be more or less in line with the Germanymoting the municipalities and communities in North wide trend. According to the NRW.BANK.ifo Business Rhine-Westphalia and thus remain a strong partner of Climate, however, expectations in the manufacturing the municipalities. sector are subdued. Of the three sectors that are of ­special importance for North Rhine-Westphalia – In view of the continued positive funding conditions ­mechanical engineering, chemicals and metals – the and stable promotion and money market business, chemicals industry is the only to post improved expecNRW.BANK expects net interest income and net comtations at the beginning of the year. As in the previous mission income in 2015 to stay at the prior year level. year, growth in the North Rhine-Westphalian economy A further decline in the discount rate for pension should remain slightly below the Germany-wide average ­provisions will have an adverse impact, which means in 2015. On the other hand, the state may benefit disthat the operating results will probably decline notably. proportionately from a potential economic recovery. NRW.BANK expects administrative expenses to increase The newly established banking union should gradually moderately in 2015 compared to the past fiscal year. increase the stability of the eurozone financial market. Banks should continue to focus on the weak economy On the one hand, personnel expenses will increase due in the common currency area, however. A stronger to planned hirings, especially because of new regulatory orientation of banks towards the SME/Midcap business requirements. On the other hand, operating expenses could lead to an oversupply of loans carrying barely will be adversely affected by externally induced projects profitable margins, especially in Germany. As in the and special measures resulting from new statutory and previous year, the low interest rates and regulatory regulatory requirements. In addition, (special) levies requirements should also present a heavy burden for collected by the European supervisory authorities will German banks. be incurred in additional to the national levies. Funding possibilities should remain very positive for both Planning uncertainty arises from potential further the state of North Rhine-Westphalia and NRW.BANK in ­requirements in the regulatory environment. The 2015. amount of the necessary investments in information technology and personnel cannot be exactly quantified 4.3 Development of the Bank yet; an additional significant burden in a million euro By developing and marketing efficient development amount cannot be ruled out, however. Ongoing measures and promotion products, NRW.BANK will continue to aimed at identifying and leveraging potential for support the economic and structural development of ­efficiency increases will have a dampening effect on North Rhine-Westphalia. costs. Financial Report 2014 63 Management Report The European bank levy may ­additionally weigh on the 5 Risk and Opportunity Report operating result. Due to its specialised business model as a development bank, NRW.BANK does not engage in all lines of NRW.BANK therefore expects its operating income ­banking business. The Bank takes on risks only within before risk provisions/revaluation adjustments in 2015 clearly delineated bounds. As a state development to be much lower than in the past fiscal year. bank, NRW.BANK is subject to all regulatory risk management requirements. In 2015, risk provisions/revaluation adjustments should again be influenced by the allocation of general NRW.BANK uses a comprehensive set of risk monitoring ­allowance reserves. and management tools to manage the risks to which it is exposed. The Bank has implemented a framework Upon request by the state government, the interest of guidelines, organisational structures and processes amounts to be paid by the state due to the utilisation of which ensure that risks are identified, measured, loans from the federal government for the promotion of ­aggregated and managed in accordance with the housing construction and modernisation (subsidies Bank’s risk-bearing capacity pursuant to Article 104 a, sub-section 4 of the German Constitution in the version effective until August 31, 5.1 Organisation of Risk Management 2006) which become due in the year following the The full Managing Board of NRW.BANK is responsible ­respective fiscal year must be paid directly to the for the risk management system. This includes, in ­federal government from the net income for the year of ­particular, the proper organisation of risk management, NRW.BANK. The potentially remaining net income for the risk strategy, the risk-bearing capacity concept as the year will be allocated to the reserves. Further profit well as risk monitoring. In the context of the general distributions are not permitted under NRW.BANK’s reporting process, the Managing Board is regularly Statutes. informed about the Bank-wide risk situation. NRW.BANK assumes that total assets and the business The Supervisory Board monitors the Managing Board’s volume will again decline moderately in 2015 as the conduct of the Bank’s affairs. The Risk Committee, a consolidation of the international capital market committee of the Supervisory Board, regularly addresses ­business continues as planned. the Bank’s risk situation. The committee receives reports on the risk profile for the various risk categories on a The ongoing allocations to allowance reserves will quarterly basis minimum. further strengthen the Bank’s risk-bearing capacity, provided that the market environment remains stable The Board of Guarantors decides, among other things, and barring any unforeseen events that would require in the context of the annual strategy process, on the a completely new risk assessment. principles of the business, promotion and risk policies and on the release of liability of the members of the NRW.BANK expects the Bank-wide limit for economic Supervisory Board and the Managing Board. capital to be met under the going concern perspective also in 2015. The Asset Liability Committee (ALCO), which is com­ posed of all members of the Managing Board and four Business Unit Heads, is responsible for issues relating to market risks and liquidity risks. It also addresses ­general topics such as capital allocation, profit management and balance sheet structure management. Through active capital management, the ALCO ensures that the Bank-wide risk limit is met at all times. 64 Financial Report 2014 Organisational Structure of Bank Steering Board of Guarantors Supervisory Board/ Committees Managing Board ALCO Credit Committees Management Circle Front office Back office There is one Credit Committee each for the promotion c­ ompliance with the limits defined by the Managing business and the capital market business. They prepare Board. Functional separation between the Business credit decisions to be made by the Managing Board and Units is ensured up to Board level. take their own credit decisions based on predefined levels of competence. In addition, they address issues The Bank has entrusted the Head of Risk Control with of a general nature relating to credit risks. the risk control function as defined by the MaRisk. He is involved in important management decisions relating The management circle addresses issues of strategic to the risk policy, especially through his voting rights relevance. The main focus is on the further developon the ALCO and his involvement in other committees. ment of the overall Bank strategy and on assessing its consistency with the principles of the business, The Risk Control Business Unit – which comprises the ­promotion and risk policies and the overall components Departments Bank-Wide Risk & Credit Portfolio Manage­ of the promotion policy objectives of the federal state. ment, Market Price & Liquidity Risk and Compliance – performs all tasks of the risk control function. These In accordance with the MaRisk requirements, risk primarily in­clude the development of the risk strategy, ­monitoring and risk reporting are managed indepenthe determination of the risk-bearing capacity (incl. Bankdently of the front-office Business Units. While the frontwide stress tests), the Bank-wide monitoring of limits, office Business Units are responsible for managing risks risk reporting, the daily valuation of trades, responsibility within the defined limits, Risk Control and Credit for compliance, money laundering prevention and ­Management (which emerged from the former Risk ­operational risks as well as the coordination of the Management Business Unit with effect from October 1, ­processes for the launch of new products. The Credit 2014) are in charge of risk monitoring, especially Management Business Unit – which comprises the Financial Report 2014 65 Management Report Credit Risk, Municipal and Midcap Financing and 5.2 Risk Policy and Strategy ­Restructuring Departments – performs the traditional Being a development bank, NRW.BANK has a focused back-office functions together with other departments, business model whose risks are strictly limited. especially voting and loan processing in the promotion ­According to its risk strategy, the promotion business and capital market business and the preparation of the takes precedence over the capital market business watchlist (for high-risk exposures). when it comes to the allocation of risk capital. Avoiding defaults takes precedence over profit generation in all The effectiveness and appropriateness of the risk capital market activities undertaken to support the ­management structures and processes are subject to promotion business. New business with a sub-investregular reviews by Internal Audit, which acts as an ment grade rating is permitted only in the promotion independent body on behalf of the Managing Board. business. On balance, NRW.BANK’s risk management instruments Together with the promotion and business strategy, the and processes again proved their worth in the past risk strategy is part of the overall strategy of NRW.BANK. fiscal year. This is also confirmed by NRW.BANK’s It builds on the promotion and business strategies positive results in the Comprehensive Assessment and aims to ensure balanced risk management within ­performed by the European Central Bank (ECB), which NRW.BANK. As part of the operational controlling comprised a regulatory risk assessment as well as a ­process, it translates the risk strategy principles into detailed asset quality review across all asset classes appropriate limits. It covers a planning period of four and a stress test. All in all, the asset quality review years. did not indicate a need for material adjustments. NRW.BANK also successfully passed the ECB stress The Managing Board of NRW.BANK defines the strategy test in both scenarios. Equity capital remained largely and submits it to the responsible bodies. The Risk Comconstant also in stress scenarios. Based on simulated mittee consults on the risk strategy, which is finally rating downgrades and defaults, the sum total of the risk discussed at the year-end meetings of the Supervisory positions increased only moderately. The Common Equity Board and the Board of Guarantors. Tier 1 capital ratio (33.8% in the baseline scenario and 31.5% in the adverse scenario) remained far above 5.3 Risk Inventory the minimum in both scenarios (minimum of 8% in the Effective risk management and monitoring hinge on baseline scenario and of 5.5% in the adverse scenario). the precise identification and assessment of risks. The o ­ perating result and the pre-tax profit remained In the context of Group-wide risk inventory taking, positive even under stress assumptions and net income NRW.BANK systematically examines whether the overall for the year remained stable. A comfortable leverage risk profile fully reflects all risks which may potentially ratio of approx. 11% was determined for NRW.BANK influence the net worth, earnings or liquidity position. in the context of the Comprehensive Assessment. This is done at a Bank-wide level on an annual basis and whenever required on special occasions. On this The ECB intends to define provisional minimum capital basis, risks are classified as material or non-material, ratios for the banks under its supervision for the interim respectively. phase until completion of the risk analysis and categori­ sa­tion work using common procedures and methodoloThe material risks identified are the credit and the market gies for the Supervisory Review and Evaluation Process risk as well as the liquidity, operational and pension (SREP). These were determined on the basis of the risk. The three latter risk types contribute less to the results of the Comprehensive Assessment as well as the Bank-wide risk and therefore rank behind the credit individual business activity and risk situation using and the market risk. methods of the national banking supervisory authorities. Equity capital and core capital ratios in excess of 40% Complemental to the risk inventory, new products to be mean that NRW.BANK’s capitalisation exceeds the added to the product portfolio of NRW.BANK are subexpected requirements by far. 66 Financial Report 2014 jected to a cross-divisional process for the introduction ­ erspective primarily result from the confidence level p of new products. This ensures that the risks of new used in the Credit VaR model. products are identified, measured and limited. Under the going concern perspective, the market risk 5.4 Risk-bearing Capacity is determined on the basis of a “HGB-VaR”. In this conEconomic capital is the relevant risk management paratext, the market risks that may have an adverse impact meter of NRW.BANK across all risk types and Business on the income statement prepared according to HGB Units. It forms the basis on which risks are comprised are taken into account. By contrast, the gone concern into a Bank-wide figure using a consistent methodology. perspective addresses the market risks on a mark-tomarket basis. The going concern perspective is taken for the direct management of the risk-bearing capacity. It is based on The liquidity risk under the going concern perspective the German Commercial Code (HGB) in accordance with takes into account changes in NRW.BANK’s funding the Bank’s accounting policy. The focus is on avoiding spread that are relevant for the HGB income statement, losses in the balance sheet in order to protect creditors as an increase in funding costs leads to higher expenses. and owners. Accordingly, those risks that could adversely Liquidity risks are not part of the gone concern peraffect a balance sheet under HGB are considered in spective but are limited by the amount of the available economic capital. In this context, the liability instruliquid funds (liquidity buffer). ments of institutional liability, guarantor liability and the explicit funding guarantee granted to NRW.BANK Economic capital for the operational risk is determined by its guarantor for performing its promotion tasks based on the Basle basic indicator approach. Differences are not taken into account as risk-mitigating factors between the going concern and the gone concern in either of the two perspectives. ­perspective result exclusively from scaling to the con­ fidence level used. Risk-bearing capacity is additionally analysed from a gone concern perspective. Against the background The pension risk is determined by means of a scenario of the above-mentioned liability instruments, this is analysis, which takes into account changes in the ­merely a fictitious analysis, though. ­statistical assumptions regarding invalidity and mortality which could lead to an increase in pension obligations. This approach has been defined in accordance with Differences between the going concern and the gone regulatory requirements (especially with the BaFin concern perspective result exclusively from different publication “Aufsichtliche Beurteilung bankinterner interest rates used to discount the cash flows. Interest Risikotragfähigkeitskonzepte” (supervisory assessment rate risks relating to pension obligations are incorporated of banks’ internal risk-bearing capacity concepts)). into the market risk. NRW.BANK uses a value-at-risk (VaR) concept covering For the business and cost risk, a general risk amount a risk horizon of one year to quantify the individual risks is determined on the basis of a simplified method. and aggregate them into an overall ratio. The choice of ­Differences between the going concern perspective the confidence level depends on the perspective taken and the gone concern perspective result exclusively (99% under the going concern perspective; 99.96% in from the scaling to the confidence level used. the gone concern perspective). More detailed information on the individual risk types Both perspectives reflect the risks identified as being and the methods used for their calculation is provided material in the risk inventory as well as complementary on the following pages of the risk and opportunity report. business and cost risks. Under the going concern perspective, Bank-wide ecoThe credit risk is a Bank-wide key risk. Differences nomic capital is determined by way of a simple addition between the going concern and the gone concern of the economic capital of the risk types without taking Financial Report 2014 67 Management Report diversification effects into account. This is due to the fact can be considered to be sufficiently stable even in an that the overall bank risk is largely determined by the economic downturn as well as under market conditions credit risk, which means that no material diversification that are unfavourable for the Bank’s business and risk effects exist. Under the gone concern perspective, structure. The reliability of the diversification assumpmaterial diversification effects exist between the credit tions and the stability of the correlation are reviewed risk and the market risk, therefore they are taken into regularly and whenever required on special occasions. account when determining the economic capital at a Bank-wide level to avoid overstating the overall bank The table below shows the composition of economic risk. The correlation used is estimated conservatively capital from the going concern perspective. on the basis of bank-specific data in such a way that it Bank-wide Economic Capital under the going concern perspective Dec. 31, 2014 Dec. 31, 2013 € millions € millions Credit risk 1,243 1,453 Market risk 63 124 Liquidity risk 11 13 Operational risk 35 35 Pension risk 60 50 Business and cost risk 50 50 Diversification effect – – Total economic capital 1,462 1,724 Rating improvements and the reduction of risk assets Requirements Regulation (CRR) are deducted. Under led to a reduction in the credit risk, which was partly the gone concern perspective, hidden charges and offset by the improved methodology for the more farreserves, in particular from securities, are deducted if reaching identification of economic groupings in they are negative when balanced. Positive own credit­c alculating the concentration surcharge. As of the worthiness effects on the liabilities side are not accepted ­reporting date, economic capital under the gone as mitigating factors. As of the reporting date, the capital ­concern perspective amounted to € 10,997 million cover amounts to € 15.9 billion (2013: € 13.9 billion) (2013: € 9,260 million). This includes diversification and to € 18.2 billion (2013: € 15.0 billion) on the gone effects of € –890 million (2013: € –759 million). concern perspective. These amounts include the allocations to allowance reserves made in the fiscal year. In The economic capital is compared with the maximum both perspectives, the capital cover was strengthened capital cover that is available to cover risks. Just like by the creation of reserves. In addition, the increase in the economic capital, the capital cover is calculated in the capital cover under the going concern perspective accordance with the respective perspective taking into resulted from a decline in the deductible item for reguaccount regulatory and balance sheet equity com­ latory equity requirements in accordance with changed ponents, adjusted for specific corrections. Under the requirements for the calculation of investments; in the going concern perspective, for instance, the capital gone concern it resulted from lower interest rates. components tied up in accordance with the Capital 68 Financial Report 2014 For the direct management of risks under the going The chart below shows the limit utilisation for the credit, concern perspective, a Bank-wide economic capital market and liquidity risk in the course of the year. Ecolimit is defined, which is much lower than the available nomic capital for the operational risk, the business and capital cover. The limit is allocated to the material risk cost risk and the pension risk is determined once a types and Business Units. This ensures that sufficient year. Since it remains therefore constant throughout risk capital is available to achieve the planned income the year, the Bank makes no distinction between limit and that the risks are limited at the same time. Utilisation and utilisation andthe mentioned risk types are not of the limits is determined monthly on the basis of the shown in the limit utilisation chart. economic capital. As a side condition, the economic capital shall not exceed the capital cover under the gone concern perspective. Limit utilisation in the course of 2014 in % 100 75 50 25 0 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Bank-wide risk Credit risk Market risk Liquidity risk The risk types and the overall bank risk stayed within 5.5 Stress Tests the limits defined for the going concern perspective at The risk management concept is complemented by all times. The Bank’s risk-bearing capacity was intact Bank-wide stress and scenario analyses. The Bank at all times throughout the fiscal year. uses an integrated approach which takes into account effects on the material risk types, the HGB income In addition, the regulatory equity requirements under statement and the capital cover. the CRR were met at all times. NRW.BANK has very comfortable capital ratios. For information on the The stress tests are performed at a Bank-wide level on ­regulatory equity requirements, the equity capital and a quarterly basis and due to single events occurring. the capital ratios, please refer to paragraph 2.3.3 Net Similar to the risk-bearing capacity concept, separate Assets. stress tests are performed under the going concern perspective and the gone concern perspective. Both In order to minimise the uncertainties resulting from historical and hypothetical scenarios are analysed. the statistical processes of the value-at-risk approach, NRW.BANK takes various measures to validate the data Historical scenarios translate past crises to the current used as well as the risk results that are determined. In portfolio. Examples include a scenario reflecting the addition, regular stress tests are performed. height of the financial crisis at the time of the Lehman bankruptcy in 2008. Financial Report 2014 69 Management Report Hypothetical scenarios are developed by the Bank on Counterparty risk means that the default of a contractual the basis of market analyses and expert estimates. For partner under a derivatives contract makes it impossible instance, a scenario entitled “Deterioration of the for the Bank to realise an unrealised gain from pending ­sovereign and financial institution crisis” assumes an transactions (i.e. up to contractual maturity) or that the increase in the risk factors that are relevant for the Bank will face increased replacement costs if the market sovereign portfolio. conditions have changed in the meantime. The stress scenarios examine the combined effects of a In NRW.BANK’s view, a country risk exists where the deterioration in exposures (increases in probabilities of Bank has an exposure to customers headquartered default and loss given default) and of changes in market outside Germany. This definition covers all aspects data (interest rates, credit spreads). of the country risk (creditworthiness, transfer and economic risks). In addition, inverse stress tests are performed on a regular basis. Inverse stress tests examine which The risk from equity holdings results from the risk of events could potentially jeopardise the Bank’s ability incurring losses from the provision of equity capital to to survive. enterprises. NRW.BANK’s equity holdings comprise investments which are primarily held on behalf of the Under the going concern perspective, the stress tests federal state of North Rhine-Westphalia and were are dominated by changes in the field of credit risks. transferred to the Bank upon its inception as well as The assumed defaults of borrowers and rating migrainvestments entered into as part of the Bank’s mission tions lead to a reduction in the capital cover and/or to as a development bank. an increase in the economic capital for credit risks. 5.6.2 Methods Under the gone concern perspective, credit risks and Factors playing a key role in the calculation of the market risks play an equally important role in the stress ­credit risk include the amount of the exposure, the tests. Under this perspective, the capital cover reacts probability of default and the loss given default of each much more sensitively to changes in market data under debtor. These parameters form the basis for managing stress. the risk at the level of each individual exposure and at a Bank-wide level. The stress tests confirm the adequacy of the capital situation under the going concern perspective.  The amount of the exposure is the sum total of all relevant amounts that are subject to a risk of 5.6 Credit Risk default. In the case of loans, this is the remaining capital plus binding payment obligations; in the 5.6.1 Definition case of securities, it is the higher of the cost price The credit risk describes the risk of a counterparty and the nominal value. Credit equivalents are being partly or fully unable to meet their contractual ­recognised to calculate counterparty risks from obligations towards NRW.BANK. There is the risk of a derivatives, taking netting and collateral pursuant loss or reduced profit resulting from the full or partial to standardised framework agreements into default of a counterparty. This comprises the credit risk ­account. In addition, credit derivatives are recogfrom loans, counterparty and country risks as well as nised at their nominal value; thereby the purchase risks resulting from equity holdings. of protection reduces the exposure of the respective reference counterparty, while the sale of protection NRW.BANK defines the credit risk from loans as the risk increases it. The (credit risk-related) amount of the of a contractual partner failing to meet its obligations exposure thus differs from the business volume. to repay liquid funds (loans) granted or securities. The  The probability of default is derived from the credit risk from loans thus also includes issuer risks debtor’s internal rating. For this purpose, arising from securities. NRW.BANK uses differentiated risk classification 70 Financial Report 2014 methods. The portfolios of corporates, financials tribution to the risk, which means that the surcharge and real estate clients are classified using rating takes concentrations into account. procedures meeting the requirements of the internal rating based (IRB) approach of the CRR. The ratings In order to further limit concentrations – not only with for exposures to foreign governments are deterregard to risks but also regarding income – single name mined on the basis of external agency ratings and concentration limits at Group level and cross-borrower structured internal plausibilisation. In view of the concentration limits at country level are defined for the joint liability scheme and the fiscal equalisation amount of the exposure. scheme, uniform ratings are used in particular for savings banks and domestic municipalities, Besides the economic capital (unexpected loss), standard respectively. Simplified internal risk classification risk costs (expected loss) are generally taken into account methods are used for smaller portfolios. Depenwhen defining the terms and conditions. This way, it is ding on the type of debtor, each rating is assigned ensured that the expected losses are compensated by a probability of default based on a 24-step scale, corresponding income. so that all debtors are included as risk-relevant in the calculation of the economic capital on a In the context of the Bank-wide stress tests, various staggered basis. historical and hypothetical scenarios are analysed, The loss given default (LGD) describes the portion which assume deteriorations in the rating quality that of the exposure which would irrecoverably be lost are differentiated by asset classes. in the case of insolvency proceedings after realisation of potential collateral. Differentiated LGDs are The above risk management methods allow NRW.BANK assigned to the exposures depending on the type of to appropriately monitor credit risks, to identify un­ debtor. They are determined for housing promotion balanced portfolio developments and risk concentrations exposures based on an analysis of own historical and to take any measures that may be required at an data. For other asset classes, they are primarily early stage. determined on the basis of external data sources, as there is no statistically significant number of 5.6.3 Validation defaults in the Bank’s portfolio. The ratings and loss given defaults are validated at least once per year. For the social housing promotion NRW.BANK determines the economic capital for the portfolio, which is the biggest portfolio of NRW.BANK credit risk on the basis of a credit value-at-risk. The risk in terms of number of individual exposures, differentiated horizon is one year; the confidence level is 99% under analyses are performed for individual segments such as the going concern perspective and 99.96% under the investors and owner-occupiers. gone concern perspective. Besides the ratings and the loss given defaults, the The credit value-at-risk is calculated according to the methodological assumptions that serve as the basis for formula of the IRB approach under the CRR. Initially, the calculation of economic capital are also reviewed there is only a methodological difference made betannually. For instance, the maturity adjustments im­ ween the treatment of defaulted and non-defaulted plemented to reflect rating migrations are checked for debtors. Through an additional maturities adjustment plausibility. rating ­migrations that may lead to additional capital requirements are then also taken into account. The reviews serve to ensure that the risk calculation remains adequately conservative. As the IRB approach is based on the assumption of an indefinitely granular portfolio, an additional concentra5.6.4 Risk Assessment and Limitation tion surcharge is determined on the basis of a simulation NRW.BANK uses suitable limits and processes to ensure process and reflected in the economic capital. As a that the credit risk is limited. On the one hand, there result, high exposures make a disproportionate con­ are concentration limits which limit the exposures, Financial Report 2014 71 Management Report especially at individual debtor level, Group level and Where limits are exceeded, reasons must be given in at country level. Limit utilisation is determined by the each case; if these deviations are material – according amount of the exposure. New transactions are im­ to clearly defined criteria – they must be decided by mediately counted against the limits. On the other the Managing Board and be submitted to the executive hand, there is a Bank-wide and a Business Unit-specific bodies for information. limitation of the economic capital under the going ­concern perspective. The limits take into account both The development and promotion funds extended by the Bank’s risk-bearing capacity and the budgets NRW.BANK are either secured or granted according ­prepared by the individual Business Units as part of the to the house bank principle, which means that the strategy process. ­respective portfolio is a low-risk portfolio. Sub-investment-grade exposures may be entered into only if this Key elements used to monitor the credit risk: is required by the public development mission, e. g. in the promotion of small and medium enterprises and Event-related bad news process including social housing promotion. immediate analysis and decision on individual measures (e. g. rating review, limit adjustments) In addition, the Bank holds a portfolio of securities / Daily monitoring of single name, group and receivables and loans and engages in money market country limits transactions. Derivative contracts are concluded with Daily monitoring of capital market investments counterparties with good credit ratings on the basis of in the context of an early warning system standard contracts. New business in this portfolio must (e. g. changes in credit spreads and ratings) always be of investment-grade quality (this corresponds Monthly monitoring of economic capital limits to internal rating AAA to BBB). At least annual monitoring of individual credit exposures Ongoing monitoring of the watch list, which contains intensive care and problem exposures Total exposure by rating classes incl. derivatives, in € billions 100 80 70.6 70.0 60 40 40.5 39.5 20 15.7 16.2 18.4 19.2 11.3 12.1 0 1.5 1.5 0.6 0.5 AAA AA A BBB BB B CCC and D Total exposure: 158.4 (as of Dec. 31, 2014) Total exposure: 159.1 (as of Dec. 31, 2013) 72 Financial Report 2014 NRW.BANK’s total exposure amounts to € 158.4 billion, totals € 44.6 billion (28.1% of the total exposure; which represents a decline by € 0.7 billion from the 2013: € 45.4 billion) and is composed of exposures to previous year’s € 159.1 billion. European countries in the amount of € 32.4 billion (2013: € 35.0 billion) and of exposures to non-European Due to the high proportion of government and domestic countries as well as supranational and multinational municipal loans, most of the ratings belong to the organisations in the amount of € 12.2 billion (2013: ­internal rating class AAA. The investment-grade quota € 10.4 billion). The international exposure is focused amounts to 91.6% (2013: € 91.1%). almost exclusively (95.8%; 2013: 93.6%) on investment-grade countries. NRW.BANK’s portfolio remains focused on Germany, which accounts for € 113.8 billion (2013: € 113.7 billion) The European exposure comprises investments or 71.9% of the total exposure (2013: 71.5%). At in the eurozone in the amount of € 25.8 billion € 79.7 billion (2013: € 79.6 billion) the main emphasis (2013: € 27.8 billion) and investments outside the is on North Rhine-Westphalia; this amount includes eurozone of € 6.6 billion (2013: € 7.2 billion). The direct exposures to municipalities of € 16.3 billion non-European exposures focus on North America (2013: € 14.8 billion). This concentration is the result with € 6.1 billion (2013: € 5.6 billion) and Asia with of the public development mission, because of which € 1.1 billion (2013: € 1.0 billion). Supranational the Bank has a special responsibility towards the muniorganisations and multinational exposures account cipalities and provides them with reliable funding. for a total of € 3.2 billion (2013: € 2.6 billion). As a largely independent development bank, NRW.BANK uses the income from its international exposures to fulfil its development mission. The international exposure Geographic breakdown of exposures incl. derivatives, in € billions 120 113.8 113.7 100 80 60 40 25.8 27.8 20 6.6 7.2 9.0 7.8 3.2 2.6 0 Germany Eurozone Europe excl. eurozone Outside Europe Supranational/ multinational Exposures as of Dec. 31, 2014 Exposures as of Dec. 31, 2013 Financial Report 2014 73 Management Report The sub-investment-grade country exposure is ex­ For some equity investments, the credit risk is reduced clusively rated in the BB range and totals € 1.6 billion due to a strong direct or indirect involvement of the (2013: € 1.9 billion), of which € 1.1 billion relates to public sector. In the case of eight participation funds Portugal. It exclusively results from rating downgrades in the promotion business with a total exposure of of investments already held in the portfolio; as a general € 138.6 million (2013: € 120.5 million), the credit risk is rule, no new investments are made. The exposures to reduced by a guarantee from the federal state of North these countries were further reduced in the course of Rhine-Westphalia which covers 49% of the respective the fiscal year. New burdens faced by the governments fund’s total investment. or a more pronounced economic slowdown could put the ratings under renewed pressure. The € 2.2 billion book value of the investment in Portigon AG, which is held on behalf of the federal NRW.BANK constantly monitors the credit risk associastate of North Rhine-Westphalia, is secured by a ted with the underlying reference pools of securitisation ­guarantee from the federal state. exposures. In the fiscal year, the exposure increased by a moderate € 495.0 million due to new positions of Equity investment exposures are included in economic first-class German auto ABS securitisations as well capital management and reflected in the credit risk. as to exchange rate effects in the portfolio. As of the ­balance sheet date, the securitisation exposures – 5.6.5 Economic Capital mostly of investment-grade quality – amounted to As of the reporting date, the economic capital set € 5.6 billion (2013: € 5.1 billion). A major portion of aside for credit risks amounts to € 1.2 billion (2013: the portfolio (69.0%) additionally benefits from a com€ 1.5 billion) under the going concern perspective and prehensive state guarantee (e. g. from the US Departto € 5.1 billion (2013: € 4.8 billion) under the gone ment of Education). ­concern perspective. Differences between the two perspectives are primarily attributable to the con­ The equity investment business comprises strategic fidence level used. Under both perspectives, rating investments which are primarily held on behalf of the improvements and the reduction of risk assets led to a federal state of North Rhine-Westphalia and were marked reduction in the risk. Under the going concern transferred to the Bank upon its inception as well as perspective, these positive effects were partly offset investments entered into as part of the Bank’s developby an improved methodology for the more far-reaching ment mission. The credit risks arising from the investidentification of economic groupings in calculating ments are largely based on strategic and operational the concentration surcharge. Under the gone concern risks, which are primarily analysed using the corporate perspective, the positive effect was more than offset data made available for investment controlling purposes. by the effects of the revised methodology. Controlling for these companies includes continuous monitoring of profits and losses and of conformity to 5.6.6 Risk Provisions projections. In the case of major equity holdings, the Defined criteria are used to determine whether risk quarterly report also includes a review of risk-relevant provisions need to be established for credit claims. developments. As such, risk management is a systematic Where they are needed, the amount of the required and continuous process that enables rapid adaptation individual allowances is determined in a timely manner to changing conditions. At some of these investments, in the course of the year. Thereby, existing collateral is the Bank is represented through mandates on bodies taken into account. In evaluating collateral, the usual such as advisory councils, supervisory boards or investmethods applied for the valuation of real estate are used ment committees. Moreover, the investment contracts for social housing promotion loans. The result is reduced usually contain regulations which reserve a veto/approval by a discount calculated on the basis of historical data. right for NRW.BANK in specific cases. By contrast, generalized individual allowances are established for exposures to volume business in social 74 Financial Report 2014 housing promotion (remaining capital of less than perform positively, there is a possibility to sell them at € 750 thsd.). A general allowance is formed for latent a profit. credit risks. The amount of this allowance is based on historical averages for default rates and loss given 5.7 Market Risk ­defaults. 5.7.1 Definition In the securities business, the risk provision is calculated The market risk refers to a potential loss resulting on the basis of market information, mathematical models from unfavourable changes in market prices or priceand individual creditworthiness estimates. influencing parameters. This definition covers interest rate, foreign exchange rate and option risks. The Bank Equity investments of NRW.BANK are also regularly does not take equity and commodity risks. As far as the checked for the need to establish risk provisions. Where interest rate risk is concerned, a distinction is made these are required, the book value is written down between the general and the specific interest rate risk. using common methods to determine the value of the It comprises both changes in general interest rates investment. and changes in the credit spread of issuer classes and changes in the credit spread of individual issuers 5.6.7 Opportunities (residual risk). In accordance with its business model and the risk strategy principles, NRW.BANK takes risks only within 5.7.2 Methods clearly defined limits. This means that unexpected The Bank controls and monitors its market risk using opportunities arising from potential future developa value-at-risk (VaR) methodology. VaR is calculated ments or events which may lead to a positive deviation for daily management at a 95% confidence level for a from forecasts or targets exist only to a very limited one-day holding period and takes into account all risk extent. The positive business trend anticipated in the factors relevant for the portfolio, such as interest rates, context of the business model is incorporated into the foreign exchange rates, implicit volatilities and credit annual strategic planning process. spreads. Opportunities arise, for instance, from rating upgrades Market risks are primarily managed on the basis of a of the exposures, which means that less rating-related VaR concept (HGB-VaR going concern perspective and economic capital needs to be set aside for credit risks. earnings-at-risk approach, respectively). Under this This opens up further investment opportunities with approach, all market risks which may influence the HGB additional income potential. income statement are taken into account. In the investment portfolio, this may include interest or foreign NRW.BANK determines anticipated losses on the basis exchange rate risks resulting from assets and liabilities of probabilities of default and loss given default and with different fixed interest periods or currencies which incorporates them in the planning and extrapolation for still have to be hedged on a nominal value basis in the its result under HGB. There is an opportunity that the context of asset/liability management. For the trading actual defaults are lower than the anticipated losses. At portfolio and the liquidity reserve, all relevant risks the end of the fiscal year 2014, for instance, an amount types are additionally measured on a mark-to-market of € 175.6 million (2013: € 190.6 million) was allocated basis. Accordingly, temporary market value changes, to reserves, which helped to strengthen the capital e. g. from specific interest rate risks (credit spreads), cover and the risk-bearing capacity. are counted under the HGB perspective for the trading portfolio and the liquidity reserve. Due to the strategic Opportunities also arise from the equity investments objective of hedging most of the interest and rate and entered into as part of the promotion activities. If these currency risks, the correspondingly conservative Financial Report 2014 75 Management Report limitation as well as active management, only low The calculation of VaR is supplemented with daily stress market risks exist in the investment and trading scenario computations. In this context, hypothetical ­port­folios under the going concern perspective. The scenarios are considered for interest rates, foreign HGB-VaR calculation is based on the sensitivity of the exchange rates, implicit volatilities and credit spreads. HGB income statement towards changes in market In addition, the effects of changes in interest rates and prices (“HGB sensitivities”). In contrast to a mark-tocredit spreads are examined for the identified historical market VaR concept, the focus is not on the mark-toscenarios. The standardised stress scenarios are market sensitivities but on the sensitivity of the HGB ­supplemented if needed with individual, situational result. The HGB-VaR is calculated for the current and considerations tailored to the risk structure of the for the next two fiscal years as well as generally for all Bank’s portfolio. Moreover, the analysis of the sensitivifuture periods using a variance-covariance approach. ties and risk concentrations from the above risk factors is an integral element of daily market risk measurement. In addition, the VaR is examined on a mark-to-market basis (MtM-VaR gone concern perspective). The (mark5.7.3 Validation to-market) sensitivities used to calculate the VaR take Daily backtesting is used to check the quality of the into account general and specific interest rate risks, VaR projection. In this context, the losses projected by exchange rate risks and volatility risks. Under this apthe VaR model are compared with the changes in the proach, the general interest rate risks from the largely result. The Bank performs clean backtesting without equity-funded social housing promotion business as ageing, which means that only changes resulting from well as the specific interest rate risks (credit spreads) changes in the market data are taken into account. In are considered in the investment portfolio. The VaR is accordance with the two perspectives, backtesting is calculated on the basis of a Monte Carlo simulation, performed for both HGB losses and mark-to-market which produces 3,000 scenarios per trading day. Nonlosses. linear products are taken into account via new valuation. If the regulatory traffic-light model for internal models The volatilities and correlations needed to determine (for the calculation of the equity capital needed to the VaR figures are identical for both perspectives. The back market risks in the trading book) is applied to historical observation period is 250 days, with a greater NRW.BANK’s backtesting with a confidence level of weight placed on incidents in the more recent past. 95% and 250 backtesting observations, the model is “in the green” for both perspectives (going concern Above and beyond this day-to-day management of the and gone concern perspective). This means that the interest-bearing business, strategic interest rate risks validity of the model is confirmed also by backtesting. from pension obligations and strategic investments are also considered in the economic capital. Strategic In addition, the parameters and assumptions of the ­interest rate risks from pension obligations result from model are regularly reviewed in the context of various the Bank’s strategic decisions regarding the capital daily, monthly and annual processes. investment of pension provisions in cases where the maturity of the investment does not exactly match the 5.7.4 Risk Assessment and Limitation payment profile of the pension obligations. There is a The focus of the market risk under the gone concern risk that the provisions and the interest income generated perspective is on general and specific interest rate risks from the investment need to be complemented by other in the investment portfolio. The resulting market value operating income to meet all pension obligations. In fluctuations are not reflected in profit/loss under the addition, minor interest rate risks result from strategic HGB-oriented going concern perspective, provided investments if the term of the refinancing differs from there is no permanent impairment. As investments in the assumed term of the strategic investment. the investment portfolio are made with the intention of 76 Financial Report 2014 being held to maturity permanently, the hedges used trading portfolio. These are limited by a separate limit by the Bank relate to the nominal value at maturity. for the trading portfolio. Compliance with the limits is Accordingly, there are only minor fixed-interest-period monitored on a daily basis; all limits were met at all and currency mismatches under the HGB-oriented times in the fiscal year. going concern perspective, which are limited by the HGB-VaR for the risks of all future fiscal years as well Due to the hedges used, there are no material fixedas for the current and the next two fiscal years. In interest-period mismatches at Bank-wide level under ­addition, the Bank has minor active positions in the the HGB-oriented going concern perspective. HGB interest rate sensitivities ( all periods) to a 1 bp interest rate hike in € thsd. as of Dec. 31, 2014 200 100 0 –100 –200 1 1 3 6 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 12 15 20 25 > 25 day month months months year years years years years years years years years years years years years years years Currency risks also play only a minor role under the Reflecting the low interest rate and exchange rate HGB-oriented going concern perspective. They are risks, the Bank-wide HGB-VaR for market risks for extensively hedged using derivatives, which means all future fiscal years amounted to € 1.2 million as that the HGB result is essentially exposed only to the of December 31, 2014 (2013: € 1.3 million). currency risk on the interest margin generated. HGB-VaR going concern (all periods) in € million 4.0 3.0 2.0 1.0 0.0 Dec. 31, 2013 Jan. 31, 2014 Feb. 28, 2014 Mar. 31, 2014 Apr. 30, 2014 May 31, 2014 Jun. 30, 2014 Jul. 31, 2014 Aug. 31, 2014 Sep. 30, 2014 Oct. 31, 2014 Nov. 30, 2014 Dec. 31, 2014 Financial Report 2014 77 Management Report The average HGB-VaR for market risks in the fiscal year The allocation of the HGB-VaR to the risk types confirms was € 1.1 million (2013: € 1.4 million). The minimum was the relatively low overall market risks taken, which, as € 0.7 million on September 19, 2014 and the maximum described above, are largely closed by hedges and limited was € 1.6 million on January 13, 2014. additionally. Against this background, the main risk types are the interest rate risk and the exchange rate risk (focus on future USD interest margins). HGB-VaR going concern (all periods) in € millions March 31, 2014 June 30, 2014 Sept. 30, 2014 Dec. 31, 2014 € millions € millions € millions € millions Interest rate risk 0.3 0.3 0.5 0.4 Foreign exchange rate risk 1.1 0.8 0.8 1.2 Credit spread risk 0.4 0.3 0.1 0.0 Interest rate volatility risk 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Diversification –0.6 –0.5 –0.5 –0.4 Total VaR 1.2 0.9 0.9 1.2 No material positions were held in the trading portfolio Under the going concern perspective, the economic in the fiscal year. Accordingly, the maximum VaR in the capital for market risks including strategic interest rate fiscal year was € 0.6 million (2013: € 1.2 million). risks amounted to € 62.8 million (2013: € 123,8 million) as of the reporting date. An amount of € 9.8 million 5.7.5 Economic Capital (2013: € 70 million) related to strategic interest rate For the strategic management of economic capital, the risks. Bank uses a confidence level of 99% under the going concern perspective and of 99.96% under the gone The economic capital for market risks under the gone concern perspective. A risk horizon of one year with concern perspective primarily includes general interest a shorter holding period of 95 days is analysed, which rate risks from the social housing promotion loans. results from the differentiated analysis of different These are primarily funded with own equity funds. To holding periods per asset class and liquidity. The latter comply with MaRisk, the own equity funds used to fund reflects the possibility to exercise influence, e.g. by housing promotion loans may not be taken into account reducing risk positions in the event of an unfavourable in the risk calculation. The MaRisk thus imply that market trend. The economic capital for market risks housing promotion loans are funded fully mismatched is determined conservatively from a stress VaR with with overnight deposits. This results in a high assumption stressed correlations and volatilities. This way, the based interest position. In addition, economic capital Bank ensures that the calculation of economic capital includes all mark-to-market strategic interest rate rates also reflects unfavourable market phases. Accordingly, and all credit spread risks of the investment portfolio, the economic capital remains relatively constant. although any resulting fluctuations in the market value 78 Financial Report 2014 are usually not recognised in profit/ loss in NRW.BANK’s on the asset and the liability side and not in additional HGB income statement. As of the reporting date, the gains from mismatched interest and currency positions. economic capital set aside for market risk amounted to In the trading portfolio, further opportunities are also € 6.5 billion (2013: € 5.0 billion) under the gone concern ruled out due to the existing limit. This means that perspective. The increase is due to the fact that, when opportunities for generating additional HGB income interest rates are low, a potential increase in interest from market risk positions play only a minor role. From rates has a stronger impact on the present value of a a mark-to-market point of view, market price fluctuations portfolio. This is primarily the case in the mark-to-market lead to changes in unrealised profit and losses. In the analysis of the housing promotion loans, which are investment portfolio, these are regarded as temporary essentially funded with equity capital, which, according value fluctuations – provided that they are not permato German regulatory requirements, must be recognised nently impaired. Accordingly, net gains in the investment as payable on demand under the gone concern perportfolio result from portfolio-enhancing measures. spective. 5.8 Liquidity Risk 5.7.6 KWG Interest Rate Shock The effect of the sudden and unexpected interest rate 5.8.1 Definition change in the investment book defined by BaFin circular The liquidity risk includes, in particular: 11/2011 – currently +/–200 basis points – is dominated by the above-mentioned assumption based interest t he risk of being unable to meet payment position of the housing promotion loans. As of Decemobligations at maturity (liquidity risk in the ber 31, 2014, the negative change in the present value narrower sense), of the Bank’s investment book resulting from a +/–200 bp t he risk of being unable to provide sufficient interest rate shock amounted to 14.5% of the regulatory liquidity at the anticipated conditions (funding equity capital (2013: 10.6%). Besides calculating the risk) when needed and effects of the KWG interest rate shock on the present t he risk of being unable to unwind or liquidate value, the Bank also calculates the effects of interest transactions or to do so only at a loss because of rate changes on the HGB result under the going concern insufficient market depth or market disruptions perspective. As the positions in the Bank’s investment (market liquidity risk). portfolio fall under the buy-and-hold strategy, this perspective is in accordance with the Bank’s primary risk 5.8.2 Methods management approach. In contrast to the above-­ The liquidity risk is managed centrally at NRW.BANK to described particularities of housing promotion under ensure liquidity across the entire Bank at all times. the mark-to-market perspective, interest rate risks ­under the going concern perspective are negligible. The risk of insolvency and the funding risk are monitored daily on the basis of a liquidity gap analysis and its 5.7.7 Opportunities limitation. The liquidity gap analysis (in EUR and foreign The aim of NRW.BANK’s asset/liability management is currency) is prepared and analysed each day indepento generate a fixed interest and commission margin dently of trading units. It reflects the contractually with regard to the HGB income statement. This entails agreed (deterministic) inflows and outflows of cash for low market risks, which limit the respective opportunities each day until the final cash flow occurs (incl. interest in the investment portfolio. The biggest opportunities cash flow and off balance sheet transactions). therefore lie in the development of the contracted rates Financial Report 2014 79 Management Report For optional (stochastic) cash flows (e. g. termination 5.8.3 Risk Assessment and Limitation rights or early redemption), conservative assumptions Because of the explicit funding guarantee extended by are made in such a way that negative effects are assumed NRW.BANK’s guarantor and its correspondingly good for NRW.BANK. Moreover, no (fictitious) new business rating, the Bank can generate the required liquidity at is reflected or modelled in the liquidity gap analysis; short notice at any time. The Bank usually funds itself e.g. there is no prolongation of unsecured and secured in the money and capital markets. NRW.BANK continues funding. to benefit from a very favourable funding environment. The funding risk, as the income risk for the HGB result, To ensure it is able to meet its payment obligations at is determined on the basis of the planned issuance all times, the Bank additionally holds a substantial portvolume of the next 12 months and the volatility of the folio of liquid ECB/repo-eligible securities. Regardless own fund spread and limited in the context of the riskof the buy-and-hold strategy, the securities may be bearing capacity in the going concern perspective. In used in the repo market or for ECB open-market trans­ addition, the funding base is diversified in terms of actions with a view to generating liquidity. Sales of investor groups, regions and products, which helps to securities in the investment portfolio are therefore not minimise the funding risk. required for this purpose. The market liquidity risk is of minor importance for To limit the liquidity risk, a liquidity risk limit system NRW.BANK, as the investment portfolio essentially exists for the entire period covered by the liquidity gap consists of positions held in accordance with the buyanalysis. This system is based on the MaRisk requireand-hold strategy. Accordingly, temporary market ments for assets to be held as liquidity buffer even in a liquidity fluctuations are not relevant for the HGB stress scenario. The limit system also requires liquid ­income statement, as the focus is not on short-term securities for observation periods of more than one profit generation by way of a sale. Sales of investments month. In addition, there are further funding possibilities held in the investment portfolio serve to optimise the of the money and capital markets, which are reflected portfolio in the context of portfolio management and in the limit system in a second step, with haircuts being are not directly related to the generation of liquidity. applied. The market liquidity risk from securities held in the Due to the above mentioned limit system, NRW.BANK’s liquidity reserve and the trading portfolio is not material, ability to meet its payment obligations is secured by the as the securities holdings are relatively small. Moreover, freely available portfolio of ECB-eligible receivables the positions of the trading portfolio are liquid. and the unused ECB line even without external capital market funding. Netted with cash inflows and outflows, An analysis of the market liquidity risk that goes beyond there is a significant liquidity surplus for the 1-year the analysis of the market risk is performed in the form period that is primary relevant for risk management. of a regular analysis of the short-term liquidity to be generated from the securities portfolio. In addition, it is reflected in the liquidity risk limitation in the form of haircuts on the calculated liquidity potential. 80 Financial Report 2014 Liquidity gap analysis of NRW.BANK in € billions 50 –50 available ECB-eligible receivables 40 –40 cumulative cash flows 30 –30 20 –20 liquidity potential 10 –10 0 0 –10 10 Dec. 31, 2014 Jan. 31, 2015 Feb. 28, 2015 Mar. 31, 2015 Apr. 30, 2015 May 31, 2015 Jun. 30, 2015 Jul. 31, 2015 Aug. 31, 2015 Sep. 30, 2015 Oct. 31, 2015 Nov. 30, 2015 Dec. 31, 2015 cumulative cash flows available ECB-eligible receivables liquidity potential The limit system ensures that liquidity gaps are at all 5.8.4 Economic Capital times covered by the liquidity buffer, especially in the As of the reporting date, the economic capital for short-term segment. liquidity risks under the going concern perspective (income risks of the HGB result for the issuance volume Stress tests are also performed in the context of liquidity planned for the next 12 months) was € 10.5 million management. These stress tests take into account crisis(2013: € 12.6 million). specific effects on payments, the liquidity buffer maintained by the Bank as well as the limit utilisation. The In addition, the parameters and assumptions of the following is simulated in the context of the stress tests: model are reviewed regularly in the context of various daily, monthly and annual processes.  defaults of material borrowers,  outflows under collateralisation agreements, 5.8.5 Funding Structure  reduced liquidity potential from ECB-eligible As a state-guaranteed development bank, NRW.BANK ­securities due to rating changes and again saw strong demand for funding instruments in reduction in the collateral value of ECB-eligible the past fiscal year. The Bank met investors’ demand securities and credit receivables. for state-guaranteed liquid bonds and strengthened its market presence through further benchmark issues. The results are analysed at least on a monthly basis. Two USD benchmark bonds were issued in 2014. The Even assuming these stress scenarios, NRW.BANK is issue was made against the background of very high able to meet its payment obligations at all times. In demand from investors and in view of a funding addition, the HGB result is subjected to stress tests in advantage compared to the euro. The benchmark volume the form of rising costs from EUR/USD FX swaps. amounted to $ 2.0 billion or approx. € 1.5 billion (2013: € 1.8 billion). Both issues were placed with a Liquidity risk management also incorporates com­ broad investor base. 2014 also saw NRW.BANK issue pliance both with the German Liquidity Regulation and another Greenbond. The 4-year € 500 million bond met with the regulatory requirements regarding the miniwith very good demand as it responded to investors’ mum reserve. Both conditions were met at all times in interest in sustainable investments. the fiscal year. Financial Report 2014 81 Management Report The funding transactions with domestic investors are 5.9 Operational Risk dominated by bearer bonds, promissory loans and ­registered bonds. 5.9.1 Definition Operational risk comprises risks in systems or pro­ NRW.BANK also used its international funding processes, specifically resulting from human or technical grammes. These essentially comprise the Debt Issuance failure, external events or legal risks resulting from Programme, which covers medium and long-term contractual agreements or applicable law. ­maturities, and the Global Commercial Paper Pro­ gramme, which covers maturities of up to twelve 5.9.2 Methods months. The GCP Programme constituted a particularly The framework for operational risk management at favourable source of funding for NRW.BANK through­ NRW.BANK incorporates both qualitative and quantitaout the fiscal year. tive aspects. Quantitative management of the economic capital is based on the basic indicator approach, while The funding structure of NRW.BANK primarily qualitative management is based on the MaRisk require­ com­prises certificated liabilities in the amount of ments. € 58.2 billion (2013: € 58.1 billion) (mostly bearer instruments € 25.6 billion (2013: € 28.0 billion), bearer By using a combination of decentralised and centrabonds € 21.9 billion (2013: € 21.5 billion), commercial lised risk management and risk monitoring, the Bank paper € 10.7 billion (2013: € 8.6 billion)), liabilities to ensures that management can respond promptly as banks of € 39.7 billion (2013: € 40.7 billion) (mostly needed, and that the Managing Board can simultaneon-lending € 22.6 billion (2013: € 22.2 billion), pro­ ously take the necessary decisions based on the Bank’s missory loans € 9.9 billion (2013: € 9.7 billion), registered overall risk profile. bonds € 4.4 billion (2013: € 4,6 billion)) as well as liabil­ ities to customers of € 19.3 billion (2013: € 20.4 billion) Since 2004, NRW.BANK has collected information on (mostly registered bonds € 17.1 billion (2013: losses and loss-free risk events in a central risk event € 18,2 billion)). database and categorised them in accordance with the Basle event categories. The data collection serves as 5.8.6 Opportunities the basis for the assessment of operational risks at NRW.BANK continues to attract strong demand from NRW.BANK. The results of the annual forward-looking investors thanks to its status as a development bank self-assessments and the findings resulting from the and the funding guarantee granted by the federal monitoring of risk indicators are also included in the state of North Rhine-Westphalia. This is reflected in a overall assessment of the risk situation. favourable funding environment for the Bank – even in times of tight financial markets. But even in case of a Prior to each product launch, a detailed analysis further reduction in the Bank’s own funding spread, ­regarding potential operational risks is carried out in there are no plans to increase the funding volume the context of a standardised process. ­materially. Additional opportunities may arise, however, for the coverage of short-term liquidity, which may take Comprehensive, business-process-oriented emergency place in different money market segments, depending plans exist for particularly mission-critical events such on the financial markets. as a major loss of staff, breakdown of a bank building 82 Financial Report 2014 or a computing centre. The contingency plans cover all Operational risks in NRW.BANK’s IT environment are areas and are designed to prevent high financial and managed on the basis of the IT strategy. The written reputational risks. instructions include rules for the use, procurement and development of hardware and software, with the main The Bank’s insurance cover is reviewed regularly to emphasis on compliance with the necessary security ensure that it is appropriate. standards and business continuity. Appropriate authorisation concepts and processes additionally have a riskNRW.BANK uses standardised contracts to minimise mitigating effect. Contingency plans exist for the breaklegal risks from transactions. Deviations from stan­ down of all critical IT systems. dardised contracts and individual transactions are ­approved by the Legal Business Unit. The Bank is Risks that may result from the outsourcing of material ­currently not involved in any significant pending probusiness activities are mitigated by an established audit ceedings. and monitoring process, which primarily consists of a detailed risk analysis as the basis for a possible outOperational risks are mitigated by, among other things, sourcing decision to limit outsourcing risks. the instructions in the written orders as defined in the internal control system (ICS). These comprise all proIn addition, the Bank effectively mitigates risks related cesses, methods and control measures ordered by the to (MaRisk and WpHG) compliance, money laundering Managing Board which serve to ensure the proper and and financing terrorism as well as potential risks arising safe functioning of the operational processes. The ICS from other criminal acts. Bank-wide security procedures, comprises general principles and requirements for processes for the reporting of suspicions, regular hazard working and behavioural practices, e.g. the four-eye analyses as well as self-assessments serve to manage principle, but also specific process-related instructions. and limit the potential risks arising in conjunction with In the event of material changes in the structural and these topics. operational organisation as well as in the IT systems, the Bank analyses the effects on the control procedures 5.9.3 Risk Assessment and Limitation and the intensity of control; the Business Units involved In the context of the identification and assessment of in the downstream workflows as well as the Risk Conrisks, all losses and risk events are analysed for their trol function, the Compliance function and Internal causes (including the observation of early warning Audit are also involved in this analysis. indicators). Regardless of the current amount of the risk or the risk potential, this is done to ensure that counterHuman resources risks are initially managed in the measures can be taken at an early stage if similar context of regular human resources planning. HR-related events occur. measures are implemented in close consultation ­between the respective Business Units and the Human NRW.BANK performs self-assessments of all opera­ Resources Business Unit. As part of the observation of tional risks to which the Bank may be exposed. Risks risk indicators, indicators, e. g. regarding staff turnover are assessed separately for relevance (probability of or further training, are monitored in order to respond occurrence) and frequency. to undesirable developments at an early stage. Financial Report 2014 83 Management Report Neither the operational risk losses and loss-free risk With regard to the period during which pensions are events identified in 2014 nor the findings from the received, invalidity and death must be modelled in ­self-assessments and the observation of early warning the cash flows. This is done on the basis of actuarial indicators have revealed any risks that could jeopardise ­mortality tables (Heubeck 2005 G), which are generally the existence of the Bank. accepted for Germany and approved by the tax authorities. The economic capital for operational risks is determined annually in accordance with the basic indicator approach. For the mortality tables, no historical changes covering As the economic capital allocated to cover potential sufficiently long periods are available from which the losses thus remains constant throughout the year, no volatilities required for a VaR model can be derived. distinction is made between limit and utilisation. This is why the risk of changes in the statistical ­as­sump­tions regarding invalidity and death is quantified 5.9.4 Economic Capital using a scenario analysis in which the cash flows With regard to the economic capital for operational risks ­increase based on the assumption of a growing life derived from the regulatory basic indicator approach, expectancy. In addition, the probabilities of invalidity differences between the going concern perspective and are modified as well. To quantify the risk, the scenario the gone concern perspective result exclusively from showing the strongest impact on the Bank is applied. scaling to the respective confidence level. As of the reporting date, the economic capital set aside for Differences between the going concern perspective ­operational risks amounted to € 35 million under the and the gone concern perspective exclusively result going concern perspective and to € 140 million under the from different interest rates used to discount the cash gone concern perspective. No changes have occurred flows. compared to the previous year. 5.10.3 Risk Assessment and Limitation 5.10 Pension Risk The pension risk comprises the obligations towards both NRW.BANK’s own employees and the employees 5.10.1 Definition of Portigon AG employed under a dual contract. Pension risk relates to the risk that there is a need to increase the pension provisions. Economic capital is determined once a year, i.e. it is constant throughout the year, the Bank makes thus no Pension obligations may increase primarily as a result distinction between limit and utilisation. of changes in the statistical assumptions regarding invalidity and mortality. This is considered as the pension 5.10.4 Economic Capital risk in the calculation of economic capital. Strategic The economic capital set aside for pension risks as interest rate risks related to pension obligations are of the reporting date amounted to € 60 million (2013: included in the market risk. In addition, risks resulting € 50 million) under the going concern perspective and from a change in interest rates are considered in the to € 110 million (2013: € 80 million) under the gone capital cover. concern perspective. Under both perspectives, the increase in economic capital is due to the decline in the 5.10.2 Methods interest rates used. The calculation of the pension provisions requires the actuarial determination of cash flows reflecting future changes in payment obligations over time. 84 Financial Report 2014 5.11 Business and Cost Risk 5.11.4 Economic Capital As of the reporting date, the economic capital set aside 5.11.1 Definition for the business and cost risk amounted to € 50 million Business risk describes the risk of changes in the ecounder the going concern perspective and to € 65 million nomic environment (market and/or demand) or the under the gone concern perspective (differences result legal environment. Cost risk means that the planned exclusively from different interest rates used to discount personnel and operating expenses are exceeded or that the cash flows). No changes have occurred compared to unplanned costs become effective. A cost risk could the previous year. arise, for instance, as a result of projects that are not foreseeable today, e. g. in the context of the national 5.12 Reporting and European banking supervision or accounting. In accordance with the MaRisk provisions, the Risk Control Business Unit ensures market-independent and The business and cost risk was classified as non-material regular reporting to the Managing Board and the Risk in the risk inventory. This risk is nevertheless backed Committee. by economic capital to ensure comprehensive management of the risk-bearing capacity. Daily reports are produced for the entire Managing Board both on Bank-wide level and for the capital 5.11.2 Methods ­market business. These include risk positions and A general risk amount is defined on the basis of a ­t rading results as well as all cases where limits for ­simplified procedure for a one-year risk horizon, ­market risks and liquidity risks as well as counterparty which is consistent with other risk types. For this and issuer limits are exceeded. ­purpose, the deviations from the projected balance of income and administrative expenses are determined As a general standard, the monthly risk report covers for the fiscal years since the inception of the Bank. the following topics: Bank-wide risk management, From the negative deviations, mean and standard ­credit risks, market risks, liquidity risks, operational deviations are determined, from which the economic risks and profit performance. It forms the basis for the capital at the chosen confidence level is derived. discussion of the risk situation in the ALCO and the Credit Committee for capital markets. Besides the 5.11.3 Risk Assessment and Limitation ­standardised content, the report covers risk-relevant Developments from which business and cost risks may special topics as required. Every quarter, it covers the arise are analysed on a regular basis. This includes, in Bank-wide stress tests across all risk types. particular, a review of the internal and external premises on which the strategy of NRW.BANK is based. If re­­ The quarterly reports to the Risk Committee are based quired, adjustments are implemented in the context of on the monthly reports that are relevant for the quarter; the strategy process, for which the Managing Board is while the level of detail is reduced with a view to the directly responsible. recipients, all material aspects are addressed. In addition, extraordinary events which are material from a risk Economic capital is calculated once a year. As this perspective immediately trigger an (ad-hoc) report. ­means that it is constant throughout the year, the Bank makes no distinction between limit and utilisation. Financial Report 2014 85 Management Report 6 Internal Control System Relevant for the Financial accordance with the statutes, the Board of Guarantors Reporting Process of NRW.BANK approves and endorses the financial NRW.BANK’s internal control system (ICS) is to ensure statements, which are published in the electronic Federal that the financial statements present a true and fair Gazette within the statutory deadlines. view of the net worth, financial and earnings position of the Bank in accordance with applicable legal provisions On the basis of legal standards, especially of the and standards. It primarily comprises regulations ­German Commercial Code (HGB) and the “Verordnung governing the organisational and operational structure über die Rechnungslegung der Kreditinstitute und and makes a clear distinction between responsibilities Finanzdienstleistungsinstitute” (Ordinance on accounas well as processes, procedures and measures to ting by banks and financial institutions – RechKredV), ­ensure the appropriateness and reliability of internal NRW.BANK’s accounting process is described and laid and external accounting. down in manuals and work instructions. These written orders are updated on a regular basis. All employees The Managing Board of NRW.BANK is responsible for have direct access to the manuals via NRW.BANK’s the creation and effective maintenance of an appropriate intranet. Compliance to the manuals is mandatory. accounting-related internal control system. Responsibility for implementation rests with the Finance Business Unit The Finance Business Unit examines all new legislation in cooperation with the Business Units Business Support for its potential relevance to the Bank’s accounting and Risk Control. process. Necessary adjustments to processes and ­manuals are implemented in a timely manner. The Accounting-related business events are mostly handled ­management and monitoring of new products are locally. All accounting-relevant events are initiated in ­coordinated by the Risk Control Business Unit in a IT systems. The respective Business Units are respon­standardised process. In this context, an accountingsible for full and proper capture and for implementing related analysis of the products and the associated and documenting the required controls. Bank-wide risks is carried out with a view to ensuring accurate ­functional responsibility for the accounting rules, the accounting. booking system, accounting and the definition of the valuation principles rests with the Finance Business The front-office Business Units are functionally and Unit. This ensures that consistent accounting and ­organisationally separated from the Business Units valuation ­principles are applied within NRW.BANK ­responsible for settlement, monitoring and control. even where business transactions are recorded locally. This separation is also reflected in the responsibilities Risk Control is responsible for the trading-independent of the individual Managing Board members. The authovaluation and results analysis. rities and responsibilities are laid down in detail in the individual specialist Business Units. Employees involved In the context of the Management Information System, in accounting-relevant processes have the knowledge a standardised report on the income statement, the and experience required for their respective tasks. cost centre statement, total assets, the business volume Where required, external experts are called in for and the planning and budgeting process is sent to the ­certain calculations, e.g. the measurement of pension Managing Board each month to ensure timely reporting. obligations. The Managing Board regularly informs the Supervisory Board and its committees about the current business Besides the minimum requirements of the four-eye situation. principle, the use of standard software is a key element of the internal control system. The software is pro­ The financial statements are prepared by the Finance tected against unauthorised access by means of authoBusiness Unit and drawn up by the Managing Board. In risations reflecting users’ competence levels. In addition, 86 Financial Report 2014 system-immanent plausibility checks, standardised coordination routines and target-actual comparisons serve to check completeness and avoid and identify errors. For instance, the figures determined in the accounting process are checked for plausibility on a monthly basis by means of comparisons with prior-year figures and planning figures and on the basis of the actual business trend. Inconsistencies are addressed jointly by the external and internal accounting Departments. The Supervisory Board establishes an Audit Committee from among its members. In accordance with the statutes and the Public Corporate Governance Code of NRW.BANK, the Audit Committee addresses matters such as accounting-related issues, the selection of the auditors and the verification of their independence, the commissioning of the auditors to carry out the audit, the definition of focal points for the audit and the auditor’s fee. The auditor is appointed by the Board of Guarantors at the recommendation of the Supervisory Board/Audit Committee. The auditor participates in the Supervisory Board’s and the Board of Guarantors’ consultations regarding the financial statements and reports on the key results of the audit. The functionality of the accounting-related internal control system is additionally monitored by Internal Audit through regular process-independent tests in accordance with the MaRisk requirements published by the Federal Financial Supervisory Authority (BaFin). The Managing Board and the Supervisory Board are informed of the results of the tests in a timely manner. Financial Report 2014 87 Balance Sheet Balance Sheet of NRW.BANK at December 31, 2014 Assets see Notes No. Dec. 31, 2013 € € € thousands 1. Cash a) cash on hand 25,274.89 13) b) balances with central banks 321,977,959.11 608,491) thereof: with Deutsche Bundesbank € 321,977,959.11 (608,491) 322,003,234.00 608,504) 2. Debt instruments issued by public institutions and bills of exchange eligible for refinancing with central banks a) treasury bills and discounted treasury notes as well as similar debt instruments issued by public institutions 23,746,842.23 22,949) thereof: eligible for refinancing with Deutsche Bundesbank € 23,746,842.23 (22,949) 3. Receivables from banks 1, 12, 24, 28 a) payable on demand 1,268,070,114.94 928,290) b) other 32,451,135,109.60 33,358,861) 33,719,205,224.54 34,287,151) 4. Receivables from customers 2, 12, 24, 28 60,246,233,067.36 60,898,246) thereof: secured by mortgages € 17,149,050.14 (42,122) loans to public authorities and entities under public law € 36,166,690,563.93 (36,664,991) To be carried forward: 94,311,188,368.13 95,816,850) 88 Financial Report 2014 Liabilities see Notes No. Dec. 31, 2013 € € € thousands 1. Liabilities to banks 14, 24, 27, 28 a) payable on demand 1,480,252,743.00 690,267) b) with agreed maturity or period of notice 38,207,938,414.65 40,037,127) 39,688,191,157.65 40,727,394) 2. Liabilities to customers 15, 24, 28 a) other liabilities aa) payable on demand 124,633,137.04 135,761) ab) with agreed maturity or period of notice 19,156,209,444.35 20,225,314) 19,280,842,581.39 20,361,075) 3. Certificated liabilities 16, 24, 28 a) bonds and notes issued by the bank 58,162,677,831.27 58,068,365) 58,162,677,831.27 58,068,365) 3a. Trading portfolio 17 445,528,715.10 146,335) 4. Trust liabilities 18 1,686,904,073.90 1,747,851) thereof: trust loans € 1,686,714,073.90 (1,747,851) 5. Other liabilities 19, 24 575,084,162.08 782,943) 6. Deferred items 20, 24 1,055,452,362.04 637,425) 7. Provisions 21 a) provisions for pensions and similar obligations 1,634,952,202.00 1,514,335) b) tax reserves 4,504,833.90 7,227) c) provisions for interest rate subsidies 102,188,449.93 94,831) d) other 354,831,642.37 353,817) 2,096,477,128.20 1,970,210) 8. Subordinated liabilities 22 2,211,920,207.00 2,387,220) thereof: due in less than two years € 270,400,000.00 (329,000) To be carried forward: 125,203,078,218.63 126,828,818) Financial Report 2014 89 Balance Sheet Balance Sheet of NRW.BANK at December 31, 2014 Assets see Notes No. Dec. 31, 2013 € € € € thousands To be carried forward: 94,311,188,368.13 95,816,850) 5. Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 3, 9, 12, 13, 24, 26, 28 a) money market instruments aa) of public institutions 21,788,718,444.37 21,025,954) thereof: eligible as collateral for Deutsche Bundesbank advances € 19,792,062,306.69 (19,373,474) ab) of other issuers 21,054,006,613.03 22,407,506) thereof: eligible as collateral for Deutsche Bundesbank advances € 15,876,959,383.78 (17,672,541) 42,842,725,057.40 43,433,460) b) bonds and notes 101,395,449.26 449,201) principal amount € 92,748,000.00 (402,114) 42,944,120,506.66 43,882,661) 6. Shares and other non-interest-bearing securities 4, 9, 12 0.00 1,957) 6a. Trading portfolio 5, 24 144,438,372.92 253,476) 7. Equity investments in non-affiliated companies 6, 9 2,279,467,968.67 2,268,086) thereof: equity investments in banks € 2,243,772,546.20 (2,243,773) 8. Equity investments in affiliated companies 6, 9 175,962,544.59 154,751) 9. Trust assets 7 1,686,904,073.90 1,747,851) thereof: trust loans € 1,686,714,073.90 (1,747,851) 10. Intangible assets 9 8,430,601.41 13,399) 11. Tangible fixed assets 9 72,050,147.39 68,194) 12. Other assets 8, 24 1,990,206,331.85 968,243) 13. Deferred items 10, 24 230,299,260.58 174,497) Total assets 143,843,068,176.10 145,349,965) 90 Financial Report 2014 Liabilities see Notes No. Dec. 31, 2013 € € € thousands To be carried forward: 125,203,078,218.63 126,828,818) 9. Capital with participation rights 22 0.00 11,000) thereof: due in less than two years € 0.00 (11,000) 10. Fund for general banking risks 707,338,000.00 626,740) thereof: special item pursuant to Section 340e (4) of the German Commercial Code (HGB) € 2,338,000.00 (1,740) 11. Equity capital 23 a) subscribed capital 17,000,000,000.00 17,000,000) b) capital reserves 676,904,829.05 627,660) c) reserves from retained earnings ca) reserves required by NRW.BANK’s statutes 36,100,000.00 36,100) cb) other reserves 219,647,128.42 219,647) d) profit for the year 0.00 0) 17,932,651,957.47 17,883,407) Total liabilities 143,843,068,176.10 145,349,965) 1. Contingent liabilities 24, 25 liabilities from guarantees and indemnity agreements 15,675,882,999.29 15,388,364) 2. Other commitments 24, 25 irrevocable loan commitments 2,884,376,336.38 3,105,981) 3. Administered funds 94,625,941.84 130,033) Financial Report 2014 91 Income Statement Income Statement of NRW.BANK for the Period January 1 – December 31, 2014 Jan. 1 – see Notes No. Dec. 31, 2013 € € € € thousands 1. Interest income from a) lending and money market transactions 4,033,902,125.51 4,453,215) b) interest-bearing securities and book-entry securities 1,390,523,548.06 1,534,174) 5,424,425,673.57 5,987,389) 2. Interest expenses 4,974,485,533.22 5,509,463) 449,940,140.35 477,926) 3. Income from a) equity investments in non-affiliated companies 3,052,200.00 3,281) b) equity investments in affiliated companies 10,226,633.70 10,177) 13,278,833.70 13,458) 4. Income from profit pooling, profit transfer and partial profit transfer agreements 1,787,432.53 1,683) 5. Commission income 29 114,434,008.70 81,509) 6. Commission expenses 11,133,176.89 12,520) 103,300,831.81 68,989) 7. Net profit from trading portfolio 5,380,678.18 6,097) 8. Other operating income 30 32,753,447.07 39,321) 9. General administrative expenses a) personnel expenses aa) wages and salaries 97,713,401.79 92,788) ab) social security contributions and expenses for pensions and other employee benefits 25,893,430.44 23,194) thereof: )123,606,832.23 115,982) for pensions € 13,614,031.16 (11,391) b) other administrative expenses 31 83,186,145.35 73,209) 206,792,977.58 189,191) 10. Depreciation and value adjustments on intangible and tangible fixed assets 8,443,308.81 8,410) 11. Other operating expenses 30 9,663,249.76 9,087) To be carried forward: 381,541,827.49 400,786) 92 Financial Report 2014 Jan. 1 – see Notes No. Dec. 31, 2013 € € € thousands To be carried forward: 381,541,827.49 400,786) 12. Write-downs and value adjustments on loans and certain securities as well as allocations to loan loss provisions 452,574,740.43 557,039) thereof: allocation to fund for general banking risks € 80,000,000.00 (135,000) 13. Income from write-ups of equity investments in non-affiliated companies, equity investments in affiliated companies and securities treated as tangible fixed assets 93,415,749.82 183,216) 14. Expenses from the assumption of losses 0.00 1,699) 15. Result from normal operations 22,382,836.88 25,264) 16. Taxes on income and revenues 6,530,365.96 8,401) 17. Other taxes not shown under other operating expenses 129,203.48 128) 6,659,569.44 8,529) 18. Net income 15,723,267.44 16,735) 19. Designated payout due to legal requirements 15,723,267.44 16,735) 20. Profit for the year 0.00 0) Financial Report 2014 93 Notes Notes of NRW.BANK for the Fiscal Year 2014 Preparation of NRW.BANK’s Annual Accounts repurchase transaction entered into with the same counterparty. Securities purchased with an obligation The annual accounts of NRW.BANK were prepared in to sell (reverse repurchase agreements), and securities accordance with the provisions of the German Com­ sold with an obligation to repurchase (repurchase mercial Code (HGB) and the Ordinance Regarding agreements), are generally regarded as collateralised ­Accounting for Banks and Financial Services Institutions financial transactions. The securities pledged under (RechKredV). Information that may appear either on repurchase agreements (spot sale) are still recognised the balance sheet or in the notes is included in the as part of the securities portfolio. The cash deposit notes. Amounts in the notes are generally given in received as part of the repurchase agreement, including € millions. accrued interest, is recognised as a liability. In the case of reverse repurchase agreements, a corresponding As in the previous year, assets and liabilities in the receivable is recognised, including accrued interest. present annual accounts have been recognised at The underlying securities received in pledge (spot amortised cost in accordance with Section 252 et purchase) are not recognised on the balance sheet. seq. HGB. In securities lending transactions, the lender transfers The subsidiaries in the NRW.BANK Group are not of securities held in its portfolio to the borrower for a material importance either individually or collectively. certain period of time. The borrower undertakes to Consolidated financial statements are not prepared. retransfer the same type and the same amount of securities at the end of the lending period. According Accounting and Valuation Principles to prevailing legal opinion, this is a non-cash loan. The lender is obliged to assign the securities to the borrower; Assets, liabilities and open contracts are valued in the borrower assumes all rights associated with the accordance with Section 340 et seq. HGB in conjunction securities. Regardless of this, the lender remains the with Section 252 et seq. HGB. beneficial owner of the lent securities according to prevailing legal opinion. Consequently, the securities 1. General are not recognised in the borrower’s balance sheet but Receivables are reported at their amortised cost less continue to be recognised in the lender’s balance sheet, any discounts where appropriate. Premiums and as the latter remains the beneficial owner. ­discounts from notes and bonds were released by the end of the term. Liabilities are carried at their settleDiscernible risks in the lending business were adequately ment amount, with any related discounts reported covered by individual value adjustments and provisions. ­under deferred items. Premiums on receivables and A global provision was formed in accordance with tax liabilities are reported under deferred items as an asset valuation methods for latent risks from receivables and or liability, respectively. The proportionate amount of recourse receivables. Value adjustments were deducted accrued interest on a receivable or liability at year-end from assets in the longest remaining maturity range. is generally included with the receivable or liability to Non-performing loans were written off. which it applies. Since the beginning of 2014, these items have been valued on a straight-line basis. Non The principles of the IDW statement on accounting interest-bearing loans to employees are reported at (IDW RS HFA 22) (IDW: Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer / their amortised cost in accordance with tax regulations. Institute of Public Auditors in Germany, Incorporated Zero-coupon bonds are carried as liabilities at their Association) of September 2, 2008 are incorporated in issue price plus interest accrued as of the reporting the current financial statements. According to these date. principles, each structured financial instrument held in the investment book including securities issued is Repurchase agreements and reverse repurchase generally recognised as an integral asset or an integral agreements are combinations of a spot purchase or liability. In those cases where the structured financial sale of securities with a simultaneous forward sale or instrument has much higher or additional risks or 94 Financial Report 2014 opportunities than the basic instrument due to an the release of the balance sheet items affected (swap embedded derivative, each individual component of premiums, premiums, discounts) will lead to additional the asset or liability is recognised separately as an interest income in the following years. The risk profile underlying transaction and a derivative in accordance of the transactions is unchanged, which means that the with the relevant HGB principles. In those cases where Bank incurred no additional charges. the recognition as an integral asset or an integral liability gives a fair view of the net assets, financial position and 3. Promotion Loans of the Housing Promotion results of operations, such recognition is applied. Department The Housing Promotion Department’s promotion In the context of the determination of the fair value, loans to customers and banks, most of which are at no NRW.BANK applies mark-to-market valuation provided interest or below-market interest, are carried at their that an active market exists for a given security. In this nominal value. This recognises the fact that these loans case, the valuation is based on the liquid prices provided are predominantly funded at matching maturities from by respected market data providers (e.g. Reuters or equity capital and takes into account the “interest Bloomberg). In addition, the discounted cash flow balance guarantee” under which the State of North method is used for mark-to-model valuation. Under the Rhine-Westphalia would compensate for any negative discounted cash flow method, the contractually agreed interest balance for all promotion loans granted by the cash flows of an instrument (without options) are Housing Promotion Department up to December 31, discounted using risk-adjusted interest rates (use of 2009. No negative interest balance existed for these spread curves). To the extent possible, interest curves receivables as of the balance sheet date. based on curves quoted in the market are used. In exceptional cases, the spreads used for discounting All loans granted by the Housing Promotion Departare taken from research publications or, alternatively, ment after December 31, 2009 are not covered by the provided by external market participants and verified interest balance guarantee of the State of North Rhineindependently by the Risk Controlling Department. Westphalia. Up to the balance sheet date, the Bank exclusively used equity capital to finance these nonStructured derivatives and other structured products guaranteed loans. are valued on the basis of generally accepted models (Black 76, Black 76 with extension for CMS spread 4. Loss-Free Valuation of the Banking Book instruments, One, Two and Three Factor Model of On October 8, 2012, the IDW’s Specialist Committee Interest Rates, Hazard Rate Model, One Factor Gauss on Banking published its statement RS BFA 3 “EinzelCopula Model). Here, too, valuation parameters based fragen der verlustfreien Bewertung von zinsbezogenen on standard market data sources are used (e.g. Reuters Geschäften des Bankbuchs” (Individual Aspects of the or Markit). Loss-Free Valuation of Interest-Related Transactions in the Banking Book). According to the statement, a pro­ When using models, standard model assumptions are vision for contingent losses must be established for a made. Valuation uncertainties primarily result from surplus of obligations resulting from the banking and uncertainties of the parameters used and the assumpinterest book in an overall view of the transactions. tions on which the models are based. NRW.BANK performed the corresponding calculations in the 2014 financial statements, for which a periodic 2. Corrections in Current Accounts (P&L-oriented) view was taken. The present value of the In the fiscal year, NRW.BANK changed the accounting future interest result of the banking book was reduced for securities which are acquired together with a hedge by pro-rated risk and administrative costs for the total (so-called asset swap packages). As a result, the balance term. The calculation did not result in a surplus of sheet increased by € 0.5 billion and a revaluation result ­obligations, which means that there was no need to of € –27.3 million was posted. Due to the corrected establish a provision for contingent losses. accounting periodisation of expenses and income, Financial Report 2014 95 Notes 5. Securities and Derivatives in the Investment amount of € 7.6 million (2013: € 11.3 million). The trans­ Portfolio actions covered have a maximum remaining maturity Securities treated as fixed assets (financial investment until September 21, 2022. portfolio) are valued at cost. If an impairment is ­ex­pected to be permanent, they are written down to The respective transactions in the derivatives portfolios the lower fair value. Where securities in the financial are hedges for the securities portfolios. Interest-induced investment portfolio are recognised at values which movements in the market values of the hedged items exceed the current market or stock exchange values in and the hedges will be mutually off-setting in future. accordance with the mitigated lower of cost or market Effectiveness is measured retrospectively on the basis principle, these differences are stated in the notes. of the dollar offset method. Interest rate risks are This information is subject to change over time due to managed on the basis of sensitivities. portfolio changes as well as interest rate-induced movements and/or risk-induced movements. 7. Financial Instruments of the Trading Portfolio In accordance with Section 340e para. 3 HGB, financial For securities held in the financial investment portfolio instruments in the trading portfolio are measured at with a carrying value of € 2,178,817,495.12 lower fair value less a risk discount of € 0.4 million (2013: market values of € 2,034,342,610.29 were determined. € 1.5 million). Because these securities have been funded and/or The risk discount was calculated on the basis of the hedged at matching maturities and interest rates, and value-at-risk (VaR) model, which the Risk Controlling because none of the issuers’ credit ratings indicated Department also uses for internal monitoring of the sustained weakening (no permanent impairment in market price risks of the trading book. The regulatory value expected), it was not necessary to write the requirements of a confidence level of 99% and a securities down to market value. holding period of 10 days were applied. The historical observation period for the determination of the statistical Revaluation adjustments relating to derivative trans­ parameters is 250 days, with a greater weight placed actions in the financial investment portfolio are not on incidents in the more recent past. recognised. These derivatives are macrohedges in the form of interest rate and currency derivatives, which The internally defined criteria for the inclusion of serve to manage the Bank’s overall exposure to interest financial instruments in the trading portfolio remained rate risk, as well as credit default swaps, which are unchanged in the past fiscal year. used as credit substitute transactions. In order to comply with the distribution restriction 6. Securities held in the Liquidity Reserve for unrealised gains required pursuant to Section 340e Securities held in the liquidity reserve are valued para. 4 HGB, an amount of € 598,000.00 (2013: according to the strict lower of cost or market principle. € 680,000.00) of the net result of the trading portfolio If the carrying value exceeds the fair value, they are was allocated to the “fund for general banking risks” recognised at the lower fair value on the reporting date. pursuant to Section 340g HGB. To hedge against interest rate risks, assets with a 8. Equity Investments in Non-Affiliated and Affiliated carrying amount of € 98.8 million (2013: € 438.1 million) Companies and derivatives with a nominal volume of € 90.0 million Equity investments in affiliated and non-affiliated com(2013: € 442.1 million) were combined into a hedge panies are carried at cost taking existing collateral into relationship using the net hedge presentation method. account; where a loss of value is expected to be per­ The hedge relationship hedges interest rate risks in an manent, they are written down to the lower fair value. 96 Financial Report 2014 With regard to the equity investment in Portigon AG, assumed remaining maturity of fifteen years. The interest the State of North Rhine-Westphalia has issued an inrate of 4.58% used for discounting was stipulated by definite value guarantee to NRW.BANK to hedge the Deutsche Bundesbank. equity investment risk arising from the equity investment. In the case of a sale, the difference between the The accumulation for pension, benefit and other perproceeds and a value of € 2,200.0 million is guaranteed. sonnel provisions was recognised in interest expense in an amount of € 109.7 million (2013: € 93.8 million). NRW.BANK treats the equity investment in Portigon AG and the value guarantee as a hedge relationship as The assessment of the provisions for benefit payments defined in Section 254 HGB, which is accounted for were again calculated using an annual cost increase of using the net hedge presentation method. Accordingly, 3% for healthcare benefits. The average rate of the the equity investment in Portigon AG was recognised at benefit payments over the past three years was taken an amount of € 2,190.8 million as of December 31, 2014. as the basis. 9. Tangible and Intangible Assets As in the previous years, NRW.BANK used interest rate Tangible and purchased intangible assets with a limited subsidies for certain loans in order to fulfil its state useful life are depreciated in accordance with the promotion tasks. When the loan is extended, the interest applicable tax regulations. They are written down for rate subsidy is provisioned for in the amount of the impairment where such impairment is likely to be present value. permanent. In accordance with Article 67 para. 1 sentence 2 EGHGB 10. Provisions (Introductory Act to the Commercial Code), the option Provisions have been made for contingent liabilities and was used insofar as the existing provisions are main­ anticipated losses from open contracts in the amount of tained due to excess cover, as the amount to be released the settlement amount that will be required according in the context of a required release would have to be to prudent commercial judgment. reallocated by December 31, 2024 at the latest. As of December 31, 2014, excess cover of € 0.1 million exists Provisions with a remaining maturity of more than one for these provisions. year are discounted using the average market rate of the past seven years as appropriate for the remaining 11. Currency Translation maturities. Foreign currency amounts are translated in accordance with Section 340h HGB in conjunction with Section Pension, benefit and other personnel provisions are 256a HGB and statement RS BFA 4 of the IDW. Assets, measured by using the internationally accepted proliabilities and pending transactions denominated in jected unit credit method, taking the future developforeign currencies were translated using the spot ment of wages and pensions into account. Based on the exchange rate on December 31, 2014. In this context, 2005 G tables of Heubeck-Richttafeln-GmbH in Cologne, NRW.BANK uses the reference rates of the European average wage and salary rises of 2.5% were applied for System of Central Banks (ESCB). this purpose. In accordance with Section 340h HGB in conjunction In accordance with the option granted under Section 253 with Section 256a HGB, foreign-currency balance sheet para. 2 sentence 2 HGB, NRW.BANK has discounted items and pending transactions of NRW.BANK are provisions for pension obligations or comparable longclassified and valued as being specifically covered in term obligations using the average market rate for an all currencies. Financial Report 2014 97 Notes Balance Sheet Receivables from Banks (1) Breakdown by Maturity Dec. 31, 2014 Dec. 31, 2013 € millions € millions Payable on demand 1,268.1 928.3 Other receivables – up to 3 months 1,940.5 3,219.2 – between 3 months and 1 year 3,301.6 2,664.9 – between 1 and 5 years 10,833.4 11,624.6 – more than 5 years 16,375.6 15,850.2 Total receivables from banks 33,719.2 34,287.2 As in the previous year, receivables from banks do not include receivables from affiliated companies. The receivables from other companies in which equity investments are held totalled € 14.7 million (2013: € 17.5 million). Receivables from Customers (2) Breakdown by Maturity Dec. 31, 2014 Dec. 31, 2013 € millions € millions – up to 3 months 4,063.7 3,611.8 – between 3 months and 1 year 3,457.3 2,781.5 – between 1 and 5 years 13,417.9 14,580.8 – more than 5 years 39,307.3 39,924.1 Total receivables from customers 60,246.2 60,898.2 As in the previous year, receivables from customers do not include receivables from affiliated companies. The receivables from other companies in which equity investments are held totalled € 1.6 million (2013: € 0.8 million). Bonds and Other Interest-Bearing Securities (3) Marketability Dec. 31, 2014 Dec. 31, 2013 € millions € millions Bonds and other interest-bearing securities – listed on a stock exchange 39,129.9 40,191.1 – not listed on a stock exchange 3,814.2 3,691.6 Total bonds and other interest-bearing securities 42,944.1 43,882.7 98 Financial Report 2014 Of the bonds and other interest-bearing securities, an amount of € 6,521.4 million (2013: € 4,615.7 million) is due in the following year. As in the previous year, bonds and other interest-bearing securities do not include securities from affiliated companies or companies in which equity investments are held. Of the total bonds and other interest-bearing securities € 101.4 million (2013: € 449.2 million) are held as part of the liquidity reserve and € 42,842.7 million (2013: € 43,433.5 million) are held in the financial investment portfolio. Shares and Other Non-Interest-Bearing Securities (4) Marketability Dec. 31, 2014 Dec. 31, 2013 € millions € millions Shares and other non-interest-bearing securities – listed on a stock exchange 0.0 0.0 – not listed on a stock exchange 0.0 1.9 Total shares and other non-interest-bearing securities 0.0 1.9 All shares and other non-interest-bearing securities of the previous year were held in the financial investment portfolio. Trading Portfolio (Assets) (5) Breakdown of Trading Portfolio Dec. 31, 2014 Dec. 31, 2013 € millions € millions Derivative financial instruments 0.3 0.0 Receivables 34.1 20.0 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 110.4 235.0 Risk discount pursuant to Section 340e para. 3 sentence 1 HGB –0.4 –1.5 Total trading portfolio 144.4 253.5 Derivative financial instruments include futures with a positive market value of € 0.1 million (2013: € 1.4 million). This market value is offset against the opposite variation margin received from futures. Financial Report 2014 99 Notes Equity Investments in Non-Affiliated and Affiliated Companies (6) NRW.BANK holds € 2,279.5 million (2013: € 2,268.1 million) in equity investments in non-affiliated companies and € 176.0 million (2013: € 154.8 million) in equity investments in affiliated companies. Of the equity investments in non-affiliated companies, € 2,190.8 million (2013: € 2,190.8 million) are securitised by marketable securities. However, none are listed on a stock exchange. An itemised list of NRW.BANK’s investments pursuant to Section 285 No. 11 and 11a HGB is shown separately in these notes. NRW.BANK holds more than 5% of the voting rights in the following major corporations (disclosure pursuant to Section 340a para. 4 No. 2 HGB): Portigon AG Investitionsbank des Landes Brandenburg (ILB) Trust Assets (7) Trust assets comprise the following: Breakdown by Asset Type Dec. 31, 2014 Dec. 31, 2013 € millions € millions Receivables from banks 117.6 115.7 Receivables from customers 1,569.1 1,632.2 Equity investments in affiliated companies 0.2 0.0 Total trust assets 1,686.9 1,747.9 Other Assets (8) Breakdown by individual items Dec. 31, 2014 Dec. 31, 2013 € millions € millions Adjustment item from currency translation in accordance with Section 340h HGB 904.2 0.0 Interest receivables from the State of North Rhine-Westphalia under the Guarantee for the equity investment in Portigon AG 559.3 486.6 Option premiums paid 243.4 221.8 Option premiums not yet received 223.2 206.9 Receivables from Helaba Landesbank Hessen-Thüringen relating to pension provisions for “dual contract holders” 23.2 20.4 Receivables from Portigon AG relating to service cost of “dual contract holders” 15.1 15.0 Other 21.8 17.5 Total other assets 1,990.2 968.2 100 Financial Report 2014 Fixed Assets (9) Total Depreciation and Acquisition Depreciation Amortisation Schedule Cost/ and Net Book in the Fiscal of Fixed Assets Production Cost Additions Retirements Amortisation Value Year Jan. 1, 2014 Dec. 31, 2014 € millions € millions € millions € millions € millions € millions Bonds and other interest-bearing securities forming part of fixed assets 42,646.7 42,117.0 0.0 Shares and other Net change pursuant to Section 34 non-interest-bearing para. 3 sentence 2 RechKredV: securities forming € 2,120.0 million part of fixed assets 1.9 0.0 0.0 Equity investments in non-affiliated companies 3,840.0 2,279.5 0.0 Equity investments in affiliated companies 203.9 176.0 1.3 Intangible assets 68.6 0.3 0.0 60.5 8.4 5.2 Land and buildings 65.8 6.4 0.1 7.3 64.8 1.2 Office equipment 25.1 0.8 0.3 18.3 7.3 2.0 € 64.7 million (2013: € 59.6 million) of the amount shown under land and buildings represent land and buildings used for business purposes. Deferred Items (Assets) (10) Breakdown of Deferred Items Dec. 31, 2014 Dec. 31, 2013 € millions € millions Discounts from underwriting business 106.0 93.6 Prepaid swap fees 76.3 49.8 Prepaid CDS fees 39.1 19.6 Other 8.9 11.5 Total deferred items 230.3 174.5 Financial Report 2014 101 Notes Deferred Tax Assets (11) Due to NRW.BANK’s exemption from income tax, deferred taxes primarily relate to investments in commercial partnerships held as part of the public mission. In accordance with Section 274 para. 1 sentence 2 HGB, no deferred taxes were recognised for the deductible temporary differences which result in a tax reduction. Subordinated Assets (12)) Subordinated assets are included in: Breakdown by Asset Type Dec. 31, 2014 Dec. 31, 2013 € millions € millions Receivables from banks 0.8 0.8 Receivables from customers 20.0 20.0 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 0.0 20.4 Shares and other non-interest-bearing securities 0.0 1.9 Total subordinated assets 20.8 43.1 Pledged Assets (13) Of the assets reported, NRW.BANK pledged € 400.2 million (2013: € 140.6 million) under repurchase agreements. Liabilities to Banks (14) Breakdown by Maturity Dec. 31, 2014 Dec. 31, 2013 € millions € millions Payable on demand 1,480.3 690.3 Other liabilities – up to 3 months 2,354.6 5,149.9 – between 3 months and 1 year 3,483.6 1,773.3 – between 1 and 5 years 14,543.4 15,658.2 – more than 5 years 17,826.3 17,455.7 Total liabilities to banks 39,688.2 40,727.4 As in the previous year, liabilities to banks do not include liabilities to affiliated companies. The liabilities to other companies in which equity investments are held totalled € 6.8 million (2013: € 8.6 million). 102 Financial Report 2014 Liabilities to Customers (15) Breakdown by Maturity Dec. 31, 2014 Dec. 31, 2013 € millions € millions Payable on demand 124.6 135.8 Other liabilities – up to 3 months 623.6 1,023.6 – between 3 months and 1 year 1,215.1 881.3 – between 1 and 5 years 3,940.3 3,828.9 – more than 5 years 13,377.2 14,491.5 Total liabilities to customers 19,280.8 20,361.1 Liabilities to customers include liabilities to affiliated companies in the amount of € 19.1 million (2013: € 15.3 million). As in the previous year, liabilities to customers do not include liabilities to other companies in which equity investments are held. Certificated Liabilities (16) Breakdown of Certificated Liabilities Dec. 31, 2014 Dec. 31, 2013 € millions € millions Notes issued – mortgage bonds 0.6 0.6 – municipal bonds 295.1 339.1 – other bonds 57,867.0 57,728.7 Total certificated liabilities 58,162.7 58,068.4 € 22,744.0 million (2013: € 21,242.1 million) of the notes issued is due in the following year. Trading Portfolio (Liabilities) (17) Breakdown of Trading Portfolio Dec. 31, 2014 Dec. 31, 2013 € millions € millions Derivative financial instruments 0.4 0.0 Liabilities from repo transactions 445.1 146.3 Total trading portfolio 445.5 146.3 Derivative financial instruments include futures with a negative market value of € 13.5 thousand (2013: € 376.2 thousand). This market value is offset against the opposite variation margin paid on futures. Financial Report 2014 103 Notes Trust Liabilities (18) Trust liabilities comprise the following: Breakdown by Liability Type Dec. 31, 2014 Dec. 31, 2013 € millions € millions Liabilities to banks 8.5 11.9 Liabilities to customers 1,678.4 1,736.0 Total trust liabilities 1,686.9 1,747.9 Other Liabilities (19) Breakdown by individual items Dec. 31, 2014 Dec. 31, 2013 € millions € millions Option premiums received 243.1 221.5 Option premiums not yet paid 223.2 206.9 Liabilities owed to the State of North Rhine-Westphalia from repayment discounts granted for housing promotion programmes 66.1 18.1 Liabilities owed to the State of North Rhine-Westphalia 15.7 16.7 Due profit participation rights 11.0 0.0 Adjustment item from currency translation in accordance with Section 340h HGB 0.0 304.4 Other 16.0 15.3 Total other liabilities 575.1 782.9 Deferred Items (Liabilities) (20) Breakdown of Deferred Items Dec. 31, 2014 Dec. 31, 2013 € millions € millions Swap fees received in advance 656.0 168.5 Transfer of pension obligation provisions for Portigon AG “dual contract holders” 202.8 251.5 Premiums from underwriting business 110.1 97.3 CDS fees received in advance 84.1 119.7 Transfer of salaries for Portigon AG “dual contract holders” 2.3 0.0 Other 0.2 0.4 Total deferred items 1,055.5 637.4 Provisions (21) The provisions for pensions include € 1,197.2 million (2013: € 1,121.2 million) in pension obligations to employees of Portigon AG who have claims for or are entitled to a pension under the laws relating to civil servants. Pursuant to Article 1 Section 4 para. 1 sentence 4 of the Bank Redefining Act (Neuregelungsgesetz) of July 2, 2002, these obligations passed from the former Westdeutsche Landesbank Girozentrale to NRW.BANK. Pursuant to the 104 Financial Report 2014 regulations of the assessment dated August 1, 2002, Portigon AG and NRW.BANK agreed, in the fiscal year 2013, to finally settle NRW.BANK’s claims resulting from the compensation entitlement, with the exception of the future service cost, by means of a one-time payment. With this one-time payment, responsibility for managing and handling the pension payments has passed to NRW.BANK. The provisions for pensions additionally include pension obligations in the amount of € 23.2 million (2013: € 20.4 million) towards employees of Helaba Landesbank Hessen-Thüringen who also have contractual claims or are entitled to a pension under the laws relating to civil servants. NRW.BANK is entitled to reimbursement from Helaba Landesbank Hessen-Thüringen in the same amount, which is shown in other assets. NRW.BANK’s provisions for additional benefits are at € 220.4 million (2013: € 213.8 million). This amount includes € 186.0 million (2013: € 181.8 million) in obligations to persons covered under the former pension agreement of the former Westdeutsche Landesbank Girozentrale, for which NRW.BANK has assumed the additional benefit payments since the spin-off from the former Westdeutsche Landesbank Girozentrale. An additional € 34.4 million (2013: € 32.0 million) has been set aside for claims to additional benefits that employees of NRW.BANK have for their retirement. Provisions in an amount of € 76.7 million (2013: € 76.7 million) exist for potential compensation claims under the value guarantee. Subordinated Liabilities and Capital with Participation Rights (22) The subordinated liability as described below exceeds 10% of the total subordinated liabilities of € 2,211.9 million (2013: € 2,387,2 million). The State of North Rhine-Westphalia has to make repayments towards the federal government in conjunction with the use of house promotion loans granted by the federal government. Under applicable federal state law, NRW.BANK has to transfer the required funds from the repayment of housing promotion loans to the state budget. This transfer duty takes the form of a non-interest-bearing subordinated loan in an amount of € 2,413.9 million granted by the State of North Rhine-Westphalia to NRW.BANK, which has to be repaid by the year 2044 in accordance with a defined repayment plan. Based on the repayments made to date, the subordinated loan was stated in an amount of € 1,881.9 million as of December 31, 2014. The remaining subordinated liabilities of € 330.0 million have original maturities between twelve and thirty years and carry average interest rates of 0.247% and 6.0%. There is no early redemption obligation. Subordinated liabilities include liabilities with a remaining term of less than two years in an amount of € 270.4 million (2013: € 329.0 million). There are no existing agreements or plans to convert these funds into capital or into another form of debt. Interest expenses of € 9.8 million (2013: € 9.8 million) were incurred for subordinated liabilities. The subordinated liabilities carried by NRW.BANK comply with the requirements of Section 10 para. 5a KWG (German Banking Act); a right to terminate without notice has not been agreed. In 2014, all capital with participation rights of € 11.0 million (2013: € 0.0 million) matured, and no new capital with participation rights was issued. Financial Report 2014 105 Notes Equity Capital (23) As of December 31, 2014, NRW.BANK’s subscribed capital was € 17,000.0 million (2013: € 17,000.0 million). The reserves totalled € 932.6 million (2013: € 883.4 million). NRW.BANK’s capital and reserves as reported on the balance sheet are made up of the following: Commercial Law Equity Dec. 31, 2014 Dec. 31, 2013 € millions € millions Subscribed capital 17,000.0 17,000.0 Capital reserves 676.9 627.7 Reserves from retained earnings – reserves required by NRW.BANK’s statutes 36.1 36.1 – other reserves 219.6 219.6 Profit for the year 0.0 0.0 Total equity capital 17,932.6 17,883.4 Once the annual accounts are approved, the capital of NRW.BANK required for regulatory purposes under Section 10 KWG will total € 20,111.1 million (2013: € 19,503.0 million). Foreign Currency Assets/Foreign Currency Liabilities (24) At year-end, NRW.BANK had foreign currency assets valued at € 9,426.9 million (2013: € 10,218.4 million) and foreign currency liabilities valued at € 22,474.2 million (2013: € 17,608.4 million). Contingent liabilities and other commitments denominated in foreign currencies totalled € 5,060.6 million (2013: € 4,024.8 million). Contingent Liabilities and Other Commitments (25) Contingent liabilities totalled € 15,675.9 million (2013: € 15,388.4 million) and incorporate € 14,918.0 million (2013: € 14,689.8 million) for credit derivatives (thereof € 350.0 million for embedded derivatives [2013: € 352.7 million]) and € 757.9 million (2013: € 698.6 million) for other guarantees and indemnity agreements. The credit derivatives are credit default swaps, in which NRW.BANK acts as protection seller. Against receipt of a premium from the protection buyer, NRW.BANK has taken the risk that a credit event agreed between the two parties with regard to the reference debtor occurs. The credit default swaps of NRW.BANK are primarily referenced to countries and are almost exclusively of very good and good investment grade quality. No claims are expected to be raised at present. The other guarantees and indemnity agreements primarily comprise liability releases for house banks for promotion loans granted in the context of the development of sports facilities as well as global guarantees, guarantee lines and SME financing. Claims under these guarantees would potentially be raised in the event of the non-fulfilment of contractual obligations of the main borrower towards the beneficiary. This would arise, for instance, in the event of the delayed (or non-)repayment of loans or the improper completion of promised services. As there were no indications of such events as of the balance sheet date, there are currently no signs of future claims being raised under these guarantees. 106 Financial Report 2014 Other commitments comprise irrevocable credit commitments in an amount of € 2,884.4 million (2013: € 3,106.0 million). Of this total, € 719.8 million (2013: € 666.5 million) relate to commitments in conjunction with the housing promotion business. The irrevocable credit commitments result from transactions in which NRW.BANK has made a binding commitment towards its customers and is therefore exposed to a future credit risk. Based on historical experience from the previous years, it is expected that the irrevocable credit commitments will be utilised with a probability of almost 100%. Assets Used as Collateral (26) Bonds and notes in a nominal amount of € 6,785.4 million (2013: € 5,236.4 million) were pledged to the Deutsche Bundesbank and notes in a nominal amount of € 5,644.1 million (2013: € 5,235.8 million) were submitted to the Deutsche Bundesbank in the context of the “KEV” process (KEV: Kreditforderungen – Einreichung und Verwaltung/credit claims – submission and administration) as collateral for funding facilities. Securities in a nominal amount of € 22.8 million (2013: € 22.7 million) were deposited with the Eurex (electronic futures and options exchange) as collateral for forward transactions. In addition, securities in a nominal amount of € 3,979.2 million (2013: € 4,007.0 million) were transferred in the past fiscal year to secure off-exchange derivatives; these securities were deposited as collateral with the counterparty. Furthermore, an amount of € 276.8 million (2013: € 269.9 million) was transferred as collateral for repo transactions and securities in an amount of € 2.0 million (2013: € 2.0 million) were assigned as rent deposit. Collateral for Own Liabilities (27) Collateral for registered municipal bonds and notes totalled € 2.2 million (2013: € 2.2 million). Cover (28) All issues of NRW.BANK requiring cover were covered in accordance with the statutory provisions and in accordance with the Bank’s statutes. On December 31, 2014, the nominal amounts of the cover were as follows: Cover Dec. 31, 2014 Dec. 31, 2013 Municipal bonds Municipal bonds (cover register II) (cover register II) € millions € millions Municipal bonds issued 2,236.6 2,847.1 Loans raised secured with registered municipal bonds and notes 2.2 2.2 Liabilities requiring cover 2,238.8 2,849.3 Municipal loans 4,037.2 17,253.1 Other ordinary cover (securities) 0.0 66.2 Excess cover 65.6 240.0 Cover funds 4,102.8 17,559.3 Excess cover 1,864.0 14,710.0 Financial Report 2014 107 Notes The cover register for mortgage bonds (cover register I) was closed with effect from June 29, 2012, as NRW.BANK will issue no more mortgage bonds for the time being. Accordingly, the cover only includes the cover register for municipal bonds (cover register II). Income Statement Services Rendered for Third Parties (29) The net commission income includes € 14.1 million (2013: € 12.7 million) resulting from the administration of loans and subsidies held in trust. Other Operating Income and Expenses (30) The principal contributions towards other operating income are composed of € 10.4 million (2013: € 16.2 million) in income from the write-back of other provisions as well as € 15.1 million (2013: € 15.0 million) in income from the reimbursement of the service cost of Portigon AG. Other operating expenses include an amount of € 9.5 million (2013: € 6.8 million) for allocations to pension provisions for employees of Portigon AG who have claims for or are entitled to a pension under the laws relating to civil servants. Fee Paid to Auditor of the Annual Accounts (31) In the fiscal year 2014, the auditor charged a total fee of € 1.7 million (2013: € 1.5 million). € 1.2 million (2013: € 1.2 million) of which accounted for the auditing of the annual accounts, € 0.2 million (2013: € 0.2 million) for other auditing services and € 0.3 million (2013: € 0.1 million) for other services. Miscellaneous Other Financial Obligations NRW.BANK has long-term obligations in the amount of € 113.1 million (2013: € 127.4 million) up to the end of the contractual term. These include obligations in the amount of € 0.2 million (2013: € 0.2 million) with a remaining term of up to one year, obligations in the amount of € 7.4 million (2013: € 2.4 million) with a remaining term of up to three years, obligations in the amount of € 40.5 million (2013: € 3.6 million) with a remaining term of up to five years as well as obligations in the amount of € 65.0 million (2013: € 121.2 million) with a remaining term of more than five years. In addition, there are other financial obligations with an indefinite remaining term in the amount of € 2.1 million (2013: € 2.0 million). Other financial obligations primarily result from rental, maintenance and IT service agreements. There is an obligation to make additional contributions in the amount of € 16.0 million (2013: € 8.0 million) to the European Investment Fund. Other Obligations NRW.BANK has other obligations pursuant to Article 1 Section 3 sentence 1 of the Bank Redefining Act of July 2, 2002. 108 Financial Report 2014 In addition to its capital contribution of € 55.0 million, NRW.BANK is liable for Investitionsbank des Landes Brandenburg (ILB) in the amount of an additional € 110.0 million. Deposit Insurance The state bank of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia became the development bank for North Rhine-Westphalia and was renamed NRW.BANK pursuant to the “Act on the Reorganisation of the State Bank of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia into the Development Bank of North Rhine-Westphalia and on the Amendment of Other Laws” (Gesetz zur Umstrukturierung der Landesbank Nordrhein-Westfalen zur Förderbank des Landes Nordrhein-Westfalen und zur Änderung anderer Gesetze). Owing to these developments, as of January 1, 2005 NRW.BANK was made a member of the compensation scheme of the Association of German Public Sector Banks in Berlin (VÖB Entschädigungseinrichtung) by order of the Federal Financial Supervisory Authority (BaFin). Derivative Transactions As of December 31, 2014, the total nominal value of derivative transactions was € 186,102 million (2013: € 186,781 million). Derivative transactions are mostly used as hedges against fluctuations in interest rates, exchange rates and market prices and almost entirely relate to the banking book. Market values Market values Banking book Nominal values positive negative Dec. 31, 2013 Dec. 31, 2014 Dec. 31, 2014 Dec. 31, 2014 € millions € millions € millions € millions Interest rate derivatives Interest rate swaps 140,036 135,960 9,329 –13,519 Interest rate options – bought (long) 4,378 5,198 102 0 – written (short) 5,228 5,749 0 –53 Stock market contracts – bought (long) 17 0 0 0 – written (short) 35 10 0 0 Other interest rate forwards 275 466 3 –54 Total interest rate derivatives 149,969 147,383 9,434 –13,626 Currency derivatives Foreign exchange forwards, swaps 7,362 8,052 311 –22 Currency swaps/ interest rate currency swaps 11,974 15,083 980 –1,308 Total currency derivatives 19,336 23,135 1,291 –1,330 Credit derivatives – bought (long) 899 619 8 –21 – written (short) 14,690 14,918 90 –95 Total credit derivatives 15,589 15,537 98 –116 Total banking book 184,894 186,055 10,823 –15,072 Financial Report 2014 109 Notes Market values Market values Trading book Nominal values positive negative Dec. 31, 2013 Dec. 31, 2014 Dec. 31, 2014 Dec. 31, 2014 € millions € millions € millions € millions Interest rate derivatives Interest rate swaps 352 32 0 0 Stock market contracts – bought (long) 725 15 0 0 – written (short) 810 0 0 0 Total interest rate derivatives 1,887 47 0 0 Total currency derivatives – – – – Total credit derivatives – – – – Total trading book 1,887 47 0 0 Market values Market values Banking book and trading book Nominal values positive negative Dec. 31, 2013 Dec. 31, 2014 Dec. 31, 2014 Dec. 31, 2014 € millions € millions € millions € millions Total interest rate derivatives 151,856 147,430 9,434 –13,626 Total currency derivatives 19,336 23,135 1,291 –1,330 Total credit derivatives 15,589 15,537 98 –116 Total banking book and trading book 186,781 186,102 10,823 –15,072 The presentation of derivative transactions also reflects embedded derivative instruments that have to be separated of a nominal value of € 6,556 million (2013: € 5,739 million) of which € 490 million (2013: € 603 million) relates to credit derivatives. The item also includes interest rate derivatives from a hedge relationship as defined in Section 254 HGB with a nominal volume of € 90 million (2013: € 442 million) with positive market values of € 0 million (2013: € 1 million) and with negative market values of € –7 million (2013: € –10 million). The average nominal value of the derivative transactions and other forward transactions entered into by NRW.BANK for the period from January 1, 2014 to December 31, 2014 was € 192,663 million (2013: € 202,070 million). The market values of the derivative transactions are shown without accrued interest. To the extent available, stock exchange or market prices are used for valuing the derivative financial instruments. If stock exchange or market values are not available or cannot be reliably determined, the fair value is determined on the basis of standard pricing models or discounted cash flows. Option premiums paid/received are shown under other assets and other liabilities; prepaid swap fees and swap fees received in advance are included in the respective deferred item. 110 Financial Report 2014 The breakdown of derivative transactions by counterparty is as follows: Market values Market values Banking book Nominal values positive negative Dec. 31, 2013 Dec. 31, 2014 Dec. 31, 2014 Dec. 31, 2014 € millions € millions € millions € millions OECD banks 170,698 166,878 9,266 –12,553 OECD public-sector entities 11,554 9,696 1,356 –2,038 Other counterparties 2,642 9,481 201 –481 Total banking book 184,894 186,055 10,823 –15,072 Market values Market values Trading book Nominal values positive negative Dec. 31, 2013 Dec. 31, 2014 Dec. 31, 2014 Dec. 31, 2014 € millions € millions € millions € millions OECD banks 398 43 0 0 Other counterparties 1,489 4 0 0 Total trading book 1,887 47 0 0 Market values Market values Banking book and trading book Nominal values positive negative Dec. 31, 2013 Dec. 31, 2014 Dec. 31, 2014 Dec. 31, 2014 € millions € millions € millions € millions Total banking book and trading book 186,781 186,102 10,823 –15,072 Interest rate derivatives that are not assigned to the trading book are used as microhedges for specific transactions or as macrohedges for overall exposure, exclusively in the Bank’s proprietary business. Their result is recognised in net interest income. The interest rate contracts are spread across the entire spectrum of maturities, with approx. 48% (2013: 46%) of the interest rate contracts having a remaining time to maturity of more than five years. Financial Report 2014 111 Notes Banking book Interest rate derivatives Currency derivatives Credit derivatives Dec. 31, 2013 Dec. 31, 2014 Dec. 31, 2013 Dec. 31, 2014 Dec. 31, 2013 Dec. 31, 2014 € millions € millions € millions € millions € millions € millions Residual maturity – up to 3 months 6,389 6,647 7,513 7,929 285 532 – more than 3 months to 1 year 13,964 16,623 1,998 3,082 676 890 – more than 1 to 5 years 60,476 53,650 7,452 9,992 12,936 12,748 – more than 5 years 69,140 70,463 2,373 2,132 1,692 1,367 Total banking book 149,969 147,383 19,336 23,135 15,589 15,537 Trading book Interest rate derivatives Currency derivatives Credit derivatives Dec. 31, 2013 Dec. 31, 2014 Dec. 31, 2013 Dec. 31, 2014 Dec. 31, 2013 Dec. 31, 2014 € millions € millions € millions € millions € millions € millions Residual maturity – up to 3 months 274 26 – – – – – more than 3 months to 1 year 888 – – – – – – more than 1 to 5 years 725 – – – – – – more than 5 years 0 21 – – – – Total trading book 1,887 47 – – – – Banking book and trading book Interest rate derivatives Currency derivatives Credit derivatives Dec. 31, 2013 Dec. 31, 2014 Dec. 31, 2013 Dec. 31, 2014 Dec. 31, 2013 Dec. 31, 2014 € millions € millions € millions € millions € millions € millions Total banking book and trading book 151,856 147,430 19,336 23,135 15,589 15,537 112 Financial Report 2014 Number of Employees 2014 2013 Active employees as at Dec. 31, 2014* Women Men Total Women Men Total Full-time employees 377 562 939 377 559 936 Part-time employees 265 29 294 240 25 265 Apprentices and trainees 18 32 50 25 30 55 Total 660 623 1,283 642 614 1,256 Thereof Former “dual contract” holders of Portigon AG outside of the approved headcount 1 0 1 0 0 0 In addition Employees under limited employment contracts 36 30 66 41 31 72 Employees employed outside of NRW.BANK (leave, secondments, employee assignments) 3 5 8 2 4 6 *Excl. employees on parental leave. NRW.BANK employed 715 female employees (2013: 704) and 624 male employees (2013: 620) – employees under unlimited and limited contracts, employees on parental leave and similar but excluding apprentices as well as interns – on an annual average. Managing Board Remuneration Non-performance-linked and performance-linked components of the Managing Board remuneration paid in 2014 and 2013: RemunePerformance-linked Total ration for Non-performance-linked remuneration variable remuneration2) remuneration mandates3) Fixed remuneration Other remuneration In € thsd. 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 Dietmar P. Binkowska (until June 30, 2014)1) 369.7 703.5 2,694.8 36.2 117.4 83.7 3,181.9 823.4 106.9 Klaus Neuhaus 566.3 476.0 28.6 28.9 92.4 66.0 687.3 570.9 2.9 Michael Stölting 465.0 465.0 37.1 42.4 92.4 66.0 594.5 573.4 56.0 Dietrich Suhlrie 477.8 468.7 13.5 15.8 92.4 66.0 583.7 550.5 0.0 Total Managing Board 1,878.8 2,113.2 2,774.0 123.3 394.6 281.7 5,047.4 2,518.2 165.8 1)  ther remuneration incl. compensation payments. O 2) The two years are not fully comparable, as the amount for 2014 includes parts of the bonuses for the years 2011 to 2013, while the amount for 2013 includes parts of the bonuses for the years 2011 and 2012. 3) Amounts incl. VAT. Financial Report 2014 113 Notes Breakdown of the variable Managing Board remuneration granted in 2014 into components paid-out immediately and components retained over several years: Variable remuneration Reduction pursuant for the year 2013, Thereof paid out to Section 20 para. 5 In € thsd. granted in 2014 Thereof retained in 2014 InstitutsVergV Dietmar P. Binkowska 168.0 134.4 33.6 0 Klaus Neuhaus 132.0 105.6 26.4 0 Michael Stölting 132.0 105.6 26.4 0 Dietrich Suhlrie 132.0 105.6 26.4 0 Total Managing Board 564.0 451.2 112.8 0 Commitments in case of premature or regular termination of the Managing Board activity: In case of a premature resignation not attributable to an extraordinary termination for serious cause, the Managing Board members will receive the agreed remuneration until the end of their contractual term. Thereafter, they receive an early pension based on the pension that would be paid in case of invalidity until they reach the age of retirement. The members of the Managing Board are entitled to pension benefits as they reach the age of retirement or in case of invalidity. In the event of their death their dependants are also entitled to benefits. All commitments are contractually unforfeitable or unforfeitable by law because of the number of years served. As a result of their previous employments, Mr Neuhaus and Mr Stölting have entitlements to civil-service-type pensions taking into account entitlements from the public pension scheme as well as entitlements under a pension enhancement policy. Mr Suhlrie benefits from a contribution-linked pension commitment. In the context of this pension commitment, a personal pension account with a starting component has been set up for him, into which annual pension components are paid. In the fiscal year 2014, there were no changes in the commitments for old-age/invalidity and dependants’ pension for the Managing Board members of NRW.BANK. 114 Financial Report 2014 Expenses and present values of the benefits promised to the Managing Board members in case of regular termination of their activity: Expenses 1) Present value of the obligation In € thsd. 2014 2013 2014 2013 Dietmar P. Binkowska2) 313.9 627.9 0.0 2,990.4 Klaus Neuhaus 1,292.3 297.7 5,761.2 4,468.9 Michael Stölting 293.1 243.1 2,727.7 2,434.5 Dietrich Suhlrie 261.7 213.6 973.5 711.8 Total Managing Board 2,161.0 1,382.3 9,462.4 10,605.6 1) The expenses shown here comprise personnel and interest expenses. In the fiscal year 2014 in particular, they comprise the portion of the interest expenses that results from the change in the interest rate used for calculation (reduced from 4.89% on December 31, 2013 to 4.58% on December 31, 2014). 2) This is equivalent to the pro-rated expenses during the active service life until June 30, 2014; the present value for the year 2014 is shown in full under the present value for resigned Managing Board members. Payments to retired and resigned Managing Board members and present values of their retirement benefits: Payments Present value of the obligation 1) In € thsd. 2014 2013 2014 2013 Former Managing Board members 554.5 527.4 18,907.8 11,205.9 1) T  o ensure better comparison, the present value of the obligation towards Mr Binkowska is shown for the full year 2014 and not only on a pro-rated basis from July 1, 2014. Remuneration of the Members of the Supervisory Board and its Committees, the Board of Guarantors as well as the Advisory Board The tables below show the remuneration of the members of the Supervisory Board and its committees, the Board of Guarantors as well as the Advisory Board in itemised form. The remuneration of the members of the Supervisory Board varies depending on their committee membership. Financial Report 2014 115 Notes Disclosure of the Remuneration Paid to Members of the Supervisory Board and Its Committees Total Total remuneration remuneration € € Members Pursuant to Section 12 Para. 1 Permanent Representatives Letters a to c of the Statutes Pursuant to Section 12 Para. 2 of the Statutes Garrelt Duin 31,700 Wulf Noll 24,500 Minister for Economic Affairs, Assistant Secretary Energy and Industry Ministry of Economic Affairs, of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Energy and Industry of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Michael Groschek 18,700 Annett Fischer 12,400 Minister for Building, Housing, Assistant Secretary City Development and Transport Ministry for Building, Housing, of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia City Development and Transport of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Dr. Norbert Walter-Borjans 28,700 Gerhard Heilgenberg 24,500 Minister of Finance Assistant Secretary of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Ministry of Finance of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Members Pursuant to Section 12 Para. 1 Members Pursuant to Section 12 Para. 1 Letter d of the Statutes Letter e of the Statutes Horst Becker, MdL 6,200 Martin Bösenberg 18,600 Parliamentary State Secretary Staff representative Ministry for Climate Protection, Environment, NRW.BANK Agriculture, Conservation and Consumer Affairs Münster of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Lutz Lienenkämper, MdL 20,900 Matthias Elzinga 17,050 Parliamentary State Secretary Staff representative of the CDU Parliamentary Group NRW.BANK State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia Münster Johannes Remmel 18,300 Frank Lill 17,350 Minister for Climate Protection, Environment, Staff representative Agriculture, Conservation and Consumer Affairs NRW.BANK of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Düsseldorf Norbert Römer, MdL 18,600 Thomas Stausberg 22,233 Chairman Director of the SPD Parliamentary Group NRW.BANK State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia Düsseldorf Svenja Schulze, MdL 17,100 Minister for Innovation, Science and Research of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia 1. On the basis of the rules adopted by the Board of Guarantors, turnover tax and travel expenses are refunded by the Bank upon request. 2. The labour remuneration for members who join or leave the Supervisory Board or its Committees during the year is paid on a pro-rata temporis basis for each calendar month. 3. Potential duties of payment of the mandate holders and/or payments made are not taken into account. 116 Financial Report 2014 Disclosure of the Remuneration Paid to Members of the Board of Guarantors Total Total remuneration remuneration € € Members Pursuant to Section 8 Para. 1 Members Pursuant to Section 8 Para. 1 Letters a to c of the Statutes Letter d of the Statutes Garrelt Duin 5,300 Sylvia Löhrmann 5,000 Minister for Economic Affairs, Minister for School and Further Education Energy and Industry of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Michael Groschek 5,000 Dr. Rüdiger Messal 5,600 Minister for Building, Housing, State Secretary City Development and Transport Ministry of Finance of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Dr. Norbert Walter-Borjans 5,300 Dr. Wilhelm D. Schäffer 5,600 Minister of Finance State Secretary of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Ministry of Work, Social Integration and Welfare of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Members Pursuant to Section 8 Para. 1 Permanent guests Letter d of the Statutes Helmut Dockter (until September 30, 2014) 4,050 Martin Bösenberg 600 State Secretary Staff representative Ministry of Innovation, Science and Research NRW.BANK of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Münster Dr. Günther Horzetzky 5,300 Frank Lill 600 State Secretary Staff representative Ministry of Economic Affairs, NRW.BANK Energy and Industry Düsseldorf of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Peter Knitsch 5,300 State Secretary Ministry for Climate Protection, Environment, Agriculture, Conservation and Consumer Affairs of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Thomas Kutschaty, MdL 5,600 Minister of Justice of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Franz-Josef Lersch-Mense 5,000 State Secretary Head of the State Chancellery of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia 1. On the basis of the rules adopted by the Board of Guarantors, turnover tax and travel expenses are refunded by the Bank upon request. 2. The labour remuneration for members who join or leave the Board of Guarantors during the year is paid on a pro-rata temporis basis for each calendar month. 3. Potential duties of payment of the mandate holders and/or payments made are not taken into account. Financial Report 2014 117 Notes Disclosure of the Remuneration Paid to Members of the Advisory Board of NRW.BANK Total Total remuneration remuneration € € Members pursuant to Section 26 of the Statutes Members pursuant to Section 26 of the Statutes Garrelt Duin 2,300 Prof. Dr. Reinhard Klenke 2,300 Minister for Economic Affairs, District President Energy and Industry Münster Regional Government of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Michael Ackermann 2,000 Norbert Kleyboldt 2,300 Managing Director Permanent Delegate Klinikum Bielefeld gem. GmbH Apostolic Administrator of Bischöfliches Generalvikariat Münster Prof. Dr. Achim Bachem (until June 30, 2014) 1,300 Dr. Thomas A. Lange 2,300 Chairman of the Managing Board Chairman of the Managing Board Forschungszentrum Jülich GmbH Bankenvereinigung Nordrhein-Westfalen e. V. Frank Baranowski 2,000 Markus Lewe 2,300 Lord Mayor Lord Mayor City of Gelsenkirchen City of Münster Paul Bauwens-Adenauer (until November 4, 2014) 0 Matthias Löb (since July 1, 2014) 1,000 President Director of LWL Chamber of Industry and Commerce Regional Association of Westphalia-Lippe in North Rhine-Westphalia Prof. Dr. Gerd Bollermann 2,300 Ulrike Lubek 2,000 District President Director of LVR Arnsberg Regional Government Regional Association of the Rhineland Michael Breuer 2,000 Wolfgang Lubert 2,300 President Managing Director Savings Banks and Giro Association of the Rhineland EnjoyVenture Management GmbH Norbert Bude (until June 30, 2014) 1,300 Anne Lütkes 2,000 Lord Mayor District President Chairman Düsseldorf Regional Government Städtetag Nordrhein-Westfalen Heinrich Otto Deichmann 2,000 Prof. Dr.-Ing. Wolfgang Marquardt 500 Chairman of the Supervisory Board (since October 1, 2014) Deichmann SE Chairman of the Executive Board Forschungszentrum Jülich GmbH Andreas Ehlert (since July 1, 2014) 1,000 Andreas Meyer-Lauber 2,300 President District Chairman Düsseldorf Chamber of Handicrafts Deutscher Gewerkschaftsbund NRW Andreas Feicht 2,000 Dr. Paul-Josef Patt 2,000 Chairman Chairman of the Managing Board Verband kommunaler Unternehmen e. V. eCAPITAL entrepreneurial Partners AG – Regional Group North Rhine-Westphalia – Marcelino Fernández Verdes 2,000 Jürgen Roters 2,300 Chairman of the Executive Board Lord Mayor HOCHTIEF AG City of Cologne Dr. Reinhold Festge 2,300 Roland Schäfer 2,000 Managing Partner Mayor HAVER & BOECKER OHG President Drahtweberei und Maschinenfabrik Städteund Gemeindebund Nordrhein-Westfalen e. V. 118 Financial Report 2014 Total Total remuneration remuneration € € Members pursuant to Section 26 of the Statutes Members pursuant to Section 26 of the Statutes Heinz Fiege 2,300 Prof. Dr. Uwe Schneidewind 2,000 FIEGE Logistik Holding Stiftung & Co. KG President and Academic Managing Director Wuppertal Institut für Klima, Umwelt, Energie gGmbH Otto Rudolf Fuchs 0 Dr. Ottilie Scholz 2,000 Shareholder Lord Mayor Otto Fuchs KG City of Bochum Prof. Dr. Ursula Gather 2,300 Prof. Wolfgang Schulhoff (until February 17, 2014) 333 Chairwoman President of the Directors Conference Düsseldorf Chamber of Handicrafts of the Universities in North Rhine-Westphalia Dieter Gebhard 2,300 Dr. Jochen Stemplewski 2,000 Chairman Chairman of the Managing Board Regional Assembly of Westphalia-Lippe EMSCHERGENOSSENSCHAFT und LIPPEVERBAND Dr. Rolf Gerlach 2,300 Peter Terium 2,300 President Chairman of the Managing Board Savings Banks and Giro Association RWE AG of Westphalia-Lippe Dr. Axel Claus Heitmann (until February 28, 2014) 333 Marianne Thomann-Stahl 2,300 Chairman of the Managing Board District President LANXESS AG Detmold Regional Government Thomas Hendele 2,000 Reza Vaziri 2,300 District Administrator Chairman of the Executive Board President 3M Deutschland GmbH Landkreistag Nordrhein-Westfalen e. V. Thomas Hunsteger-Petermann 2,300 Hans-Josef Vogel 2,300 Lord Mayor Mayor City of Hamm City of Arnsberg Peter Jung (since July 1, 2014) 1,000 Gisela Walsken 2,300 Lord Mayor District President Chairman Cologne Regional Government Städtetag Nordrhein-Westfalen Arndt G. Kirchhoff 2,000 Prof. Dr. Jürgen Wilhelm 2,300 Managing Partner & CEO Chairman KIRCHHOFF Holding GmbH & Co. KG Regional Assembly of the Rhineland Dr. Wolfgang Kirsch (until June 30, 2014) 1,300 Klaus Winterhoff 2,300 Director of LWL Legal Vice President Regional Association Evangelical Church of Westphalia of Westphalia-Lippe Dipl.-Ing. Hanspeter Klein 2,300 Hans-Bernd Wolberg 2,300 Chairman of the Managing Board Chairman of the Managing Board Verband Freier Berufe WGZ BANK AG im Lande Nordrhein-Westfalen e. V. Westdeutsche Genossenschafts-Zentralbank Matthias Zachert (since June 1, 2014) 1,167 Chairman of the Managing Board LANXESS AG 1. On the basis of the rules adopted by the Board of Guarantors, turnover tax and travel expenses are refunded by the Bank upon request. 2. The labour remuneration for members who join or leave the Advisory Board during the year is paid on a pro-rata temporis basis for each calendar month. 3. Potential duties of payment of the mandate holders and/or payments made are not taken into account. Financial Report 2014 119 Notes Disclosure of the Remuneration Paid to Members of the Parliamentary Advisory Council of NRW.BANK Total Total remuneration remuneration € € Members Pursuant to Section 27 of the Statutes Members Pursuant to Section 27 of the Statutes Elisabeth Müller-Witt, MdL 375 Christian Möbius, MdL 375 Member of the SPD Parliamentary Group Member of the CDU Parliamentary Group State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia Mehrdad Mostofizadeh, MdL 250 Dr. Marcus Optendrenk, MdL 250 Member of the Member of the CDU Parliamentary Group Bündnis 90/Die Grünen Parliamentary Group State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia Martin Börschel, MdL (until December 31, 2014) 125 Dietmar Schulz, MdL 0 Member of the SPD Parliamentary Group Member of the Piraten Parliamentary Group State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia Marc Herter, MdL 375 Ralf Witzel, MdL 375 Member of the SPD Parliamentary Group Member of the FDP Parliamentary Group State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia Stefan Kämmerling, MdL 125 Hendrik Wüst, MdL 250 Member of the SPD Parliamentary Group Member of the CDU Parliamentary Group State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia Gerda Kieninger, MdL 125 Gudrun Zentis, MdL 375 Member of the SPD Parliamentary Group Member of the State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia Bündnis 90/Die Grünen Parliamentary Group State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia 1. On the basis of the rules adopted by the Board of Guarantors, turnover tax and travel expenses are refunded by the Bank upon request. 2. Potential duties of payment of the mandate holders and/or payments made are not taken into account. 120 Financial Report 2014 Disclosure of the Remuneration Paid to Members of the Advisory Board for Housing Promotion of NRW.BANK Total Total remuneration remuneration € € Members Pursuant to Section 24 Para. 1 Members Pursuant to Section 24 Para. 1 Letter a of the Statutes Letter c of the Statutes Michael Groschek 3,600 Eva-Maria Voigt-Küppers, MdL 3,600 Minister for Building, Housing, Member of the SPD Parliamentary Group City Development and Transport State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Members Pursuant to Section 24 Para. 1 Klaus Voussem, MdL 3,600 Letter b of the Statutes Member of the CDU Parliamentary Group State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia Günther Bongartz 3,600 Olaf Wegner, MdL 3,600 Senior Principal Member of the Piraten Parliamentary Group Ministry of Finance State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Dr. Michael Henze 3,600 Members Pursuant to Section 24 Para. 1 Assistant Secretary Letter d of the Statutes Ministry of Economic Affairs, Energy and Industry of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Hans Lauf 3,600 Ingo Apel 3,600 Assistant Secretary Vice President Ministry of Work, Social Integration and Welfare Haus & Grund NRW e. V. of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Members Pursuant to Section 24 Para. 1 Dr. Werner Küpper 3,600 Letter c of the Statutes BFW Landesverband Nordrhein-Westfalen e. V. Martin Börschel, MdL 3,300 Alexander Rychter 3,600 Member of the SPD Parliamentary Group Association Director State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia Verband der Wohnungswirtschaft Rheinland Westfalen e. V. Holger Ellerbrock, MdL 3,600 Members Pursuant to Section 24 Para. 1 Member of the FDP Parliamentary Group Letter e of the Statutes State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia Dieter Hilser, MdL 3,600 Rudolf Graaff 3,300 Member of the SPD Parliamentary Group Deputy Mayor State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia Städteund Gemeindebund Nordrhein-Westfalen Gerda Kieninger, MdL 3,600 Thomas Hendele 3,300 Member of the SPD Parliamentary Group District Administrator State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia Kreis Mettmann Bernhard Schemmer, MdL 3,600 Stefan Raetz 3,600 Member of the CDU Parliamentary Group Mayor State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia City of Rheinbach Daniela Schneckenburger, MdL 3,300 Hilmar von Lojewski 3,300 Deputy Chairwoman Deputy Mayor of the Bündnis 90/Die Grünen Parliamentary Group for Urban Development, Construction, State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia Housing and Transport Städtetag Nordrhein-Westfalen Financial Report 2014 121 Notes Total Total remuneration remuneration € € Members Pursuant to Section 24 Para. 1 Permanent Representative of the Chairing Member Letter f of the Statutes Pursuant to Section 24 Para. 2 of the Statutes Hans-Jochem Witzke 3,600 Sigrid Koeppinghoff 3,600 1st Chairman Assistant Secretary Mieterverein Düsseldorf e. V. and Ministry for Building, Housing, Member of the Board of City Development and Transport Deutscher Mieterbund Nordrhein-Westfalen e. V. of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Members Pursuant to Section 24 Para. 1 Letter g of the Statutes Dipl.-Ing. Hartmut Miksch (until January 14, 2014) 250 President Architektenkammer Nordrhein-Westfalen Dipl.-Ing. Ernst Uhing (since January 14, 2014) 3,600 President Architektenkammer Nordrhein-Westfalen 1. On the basis of the rules adopted by the Board of Guarantors, turnover tax and travel expenses are refunded by the Bank upon request. 2. The labour remuneration for members who join or leave the Advisory Board for Housing Promotion during the year is paid on a pro-rata temporis basis for each calendar month. 3. Potential duties of payment of the mandate holders and/or payments made are not taken into account. Advances and Loans For members of the Supervisory Board of NRW.BANK loans totalling € 45 thousand (2013: € 75 thousand) exist whose interest rates range from 0% to 5.27%. Disclosure of Seats Held Pursuant to Section 340a Para. 4 No. 1 HGB Seats Held by Members of the Managing Board Seats Held by Employees Dietmar P. Binkowska (until April 30, 2014) Christiane Jansen Galeria Kaufhof GmbH Investitionsbank des Landes Brandenburg (ILB) Investitionsbank des Landes Brandenburg (ILB) (until April 30, 2014) Dr. Peter Güllmann Portigon AG (until April 10, 2014) Investitionsbank des Landes Brandenburg (ILB) Fiege Logistik (Schweiz) AG (until April 30, 2014) Klaus Neuhaus Portigon AG (since April 30, 2014) Michael Stölting Investitionsbank des Landes Brandenburg (ILB) Erste Abwicklungsanstalt Dietrich Suhlrie Investitionsbank des Landes Brandenburg (ILB) (since May 28, 2014) Fiege Logistik (Schweiz) AG (since September 12, 2014) 122 Financial Report 2014 Disclosure Pursuant to Section 26a Para. 1 Sentence 2 KWG in conjunction with Section 64r Para. 15 Sentence 1 KWG NRW.BANK has dual head offices in Düsseldorf and Münster and has no branches performing banking activities outside the Federal Republic of Germany. All figures in the financial statements as defined in Section 26a para. 1 sentence 2 KWG therefore relate exclusively to the Federal Republic of Germany. Itemised List of NRW.BANK’s Investments Pursuant to Section 285 No. 11 and 11a HGB Net Direct income/ (D)/ loss for Indirect Capital Equity the year Name and head office of the company (I) share % in € thsd. in € thsd. As at 1 Equity investments in affiliated companies 1.1 Other companies Bremer Spielcasino GmbH & Co. KG, Bremen D/I 51.00% –316 –410 Dec. 31, 2013 Casino Duisburg GmbH & Co. KG, Duisburg I 100.00% 10,000 7,104 Dec. 31, 2013 Casino Erfurt GmbH & Co. KG, Erfurt I 100.00% –755 30 Dec. 31, 2013 Life Science Inkubator Betriebs GmbH & Co. KG, Bonn I 95.00% 372 26 Dec. 31, 2013 Life Science Inkubator Sachsen GmbH & Co. KG, Dresden I 100.00% 42 –8 Dec. 31, 2013 LSI Pre-Seed-Fonds GmbH, Bonn D 65.79% 61,454 –486 Dec. 31, 2013 Neue Deutsche Spielcasino GmbH & Co. KG, Berlin I 100.00% 205 –357 Dec. 31, 2013 Nordwestlotto in Nordrhein-Westfalen GmbH, Münster D 100.00% 156 0 Dec. 31, 2013 NRW.BANK.Kreativwirtschaftsfonds Beteiligungs-GmbH, Düsseldorf D 100.00% 39 3 Dec. 31, 2013 NRW.BANK.Kreativwirtschaftsfonds GmbH & Co. KG, Düsseldorf D 100.00% 1,600 –1,015 Dec. 31, 2013 NRW.BANK.Mittelstandsfonds Beteiligungs-GmbH, Düsseldorf D 100.00% 25 0 Dec. 31, 2013 NRW.BANK.Mittelstandsfonds GmbH & Co. KG, Düsseldorf D 100.00% 54,497 –35 Dec. 31, 2013 NRW.BANK.Mittelstandsfonds Zwei GmbH & Co. KG, Düsseldorf D 100.00% Dec. 31, 2014 NRW.BANK.Seed Fonds Beteiligungs-GmbH, Düsseldorf D 100.00% 43 5 Dec. 31, 2013 NRW.BANK.Seed Fonds GmbH & Co. KG, Düsseldorf D 100.00% 9,203 –2,267 Dec. 31, 2013 NRW.BANK.Seed Fonds Zwei GmbH & Co. KG, Düsseldorf D 100.00% 1,296 –137 Dec. 31, 2013 NRW.BANK.Spezialfonds Beteiligungs-GmbH, Düsseldorf D 100.00% 29 1 Dec. 31, 2013 NRW.BANK.Spezialfonds GmbH & Co. KG, Düsseldorf D 100.00% 7,587 –36 Dec. 31, 2013 NRW.BANK.Venture Fonds Beteiligungs-GmbH, Düsseldorf D 100.00% 31 3 Dec. 31, 2013 NRW.BANK.Venture Fonds GmbH & Co. KG, Düsseldorf D 100.00% 12,247 –4,187 Dec. 31, 2013 NRW.BANK.Venture Fonds Zwei GmbH & Co. KG, Düsseldorf D 100.00% 16,820 –620 Dec. 31, 2013 Unterstützungseinrichtungs GmbH der Westdeutsche Lotterie GmbH & Co. OHG, Münster D/I 100.00% 26 0 Dec. 31, 2013 Westdeutsche Lotterie GmbH & Co. OHG, Münster D 100.00% 106,498 16,970 Dec. 31, 2013 Westdeutsche Lotto-Vertriebs GmbH, Münster I 100.00% 30 2 Dec. 31, 2013 Westdeutsche Spielbanken GmbH, Duisburg D 100.00% 26 0 Dec. 31, 2012 Westdeutsche Spielbanken GmbH & Co. KG, Duisburg D/I 100.00% 18,600 –10 Dec. 31, 2012 Westdeutsche Spielcasino Service GmbH, Duisburg D 100.00% 9,525 0 Dec. 31, 2013 Financial Report 2014 123 Notes Net Direct income/ (D)/ loss for Indirect Capital Equity the year Name and head office of the company (I) share % in € thsd. in € thsd. As at Westdeutsche Spielcasino Verwaltungs GmbH, Duisburg I 100.00% 25 1 Dec. 31, 2013 WestEvent GmbH & Co. KG, Münster D/I 100.00% 3,927 173 Dec. 31, 2013 WestSpiel Entertainment GmbH, Duisburg I 100.00% 25 0 Dec. 31, 2013 2 Other equity investments 2.1 Financial institutions Investitionsbank des Landes Brandenburg, Potsdam D 50.00% 200,282 11,674 Dec. 31, 2013 Portigon AG, Düsseldorf D 30.51% 2,195,000 –178,000 Dec. 31, 2013 2.2 Other companies abbino GmbH, Dortmund I 35.15% –2,239 –444 Mar. 31, 2011 AplaGen GmbH, Baesweiler I 26.21% –3,141 –2,015 Dec. 31, 2008 BGB Ges. Bankenkonsortium ZENIT GmbH, Mülheim D 33.40% 2,378 74 Dec. 31, 2013 CAP-CMV GmbH, Cologne I 25.64% 839 –878 Dec. 31, 2013 CellAct Pharma GmbH, Dortmund I 38.15% –399 –804 Dec. 31, 2013 CEVEC Pharmaceuticals GmbH, Cologne I 25.75% –277 –2,062 Dec. 31, 2013 DIREVO Industrial Biotechnology GmbH, Cologne I 25.86% 7,207 2,646 Dec. 31, 2013 ELS Fonds GmbH & Co. KG, Recklinghausen I 32.30% 4,520 –3,007 Dec. 31, 2013 Epivios GmbH, Bonn I 24.60% –23 –24 Dec. 31, 2013 Frimo Group GmbH, Lotte I 49.00% 62,492 11,455 Dec. 31, 2013 Gardeur Beteiligungs GmbH, Mönchengladbach I 49.00% 7,859 652 Sep. 30, 2014 Gründerfonds Bielefeld-Ostwestfalen GmbH & Co. KG, Münster I 38.42% 2,108 427 Dec. 31, 2013 Gründerfonds Münsterland GmbH & Co. KG, Münster I 37.81% 1,644 –18 Dec. 31, 2013 Kapitalbeteiligungsgesellschaft für die mittelständische Wirtschaft in NRW mbH, Neuss D 49.63% 1,553 182 Dec. 31, 2013 Langendorf GmbH, Waltrop I 37.00% 1,037 50 Sep. 30, 2014 Luxury Fashion Trade GmbH, Düsseldorf I 20.26% 2,033 –152 Dec. 31, 2013 Neuway Pharma GmbH, Bonn I 30.77% Dec. 31, 2014 NRW.International GmbH, Düsseldorf D 33.33% 24 3 Dec. 31, 2013 ODS Oddset Deutschland Sportwetten GmbH, Munich I 33.44% –2,146 –6,503 Dec. 31, 2013 Phenox GmbH, Bochum I 27.61% 4,918 244 Dec. 31, 2013 Reformhaus Bacher GmbH & Co. KG, Düsseldorf I 45.00% 1,220 –285 Dec. 31, 2012 Rheinland Venture Capital GmbH & Co. KG, Cologne I 39.92% 3,268 –200 Dec. 31, 2013 Rigontec GmbH, Siegburg I 20.51% Dec. 31, 2014 saperatec GmbH, Bielefeld I 23.49% 979 –954 Dec. 31, 2013 Schnöring GmbH, Schalksmühle I 39.00% 1,656 718 Dec. 31, 2013 Scienion AG, Dortmund I 23.50% 2,274 943 Dec. 31, 2013 Seed Capital Dortmund GmbH & Co. KG, Dortmund I 46.51% 3,439 –1,090 Dec. 31, 2013 Seed Fonds für die Region Aachen GmbH & Co. KG, Aachen I 46.95% 4,496 –460 Dec. 31, 2013 Seed Fonds II für die Region Aachen GmbH & Co. KG, Aachen I 46.14% 2,088 –703 Dec. 31, 2013 Seed Capital Dortmund II GmbH & Co. KG, Dortmund I 47.62% 1 –5 Dec. 31, 2013 Sirius Seedfonds Düsseldorf GmbH & Co. KG, Düsseldorf I 44.61% 6,781 589 Dec. 31, 2013 WINDTEST Grevenbroich GmbH, Hamburg D 25.00% 450 178 Dec. 31, 2013 NRW.BANK is a personally liable shareholder of Westdeutsche Lotterie GmbH & Co. OHG, Münster. 124 Financial Report 2014 Board of Guarantors/Supervisory Board/ Managing Board Board of Guarantors Peter Knitsch Members Pursuant to Section 8 Para. 1 State Secretary Letters a to c of the Statutes Ministry for Climate Protection, Environment, Agriculture, Conservation and Consumer Affairs Garrelt Duin of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Chairman Düsseldorf Minister for Economic Affairs, Energy and Industry of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Thomas Kutschaty, MdL Düsseldorf Minister of Justice of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Michael Groschek Düsseldorf Deputy Chairman Minister for Building, Housing, Franz-Josef Lersch-Mense City Development and Transport State Secretary of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Head of the State Chancellery Düsseldorf of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Düsseldorf Dr. Norbert Walter-Borjans Deputy Chairman Sylvia Löhrmann Minister of Finance Minister for School and Further Education of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Düsseldorf Düsseldorf Dr. Rüdiger Messal Members Appointed by the Board of Guarantors State Secretary Ministry of Finance Helmut Dockter (until September 30, 2014) of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia State Secretary Düsseldorf Ministry of Innovation, Science and Research of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Dr. Wilhelm D. Schäffer Düsseldorf State Secretary Ministry of Work, Social Integration and Welfare Dr. Günther Horzetzky of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia State Secretary Düsseldorf Ministry of Economic Affairs, Energy and Industry of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Düsseldorf Financial Report 2014 125 Notes Supervisory Board Johannes Remmel Members Pursuant to Section 12 Para. 1 Minister for Climate Protection, Environment, Letters a to c of the Statutes Agriculture, Conservation and Consumer Affairs of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Garrelt Duin Chairman Norbert Römer, MdL Minister for Economic Affairs, Energy and Industry Chairman of the SPD Parliamentary Group of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia Düsseldorf Düsseldorf Michael Groschek Svenja Schulze, MdL Deputy Chairman Minister for Innovation, Science and Research Minister for Building, Housing, of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia City Development and Transport Düsseldorf of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Düsseldorf Representatives of the Bank’s Staff Dr. Norbert Walter-Borjans Deputy Chairman Martin Bösenberg Minister of Finance Staff representative of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia NRW.BANK Düsseldorf Münster Matthias Elzinga Members Appointed by the Board of Guarantors Staff representative NRW.BANK Horst Becker, MdL Münster Parliamentary State Secretary Ministry for Climate Protection, Environment, Frank Lill Agriculture, Conservation and Consumer Affairs Staff representative of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia NRW.BANK Düsseldorf Düsseldorf Lutz Lienenkämper, MdL Thomas Stausberg Parliamentary State Secretary Director of the CDU Parliamentary Group NRW.BANK State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia Düsseldorf Düsseldorf 126 Financial Report 2014 Permanent Representatives of the Members Pursuant Vorstand to Section 12 Para. 1 Letters a to c of the Statutes Dietmar P. Binkowska (until April 30, 2014) Wulf Noll Chairman of the Managing Board Assistant Secretary Ministry of Economic Affairs, Energy and Industry Klaus Neuhaus of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Member of the Managing Board Düsseldorf Chairman of the Managing Board (since May 1, 2014) Annett Fischer Michael Stölting Assistant Secretary Member of the Managing Board Ministry for Building, Housing, City Development and Transport Dietrich Suhlrie of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Member of the Managing Board Düsseldorf Gerhard Heilgenberg Düsseldorf/Münster, February 11, 2015 Assistant Secretary Ministry of Finance of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia NRW.BANK Düsseldorf The Managing Board Neuhaus, Stölting, Suhlrie Financial Report 2014 127 Cash Flow Statement Cash Flow Statement of NRW.BANK as of December 31, 2014 The cash flow statement shows the changes in cash and cash equivalents and the cash flows of NRW.BANK, divided into operating activities, investing activities and financing activities. The cash and cash equivalents shown include the balance sheet items “cash” and “debt instruments issued by public institutions and bills of exchange eligible for refinancing with central banks.” Cash flows are allocated to operating activities as operating income accrues. The cash flow from investing activities results primarily from cash received and cash used in connection with selling or acquiring financial and tangible assets. The change in cash from financing activities captures the relationships to equity capital providers. The statement was prepared in accordance with German Accounting Standard No. 21 (DRS 21). 2014 € millions 1. Net income 15.7 2. Depreciation, write-downs/write-ups of receivables and fixed assets 134.9 3. Changes in provisions 115.6 4. Changes in other non-cash items 225.2 5. Gain/loss on the sale of fixed assets –205.3 6. Other adjustments (balance) 0.0 7. Increase/decrease in receivables from banks 360.4 8. Increase/decrease in receivables from customers 343.0 9. Increase/decrease in securities (with the exception of financial assets) 449.4 10. Increase/decrease in other assets from operating activities –64.3 11. Increase/decrease in liabilities to banks –898.4 12. Increase/decrease in liabilities to customers –1,175.8 13. Increase/decrease in certificated liabilities 95.4 14. Increase/decrease in other liabilities from operating activities –377.2 15. Interest expenses/income –465.0 16. Expenses for/income from extraordinary items 0.0 17. Income tax expenses/income 6.5 18. Interest and dividends received 5,713.5 19. Interest paid –4,950.0 20. Extraordinary cash received 0.0 21. Extraordinary cash disbursed 0.0 22. Income tax payments –7.8 23. Cash flow from operating activities –684.2 128 Financial Report 2014 2014 € millions 24. Cash from the disposal of financial assets 594.4 25. Disbursements for investments in financial assets –34.8 26. Cash from the disposal of tangible assets 0.1 27. Disbursements for investments in tangible assets –7.1 28. Cash from the disposal of intangible assets 0.0 29. Disbursements for investments in intangible assets –0.3 30. Changes in cash from other investing activities (balance) 0.0 31. Cash flow from investing activities 552.3 32. Cash from allocations to equity capital 49.2 33. Disbursements from equity reductions  0.0 34. Dividends paid to shareholders –16.7 35. Cash changes from other capital (balance) –186.3 36. Cash flow from financing activities –153.8 37. Net change in cash and cash equivalents –285.7 38. Other changes in cash and cash equivalents 0.0 39. Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the period 631.5 40. Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the period 345.8 Financial Report 2014 129 Statement of Changes in Equity Statement of Changes in Equity of NRW.BANK as of December 31, 2014 Subscribed Capital Reserves from Profit for Capital Reserves Retained Earnings the Year Total Reserves Other Required Reserves by from NRW.BANK’s Retained Statutes Earnings € millions € millions € millions € millions € millions € millions As of Dec. 31, 2012 17,000.0 537.4 36.1 219.6 0.0 17,793.1 Compensation payments of the federal government for new promotion measures 90.3 90.3 Net income 16.7 16.7 Designated payout due to legal requirements –16.7 –16.7 As of Dec. 31, 2013 17,000.0 627.7 36.1 219.6 0.0 17,883.4 Compensation payments of the federal government for new promotion measures 49.2 49.2 Net income 15.7 15.7 Designated payout due to legal requirements –15.7 –15.7 As of Dec. 31, 2014 17,000.0 676.9 36.1 219.6 0.0 17,932.6 130 Financial Report 2014 Reproduction of the Auditor’s Report Reproduction of the Auditor’s Report We have issued the following unqualified Auditor’s Our audit has not led to any reservations. Report: In our opinion, based on the findings of our audit, the “Auditor’s Report annual financial statements comply with the legal ­requirements (and supplementary provisions of the We have audited the annual financial statements, comarticles of incorporation and give a true and fair view prising the balance sheet, the income statement, the of the net assets, financial position and results of notes to the financial statements, the cash flow stateoperations of the NRW.BANK in accordance with ment and the statement of changes in equity, together German principles of proper accounting. The managewith the bookkeeping system, and the management ment report is consistent with the annual financial report of the NRW.BANK, Düsseldorf and Münster, statements and as a whole provides a suitable view for the business year from 1 January to 31 December of the NRW.BANK’s position and suitably presents the 2014. The maintenance of the books and records and opportunities and risks of future development.” the preparation of the annual financial statements and management report in accordance with German commercial law and supplementary provisions of the Düsseldorf, February 20, 2015 articles of incorporation are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the annual financial statements, KPMG AG together with the bookkeeping system, and the Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft management report based on our audit. We conducted our audit of the annual financial stateBormann Schulz ments in accordance with § 317 HGB [“Handels­ Wirtschaftsprüfer Wirtschaftsprüfer gesetzbuch”: “German Commercial Code”] and German (German Public Auditor) (German Public Auditor) generally accepted standards for the audit of financial statements promulgated by the Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer [Institute of Public Auditors in Germany] (IDW). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit such that misstatements materially affecting the presentation of the net assets, financial position and results of operations in the annual financial statements in accordance with German principles of proper accounting and in the management report are detected with reasonable assurance. Knowledge of the business activities and the economic and legal environment of the NRW.BANK and expectations as to possible misstatements are taken into account in the deter­ mination of audit procedures. The effectiveness of the accounting-related internal control system and the evidence supporting the disclosures in the books and records, the annual financial statements and the management report are examined primarily on a test basis within the framework of the audit. The audit ­includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the annual financial statements and management report. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. Financial Report 2014 131 Responsibility Statement Responsibility Statement To the best of our knowledge, and in accordance with the applicable reporting principles, the financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of NRW.BANK, and the management report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of NRW.BANK, together with a description of the principal opportunities and risks associated with the expected development of NRW.BANK. Düsseldorf/Münster, February 11, 2015 NRW.BANK The Managing Board Klaus Neuhaus Michael Stölting Dietrich Suhlrie Chairman of the Managing Board Member of the Managing Board Member of the Managing Board 132 Financial Report 2014 Members of the Advisory Board for Housing Promotion Members of the Advisory Board for Housing Promotion Members Pursuant to Section 24 Para. 1 Gerda Kieninger, MdL Letter a of the Statute Member of the SPD Parliamentary Group State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia Michael Groschek Düsseldorf Chairman Minister for Building, Housing, Bernhard Schemmer, MdL City Development and Transport Member of the CDU Parliamentary Group of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia Düsseldorf Düsseldorf Members Pursuant to Section 24 Para. 1 Daniela Schneckenburger, MdL Letter b of the Statute Deputy Chairwoman of the Bündnis 90/Die Grünen Parliamentary Group Günther Bongartz State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia Senior Principal Düsseldorf Ministry of Finance of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Eva-Maria Voigt-Küppers, MdL Düsseldorf Member of the SPD Parliamentary Group State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia Dr. Michael Henze Düsseldorf Assistant Secretary Ministry of Economic Affairs, Klaus Voussem, MdL Energy and Industry Member of the CDU Parliamentary Group of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia Düsseldorf Düsseldorf Hans Lauf Olaf Wegner, MdL Assistant Secretary Member of the Piraten Parliamentary Group Ministry of Work, Social Integration and Welfare State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Düsseldorf Düsseldorf Members Pursuant to Section 24 Para. 1 Members Pursuant to Section 24 Para. 1 Letter d of the Statute Letter c of the Statute Ingo Apel Martin Börschel, MdL Vice President Member of the SPD Parliamentary Group Haus & Grund NRW e. V. State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia Düsseldorf Düsseldorf Dr. Werner Küpper Holger Ellerbrock, MdL BFW Landesverband Nordrhein-Westfalen e. V. Member of the FDP Parliamentary Group Bonn State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia Düsseldorf Alexander Rychter Association Director Dieter Hilser, MdL Verband der Wohnungswirtschaft Member of the SPD Parliamentary Group Rheinland Westfalen e. V. State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia Düsseldorf Düsseldorf Financial Report 2014 133 Members of the Advisory Board for Housing Promotion Members Pursuant to Section 24 Para. 1 Permanent Representatives of the Chairing Member Letter e of the Statute Pursuant to Section 24 Para. 2 of the Statute Rudolf Graaff Sigrid Koeppinghoff Deputy Mayor Assistant Secretary Städteund Gemeindebund Ministry for Building, Housing, Nordrhein-Westfalen City Development and Transport Düsseldorf of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Düsseldorf Thomas Hendele District Administrator Kreis Mettmann Mettmann Stefan Raetz Mayor City of Rheinbach Rheinbach Hilmar von Lojewski Deputy Mayor for Urban Development, Construction, Housing and Transport Städtetag Nordrhein-Westfalen Cologne Members Pursuant to Section 24 Para. 1 Letter f of the Statute Hans-Jochem Witzke 1st Chairman Mieterverein Düsseldorf e. V. and Member of the Board of Deutscher Mieterbund Nordrhein-Westfalen e. V. Düsseldorf Members Pursuant to Section 24 Para. 1 Letter g of the Statute Dipl.-Ing. Hartmut Miksch (until January 14, 2014) President Architektenkammer Nordrhein-Westfalen Düsseldorf Dipl.-Ing. Ernst Uhing (since January 14, 2014) President Architektenkammer Nordrhein-Westfalen Düsseldorf 134 Financial Report 2014 Members of the Parliamentary Advisory Board Members of the Parliamentary Advisory Board Members Pursuant to Section 27 of the Statute Ralf Witzel, MdL Member of the FDP Parliamentary Group Elisabeth Müller-Witt, MdL State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia Chairwoman Düsseldorf Member of the SPD Parliamentary Group State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia Hendrik Wüst, MdL Düsseldorf Member of the CDU Parliamentary Group State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia Mehrdad Mostofizadeh, MdL Düsseldorf Deputy Chairman Member of the Gudrun Zentis, MdL Bündnis 90/Die Grünen Parliamentary Group Member of the State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia Bündnis 90/Die Grünen Parliamentary Group Düsseldorf State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia Düsseldorf Martin Börschel, MdL (until December 31, 2014) Member of the SPD Parliamentary Group State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia Düsseldorf Marc Herter, MdL Member of the SPD Parliamentary Group State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia Düsseldorf Stefan Kämmerling, MdL Member of the SPD Parliamentary Group State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia Düsseldorf Gerda Kieninger, MdL Member of the SPD Parliamentary Group State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia Düsseldorf Christian Möbius, MdL Member of the CDU Parliamentary Group State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia Düsseldorf Dr. Marcus Optendrenk, MdL Member of the CDU Parliamentary Group State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia Düsseldorf Dietmar Schulz, MdL Member of the Piraten Parliamentary Group State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia Düsseldorf Financial Report 2014 135 Members of the Advisory Board Members of the Advisory Board Members Pursuant to Section 26 of the Statute Norbert Bude (until June 30, 2014) Lord Mayor and Garrelt Duin Chairman Chairman Städtetag Nordrhein-Westfalen Minister for Economic Affairs, Düsseldorf Energy and Industry of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Heinrich Otto Deichmann Düsseldorf Chairman of the Supervisory Board Deichmann SE Michael Ackermann Essen Managing Director Klinikum Bielefeld gem. GmbH Andreas Ehlert (since July 1, 2014) Bielefeld President Düsseldorf Chamber of Handicrafts Prof. Dr. Achim Bachem (until June 30, 2014) Düsseldorf Chairman of the Managing Board Forschungszentrum Jülich GmbH Andreas Feicht Jülich Chairman Verband kommunaler Unternehmen e. V. Frank Baranowski – Regional Group North Rhine-Westphalia – Lord Mayor Cologne City of Gelsenkirchen Gelsenkirchen Marcelino Fernández Verdes Chairman of the Executive Board Paul Bauwens-Adenauer (until November 4, 2014) HOCHTIEF AG President Essen Chamber of Industry and Commerce in North Rhine-Westphalia Dr. Reinhold Festge Düsseldorf Managing Partner HAVER & BOECKER OHG Prof. Dr. Gerd Bollermann Drahtweberei und Maschinenfabrik District President Oelde Arnsberg Regional Government Arnsberg Heinz Fiege FIEGE Logistik Holding Stiftung & Co. KG Michael Breuer Greven President Savings Banks and Giro Association of the Rhineland Düsseldorf 136 Financial Report 2014 Otto Rudolf Fuchs Peter Jung (since July 1, 2014) Shareholder Lord Mayor and Otto Fuchs KG Chairman Meinerzhagen Städtetag Nordrhein-Westfalen Düsseldorf Prof. Dr. Ursula Gather Chairwoman Arndt G. Kirchhoff Directors Conference Managing Partner of the Universities in North Rhine-Westphalia KIRCHHOFF Holding GmbH & Co. KG Dortmund Iserlohn Dieter Gebhard Dr. Wolfgang Kirsch (until June 30, 2014) Chairman Director of LWL Regional Assembly of Westphalia-Lippe Regional Association of Westphalia-Lippe Münster Münster Dr. Rolf Gerlach Dipl.-Ing. Hanspeter Klein President Chairman of the Managing Board Savings Banks and Giro Association Verband Freier Berufe of Westphalia-Lippe im Lande Nordrhein-Westfalen e. V. Münster Düsseldorf Dr. Axel Claus Heitmann (until February 28, 2014) Prof. Dr. Reinhard Klenke Chairman of the Managing Board District President LANXESS AG Münster Regional Government Leverkusen Münster Thomas Hendele Norbert Kleyboldt District Administrator and Permanent Delegate President Apostolic Administrator Landkreistag Nordrhein-Westfalen e. V. of Bischöfliches Generalvikariat Düsseldorf Münster Thomas Hunsteger-Petermann Dr. Thomas Lange Lord Mayor Chairman of the Managing Board City of Hamm Bankenvereinigung Nordrhein-Westfalen e. V. Hamm Düsseldorf Financial Report 2014 137 Members of the Advisory Board Markus Lewe Jürgen Roters Lord Mayor Lord Mayor City of Münster City of Cologne Münster Cologne Matthias Löb (since July 1, 2014) Roland Schäfer Director of LWL Mayor and Regional Association of Westphalia-Lippe President Münster Städteund Gemeindebund Nordrhein-Westfalen e. V. Düsseldorf Ulrike Lubek Director of LVR Prof. Dr. Uwe Schneidewind Regional Association of the Rhineland President and Academic Managing Director Cologne Wuppertal Institut für Klima, Umwelt, Energie gGmbH Wolfgang Lubert Wuppertal Managing Director EnjoyVenture Management GmbH Dr. Ottilie Scholz Düsseldorf Lord Mayor City of Bochum Anne Lütkes Bochum District President Düsseldorf Regional Government Prof. Wolfgang Schulhoff (until February 17, 2014) Düsseldorf President Düsseldorf Chamber of Handicrafts Prof. Dr.-Ing. Wolfgang Marquardt Düsseldorf (since October 1, 2014) Chairman of the Executive Board Dr. Jochen Stemplewski Forschungszentrum Jülich GmbH Chairman of the Managing Board Jülich EMSCHERGENOSSENSCHAFT und LIPPEVERBAND Essen/Dortmund Andreas Meyer-Lauber District Chairman Peter Terium Deutscher Gewerkschaftsbund NRW Chairman of the Managing Board Düsseldorf RWE AG Essen Dr. Paul-Josef Patt Chairman of the Managing Board Marianne Thomann-Stahl eCAPITAL entrepreneurial Partners AG District President Münster Detmold Regional Government Detmold 138 Financial Report 2014 Reza Vaziri Chairman of the Executive Board 3M Deutschland GmbH Neuss Hans-Josef Vogel Mayor City of Arnsberg Arnsberg Gisela Walsken District President Cologne Regional Government Cologne Prof. Dr. Jürgen Wilhelm Chairman Regional Assembly of the Rhineland Cologne Klaus Winterhoff Legal Vice President Evangelical Church of Westphalia Bielefeld Hans-Bernd Wolberg Chairman of the Managing Board WGZ BANK AG Westdeutsche Genossenschafts-Zentralbank Düsseldorf Matthias Zachert (since June 1, 2014) Chairman of the Managing Board LANXESS AG Leverkusen Financial Report 2014 139 Organisation Chart Organisation Chart Chairman of the Member of the Managing Board Managing Board Klaus Neuhaus Michael Stölting Strategy/ Legal Internal Audit Finance Human Resources Risk Control Advisory Services & Communications/ Infrastructure Board Office Finance Thorsten Wolfgang Beimel Oliver Blaß Birgit Rosczyk Gosewinkel Achim Meierkamp Florian Merkel Christiane Jansen Marketing and Corporate Legal General Audit Financial Human Resources Bank-wide Risk & EU and Special Corporate Statements Development/ Credit Portfolio Advisory Services Citizenship Management Management SME Hans Albert Kirsten Nagel Böckenförde Helmut Röhle Joachim Kiesau Ralf Groß-Heitfeld Claudia Bauer Ingrid Hentzschel Board Office Legal Credit Audit Financial Accounting Human Resources Market Price & Public Sector Clients and European Capital Markets Development/ Liquidity Risk Affairs Basic Issues 1) Christian Müller Reinhard Buch Alph Kühnapfel Ute Kuschel Petra Kalthoff Thomas Hornung Dr. Jörg Hopfe Political Affairs Property Law IT Audit Banking Supervisory Human Resources Compliance 2) Promotional Administration/ Programme Controlling Advisory Services Dr. Rüdiger Werner Kindsmüller Wulf Ebsen Georg Kremer Krautheuser Peter Schröder Jörg Weskamp Robert Bruning Strategy and Tax Basic Issues & Infrastructure Research Controlling Finance Sybille Dr. Ingo Hospes Heberer-Wilhelm Sabine Lamers Anja Langa Press and Controlling/ Remuneration Communications Financial Reporting Officer 3) Caroline Gesatzki Martin Bolten Walter Wohlhage Basic Issues Coordination and Business Management Henning Treder Business Unit Department Team with direct reporting line to the Business Unit Head 1) Occupational Safety Officer, Equal Opportunities Officer, Data Protection Officer and Ziel2.NRW Quality Management report directly to the Managing Board. 2) The Money Laundering Officer, who is in charge of the central function for the prevention of money laundering, terrorist financing and other criminal acts pursuant to § 25h KWG, the WpHG Compliance Officer and the MaRisk Compliance Officer report directly to the Managing Board and are bound by instructions only from the latter. 3) The Remuneration Officer reports directly to the Supervisory Board and the Remuneration Control Committee. Note: The Staff Council is not shown as an organisational unit in the organisational chart of NRW.BANK as it is an elected body which has no reporting relationship with the Managing Board. 140 Financial Report 2014 Member of the Managing Board Dietrich Suhlrie Capital Markets Corporate Business Credit IT/ Promotion Housing Promotion Finance Support Management Organisation/ Programmes Internal Services Dr. Ortwin Margret Klaus Rupprath Dr. Peter Güllmann Thomas Bracht Bärbel Bontrup Tobias Schmitt Schumacher Hirthammer Business Venture Capital/ Back Office Credit Risk IT Accounting Commercial Owner-Occupied Management Early Stage Capital Markets and Educational Housing Loan Promotion Processing Rhineland Dr. Michael Marco Adler Dr. Claas Heise Frank Camp Kuhlbrodt Matthias Lersch Dr. Gerhard Weyers Gerd-Peter Wolf Treasury Equity Investments Central Services Municipal and IT Promotion Structural Promotion Rental Housing Midcap Promotion Business Midcap Financing Business Programmes Loan Processing Düsseldorf Rhineland Andreas Berning Christoph Büth Astrid Demme Hubert Venneker Peter Bimczok Anton Render Dietmar Struttmann Portfolio Strategic Equity Development Banks Restructuring IT Capital Markets Structural Promotion Owner-Occupied Management Investments and Programmes Housing & Corporate Product Process Münster Loan Processing Investments Westphalia Andreas Rothermel Felix Könsgen Eric Regnery Dr. Jamal Daoudi Dr. Jens Heinrich Marc Madlindl Klaus Ahlers Funds and Product Organisation Housing and Rental Housing Business Development and IT Services 1) Agricultural Loan Processing Management Promotion Westphalia Stefan Büchter Dr. Michael Knappe Dr. Jürgen Schulte Uwe Beckmann Andreas Helmig Syndicated Loans Back Office Internal Services Ziel2.NRW Quality Problem Loan Midcap Promotion Business Management 1) Processing Matthias Joachim Georg Arnold Voß-Geßmann Ralf Welter Michelmann Markus Heising Advisory/ Credit Check Thomas Stausberg Departmental Management Regine BukowskiKnuppertz valid from March 1, 2015 Financial Report 2014 141 NRW.BANK at a Glance NRW.BANK at a Glance NRW.BANK Facts NRW.BANK Competition-neutral development bank of North Rhine-Westphalia operating according to the house bank principle; holds a full bank licence Guarantors State of North Rhine-Westphalia (100%) Liabilities/Guarantees Institutional liability Guarantor liability Explicit funding guarantee granted by the guarantors Legal Status Public law bank Head Offices Düsseldorf and Münster Information Services of NRW.BANK NRW.BANK.Infoline Phone +49 211 91741-4800 Fax +49 211 91741-7832 info@nrwbank.de If you have more detailed questions about promotion and financing projects, the Service Centre will be pleased to put you in touch with the responsible promotion advisors. For further advice, you may also contact: EU and Special Advisory Services SME Accounting Management – Public Sector Clients Phone +49 211 91741-1474 Phone +49 211 91741-4600 Fax +49 211 91742-6218 Fax +49 211 91741-2666 EU-SBM@nrwbank.de oeffentliche-kunden@nrwbank.de Corporate Responsibility nachhaltigkeit@nrwbank.de NRW.BANK Münster Concept and Design, Friedrichstraße 1 Production and Typesetting Düsseldorf 48145 Münster vE&K Werbeagentur GmbH & Co. KG, Kavalleriestraße 22 Phone +49 251 91741-0 Essen 40213 Düsseldorf Fax +49 251 91741-2921 Phone +49 211 91741-0 Print Fax +49 211 91741-1800 www.nrwbank.de Woeste Druck + Verlag info@nrwbank.de GmbH & Co. KG, Essen-Kettwig 142 Financial Report 2014 Financial Calendar 2015 March 30, 2015 Annual accounts press conference August 10, 2015 Publication of the promotion result for the second quarter November 6, 2015 Publication of the promotion result for the third quarter Net Volume of New Commitments 2014 2013 € millions € millions Housing & Living 4,278 4,840 Seed & Growth 3,178 2,925 Development & Protection 1,441 1,467 Total 8,897 9,232 Key Figures 2014 2013 € millions € millions Total assets 143,843 145,350 Equity capital pursuant to the German Commercial Code (HGB) 17,933 17,883 Common Equity Tier 1 capital 18,254 17,973 Own funds 19,992 19,809 Net interest and net commission income 568 562 Administrative expenses 215 198 Operating income 381 401 CET1 capital ratio 40.09% 37.37% Total capital ratio 43.91% 41.19% Staff 1,283 1,256 Ratings Fitch Ratings Moody’s Standard & Poor’s Long-term rating AAA Aa1 AA– Short-term rating F1+ P-1 A–1+ Outlook stable stable stable Sustainability Ratings imug oekom research Sustainalytics Rating positive Prime No. 72 of 350* * Above the peer group average. Print compensated Id-No. 1545577 www.bvdm-online.de
