Corporate Mission CSR Repor t Corporate Philosophy Fundamental Principles Since its founding, the IDEC Group has engaged in Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) activities guided by a corporate philosophy that each and every IDEC member contributes to society through the growth of business while respecting human rights and leading a meaningful life. Two of its most prominent contributions to society are: promoting safety based on many years of experience Activities through Business designing and developing safety products, and contributing to improvement of the global environment through its environmental business operation. IDEC continues to make social contributions through its business and adhere to the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact, as well as the IDEC Group Corporate Ethics and Code of Conduct. IDEC Group Corporate Ethics and Code of Conduct Please visit our web site for more information on IDEC Group’s CSR activities. （United Nations Global Compact） http://jp.idec.com/ja/aboutIDEC/csr The Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact Human Rights Environment Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach internationally proclaimed human rights; and to environmental challenges; Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Labour Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentallyPrinciple 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and friendly technologies. the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Anti-Corruption Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment forms, including extortion and bribery. and occupation. * The United Nations Global Compact is an initiative for “enterprises voluntarily acting as good members of society by demonstrating responsible, creative leadership, and participating in a global framework to achieve sustainable growth.” To Ensure Industrial Safety Maximizing and balancing safety and productivity Safety Principle IDEC, based on its principles of management with respect for fellow humans and its contribution to society through business activities, is constantly seeking to provide safer and more pleasant environments not only within the IDEC Group but in the global society. ■Safety and explosion products ■Training safety developed in fiscal year 2015 professionals HS5L interlock switches Training and certifying safety assessors Conforming to the newest international safety standards, IDEC is a strong promoter of accredited safety the HS5L is an ideal safety switch for small to medium-size assessors* who can make decisions in designing machine applications. It adds value to machines where the safety products and recommending safety measures. implementation of safety measures had not been a priority. As of March 31, 2015, a total of 352 IDEC group employees were certified safety assessors. EF1A hazardous location LED illumination units The number of assessors in each level within IDEC: Developing safety devices that ﬁt Certified by IECEx, European standards ATEX, and North Safety lead assessors – 15 people American standards UL・cUL, the EF1A hazardous the needs of a wide range of （provide assessment to third parties location LED illumination units can be used anywhere in as an assessor leader） customer segments. the world. Safety assessors – 35 people （exercise knowledge and skills as an assessor） Takeo Yasui Product Marketing Department Safety sub-assessors – 155 people Industrial & Safety Products Division （have basic assessor knowledge） Safety basic assessors – 147 people （have basic knowledge of safety for machine operation or electric equipment for explosion-proof） *A safety assessor certification is offered jointly by Japan Certification Corp, Nippon Electric Control Equipment Industries Assoc.（NECA）, the Society of Safety HS5L EF1A Technology and Application, Japan（SOSTAP）, and TUV Rhineland Japan. ■Promoting safe manufacturiang ■Educational campaign for safety Safety consulting Conducting seminars and lectures We offer safety consulting to maximize both safety and We held 81 seminars throughout Japan and a total of productivity: identifying hazardous sources, assessing 1,386 people attended in the fiscal year 2015, risks, proposing and implementing safety measures. achieving the cumulative total of 32,892 attendees. Publication of a book on explosion-proof and safety We made our explosionproof engineering knowledge Pursuing the improvement of available to the public industrial safety, we continue to through the publication of an explosion-proof safety promote safety awareness and book, covering a wide practices within and outside IDEC. range of subjects including designing explosion-proof electrical devices in compliance Kazuya Okada with current international Standardization & Safety Solution Team standards, construction, International Standardization & Intellectual Property installation, inspection and Lectures on “explosion-proof safety” Strategy Department maintenance. IDEC Report 29 30 CSR Report Earth Preservation Improve individual and world environments through our business Environmental Principle Recognizing the goal of a harmonious existence with the earth that we all share, we make environmental safety and quality a top priority in all aspects of our business while pursuing sustainable business growth. ■IDEC business protecting the global ■IDEC Group’s development policy environment and evaluation standard Mega-solar power business Product development based on the “saving” principle. In an effort to reduce the use of non-renewable energy, we Since developing our product principles in 1978, the have been expanding the business of solar power generation IDEC Group has focused on ways to save energy, space, for industrial use. In fiscal year 2015, we completed three solar maintenance and materials during the product planning power plants in succession: Three IDEC-owned solar plants in and development process. This principle remains today. Ibaraki City, Osaka and Otsu City, Shiga and Amagasaki City, We continue to develop environmentally-friendly products, Hyogo, and a jointly-held plant with the Town of Sayo in Hyogo. meeting our own set of strict design criteria. The IDEC Group, acting as a power plant operator/power Assisting the global environmental supplier, makes direct and increasing contributions to global Design evaluation standard for and local community eﬀorts through environmental protection and the improvement of local environmentally-conscious products communities. our mega-solar power business. Factors to be Considered Product design outcome Ease of recycling Reusability Ease of disassembly Recyclability Ease of disposal Tsuyoshi Nagata Reduction in volume and weight Engineering Department Resource saving Reduction in consumption of electricity Environment and Energy Business Division Energy saving IDEC SYSTEMS & CONTROLS CORPORATION Prolonged product life No use of regulated hazardous Environmental safety Mega-solar power business Recyclable wooden materials and chemicals panel support ■Environment Management Certifications ■Environmental burden reduction drive The IDEC Group has been constantly improving its environment Guided by ISO14001 Environmental Management management system. The Headquarters/Engineering Research System, everyone at IDEC is making his or her best Center was certified as ISO 14001 compliant by JQA（Japan effort to reduce electricity, water, paper, waste, and CO2 Quality Assurance Organization）in1997. Today, a total of four emissions to meet the set company-wide yearly goals. locations including our headquarters（which houses Engineering Changes in electricity consumption & Research Center）, Tsukuba Plant, Fukusaki / Takino Plant, ■■ Power consumption（Thousands of kWh） and Amagasaki Plant are ISO 14001 compliant. In fiscal year Specific energy consumption（kWh/Millions of yen） 2015, an environmental assessment was conducted at the 364 377 above four locations by an authorized third-party assessor, in 338 336 accordance with the environment management system standard. Reducing environmental burdens 292 As a result, we have passed or surpassed the requirements, as at manufacturing sites. shown on the table below. 12,307 12,206 11,343 11,014 11,075 Satoshi Nishiyama General Affairs Team Amagasaki Plant 11 12 13 14 15 1. Specific unit of consumption represents the consumption/emission/discharge per annual sales. 2. Data collected from Headquarters, Tsukuba, Amagasaki, Hamamatsu, Headquarters / Tsukuba Plant Fukusaki, Takino facilities and Tatsuno Distribution Center. Engineering Research Center 3. More information can be viewed on our website. Approach to Product Quality All of us think and accept challenges together Product Quality is a foundation for all of our corporate activities Quality Assurance Principles With “ease of use” as a primary goal of our products, all of us participate in planning and building a quality assurance system that creates excellent products customers will purchase and use with confidence in the most economical ways. ■Quality Assurance System ■Quality assurance guidelines We have a comprehensive quality assurance system We adopted early on and have been adhering to the in place. fundamental principle that product quality is the core of product value. To provide products that can be used for Quality Assurance Center a required time to the complete satisfaction of users, we establish QA action guidelines for each stage. Global quality assurance team Quality assurance system Setting and managing QC procedures, standards and rules throughout the IDEC Group. QA Principles （Corporate philosophy on QA） Superior IDEC quality achieved Manufacturing quality assurance team by solid teamwork throughout Responding to customer claims and monitoring the adherence to established IDEC standards. QA Guidelines the company. （Quality by design） Quality evaluation and testing team Testing products, analyzing claims and identifying QA Policies Atsushi Matsumoto causes. （QA structure） Senior Manager Quality Assurance Center Standards management team Acquiring, maintaining and auditing standard compliance QA Procedures approvals for products and manufacturing plants. （Step-by-step work manual） ■Quality Training ■Claim Handling Ongoing quality training is provided in house, and IDEC Claims are processed quickly by the quality assurance employees are encouraged to take official examinations department through information sharing and coordination for certifications from accredited institutions to prove their with the product development and manufacturing knowledge and skills. Certified experts then share with engineering departments under the direction of the Risk others through QC group activities the ideas and Management Committee, led by the C.E.O. who has the techniques they have learned. This process leads to ultimate decision making authority. quality improvements and claim reduction throughout the company. ＊ Risk Management Committee Raising quality awareness through NITE chaired by CEO continuous quality training. Product recall in accordance Product recall with the policies review meeting Shigeki Makimoto and procedures Customer Global Quality Assurance Team Quality Assurance Center QA Dept. Sales and related depts. Work with Development and Manufacturing QC training ＊National Institute of Technology, an incorporated administrative agency authorized by the government to evaluate risk management IDEC Report 31 32 CSR Report ［Approach 本業を通じた CSR ］rights and employees to human To make IDEC a rewarding place to work and fulfill one’s life HRM Principle HR policies are developed with the spirit of respect for humanity as the underlying principle and for the purpose of creating work environments in which people thrive. The development of human resources is to allow employees to fulfill their own missions and responsibilities by understanding the intent and the meaning of IDEC’s corporate missions and principles, realizing them, and embodying them. ■Human resource development ■Work-Life Balance IDEC supports employees’ self-guided career development In an effort to enhance the system in which all IDEC by offering systematic employee training, including employees can work free of worry, IDEC expanded the position-based training courses and product/technology scope of eligibility for the short work hour program in fiscal training, and cross training through job rotations. IDEC also year 2013 to help employees who care for young children provides a wide range of self-guided managerial development or family members. IDEC is making efforts to provide a programs from basic management and strategy planning work environment where employees can enjoy life skills, and hands-on experiences, to cross-department motivation and job satisfaction, while maintaining a good training in order to provide managerial and executive balance between work and personal life. candidates with wide knowledge, skills and operational Providing education opportunities experience so they can take the lead in a new era. Childcare-Related Programs to support individual growth. Individual growth Pregnancy Childbirth 12months Company growth Childcare time End of sixth grade Time for （Until the child age3） antenatal Noriko Fujita hospital Short working hours for childcare （Until the child completes third grade in elementary school） Career Development Team Strong people build a strong company checkup Maternity Childcare No individual growth, no company growth Flextime for childcare in elementary school leave leave Human Resources Department Less Leave to look after sick Assist career development Proactive career development commuting child and family to work Exempt from non-scheduled work hours Self career Restriction on overtime and night shift working Company management Individual ■Encouraging diversity in workplace ■Realizing a safe working environment We embrace workforce diversity and create a work To ensure safe and healthy workplaces, we adhere to environment where employees with different backgrounds and our safety and health system and accident prevention capacities can demonstrate their own abilities to the fullest. standards, as well as all industrial safety and health IDEC LOGISTICS SERVICE CORP. actively employs laws. We promote voluntary and planned activities to people with disabilities and is registered with the Hyogo maintain a safe working environment. Our efforts Prefecture Government as a sponsor of the employment of include a risk assessment system in which potential disabled while also extending employment to foreign nationals hazards are investigated and appropriate measures as technical interns. As of March 2015, IDEC LOGISTICS are taken to eliminate the assessed risks. We care for SERVICE has 15 employees with disabilities (9% of total employees’ psychological needs through education, Promoting diverse work force) and 3 employees with foreign nationalities. counseling and return-to-work assistance, as our focus is creating a working environment in which each human resources. employee can fulfill his or her own potential. Satoshi Miyake Director IDEC LOGISTICE SERVICE CORPORATION Technical training oﬀered to Vietnamese interns ［Corporate 本業を通じた CSR ］ / Compliance Governance More transparency, more efficiency to maintain trustworthiness Fundamental Management Policy Two of our underlying goals are to bring happiness to those who are associated with the IDEC Group and to build a healthy and transparent management system. These goals are guided by the corporate mission of making social and cost-effective contributions by satisfying the needs of customers with our control technology, while fulfilling the corporate policy of respecting humanity. ■ Corporate Governance ■ Compliance Since a corporate officer system was installed in 1998 to A booklet titled “IDEC Group Corporate Ethics and Code manage the corporation efficiently, we have maintained of Conduct,” describing our fundamental principles and two separate bodies of “operation performing” and of action guidelines in conducting business activities, has “auditing.” Also, outside directors and outside auditors been distributed to all IDEC Group employees in Japan have been appointed to serve the board of directors and and overseas. With a company-wide training system in the board of auditors, respectively, to further strengthen place, numerous training programs are designed and the auditing and guiding functions. offered on a regular basis to management and employees in accordance with their areas of responsibilities and the number of years worked for IDEC. In fiscal year 2015, We believe that maintaining ■ Global Advisory Board “the Ethics and Code of Conduct” was updated and distributed in accordance with the revisions in contacts for transparency and eﬃciency in our The Global Advisory Board was established to receive a internal reporting and the workplace harassment policy. management is a fundamental of wide range of opinions and advice from influential individuals and experts in corporate management, corporate governance. academia and other fields in Japan and overseas. Romano Volta Keijiro Fujita Dr. Romano Volta, IDEC global advisory board Director member, is a founder of DATALOGIC, a world-leading company of automatic-identification devices and systems for factory automation headquartered in Italy. ■ Auditing System ■ Risk Management Our auditors independently and fairly evaluate the “Risk Control Procedures” were established to avert process and performance of various business activities for risks and to minimize damage if a crisis occurs. The legality and effectiveness while helping the company Risk management Committee led by the C.E.O. was achieve its goals. Main auditing activities include risk established to avoid risks during normal business management and control evaluating the validity of the hours and to set up and maintain an emergency corporate governance process and recommending system that can deal with a crisis quick. This improvements. Completely independent from business includes a procedure for confirming the safety of operations, auditors also monitor and evaluate the people as one of the initial emergency measures effectiveness of each IDEC Group company’s internal when a disaster strikes. Evaluating and assisting control processes that affect the reliability of financial reports. business activities independently and objectively Board of Auditors Audits Chief Executive Officer Crisis Board of Directors Boad of Directors Instructions Reporting Response Instructions, Information Yasuo Matsuda Communication / reporting Report and consultation disclosure Stakeholders Coordination Risk Senior Manager Communication / Internal Auditing Dept Related Instructions Coordination Management and Internal Auditing Department Communication / department reporting Coordination Internal auditing, Instructions Committee Employees reporting on improvements and support Consultation Audit and notice finances Departments Accounting IDEC Group companies Auditors IDEC Report 33 34
