Looking to the future TOP-TOY’s Performance Report 2014/2015 Table of contents About this report Introduction TOP-TOY’s Performance Report 2014/15 is our sixth 3 This is TOP-TOY annual report and is part of our effort to give our 4 Message from our CEO stakeholders a clear account of our progress with 5 Highlights of the year respect to our strategic commitments and goals. 6 Our 2020 strategy 7 Our four strategic battles The report is supported by online information regarding our UN Global Compact commitment and policies available on www.top-toy.com. Bringing our stores closer to the customer Legal notices 8 Our priorities Throughout this report, references are made to 9 This is BR TOP-TOY, which consists of TOP-TOY A/S and its 10 BR – the authority on happy children subsidiaries. 12 This is TOYS”R”US 13 TOYS”R”US – the one-stop destination TOP-TOY is a registered trademark of TOP-TOY (Hong with everything for children Kong) Ltd. BR, the Guardsman (workmark and devices) are registered trademarks of TOP-TOY A/S. NORSTAR is a registered trademark of NORSTAR A/S. Ensuring the best product assortment 14 Our priorities TOYS“R”US, the TOYS“R”US & Star design and the 15 Fun and inspiring products at BR Giraffe design are registered trademarks of Geoffrey, 16 Responsible BR product line LLC. TOP-TOY A/S is a licensee of Geoffrey, LLC. 17 Everything for children at TOYS”R”US 18 Safe playing experiences All other trademarks referred to in this report are the 19 Responsible sourcing of products property of their respective owners. Providing a seamless customer journey 20 Our priorities 21 Seamless customer experiences Improving TOP-TOY’s agility 23 Our priorities 24 Efﬁcient processes, organisation and systems 26 Our business Our performance 27 Financial performance STORES PRODUCTS CUSTOMERS COMPANY 2 This is TOP-TOY We are the leading retail company within toys and children’s products in the Nordic region, with strong values and a clear business concept. We have a passion for play, a commitment to responsible business and a desire to meet and exceed customer “ We strive to enrich the lives of children and make them smile “ expectations. What TOP-TOY offers Our sustainability commitment TOP-TOY has more than 50 years’ experience in enriching children’s We want our customers to buy our products knowing that they have lives. With a passion for facilitating fun, safe playing experiences been produced with consideration for people and in line with the through high-quality products, we are dedicated to providing the highest safety standards. We continue to embed our sustainability best possible product offerings. Our goal is to be the ﬁrst choice for efforts in our value chain – from ensuring good working conditions at customers when buying toys and other products for children. factory level to guaranteeing children’s safety when they play with our products. We see this as an investment in our customers and in the Through our two retail chains, BR and TOYS”R”US, we offer a broad development and growth of our company. range of inspiring products that enable children of all ages to explore and develop their creativity while learning and having fun. The range Leading position spans everything from toys, trampolines and pools to children’s We operate a total of 297 stores, 273 of which are in the Nordic region books, bed linen, roleplay costumes and accessories of both our own and include 223 BR stores and 50 TOYS”R”US stores in Denmark, brands and other leading international brands. Sweden, Norway and Finland. In addition, we have 21 BR stores in Germany and 3 TOYS”R”US stores in Iceland. Along with our stores, Our core values we have four BR webshops and four TOYS”R”US webshops. This Our ﬁve core values – business sense, responsibility, family tree, makes TOP-TOY the leading player in the Nordic toy market, with a top performance and toy fun – are engrained in the company and strong market share of around 30%. TOP-TOY also owns a wholesale each of our employees. They are also embedded in our Code of company, NORSTAR, which will close down after the Christmas Conduct, which guides the ethical behaviour of our people, helping season 2015. them to make the right decisions and shaping a culture based on personal accountability. 297 stores Over 2,100 full-time employees Revenue DKK 4.0 billion (+1% revenue growth) 47 Operating proȴt DKK 225 million million products sold through BR & TOYS”R”US 14,400 products in assortment market share ~30% 20 million customers served in BR & TOYS”R”US Read more on www.top-toy.com Introduction 3 Message from our CEO “ I am conȴdent we have another exciting ahead of us “ year 2014/15 was an important year for TOP-TOY. We improved our A solid ﬁnancial performance ﬁnancial performance, putting sales and proﬁtability back on We can be pleased with our solid ﬁnancial performance in 2014/15. track. To continue driving growth and maintain our leading Our total revenue increased to DKK 4.0 billion, bringing 62% growth in market position towards 2020, we have launched a new strategic operating proﬁts (EBITDA). This marks the second year in a row where direction where our core focus is our retail business. we have seen an upward trend in our operating proﬁts. 2014/15 was a year of signiﬁcant change for TOP-TOY, and I would The positive results in the retail business can be attributed to a strong like to start by thanking all our employees for their commitment and 4% increase in same-store sales within BR and TOYS”R”US and the hard work, which have contributed to our improved ﬁnancial results growth of our webshops. Overall, our retail revenues grew 2.7%. and made TOP-TOY a stronger company. The year’s achievements also reﬂect our continued efforts to Launch of our 2020 strategy strengthen and modernise BR. During 2014/15, visible results included In March 2015, we launched our new 2020 strategy. This sets the the upgrade of all BR stores and launch of new BR product lines, direction for growing our business and becoming the undisputed providing improved shopping experiences and product offerings for no. 1 retailer in the Nordic region for products that make children our customers. happy. A renewed emphasis on our core retail business is at the heart of the strategy. Our 2020 strategy is a natural extension of this modernisation process and sets the direction for further improvement. Our core focus is to The primary objective of our new strategy is to strengthen our BR strengthen the BR and TOYS”R”US value propositions to customers and TOYS”R”US chains and improve their positions in the market. by investing in streamlining the shopping experience and upgrading We want to provide our customers with even better experiences, both our product assortment, so we cater better to varying customer from our product assortment and when shopping in-store and online. segments and needs. In this way, we will reinforce our market position. Our strategic decision to focus exclusively on our retail business Growing responsibly means that our wholesale operation NORSTAR will be closed after Conducting our business in a responsible way is at the heart of the the Christmas season 2015. NORSTAR went through a restructuring values we live by. Our commitment to the UN Global Compact is a process during the autumn of 2014, improving its proﬁtability. The reﬂection of those values. In 2014/15, we launched three key policies decision to close it down is, therefore, the outcome of our strategic that set our ambition level within human rights, the environment and considerations. ethical product offering. Two community investment projects have been initiated for BR and TOYS”R”US to identify new ways to enrich Building our future success the lives of children in need. TOP-TOY has been a successful family-owned company for three generations. Our 2020 strategy will help us continue along the path Looking ahead to sustainable growth and leadership in the near and longer-term I am very satisﬁed with our progress towards realising our vision for future. Talented and dedicated people are strengthening our ability 2020, and I am conﬁdent that we have another exciting year ahead to respond to the differing needs of our customers and markets. of us. Together, within our even stronger company, we will live up to Nevertheless, the founding family acknowledges that complementary the core aims of our business – to maintain the best product range competences and access to capital will beneﬁt our long-term growth for customers in each of our markets in terms of price, quality and potential. We are currently seeking a strategic partner with the ability responsibility, to provide excellent customer service and to ensure an to support us in achieving our goals. outstanding shopping experience. Agile executive management team To support the implementation of the 2020 strategy and prepare the organisation for the future, we have established an executive management team headed by myself as CEO, thus ending our tradition for co-CEOs. This new set-up makes our organisation more agile by ensuring clear accountability and faster decision-making. 4 Peter Gjørup Highlights of the year 2014/15 was ﬁlled with exciting achievements that help us create value for our customers and build an even stronger TOP-TOY. Launch of our 2020 strategy We launched our 2020 strategy to ensure TOP-TOY’s continuous growth and capture market share, particularly in Sweden and Norway and online. Our key strategic focus is our core competence within retail. For this reason, we are planning a series of long-term investments in our retail chains, BR and TOYS”R”US, and online channels. The aim is to continue improving the shopping experience of our customers. Search for a The founding family began the search for a strategic strategic partner partner with the capability to help build a stronger TOP-TOY that will continue to thrive for decades to come. Community investment projects for BR and TOYS”R”US We initiated the development of two Closure of wholesale business new community investment projects Following our renewed strategic focus on retail, for BR and TOYS”R”US respectively we decided to close our wholesale business, to promote the well-being and NORSTAR, after the Christmas season sales at the development of children in need. end of 2015. Launch of BR product lines We introduced new lines of exciting BR products. Our BR Wood and BR Bath product lines have both been designed in a modern Scandinavian look to support LED lighting in BR stores children’s creativity, learning and development through We replaced the existing lighting in our BR stores with LED lighting, reducing energy consumption by play. Our well-known line from FOOD’N’FUN has been 60%. This corresponds to a 1,800 kg reduction in CO2 emissions and savings of approximately DKK modernised and is now sold exclusively in our BR stores. 3.2 million a year. An executive team to lead TOP-TOY We established an executive management team to improve our agility and ensure the successful implementation of our 2020 strategy. Click and collect We introduced a click and collect service, which enables our customers to buy products online and collect them later in any of our BR or TOYS”R”US Store network optimisation stores. We opened 4 new BR stores and 1 TOYS”R”US store and closed 9 BR stores as part of our continuous New BR store look effort to optimise our store network. We implemented a new BR concept in stores across all our Nordic markets. This included the launch of our new BR logo. The aim is to improve our customers’ in-store shopping experiences. New policies We launched three new policies that reﬂect our continuous Human rights assessment commitment to respecting human rights, reducing our impact on the In cooperation with Save the Children Sweden, we have carried out an initial human environment and protecting children from exposure to products with rights assessment with focus on children’s rights. The results give us a better the potential to cause emotional or physical harm. Our policies are understanding of the measures we should take to mitigate the potentially adverse available on www.top-toy.com, where more information about the effects of products and marketing and undesirable impacts on younger and migrant progress of our responsibility work can also be found. workers in the manufacturing process. Introduction 5 Our 2020 strategy In 2014/15, we launched our new 2020 strategy. The goal is to be Developing a customer-centric approach the undisputed no. 1 toy retailer in the Nordic region, committed We are building a new, customer-centric to delivering value to customers while achieving sustainable and approach into our business, based on enhanced proﬁtable growth. Our overall purpose remains unchanged – to insights into customer preferences and buying sell products that make children smile. behaviour. These insights will guide our decisionmaking across all aspects of our business Since our business was founded in 1963, our passion has been to – strengthening our product offerings to meet offer quality toys and children’s products that inspire all ages to play, changing customer demands; upgrading the have fun and learn. This passion, good business sense and dedicated look and feel of our stores to improve shopping employees have made TOP-TOY what it is today – the leading player experiences; and developing new online services in the Nordic toy market. for enhanced convenience and accessibility. Our ambition is to expand our leading position in the markets where Strengthening our online position we operate. To achieve that, we have developed and launched our We will invest in improving our online presence further. In doing so, new 2020 strategy. Our retail business is at the heart of this strategy. we will take advantage of the opportunity to lead the omni-channel We will concentrate our efforts on building a competitive edge for BR experience in the Nordic region and realise the potential of online and TOYS”R”US and improving our proﬁtability. channels to become a major growth driver for TOP-TOY. Closing our wholesale business Our 2020 ﬁnancial goals As a result of our strategic decision to focus on retail, our wholesale We have set three overall ﬁnancial goals to be realised in 2020. These business NORSTAR will close by the end of 2015. This affects 131 goals will drive our progress and help us deliver growth over the next colleagues. Since the announcement of the closure, they have been ﬁve years. Our ambition is to grow our Nordic retail revenue by 50% provided with guidance and support for taking the next step in and reach DKK 5 billion by 2020. their careers. A series of ﬁnancial and strategic key performance indicators (KPIs) Strategic objectives track our progress towards these ﬁnancial goals. The KPIs are We have deﬁned three objectives to ensure we achieve our integrated in the four strategic battles we have deﬁned as part of our strategic ambitions. 2020 strategy. Differentiating our retail chains We will strengthen our BR and TOYS”R”US retail chains through Financial goals by 2020 +10% further differentiation of their concepts, product offerings, price levels 3.5% and the shopping experiences they provide in-store and online. This EBITDA will improve our ability to pursue various market opportunities and meet differing customer needs. In this way, we will target the entire Same-store sales growth of market space for toys and children’s products and offer our customers annually even better value. 5 billion DKK revenue from the Nordic retail operations (+50% revenue growth)  6 Our four strategic battles Winning the four strategic battles will help us achieve our 2020 ﬁnancial goals and stay focused on our strategic objectives. Each battle is supported by a number of strategic initiatives. Bringing our stores closer to the customer Ensuring the best product assortment We will listen even more carefully to customer wishes We want to ensure we offer quality products and needs and make our stores more surprising and with a clear price proﬁle. We aim to combine inspirational, so they are the place to go for children’s products from global suppliers with products. By being closer to our customers, we products we have developed ourselves. can give them the best possible experience. We will Our assortment should remain the safest and expand our store network and focus on increasing most innovative in our markets. same-store sales. STORES PRODUCTS COMPANY CUSTOMERS Improving TOP-TOY’s agility Providing a seamless customer journey We must be able to respond quickly to change so good Our customers increasingly shop and seek product ideas are translated into actions at a fast pace. We will information online. This is why we need to strengthen rethink, update and streamline our business activities. This our online presence continuously. To this end, we will includes bringing products faster to market, making the right dedicate time and resources to developing and improving managerial decisions, and improving the way we measure our digital touchpoints. Our goal is to offer our customers a sales and distribution performance and customer satisfaction. seamless shopping experience, both online and ofﬂine. Introduction 7 STORES OUR AMBITION • Bringing our stores closer to our customers OUR PRIORITIES • To make BR the authority on making children happy • To make TOYS”R”US the one-stop destination with everything for children This is BR For over 50 years, our passion has been to make children happy. “ We have 50 of experience in making years “ We want to continue using that passion to drive our future children happy success. In the years ahead, our modern, inspiring BR stores will be the place to ﬁnd experts in play, who can guide customers to the products best suited to a child’s age, interests and level of development. What BR offers BR’s position in the market BR is TOP-TOY’s high street toy retailer, offering a focused assortment The BR chain dates back to 1963 when our founders Børge of fun, inspirational and quality toys and children’s products that target Rasmussen and his sons Henrik and Bjarne Gjørup opened the children aged 0 to 8 years. Our BR assortment includes our own BR second BR store in Denmark. Since then, we have grown to become product line as well as a number of well-known brands, comprising a one of the leading speciality toy retail chains in the Nordic region with broad range of creative and educational products and other popular a strong market position. items. This covers baby and toddler toys, children’s books, roleplay costumes and accessories, interactive toys, video games and Our BR store network consists of 244 BR stores, all located close much more. to our customers in shopping malls and other prime locations in Denmark, Sweden, Norway, Finland and Germany. We also continue Number of paying customers in BR to have a strong brand awareness among our customers. In June 2015, awareness reached 86%. million 2.5 The authority on happy children With the launch of our new ambition to become the authority on 2 making children happy and trusted destination for fun toys and 1.5 children’s products, we have begun an exciting journey to modernise and re-focus the BR retail concept. By positioning BR in this way, we 1 aim to grow same-store sales and secure proﬁtability for TOP-TOY. 0.5 0 Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun 244 stores Over 1,100 full-time employees Revenue DKK 1.8 billion 13.8 million customers served Club BR net growth of ~50,000 members (a total of ~2 million) more than 87,000 Facebook likes 29 million products sold ~86% customer +5% brand awareness same-store sales growth Bringing our stores closer to the customer 9 BR – the authority on happy children Our ambition at TOP-TOY is to make BR the authority on happy children – known for understanding what children want and how to make them happy. BR must stay the no. 1 speciality retail chain in the Nordic markets and the customers’ preferred place to go for personal service, easy and convenient shopping and a targeted assortment of inspiring, quality products. Why we are doing this Our BR stores are an important part of our business. They are where Selected KPIs for BR by 2020 DKK 2.6 billion we meet the majority of customers and build personal relations with them, and they are where our Club BR comes to life. Our past success in revenue has been built on stores in prime locations, a strong BR brand with ~35-40 a recognisable mascot, well-established customer relationships and Increase BR footprint in the Club BR, our loyalty programme. This has helped us achieve a leading Nordic region with a net growth of position in our markets. new stores +4% in same-store sales annually growth In today’s marketplace, our BR stores experience intensiﬁed online competition. To maintain our competitive edge, we are repositioning and modernising our BR brand as we move towards 2020. What we want to achieve Performance for BR in 2014/15 & We want to drive same-store sales growth and expand our Nordic We opened store network by building on our core retail competences and 4 new closed 9 unproȴtable stores strengthening the BR brand as one of the most successful retail BR stores chains in the Nordic region. billion DKK 1.8 +5% in revenue We want a future BR that builds on an identity that is personal, trustworthy, inspiring and engaging and where our stores are fun, inspiring and surprising, loved by children and appealing to our same-store sales growth grown-up customers. We want BR to be seen as the authority on what makes children happy. Our progress – strengthening the shopping experience in What we will do our BR stores To reach our goals, we have identiﬁed two strategic levers. We will New BR identity strengthen the customer shopping experience in our BR stores by During the past two years, we have carried out an extensive developing and rolling out a new BR identity concept. Our approach is modernisation of our BR stores. By the end of September 2015, to build modern in-store navigation with a high level of in-store service all BR stores in our network will have implemented the new concept. and engaging, personal experiences. Before designing the new BR identity, we carried out a comprehensive We will continuously optimise our BR store network by opening new market analysis. Key conclusions were that we had opportunities stores in markets with growth potential and closing unproﬁtable stores. to develop and become more modern and inspiring to consumers, offering attractive bargains across all touchpoints. These ﬁndings contributed to our new corporate identity and in-store environment, which was designed and tested using input from additional customer surveys and interviews. Customers have responded very positively to the new design. Examples of the changes to the store interior include lowering shelves to give customers a better overview of the store, introducing stations where children can play with toys, and installing fun and modern in-store category and brand navigation. Customers are guided through the store by category names and playing patterns, such as ‘let’s build’ and ‘hugs & love’, and service icons, such as ‘Top 3’ and ‘Recommended by BR’. This makes it easy for customers to browse, be inspired and ﬁnd what they are looking for. 10 Personal and engaging in-store service LED lighting We are strengthening our focus on personal and engaging in-store We replaced the existing light setup with LED lighting, which will help service. Store employees are being trained in how to act as play us save money and energy at the same time. We expect to reduce our ambassadors and advise shoppers on what products are right for the energy consumption by approximately 60%, corresponding to a 1,800 individual child based on age and playing preferences. kg reduction in CO2 emissions and a cost saving of around DKK 3.2 million annually. New employee uniforms In 2014/15, all BR retail employees were offered a choice between BR Facebook several new uniforms, allowing more room for personal preferences. Drawing on experiences with our Danish and Swedish BR Facebook In line with our sustainability requirements, the uniforms are pages, we launched two more pages in Norway and Finland in Oeko-Tex® certiﬁed, which means the textiles do not contain any early 2015. Our Facebook pages enable us to reach our customers substances that are harmful to health. In addition the new uniforms are and engage with them through playful, interactive and educational sourced only from socially responsible suppliers. posts. Today, we have approximately 87,000 followers. Promoting gender equality in stores BR catalogues We want to give children the opportunity to wish for products and play To ensure a consistent experience, we have introduced our modern with toys of their choice. In our experience, girls and boys often like concept to our BR catalogues. The modernised look, focusing on to play with the same kind of toys. For this reason, store sections and happy children at play, along with the structure and service icons are navigation guides are no longer deﬁned by gender. now the standard for all BR catalogues. We continue to promote diversity and gender equality in our catalogues as part of our work with respectful marketing. We recognise the importance of balancing our interactions with children so they are, on the one hand, engaging and fun and, on the other, responsible and ethical. To guide our actions, we rely on the ‘Children’s Rights Business Principles’ and our dialogue with the Swedish Advertising Ombudsman. Our progress – optimising our BR store network Driving store network growth and closing unproﬁtable stores We will continue our efforts to optimise the BR store network by having our stores in prime locations, close to our customers. During 2014/15, we opened four new stores in Finland, Norway and Germany and closed nine stores in Denmark, Sweden and Norway. What’s next? We will evaluate the store concept and initiate the next upgrading phase, drawing on insights from our customers about their needs. During 2015, we began work on a BR community investment project to enrich the lives of children in need. We expect to make an announcement during 2015/16. We will continue our efforts to optimise our BR store network and expect to open ﬁve stores in 2015/16. Progress on initiatives Deadline Status Implement BR concept in all BR stores End 2015 Done Implement LED lighting in all BR stores End 2015 Done Develop next phase for BR concept 2015/16 New Establish community investment project 2015/16 New Bringing our stores closer to the customer 11 “ “ This is TOYS”R”US We have successfully operated a For almost 20 years, TOP-TOY has successfully operated a strong strong network network of TOYS”R”US stores across the Nordic region under a of TOYS”R”US stores for almost 20 years license agreement. Today, TOYS”R”US accounts for a little less than half of TOP-TOY’s retail revenue. Our goal is to continue strengthening our large-size store format as the destination with everything for children. The destination with everything for children What TOYS”R”US offers Our ambition to grow into the one-stop entertaining destination with TOYS”R”US is TOP-TOY’s large-size store format, offering a broad everything for children is the beginning of a new strategic journey. assortment of entertaining toys and products at great prices targetting Along the way, we will gradually modernise our stores so they remain 0 to 12-year-old children. Each TOYS”R”US store offers more than a consistent driver of growth and proﬁtability. 12,000 products, covering everything from trampolines, swimming pools, bicycles and construction products to party tableware, lamps and children’s furniture. Number of paying customers in TOYS”R”US million TOYS”R”US also offers a wide selection of well-known brands, 1.2 such as LEGO, PLAYMOBIL, FISHER PRICE, and our own-brands, including OUTRA and COLOR KIDS. 1 TOYS”R”US position in the market 0.8 TOP-TOY introduced its ﬁrst megastore, called SUPERLEG, in 1987. 0.6 The SUPERLEG stores were changed to TOYS”R”US in 1996, when we entered a cooperation with TOYS”R”US INTERNATIONAL INC. 0.4 At the same time, existing TOYS”R”US stores were acquired in 0.2 Sweden and Denmark. Today, we have an exclusive license for TOYS”R”US stores in the Nordic region, with full responsibility over 0 the product assortment and operations. Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun We operate 53 stores across Norway, Sweden, Finland, Denmark and Iceland, giving us a strong position in the market. We also continue to see positive developments in our customers’ brand awareness, which reached 83% in 2015. 53 stores Over 500 full-time employees Revenue DKK 1.45billion 6.2 million customers served ~75,000 new TOYS”R”US newsletter members (out of a total of ~273,000) ~83% customer brand awareness 18 million products sold +3% same-store sales growth 12 TOYS”R”US – the one-stop destination with everything for children At TOP-TOY, our ambition is to make TOYS”R”US the no. 1 destination in the Nordic region for large-size products and Selected KPIs for TOYS”R”US by 2020 products related to events and seasons – offering great prices, good bargains and entertaining shopping experiences. DKK 2.5 billion in revenue Why we are doing this ~15 TOYS”R”US is a consistent growth driver for TOP-TOY. Our stores are Increase TOYS”R”US footprint in an important part of that success. Offering a world of toys and other the Nordic region with a growth of products for children to try out and play with, the stores continue to stores +3% in same-store sales annually be worth a visit. growth Despite challenges such as increasing price competition from hypermarkets and the growth of online channels, we are conﬁdent that we can grow market shares in today’s more price-sensitive Performance in TOYS”R”US in 2014/15 market. We will reinforce our already strong position through great shopping experiences, competitive prices and a broad assortment of Net growth of entertaining products. 1 store What we want to achieve DKK 1.6 billion in revenue +3% By building on these strengths, we aim to develop the TOYS”R”US identity as the most entertaining destination for children and adults, offering customers fun experiences and events along with the largest assortment of children’s favourite brands, best prices and greatest same-store sales growth bargains. The ambition is to make TOYS”R”US the place to go for everything for children. Our progress – optimising our TOYS”R”US store network What we will do Driving store network growth We have identiﬁed two strategic levers to help us reach our goals. We will continue to expand the TOYS”R”US footprint where possible. We will increase sales by strengthening the customers’ shopping During 2014/15, we opened one new store in Finland in line with our experience in our TOYS”R”US stores, including further store strategic goals. modernisation. This includes building in-store experience universes in key categories, creating points of inspiration and entertainment, and What’s next? introducing designated areas for events and seasons. During 2015, we investigated various possibilities for a partnership between TOYS”R”US and an NGO in order to support children in By opening new stores in markets with growth potential, we will need. We expect to establish a partnership during 2015/16. continuously optimise our TOYS”R”US store network. Our plan is to open ﬁve more TOYS”R”US stores during 2015/16. Our progress – strengthening the shopping experience in our TOYS”R”US stores Progress on initiatives Deadline Status TOYS”R”US store modernisation During 2014/15, we re-opened our TOYS”R”US store in Barkaby, Develop inspiring store concept 2016/17 New Stockholm at a new location. The new store now includes many Establish NGO partnership 2015/16 New entertaining elements, such as fun toys for children to try out and play with and maze-style ﬂoor spacing. Whenever we open new stores going forward, we will use the design in the Barkaby store for inspiration. TOYS”R”US store events We introduced Black Friday in all our physical TOYS”R”US stores in 2014. At this event, our TOYS”R”US stores sold nearly ﬁve times as much at that same day as last year, driven by our 25% discount on all products. This resulted in our highest ever revenue in a single day. New employee uniforms All TOYS”R”US retail employees were given the choice between several new uniforms during 2014/15. The uniforms are all Oeko-Tex® certiﬁed and sourced from socially responsible suppliers. Bringing our stores closer to the customer 13 PRODUCTS OUR AMBITION • Ensuring the best product assortment OUR PRIORITIES • To offer fun and inspirational products at BR • To have everything for children at TOYS”R”US • To ensure safe playing experiences • To ensure responsible sourcing of products Fun and inspiring products at BR It is critical to our future success that we offer products in line with customer preferences. To give our customers maximum value, we are strengthening our assortment with products that inspire fun and safe play. Why we are doing this Our focus remains the same – to offer an exceptional product Selected KPIs for BR by 2020 assortment that is fun, surprising and inspiring. Understanding 50% children’s playing patterns and customer preferences are at the heart Increase the share of of that. BR products by more than Social and technological trends are driving changes in traditional playing patterns. We must anticipate these changes. A generation ago, an eight year-old would prefer to play with a doll or a car. Today, Performance in BR in 2014/15 101 eight year-olds are likely to spend more time playing with a tablet. This development creates the need to offer a wider range of products, combining classical toys with the digital universe and interactive 25% revenue new BR technology. based on BR products and What we want to achieve products own-brands We want to continue increasing same-store sales growth, establish our position as the ‘authority on toys’ and secure improved proﬁtability. These goals all depend on our ability to offer a targeted assortment We are very enthusiastic about this new product offering as it supports of fun, inspiring and high quality products and categories that make all the values BR stands for – fun, learning and togetherness – children happy. We want to become our customers’ ﬁrst choice for appealing to children and adults alike. So far the results have been very baby and toddler toys and the newest trendy items for young kids. positive, and we expect to increase revenue over the coming years. What we will do New BR product lines Going forward, we will focus on one strategic lever: to strengthen To differentiate BR from other retailers, we have invested in developing the customer value of our BR product assortment by offering new lines of exciting BR products, sold exclusively in our BR stores products that target babies, toddlers and young kids even more and webshops. These products have been designed with a focus strongly. We will rebuild our assortment around occasions, such as on the physical development, learning abilities and creative thinking birthdays, establish clear category proﬁles, and increase the share of of children aged 0-3 years. The launch of our BR Wood products in BR products and own-brands. autumn 2014 was a key milestone, followed by our BR Bath product line in spring 2015. During the ﬁnancial year, we also relaunched our Our progress – strengthening the updated FOOD’N’FUN own-brands, which are now exclusive to BR. customer value of our BR product assortment We expect these lines to promote strong growth in BR. Assortment and categories based on customer preferences In the past, our range of toys and children’s products was heavily What’s next? inﬂuenced by the selection available from our suppliers. To build the In 2015/16, we will continue to work on building the BR proﬁle as the BR identity as the authority on toys, in 2014/15 we began shifting the authority on toys for children aged 0-8 years. In line with our 2020 balance towards a product assortment and category mix that reﬂect to strategy, we will launch exciting new product lines, including infant, a greater extent what our target customers want. Based on extensive toddler and creativity toys. surveys and customer analyses, we will establish new product categories that target speciﬁc customer segments. Progress on initiatives Deadline Status New category launched Launch new BR products 2015/16 On track In October 2014, we introduced children’s books to our product assortment in Denmark – an initiative we also extended to Sweden in May 2015. Three of our most popular products in 2014/15 Ensuring the best product assortment 15 Responsible BR product line This BR stacking soldier is sold in all our stores and webshops. It is part of BR’s new wooden product line, launched in autumn 2014 and is intended for children from 18 months of age. Children have a right to safe play. To protect China is the country of origin. Like all them, the BR stacking soldier has gone our products from China, the soldier has through a thorough safety and quality been produced in a factory that has been procedure to ensure it meets the highest audited for its working conditions. mechanical and chemical safety standards. Play is vital for children to develop some of their basic skills. The BR stacking soldier The soldier has been subjected to has been designed with much consideration several mechanical tests. It has been for the physical development, learning dropped from a height of 1.4 metres and creative thinking of children. It is great several times and been hit, twisted and for challenging and developing hand-eye stretched to make sure it functions in coordination and problem-solving skills. the right way. It does not break easily and does not have any sharp edges that can hurt children. During the design process, the aim was to develop a product that is not only fun and important to child development. It should also be stylish and based on It is perfectly safe for children to put the Scandinavian design. It is durable, classic soldier in their mouths. All ingredients in and evokes a sense of nostalgia. the paint have been evaluated to make sure there are no harmful substances. It is made from FSC® certiﬁed wood. That means it supports responsible forestry and is certiﬁed in accordance with FSC standards. The wood is high-quality beech and plywood to ensure safe, ﬁrst-class play. 16 Everything for children at TOYS”R”US We are strengthening our category mix and product range in TOYS”R”US. Our ambition, as always, is to offer everything for children to encourage fun, good playing experiences and memorable moments. Our progress – strengthening the customer value of our Why we are doing this TOYS”R”US product assortment At TOYS”R”US, we have enjoyed many years of success with offering Aligning the assortment and categories with customer preferences our customers every toy and children’s product they could possibly We are stepping up our efforts to drive sales through large-size and imagine. Today’s changing playing patterns and demands mean we entertaining products during major seasons. One of our main focus must improve our ability to anticipate trends and understand customer areas is to target children of all ages with products in the outdoor preferences. By doing so, we believe we can continue to grow our categories. Products such as pools, sports gear and trampolines are same-store sales, establish a position as the retailer with ‘everything helping to drive strong sales development in this category. for children’, and secure proﬁtability through stronger proﬁling of the TOYS”R”US concept. We are trying to broaden our interpretation of what can be considered play in relation to different occasions and, in doing so, adjust our What we want to achieve product assortment accordingly. This means we will continue to offer We want customers to perceive TOYS”R”US as the entertaining toy new products beyond the traditional toy category, such as home chain, where a broad assortment of great children’s toys and other textiles, lamps and children apparel and accessories. products is guaranteed, including good bargains and everyday low prices. We want to be our customers’ ﬁrst choice for large-size What’s next? products, seasonal products for Christmas and Halloween and In 2015/16, we will continue to build the TOYS”R”US ‘everything for products linked to events such the launch of a new children’s movie. children’ proﬁle by developing our range of large, seasonal and eventrelated products for children aged 0-12 years and offering great prices What we will do to our customers. We will drive growth and increase market share by strengthening the customer value of our TOYS”R”US product assortment. We will create a strong category mix that serves a broader target group, including consumers up to 12 years old. We will extend our product assortment to ensure we cover a broad and entertaining range of categories with a wide selection of well-known brands. Three of our most popular products in 2014/15 Ensuring the best product assortment 17 Safe playing experiences Children have a right to safe play. Our thorough product safety and quality assurance procedures aim to ensure the highest safety standards for children’s protection. Safety throughout a product’s lifecycle Through our collaboration with industry associations and the European Safety continues to be a no.1 priority. We want children to have fun, and Danish standardisation committees, we continue to play an active engaging and, most importantly, safe playing experiences. This is role in driving and advocating strict and meaningful safety regulations. only possible because we work systematically to integrate safety At the same time, we encourage market surveillance by relevant throughout a product’s lifecycle in order to meet or exceed safety and authorities to ensure a level playing ﬁeld. This is part of our effort to quality legislation and standards in the EU and elsewhere. promote a responsible industry, where the rights of all children to safe play are protected and where parents trust the toys they buy. TOP-TOY’s safety process Production Quality checks and inspections are performed Development during production as a safeguard against Every product design is assessed for its chemical potential risks. We pay special attention to and mechanical safety and quality. The design critical points in the manufacturing process, for may be changed and improved before products are approved for production. 228 production inspections example the use of chemicals. Complex products such as cosmetics are also subject to particular scrutiny. Parts or materials that do not meet our requirements are improved or reworked as early in the production process as possible. Production Process starts inspection Product accepted for production FInal products 4,831 product inspections Testing of Confirmation DUCTION products by of factory PR O 3rd party labs Specification of Product requirements inspection by TOP-TOY 3,300 VERIFICATION DEVELOPMENT Verification of Assessment of documentation verified product design and labelling new products and sample 973 products assessed Final products are approved A sample is made Shipment An idea is born SALE Monitoring and collecting claims Evaluation and registration of Feedback to incidents supplier Sale Veriﬁcation Once products are on the market, we continue All ﬁnished products are tested by to monitor their safety and quality by collecting 1 recall an accredited third party and veriﬁed feedback from consumers. This provides input by TOP-TOY to ensure they live up for any future product redesigns. Our strict safety to the strict European legislation and quality control has minimised the number and standards for mechanical and of recalls in the past few years. In 2014, we only chemical safety. recalled one product; the Sully Monster Mask from our supplier Spin Master. 18 Responsible sourcing of products We recognise our responsibility to respect labour and human rights. This is increasingly relevant in our value chain where, through our factory compliance programme, we work continuously to ensure respect for international labour standards. Our approach to factory compliance Our collaboration with the International Council of Toy Industries (ICTI) Since we opened our Hong Kong procurement ofﬁce in 1992, we have Care Foundation and participation in its Technical Advisory Committee been committed to sourcing products only from suppliers that are reﬂect our continuous commitment to responsible manufacturing willing to work with us transparently to improve their social practices. practices at industry level. This remains an integrated part of our procurement processes. In 2015, we also initiated a dialogue with the Centre for Children’s During 2014/15, we worked with 871 factories to screen the working Rights and Corporate Social Responsibility (CCR CSR). The aim of conditions of the factory workers who manufacture products we offer this collaboration is to identify appropriate measures for mitigating to our customers. any adverse impacts on human rights in our operations. Together with CCR CSR, we will further assess our impact on younger and migrant workers in our supply chain and establish a process for tackling child labour should this be detected. TOP-TOY’s factory compliance process Approval If an audit report does not contain any critical Audits ﬁndings or, if necessary, the factory agrees to Once a year, factory performance and progress appropriate corrective action, the factory is are monitored via audits, conducted either by us approved and production can start. The factory or, in most cases, by 3rd party auditing bodies. may be subject to a follow-up audit to verify that A factory audit consists of several steps, corrective action is being implemented according including document reviews, interviews with to plan. The most common reasons for contract workers and management, and a visual termination are related to lack of transparency, inspection at the factory. forged records and non-declared subcontracting. Assessment of the Social audits documentation at factory Assessment of Relevant factory audit reports documentation is submitted to A U DI T S TOP-TOY Screening of Approval or potential rejection of factories factory DOCUMENTATION APPROVAL Documentation All factories are assessed according to submitted factory documentation An idea is Production starts and audit reports before born an approval can be issued and an order placed with a supplier. Geographical distribution of factories 2014/15 Factory certiﬁcation and audits 2014/15 1% 3% China ICTI 4% 5% 9% Europe Low risk countires 69% (excluding Nordic countries) 45% 19% 15% SA-8000, BSCI and SMETA China ICTI Nordic countries 45% 69% Asia (excluding China) TOP-TOY own audits 28% Other Other Ensuring the best product assortment 19 CUSTOMERS OUR AMBITION • Providing a seamless customer journey OUR PRIORITIES • To ensure a seamless customer experience at all touchpoints Seamless customer experiences The online channel represents one of the largest opportunities for BR and TOYS”R”US and is a signiﬁcant growth driver for TOP-TOY. We want to strengthen our omni-channel approach, creating a seamless journey for our customers whether they shop online or in our stores. With well-established online platforms Secondly, we will streamline our operations by optimising our backand a strong Club BR, we are in a good position to be the leading end systems and supply chain platform. This will improve our ability omni-channel provider in the Nordic region going forward. to reduce costs, for example in relation to storage, distribution and transportation, and enable us to offer multiple delivery and pick-up Why we are doing this opportunities. We have traditionally built our success on stores that are close to our customers. However, following the rise of online opportunities, Selected KPIs for omni-channel by 2020 customers have become accustomed to shopping whenever and +25% wherever it suits them and having their products delivered faster through multiple channels. Online revenue growth annually Online toy sales are expected to grow from 11% of the market today to account for to an estimated 22% by 2020. This makes it a major growth driver for TOP-TOY, offering great potential to improve revenues and market 25-50% of online orders shares. An omni-channel approach that fully integrates the online and ofﬂine distribution channel provides further opportunities to bring more agility to our supply chain. Performance in omni-channel in 2014/15 Our understanding of customer behaviour and purchasing patterns is key to building stronger relations and strengthening loyalty at a time 12 million visitors to BR websites 13 million when many online platforms are competing for the same customers. visitors to TOYS”R”US websites To create a seamless customer experience, it is paramount that we focus on having webshops that are fully integrated with the service and product assortment in our stores and a ﬂexible supply chain that Our progress – strengthening the omni-channel shopping delivers products on time. Customer advantages of this integration experience of our customers include ﬂexible deliveries and the easy exchange of a product Customer journey model purchased online in any of our stores. The development of an adaptable omni-channel concept requires that we are always where our customers are and that we accommodate What we want to achieve their needs. We are building a customer journey model that depicts Wherever our customers meet us, we want to give them a seamless each touchpoint where we meet our dual target group – children customer journey, where they experience us as consistent, transparent and their parents – whether in our stores or on our websites, wishlist and easily accessible. App, Club BR or Facebook. Our objective is to use the model to gain valuable insights so we can continuously improve our customer Today, we are in a good position to serve our customers in our stores service at each touchpoint. For example, we want to identify and and online. But we need to strengthen our omni-channel approach quickly solve any potential purchase barriers that may occur in the further to anticipate growing customer demand for convenience customer journey. across all channels. Our existing strong front-end setup, comprising two strong retail chains with an extensive network of stores, is ideally BR website positioned to drive online trafﬁc and strengthen our leading omniOver the last two years, the BR website has been fully upgraded in channel position in the Nordic region. line with the new BR concept, featuring improved navigation and guidance icons and an assortment that is as inspirational as that Streamlining our operations is also an essential part of achieving that available from our physical stores. Our Club BR is also integrated in goal. This ensures our products are always delivered on time and our online offerings. This modernisation has already produced positive through the right channels. results, attracting 12 million online visitors and bringing signiﬁcant sales growth in 2014/15. What we will do To deliver on our ambition to be the clear leader in the omni-channel TOYS”R”US website segment, we have identiﬁed two strategic levers. We will strengthen In 2014/15, the TOYS”R”US websites went through a similar the omni-channel shopping experience of our customers by modernisation process. The new design and simple navigation focusing on building a clear omni-channel concept. We will do this by features have made the online shopping experience much easier for further optimising our online platforms, so they are fully integrated with customers. As with our BR websites, visits to the TOYS”R”US website our physical stores and product assortment, and by expanding our have also grown and had 13 million visitors in 2014/15. customer service offerings. Providing a seamless customer journey 21 Click and collect service Our progress – streamlining our operations A new click and collect service, offered across all our stores, was Operations in place to support click and collect service introduced in 2014/15. The new service supports online purchases Our back-end platform to support our click and collect service went with new delivery options. This gives customers the opportunity to live in 2014. The integrated fulﬁlment setup facilitates single pick, purchase our products online and collect them later in any of our packaging and delivery from Poland directly to our customer homes or BR or TOYS”R”US stores, enhancing convenience and making our stores. our products more accessible. The service has been well received, accounting for more than one third of all BR online orders by May What’s next? 2015. The service is expected to continue giving positive results. It In 2015/16, we will continue to adjust and improve the current click also supports same-store sales by driving trafﬁc to stores, taking us a and collect service, based on ongoing evaluations and customer step further towards our goal of a complete omni-channel setup. insights. Some of the changes will include store process optimisation and a new SMS service, which will send customers a text when an During 2014/15, we also introduced e-receipts in the Nordic countries. order is ready to be picked up. Once our new SAP system is in place Via an app, customers can now use digital receipts when making a during 2017, we expect to accelerate the development of an efﬁcient return. All they need to do is bring their smartphone. The physical integrated fulﬁlment model to optimise the click and collect service receipt is no longer a requirement. We see e-receipts as an innovative further and drive omni-channel customer value. way of enhancing the in-store experience with the added beneﬁt of saving paper. We will continue to redeﬁne and strengthen our Club BR. The aim is to give members more reasons to visit our stores outside the Christmas Club BR season and to drive up store visits. During 2014/15, we initiated the process of digitalising Club BR. The aim is to strengthen our value proposition towards parents and children through a number of new features. These include the Progress on initiatives Deadline Status digitalisation of saving stickers, so they can be used across all our Implement electronic receipts system 2015/16 Done channels, changing the membership conﬁguration towards a family structure to improve access and user experience, and releasing new Strengthen Club BR 2015/16 On track apps, including an updated wish list module. Optimise click and collect service End 2015 On track In September, 2015 we started testing the new Club BR in Norway, prior to launch in all our other markets. The initial responses have been very positive and promising. TOP-TOY omni-channel customer journey DISCOVER BUY STORE/ONLINE TV Commercials/YOUTUBE/APP SELECT EVALUATE NEED/ WISHLIST/APP/ONLINE WWW/SOCIAL MEDIA OCCASION PH YSIC AL ICAL PHYS DIGITAL DI GI TA L RESEARCH EXPERIENCE SHOP STORE/ONLINE PLAY DI G IT AL DI G IT A L L P H YSI C A L P H YS I C A INSPIRATION WISHLIST STORE/ONLINE APP/CATALOGUE/STORE HIGH PARENT INFLUENCE RECEIVE STORE/PACKAGE/GIFT HIGH CHILD INFLUENCE 22 COMPANY OUR AMBITION • Improving TOP-TOY’s agility OUR PRIORITIES • To ensure efﬁcient processes, organisation and systems Efﬁcient processes, organisation and systems We aim to build an agile organisation, capable of responding rapidly to change, challenges and opportunities – to drive BR and TOYS”R”US successfully towards 2020. Why we are doing this Diversity We are operating in a retail market that is rapidly changing. It is We believe that our future competitiveness depends on our ability to becoming more competitive and globalised, with online channels attract and retain an engaged and competent workforce, recognising that give customers access to a wider range of products that can the beneﬁts of diversity in respect of gender, culture and experience. be delivered wherever they desire. This puts more pressure on us to respond rapidly to changing product trends and customer demands The criteria for selecting board members are based on family by bringing products faster and more efﬁciently to market. relationships and competences. Within the next ﬁve years, we have set the goal that two of our board members should be women. Today, What we want to achieve one board member out of six is female. There have been no changes We want our organisation to be agile and lean, with engaged and in our board members since last year. competent people, integrated standardised systems and transparent, efﬁcient processes that facilitate ﬂexibility and speed – an organisation At the end of the ﬁnancial year, women accounted for 59% of all TOPwith the right infrastructure, ready for change and capable of meeting TOY managers, up from 57% in 2013/14. There are no women in the the future needs of our retail business and customer expectations. EMT, while 25% of TMT members are women. Our aim is to continue progressing towards our long-term commitment to hire and promote What we will do women at top management level. We believe an improved gender To drive the implementation of our ambitious 2020 Strategy, we will balance in our talent pool contributes to a stronger organisation. focus on two strategic levers. We will strengthen our organisation Our 2015/16 target is that around half of all new appointments to by streamlining our organisational structure to support clear managerial positions should be women. Internal promotions will take accountability and faster decision-making. We will optimise systems into consideration our ambition to increase gender, nationality and and processes by investing in an integrated SAP system that can cultural diversity within our top management group. update and streamline our business activities. This will improve our business planning, data transparency and supply chain Women and men in top synergies. management 2014/15 Women Men Our progress – strengthening our organisation Board of directors 17% 83% One CEO leading an executive management team Executive management team (EMT) 0% 100% Our new, agile management set-up was launched in 2014/15. This Top management team (TMT) 25% 75% aims for clear accountability and fast decision-making, based on a Middle managers 26% 74% Store managers 67% 33% strong, customer-centric approach and retail focus. The TOP-TOY board of directors brought a 50-year tradition for family Our progress – optimising systems and processes co-CEOs to an end and appointed Peter Gjørup as sole CEO, leading a new seven-member executive management team (EMT). The role of New SAP system the EMT is to drive our strategic development, ensure alignment and In the past, we have used several systems to support our operational clear objectives across the organisation, and make timely activities. Moving forward, we will implement one global SAP system – commercial decisions. an enterprise resource planning system that can better accommodate and support global processes and, not least, facilitate our retail and Top management team omni-channel agenda. The new system will secure the clarity and The next layer of our new management set-up comprises an transparency of all data across our organisation. It will also help to additional 13 members. The top management team (TMT) functions gather and integrate key data and measure and evaluate our business as a sparring partner for the EMT on important topics and decisions performance in terms of sales, distribution and customer satisfaction. with a long planning horizon, concerning governance, policies, culture, In this way, we will be able to beneﬁt from best practice in our strategy and communication. planning, operations and reporting. The aim is that phase one of the SAP system will go live in early 2017, replacing a large number of our existing systems. Prior to this, CEO several implementation steps will be carried out. So far, these are progressing as planned. In 2015, we initiated a prototype phase, which will be used to learn and test the core processes. This will provide the foundation on which the future system will be built, based EMT on standardised processes. TMT 24 Efﬁcient indirect procurement processes Closure of wholesale business To reduce our costs and consumption and ensure the highest possible To allow us to focus our efforts on optimising our retail business, quality, we are reevaluating existing contracts for products and we decided early in the year to close down our wholesale business services that we buy but do not re-sell. These cover, for instance, NORSTAR by the end of 2015. All customer commitments will be met freight, marketing and store ﬁttings. During 2014/15, we established until then. This process is progressing as planned. Our showrooms in an indirect procurement team, responsible for renegotiating a number Sweden, Norway and Finland have all been closed down. of existing contracts and ensuring better deals with new suppliers. Last year, we reduced our capital expenditure by more than DKK 12.9 What’s next? million and operating expenses by DKK 3.9 million. We expect these In 2015/16, we will continue to implement our new SAP system. positive results to continue. We expect the prototype to be approved by the end of 2015. A pilot system will then be built. Our efforts to improve our indirect Integrated business planning processes procurement are expected to bring further cost reductions over the During 2014/15, we continued to strengthen our business planning next year. processes to enable a faster response to market developments and customer needs. We established a strategic category management Progress on initiatives Deadline Status framework and are developing category strategies that, together with our new SAP system, will enable us to optimise product availability Savings on indirect procurement 2017/18 On track and inventory levels. Implementation of SAP system 2017/18 On track TOP-TOY leadership organisational chart Executive management team (EMT) Top management team (TMT) Peter Gjørup Chief Executive Ofﬁcer Liselotte G. Carlsen Vice President, Christina W. Dahl Communications & Executive Assistant Sustainability Carsten Nielsen Søren Blangsted Thomas Meng Lars Gjørup Jens Hansen Henning Andersen Bröchner Chief Commercial Ofﬁcer, Chief Sales Ofﬁcer, Chief Marketing Ofﬁcer, Chief Procurement Ofﬁcer, Chief Operations Ofﬁcer, Chief Financial Ofﬁcer, EVP EVP EVP EVP EVP SEVP Brian Dannaher Jan Nyberg Christian Gjørup Anders Gylling Lone Damsgaard Kenneth Irene Katballe Jan Erik Løwe Vice President, Vice President, Vice President, Vice President, Vice President, HR Messerschmidt Vice President, Business Controlling Sales Denmark Sales Sweden Sales Norway & Sales Finland & Vice President, IT Wholesale Manager Germany Iceland Rene Schweitzer Chas Saunter Winny Leung Vice President, Vice President, Vice President, Procurement Product Design & Business Support Development HK Improving TOP-TOY’s agility 25 Our business 2,177 full-time employees 244 BR stores 53 TOYS”R”US stores 3 26 ICELAND FINLAND FAROE SWEDEN ISLANDS 6 NORWAY 29 1 16 Franchise store 12 191 61 44 317 492 16 89 DENMARK 989 Copenhagen 81 HONG KONG GERMANY 21 Main ofﬁces 82 26 Our business as it looked at the end of the ﬁscal year June 30, 2015. Financial performance 2014/15 saw a strong development in our ﬁnancial results. The upward trend in our operating proﬁt, which we already saw Operating profit (EBITDA) last year, is evidence of a critical turnaround for our business. DKK Million 240 We are pleased to see that our ability to drive sales and improve operational efﬁciency is moving us in the right direction, and we 220 are conﬁdent that our 2020 strategy will enable us to ensure long200 term proﬁtability and continued growth as we move into 2015/16. 180 160 Operating proﬁt 140 This year’s operating proﬁt (EBITDA) was DKK 225 million compared 120 to DKK 138 million in 2013/14 – an increase of 62%. This marks the 100 second year in a row where we have experienced an upward trend in 80 our operating proﬁts by improving the efﬁciency of our organisation, 60 processes and operations. 40 20 Approximately DKK 38 million of the increased operating proﬁt comes 0 from adjustments in the methodology used for management’s write*2010/11 *2011/12 *2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 down of obsolete inventory and usage of Club BR stamps. Our cost reduction programme, initiated in May 2014, was another important contributor to our improved proﬁtability. Projects carried out as part of this programme – including the implementation of a leaner organisation – all delivered signiﬁcant cost savings during 2014/15 Revenue and contributed to a 3.6% reduction in staff. DKK Billion 4.5 Although our wholesale business increased its proﬁtability, the results 4.0 were not satisfying in view of the added complexity and overhead 3.5 costs. Therefore, we have taken the strategic decision to focus 3.0 exclusively on our retail business. For this reason, the wholesale 2.5 business will close after the 2015 Christmas season. 2.0 *2010/11 *2011/12 *2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 Revenue Our total revenue increased to DDK 4,007 million, compared to DKK 3,972 million in 2013/14 – an increase of 1%. Total revenue from our retail business grew 2.7%, while revenue from our wholesale business declined. Revenue in retail DKK Billion The retail growth results from the opening of new stores, increased 4.0 webshop revenue and a 4% rise in same-store sales due to increased 3.5 customer demand. This has more than offset the impact of store 3.0 closures and exchange ﬂuctuations. 2.5 2.0 Retail highlights *2010/11 *2011/12 *2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 Key developments in our retail business include: • Our total revenue increased from DKK 3,335 million to DKK 3,424 million (+2.7%), despite the negative exchange rate impact of the Swedish and Norwegian krone. Total revenue in local currency Revenue in wholesale rose 4.9%. DKK Million • Our same-store sales grew 4% overall, with a 5% increase in BR 800 and 3% increase in TOYS”R”US. 700 • The BR and TOYS”R”US webshops experienced strong growth in 600 trafﬁc and revenue and a very high customer satisfaction rate. 500 400 Wholesale highlights *2010/11 *2011/12 *2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 Key developments in our wholesale business include: • Revenue declined from DKK 629 million in 2013/2014 to DKK 592 million in 2014/15 (-5.9%) • In February 2015, it was announced that the wholesale business will be closed after the 2015 Christmas sales. The decision was announced early in the year to give employees, suppliers and customers time to adjust to the changes. Our performance 27 Financial performance Looking to the future Customer behaviour continues to change, bringing new shopping Financial goals by 2020 +10% patterns such as home delivery purchases and cross-border 3.5% shopping. This will beneﬁt some parts of our business, but is a EBITDA challenge in other parts. A series of initiatives in our 2020 Strategy will improve our ability to respond to these behavioural changes. Same-store sales growth of annually 5 billion DKK These include activities that increase our focus on omni-channel development and customer-centricity. revenue from the Nordic retail operations We have set some ambitious ﬁnancial goals in our 2020 Strategy. (+50% revenue growth) We expect our Nordic revenue to reach DKK 5 billion by 2020, corresponding to retail revenue growth of +50%. We also target an EBITDA level of +10% of revenue and same-store sales growth of +3.5%, adjusted annually for currency ﬂuctuations. In 2015/16, we will continue to drive the implementation of our strategy in the pursuit of long-term proﬁtability, continued growth and maintaining our position as the undisputed no. 1 retailer in the Nordic region for products that make children smile. At the same time, we will increase our focus on margin improvement, permanent cost reduction and activities to support our sales. In this way, we aim to ensure that the positive trend we have experienced in the last two years will continue in the years to come. TOP-TOY key figures Five-year key figures in DKK million *2010/11 *2011/12 *2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 Revenue 3,954.1 4,044.4 4,100.3 3,972.1 4,007 EBITDA (operating proﬁt) 227.6 171.4 131 138.4 224.6 EBIT 155.2 93.3 45.2 84.2 142.4 Proﬁt before tax 147.5 100.2 22.5 88.6 141.8 Employees and stores Number of full-time employees 2,261 2,358 2,352 2,258 2,177 Number of stores 286 297 299 302 297 Key financial ratio Operating margin 3.9% 2.3% 1.1% 3.1% 3.6% * 2010/11, 2011/12 and 2012/13 are non-audited ﬁgures as the company did not make a consolidated ﬁnancial statement on TOP-TOY A/S these years. 28 Methodology and reporting framework Scope and reporting framework This report focuses on our performance during the ﬁnancial year from July 1, 2014 to June 30, 2015. The report meets the criteria of the UN Global Compact, including the commitment to issue an annual Communication on Progress (COP) report. In addition, the report complies with the statutory statement on Corporate Social Responsibility by the Danish Financial Statements Act, section 99a and to the statutory statement on Corporate Social Responsibility by the Danish Financial Statements Act, section 99b. Non-ﬁnancial data This report is based on quantitative and qualitative data collected from internal systems and key people across the organisation. Statements and data have been veriﬁed for correctness by responsible managers to ensure the report is an accurate reﬂection of TOP-TOY’s performance. We work continuously to improve our data collection and veriﬁcation systems and become more data driven. Financial data The ﬁnancial data throughout this report covers TOP-TOY A/S and its subsidiaries. The ﬁgures from 2010/11, 2011/12 and 2012/13 are non-audited as the company did not make a consolidated ﬁnancial statement on TOP-TOP A/S these years. Business sense Responsibility Family tree Top performance Toy fun We seek to give good service to We take responsibility for We want to bring joy to We strive to be top performers. Fun is a key driver in our work. our customers by offering the our actions throughout the children and families by We want to do better than We are dedicated to bringing right quality product at the right value chain and for our most selling good quality products yesterday, and we do this by smiles to the faces of our time and at the right price. important stakeholders – that contribute to fun and actively listening to relevant customers and colleagues. the children who play with memorable moments. stakeholders and closely our products. monitoring our performance. 29 TOP-TOY Roskildevej 16, 4030 Tune Denmark (until February 2016) Delta Park 37, 2665 Vallensbæk Denmark (from March 2016) Tel +45 4616 3656 www.top-toy.com TOP-TOY Hong Kong 11/F, Manhattan Place, 23 Wang Tai Road Kowloon Bay, Kowloon, Hong Kong Tel +852 3143 8888 www.top-toy.com NORSTAR Sintrupvej 12, 8220 Brabrand Denmark Tel +45 8944 2200 www.norstar.eu (will close end 2015) For more information about TOP-TOY and our performance, visit: www.top-toy.com Please forward any questions or comments to the Communications and Sustainability team at com@top-toy.com © 2015, TOP-TOY A/S. All rights reserved. 541-492 Printed matter
