GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2014-20016 1 GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2014-2016 Regardless of the fact that we live on a very small island, we work Contents: and serve in a way we are Company Information conscious of our responsibilities Who are we and what are we towards the whole world. We will doing? Vision, Mission ve Principles go on living and struggling with Message of Director these values. Human Rights Labour Standards Environments Anti-Corruption 2 COMPANY INFORMATION: Company Name : GigaByte Ltd. Address : Fener Sokak No:2 Kizilbas Lefkosa Country : CYPRUS Authorized Person : Yilmaz KAYGISIZ Authorized Person Position : Director Contact Number : +90 392 4442298 Date : 21/08/2012 Membership Date : 26/07/2006 Personnel Quantity : 12 Sector : Information Technology WHO ARE WE AND WHAT ARE WE DOING? We have had operations in the Northern Cyprus since 1994. In our establishment, our purpose was to teach the computer use and its technologies. After a while, our operations were developed by our commitment of the sales, training and support for the Commercial Packaged Software. GigaByte Ltd. provided service only in the subjects of Training and Software between the years of 1995 – 1996. By establishing the sales, setup, repair and service center for computers, it began to provide service in the hardware sector as well in 1997. By this means, it became a Company that was creating solutions for Network and Automation and that providing service to these systems. It was the first domestic company that was creating solutions for the Market and Store automations and that giving support to these solutions in 1998. Their IBM solution partnership which was established by it 1999 resulted in its being the sole and the leader company providing service in retail sector. The studies continued in spite of the crisis in 2000 and it developed software solutions for the devices such as Price Verifier / Checker Systems, Barcode Printers and Barcode Scales rarely used in the Country. In 2003, it presented the palm-based devices and hand held computers to the market, created solutions for these devices and ensured that these products were used in its own market. The systems such as Pharmacy, Water-Meter Reading, Billing In-Place, and Stock Taking are the examples for them. By expanding its software team, it developed the StockMan – which was its own Packaged Software in the same period. Its project studies continued in 2004, but they changed direction due to the obligation for transition to YTL and it successfully accomplished the operation for omitting 6 zeros. Moreover, it was deemed as being worthy of The Top Service Award of IBM POS in this respect for the second time. In 2005, however, it improved its studies on the Mobile applications and established the Solution Partnership with the DATAKOD Company for the Wireless and Mobile solutions such as GSM/GPRS, Wi-Fi, BlueTooth. It succeeded to establish the communication of IBM in Entry01 cash register with PC via the Bluetooth modem. In 2006, it also continued its studies and presented the new versions of the StockMan, FinanceMan, BarcodeMan and SMPOS software to the usage of its customers by adding a great deal of new features to the software it was developing. Moreover, the necessary modifications were applied for making electronic commerce both with DSDS and StockMan software. We transformed our software products to software package in 2011 and we made a brand of softwaremen also established www.softwaremen.com site. To sales and marketing of the country, we creatied a dealer network and managed this netwrok through the B2B site. We were also become Microsoft ISV Gold partner and software continues to improve its standards. 3 At the beginning of the year 2012, we could comlete datacenter projects that are in progress 2 years. And Gigabyte Ltd. started to provide data hosting services. www.datumcenter.com site set up for these services to the end user via the electronic trading system serves. To increasing the level of knowledge about Netwrok , we added Cisco select parnership program. In addition we were expertise in security with Karsperky and expertice in backup systems with Acronis the business relations. We became membership with Ripe NCC has its own IP block can offer customers. TSE technical service and software company with ISO 9001 and 27001 certifications adopted the concept of the international standards of service. Gigabyte Ltd shareholding structure was change August 2014. One of Director Lisani Deniz left from company. New shareholder people is Can Kaygısız and new secretary is Erkan Özyanak. 4 VISION MISSION VE PRINCIPLES By the speed of information, the fast-growing world gains acceleration as much again. This fast-growing process drives the IT sector before itself just as the brownout driven before a hurricane. Everyday we stand with open mouth before a new development or a new information product. What can be done? Is it possible to stand before this information hurricane without collapsing and being dispersed? Here GigaByte Ltd. has been challenging the time, speed and dispersing by means of both its knowledge and the Sales, Accounting, training-support, technical service, network and software staff it established and also by means of both its customer-focused service and support system and the solid business partnerships it established since 1994. It shall proceed to develop itself and continue to grow by means of the solutions it shall perform with the high-powered dealer networks it has currently established in the country and it will establish in abroad. Gigabyte Ltd, It prioritize the customer satisfaction unconditionally. It provides high quality solutions with high quality products. It seeks for the most adequate combination in the triangle of price, quality and performance. It follows up new Technologies and introduces them with its customers. It provides institutional solutions for increasing productivity and stability. Our Vision: To be a Company ensuring that its customers are developed all the time by means of the High Quality products and High Quality solutions, learning, teaching while learning and growing by renewing itself in the Northern Cyprus, Turkey and in the whole World. Our Mission: To work systematically and fastidiously for the purpose of improving customer-focused institutional solutions in many fields of the information sector by following up the new technologies in the fastgrowing and developing information world. Our Principles: Work as team work and with High Quality service understanding. Work decidedly and without regarding overtime work on the basis of honesty and reliability. Work in order to be better than our competitors, not to discredit them. Be capable of providing positive values to our customers by sharing with them. Create areas of expertise rather than doing every work. Respect positive, creative and innovative ideas. Give importance to knowledge, technology and new systems. Respect to human being, society, nature and the Country. Believe in peace not war, in love not violence. 5 THE MESSAGE OF THE DIRECTOR: Gigabyte Ltd aims developing with its workers in a way it pleases its customers and introducing products and services of international standard and quality. Till the present it has been such an informatics company that it aims respecting human rights with a responsibility consciousness, being environmentallyconscious, observing security and rights of its workers, giving a serious importance to humane, environmental and commercial values and also from now on it will maintain all of them. Since the very day it was founded, it has arranged planting tree programs for several times, with the campaigns “A Tree for Every Computer User” it has shown how a great importance it gives to its environment and it has carried on its studies with both its workers and its shareholders to create and to sustain this consciousness. Gigabyte LTD. signed the Global Principles Agreement as a company so, not only has it proven that it supports all the principles of this agreement but also recognized that every single step taken about human rights, worker rights and security has an international value Thus, regardless of the fact that we live on a very small island, we work and serve in a way we are conscious of our responsibilities towards the whole world. We will go on living and struggling with these values. 6 HUMAN RIGHTS 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. 2. Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. COMMITMENT As Gigabyte Ltd., We recognize Universal Declaration of Human Rights and respect these rights. We use our reasonable best efforts to integrate the rules relevant to human rights with our daily work activities. We do not become a party to human rights crimes directly or indirectly. SYSTEMS  We provide all our workers with a healthy and secure working environment.  Our building is safeguarded by a private security firm 24 hours a day 7 days a week.  We provide our personnel with food opportunities.  Drinks like tea, coffee and soft drinks our workers consume are met by our company.  Our foreign personnel work with working permit and insurance in accordance with Northern CYPRUS Laws, domestic personnel work with insurance.  Security reserve fund annuities are regularly paid to our personnel.  It is obligatory that our suppliers employ its workers with working permit and insurance. ACTIVITIES  In 2006-2007, professional and individual development trainings covering 482 man-hour were carried out in accordance with the needs of our workers.  To develop our personnel's experience within 2009-2010 year, we've presented a project of 800 education hours to the European Union and it has been accepted. Educations will be given to all our personnel. Between the years 2009-2011 has been the subject of technical training to take the entire staff.  Between the years 2011-2012, data on the host systems 450 man / hours of training is increased further.  All the workers employed undergo every kind of check-up.  We make our workers to use vehicle and consumer loan within the framework of a certain budget and criterai or help them to take up a loan.  Some activities such as picnic, ball, feast, excursion etc are organized with our workers at least four times a year. PERFORMANCE  In 2008, we sponsored a child needy of a private education for his education and integration into the society.  We sponsored a social activity in the field of struggling with drugs.  We take at least 3 trainees each year to our training programs for secondary-high 7 schools and universities in holiday terms and increase their practical working competencies.  In 2006, GigaByte Race Team was founded so that adolescents acquire good habits.  Since 2006 we have been a sponsor at Black Horse Chess Tournament organized in Nicosia Chess Club each year with the aim of that children between 7-15 years can get a new point of view with chess.  We donated computers to two elementary schools in 2007. In our company, 7 foreign personnel work with working permit and insurance, 7 domestic personnel work with insurance.  30 T-shorts have been given to Northern Cyprus Dart Union as a sponsorship.  A special scholarship has been given to a junior high school student.  Between the years 2009-2011 a total of 2 high school students, university students, internships are provided in 8 pieces.  Between the years 2009-2011 of 4 institutions and non-governmental organization, programs and services have been donated.  We bought two table for table tennis sport In 2012 for the staff sports. In this way, communication between the staff has increased by 60%.  We organised Table tennis tournament and six company / organization and 24 staff participated to this. Tournament along with an increase in communication between stakeholders and the staff was provided. Our commitment to the sport at the end of the tournament awards cocktail party organized once more emphasized.  We establish a web site www.yukselenyunus.com in order to maintain and diversify about different activities.  as a donation made www.kibrissanetdernegi.org site, hosting services are provided free of charge for 2 years.  www.kktckizilay.org domain and hosting services provided as a donation for a period of 3 years. 8 LABOUR STANDARDS 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining, 4. The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour, 5. The effective abolition of child labour, and 6. The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. COMMITMENT Unionization has not been a constitutional right in our country yet. However; we respect our workers’ unionization and labour agreement freedom. As GigaByte Ltd, we commit ourselves not to allow working by force and every kind of forced labour under any circumstances, and to use our best efforts to prevent all of them if any happens around us. We are against illegal child employment. Although child employment is not so common in our country, we commit ourselves to give a remarkable importance to eliminate it completely. GigaByte Ltd has adopted to implement a fair process as a company policy in terms of employment and professions regardless of religion, language, race, age, marital status, sexual preference, and political view. SYSTEMS  Assignment definitions are determined for the personnel. These assignment definitions are updated and declared from time to time.  We do not have any worker under 18.  We are fastidious about age determination taking a confirmed Identity Card or Passport in employment processes.  We behave in accordance with national and international working legislation.  Only education, experience and performance criteria of candidates are taken into account in employment processes.  Job and internship application form is available in our web site, anyone wishing to apply for a job and internship Ltd Gigabyte.  Our employment application form is published at our website, everybody wishing can apply to GigaByte Ltd.  We answer negatively or positively all the applications made either physically or online. 9 ACTIVITIES  The workers working in accordance with laws and personnel contract have the freedom to leave the job whenever they want.  Seminars, promotion meetings, workshops and trainings are organized so that our personnel can keep up with the latest developments and develop their competencies.  The personnel employed is obliged to attend the trainings his profession requires. These trainings are met by our company.  We've organized a Smart Planet, Smart Northern Cyprus titled seminar with our personnel, trainees, customers and IBM Corporation.  For staff and customers with POS Inc. retail sector management information update seminars were organized.  Company standard software products and making all personnel, publicity, was introduced.  We organized Table Tennis Tournament, and gave prizes to award-winning teams in this tournament with awards ceremony.  We started “bonus Point” for workers performance evaluation. 10 PERFORMANCE  Although our personnel are not members of a union, wage rise is arranged according to the minimum wage determined as a result of the agreement company reached with labor unions. This rate was determined as 10% for the first half of 2008.  Personnel wage arrangements are specified both according to minimum wage and individual performance and competency.  Every 6 months, Performance Evaluation is carried out to evaluate individual performance of the personnel. As a result of the evaluation, new aims were specified for 2 workers, and 2 workers started to be evaluated at one more upper status thanks to his achievements. GigaByte Ltd has never made anybody to work by force and employed a child worker. The number of the cases opened about the relevant issue is zero.  All Courses selected within the European Union project have been selected after a long personnel evaluation process.  10 staff benefited from this training.  Successful the 5 staff was awarded in New Year's Ball.  Your performance in order to contribute more, the 6-month evaluation method of performing, performance scoring method was adopted. With this method, the staff is more than just equality between the performance and cost will be provided.  Our in-house female / male ratio of approximately 50% in an effort to keep working.  In 2014 Our 4 workers evaluate with “bonus point” systems and they are earned bonus vacations 30 days. 11 ENVIRENMENT 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges, 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility, and 9. Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. COMMITMENT Gigabyte Ltd follows, support and tries to implement all environment-friendly approaches all around the world. We give necessary importance to avoid environmental pollution and to undertake the responsibilities. We recognize and support Rio Declaration in terms of environment. SYSTEMS  We make preferences in selecting suppliers according to their closeness to environmental system and experiences.  We visit customers to make them conscious about the exchange of old products with the new ones consuming less energy. ACTIVITIES  We plant trees with our workers and their families every year.  We organize training activities in terms of environment policy, waste management etc. to contribute to environmental consciousness of the personnel.  We try to decrease exhaust gas emission to the least changing working vehicles we use every 35 years.  We eliminated paper consume for fax using Digital Fax (Fax server) since 2002.  We try to get into all contacts via e-mail, and use fax only when it is necessary. 12  Trainings have been organized in the company to decrease the usage of waste water to the least.  Lighting lamps used within the company were exchanged with the ones saving energy.  Boards were encouraged to prevent consumption of paper are transferred to the computer.  We prepared a project about renewable energy and energy efficiency. PERFORMANCE  The number of total discord events experienced in the rules based on volunteerism principle is zero. (PR4)  The number of important events where dangerous substances are put is zero. (EN23)  The amount of carton, package and paper destroyed in 2006-2008 is 304 kg. (EN22)  In 2009-1011, this amount dropped to 250 kg. (EN22)  In 2011-1012, this amount dropped to 200 kg. (EN22)  Timer Lighting System is preferred in advertisement promotion signboards used in the company, decrease of consumption of energy sources is aimed. After lighting lamps and Timer System, energy consumption has been decreased 18%.  Signage and lighting entirely by not using the A-class air-conditioning with my air conditioner replaced an older more than 10% of the energy consumption is reduced.  August is the hottest month, using the bulk of annual leave, in cooling energy use has been reduced by 5%.  Made a donation to an environmental organization, computer and web hosting.  Our building %70 side covering class. In 2015 90 m2 outside east wall and 100 m2 datacentre inside wall covering with blue foam. Cooling energy use has been reduced by 10%. too 13 ANTI-CORRUPTION 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. COMMITMENT GigaByte Ltd is against every kind of corruption. Workers’ behaviours not compatible with ethic understanding are certainly not allowed. SYSTEMS  Relationship between workers and customers is supervised with customer visits carried out periodically.  We do not attend all public procurements whose evaluations can be suspicous.  We do not accept any products or services of suppliers taking part in any corruption.  Stock inventory is controlled accounting stock in certain periods. ACTIVITIES  The personnel is informed of struggling with corruption in routine meetings, and warned about they should behave towards all customers equally.  A representative is sent as a company to such meetings and seminars. PERFORMANCE  Our company has not been in any trouble in terms of corruption and bribe so far. No case against us has been opened.  Training about ethic behaviour and struggling with corruption has been given to all personnel. (SO3)  The counting which took place two times in 2006 was increased to four times in 2007. (SO4)  This count was 8 times between the years 2009-2011.  This count was 4 times between the years 2011-2012. 14 SHARING This report shared with our stakeholders in the following ways.  Clobal Compact Website  Internet site (www.gigabyteltd.com)  Customers  Suppliers 15
