volvo car group sustainability report 2014 ceo comment TA B L E O F C O N T E N T S Dear Stakeholder, Our vision is to be the world’s most progressive and desired 1 INTRODUCTION premium car brand. To reach this vision, a firm commitment to 1 CEO comment sustainability is a prerequisite. We started making cars in 1927 because we believed that nobody else was making them safe 2 Sustainability score card enough, and ever since we have strived to protect what´s important 4 This is Volvo Cars to people and to make their lives less complicated. 6 Corporate strategy Volvo Cars has defined a number of strategic change themes that 8 Sustainability management will lead us towards our vision and our corporate objectives. In 10 Sustainability governance each of these strategic change themes, sustainability is a core element. For example, to reinforce our product strengths, we aim 12 Stakeholder engagement to increase the share of hybrid drivetrains in our model range. Ever-stricter emission regulations in all major automotive markets 14 ECONOMIC DIMENSION mean that manufacturers have to constantly improve the fuel efficiency and emission levels of their cars and engines. And for 14 Economic performance Volvo Cars things are happening quickly. With all present cars to be replaced in the next four years, Volvo 16 ENVIRONMENTAL DIMENSION Cars stands at the beginning of an unprecedented revitalisation of 16 Managing environmental performance its product portfolio. The first milestone on this endeavour was 20 Environmental performance – products reached with the presentation of the all new XC90 in August 2014. By offering a twin-engine powertrain, combining electric and 28 Environmental performance – operations petrol power, unprecedented low carbon emissions were reached. 38 PEOPLE DIMENSION For Volvo Cars, the constant changes in the surrounding world are to be seen as possibilities rather than challenges. By understanding 38 People vision and strategy why and how the world around us is changing, we can not only 44 Health and safety of employees adapt but use new challenges as drivers for our continued business success. For example, research shows that attitudes among young 48 Diversity and inclusion consumers towards owning a car are changing. 52 Respecting labour rights 54 Ethics and integrity Consumers are also showing us that connectivity options are becoming more and more important when they make their purchase decisions. Increased connectivity between our cars and 58 SOCIETAL DIMENSION surrounding infrastructure and vehicles can also bring 58 Product responsibility improvements in terms of safety, fuel economy and avoiding congestion. I am therefore proud to say that Volvo Cars is 66 Future mobility spearheading the development of autonomous driving technologies. 68 Value chain management The Drive Me pilot project, arguably the most ambitious autonomous drive project in the world will have 100 self-driving 72 Societal engagement cars on public roads in 2017, driven by normal customers. 76 GRI index Being able to define the challenges and opportunities depends on our success in having the right talent and competence in our team. 79 Appendix 1 80 About the report 81 Information and contact LORUM IPSUM “To reach our vision, a firm commitment to sustainability is a prerequisite.” As cars become increasingly connected and packed with technology, have sustainability in mind in order to achieve long-term business we are in direct competition with large technology players in success. We will continue to develop the framework in 2015 and finding and recruiting digital engineering talent. The market for set objectives within various focus areas. A clear example of this is traditional engineering talent is also highly competitive. This issue our vision that no one should be killed or seriously injured in a new has been of particular relevance in 2014 as we grew worldwide in Volvo car by 2020. terms of employees. In order to attract the right employees and create a high-performance organisation, Volvo Cars has made a Volvo Cars works in collaboration with a wide range of partners strategic decision to integrate health in all aspects of our global and stakeholders and we will continue to do so. Collaboration and operations. This includes building an attractive and stimulating a strong commitment towards sustainability have guided Volvo organisation and work environment for our employees. I believe Cars since 1927 and is an important part of our heritage. that by having this human-centric focus we have an advantage in securing the competence needs of tomorrow. In this report, you can read all about our achievements in more detail; achievements that have been created by our dedicated During 2014 we made efforts to strengthen our commitments to employees and of which I am incredibly proud. sustainability and take these future trends into consideration by starting the development of our new Sustainability Framework. It defines our responsibilities, focus areas and goals in three dimensions: our direct impact as a company, the impact of our Håkan Samuelsson vehicles, and our role in society. It is our conviction that we need to President and Chief Executive Officer SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 | VOLVO CAR GROUP 1 INTRODUCTION sustainability score card KEY SUSTAINABILITY DATA 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 TREND1) CREATING VALUE Total Sales (retail deliveries) 458,323 374,297 334,808 373,525 449,255 421,951 427,840 465,866 ASSUMING SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Safety test results Share of independent tests where Volvo Cars received the highest rank (%) 69 70 85 2) 832) 95 2) 95 95 2) 95 PEOPLE RESPONSIBILITY OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY Health Sick leave per available hours (%) 5.50 5.00 4.70 4.50 4.40 4.40 4.50 4.50 Occupational injuries Number of injuries resulting in at least one day of sick leave per 200 000 worked hours 1.5 0.90 0.50 0.70 0.70 0.55 0.62 0.34 DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY Gender balance Share of women in leading positions (%) 18.00 18.50 18.70 19.60 21.00 21.30 22.90 24.50 Ratio of basic salary of women to men (white collar; average for grade levels) n/a 0.97 0.99 0.97 0.97 0.97 0.96 0.98 Ratio of basic salary of women to men (blue collar; average for grade levels) n/a 1.03 1.03 1.01 0.99 0.99 1.01 1.00 EMPLOYMENT Total workforce per year end 24,384 22,732 19,650 19,494 21,512 22,715 23,579 26,080 Rate of employee turnover 3) 9.10 9.20 12.80 4.90 3.20 3.00 3.80 3.70 PROMOTING ECOLOGICAL SUSTAINABILITY EMISSIONS FROM PRODUCT Fuel efficiency Fleet average CO2 in EU (g/km) 190 182 173 157 151 143 131 125 ENERGY USE IN CAR PRODUCTION Total energy consumption in car production (MWh) 916,669 816,581 713,079 837,785 815,301 798,487 776,587 745,557 EMISSIONS FROM PRODUCTION Total carbon dioxide emissions (tonnes) 126,735 68,367 5,898 67,585 62,922 61,670 59,729 49,918 NOx emissions (tonnes) 101 90 71 85 80 72 76 77 SOx emissions (tonnes) 1 <1 <1 <1 <1 <1 <1 <1 VOC emissions (tonnes) 740 712 527 738 828 796 724 675 Hazardous waste (tonnes) 11,395 9,320 5,594 9,087 11,439 10,837 9,760 10,614 1) Trend indicates our progress in relation to Volvo Cars’ goals and vision. A plus sign (+) indicates that the company is moving in the right direction toward our goals, a minus sign (–) indicates that actions need to be taken for the company to move in our desired direction. 2) Restated due to changes in calculation methodology. 3)  otal rate of employee turnover between 2007 and 2012 is based on figures from Belgium and Sweden. Total rate of employee turnover from 2013 and onwards is T based on Belgium, China and Sweden figures. 2 VOLVO CAR GROUP | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 INTRODUCTION Recognition and awards In 2014 Volvo Cars was named the best car maker for the fifth year operations. Volvo Cars and Volvo Group received the award for in a row in the Sustainable Brand Index™, Scandinavia’s largest their shipments from Umeå, Sweden in the north to Ghent, brand study on sustainability. It is an annual study covering the Belgium in the south, by which, according to the Green Cargo, they 907 largest brands in Sweden, Norway, Denmark and Finland. contribute to and promote green transport solutions in Europe. Volvo Cars ended up 11th of the 253 most sustainable brands in Sweden, as perceived by the 9,500 consumers who participated in Volvo Cars has made good progress towards its goal of becoming the study. an employer of choice. Volvo Cars is on the Universum list of the world’s most attractive employers, in which students around the Volvo Cars remains on top when it comes to automotive safety globe are asked about their ideal employers. In 2014, Volvo Cars awards. Volvo Cars earned top results in 2015 IIHS Top Safety was ranked 40th on the list of most attractive companies according Pick+, the Volvo V40 won the Safest Car category in Carbuyer’s to engineering students in the world’s 12 largest economies, up Best Car Awards 2015 in the UK and the V40 Cross Country was from 49th in 2013. named Safest Car of the Year by Top Gear Baltics during 2014. In 2014 Volvo Cars, together with Volvo Group, also received the ‘Climate Comet of the Year’ environmental award from Green Cargo. Green Cargo presents this award to a company which has For more awards, see: made major improvements to the climate impact of its logistics https://www.media.volvocars.com/global/en-gb/awards SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 | VOLVO CAR GROUP 3 INTRODUCTION this is volvo cars The first Volvo car rolled off the production line back in 1927. Today, Volvo Car Group produces a premium range of cars, including sedans, wagons, sports wagons, cross country cars and SUVs. We are a well-known and respected car brand, with sales in over TOP TEN MARKETS TOTAL NUMBER OF 100 countries. Since 2010, Volvo Cars has been owned by Shanghai – SALES ­E MPLOYEES – GLOBAL Geely Zhaoyuan International Investment Co. Ltd., which is ultimately owned by Zhejiang Geely Holding Group Ltd. (Geely). The company is headquartered in Gothenburg, Sweden, and production takes place in Sweden, Belgium, China and Malaysia. In 2014 around 2,300 Volvo dealers sold approximately 470,000 cars in 100 countries around the world. As of December 2014, Volvo Cars employed about 26,000 people. To read more about Volvo Cars, please see www.volvocars.com China, 17.4% Sweden, 15,982 Sweden, 13.2% Belgium, 4,165 USA, 12.1% China, 3,898 UK, 8.8% Other markets, 2,035 Germany, 6.8% Netherlands, 4.6% Belgium, 3.6% Russia, 3.3% Italy, 3.1% Japan, 2.8% Other markets, 24.3% 4 VOLVO CAR GROUP | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 INTRODUCTION BELGIUM DENMARK SWEDEN Ghent: Car production Copenhagen: R&D centre Gothenburg: Head office, Product development, Design centre, Marketing, Administration, Car production Skövde, Floby and Olofström: Component ­manufacturing USA Camarillo: Design Centre CHINA Daqing: Manufacturing plant Zhangjiakou: Engine manufacturing plant Shanghai: China headquarters, Engineering centre, Design centre MAL AYSIA Chengdu: Manufacturing plant Kuala Lumpur: Assembly factory SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 | VOLVO CAR GROUP 5 INTRODUCTION corporate strategy Company purpose Everything we do starts with people. We understand people. We protect what’s important to them and want to make them feel special. We take pride in our role within society and recognise our c­ ommitment towards the environment. We innovate to make people’s lives better and less complicated. Our ­­human-centric focus is what makes us different from all other car companies. And, it is at the heart of everything we create. This is why Volvo cars are designed around you. Vision Mission Our vision is to be the world’s most progressive and Our global success will be driven by making life less desired premium car brand. complicated for people, while strengthening our commitment to safety, quality and the environment. Corporate objectives • Provide cars people want Which will lead to • Be a lean and nimble company • Sales of over 800,000 vehicles globally • Have a top tier premium auto brand perception • Top car industry profitability • Be the employer of choice Strategic change themes In order to meet the Corporate Objectives there is a need for renewal and a change in the way of doing business. Volvo Cars’ corporate strategy therefore includes six Strategic Change Themes which guide the daily operations and business initiatives and enable Volvo Cars to make that change. • Emphasise profitability and efficiency • Capture global growth and sourcing potential, leveraging • Revitalise the Volvo brand with customer centricity the presence in China throughout the value chain • Secure profitable growth in core segments in Europe • Reinforce our product strengths based on focused and North America innovation, smart architecture and win-win • Build a global organisation with performance and health, collaboration able to act in a fast, smart and nimble way 6 VOLVO CAR GROUP | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 INTRODUCTION Our Core Values decisions. People’s health, energy efficiency and resource At Volvo, everything we do starts with people. So our mission to efficiency are the main areas of our focus. make people’s lives easier, safer and better is something that comes naturally to us. It’s the Volvo way. Today, we’re still as Read more about our Core Values at: http://www.volvocars.com/ focused as ever on our three Core Values: safety, quality and care intl/about/our-company/core-values for the environment. Our brand promise Safety – Maintain leading competence Our human-centric approach is what makes us different from To strengthen our commitment to, and maintain leadership in virtually every other car company. We start every project out of a safety, we aim for top performance, in real traffic situations as well love for humankind. Every project is based on a culture that is as in official safety ratings. We do that by creating our safety offers genuinely interested in understanding and anticipating the real in an intelligent and innovative way based on actual traffic situations. needs, wants and lives of our consumers. This leads to the three We also promote wellbeing by helping to prevent collisions and customer promises that guide everything we do: reduce injury when a collision is unavoidable. “We understand you” Quality – Focus on the customers’ needs – Understanding more about how people use cars allows Quality is an expression of our goal to offer reliable products and us to create intuitive and user-friendly technology and services. In all aspects of our operations the focus shall be on innovations. customers’ needs and expectations. With a customer focus based on everyone’s commitment and participation, combined with a “We protect what’s important to you” process culture, our aim is to be number one in customer satisfaction. – With legendary durability, superior safety, enduring value and technologies that limit environmental impact. Environmental care – Respect for the individual, society and nature “We make you feel special” Our environmental work is based on respect and concern for the – With Scandinavian design, natural high-end materials individual, society and nature. The environmental efforts within our and thoughtful 21st century premium in look, feel, style company are based on a holistic approach, life cycle management and service. and global concern. It is part of our business strategies and relevant SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 | VOLVO CAR GROUP 7 INTRODUCTION sustainability management Our human-centric perspective is an essential element of what sustainability means to us. It’s about protecting what’s important to you. Looking back on Volvo Cars’ heritage, it is apparent that people The sustainability agenda for Volvo Cars is described in four has always been a central word for Volvo. Assar Gabrielsson and dimensions: a people dimension, a societal dimension, an Gustaf Larson, Volvo’s founders, stated in 1936: ‘Cars are driven economic dimension and an environmental dimension. Together, by people. Therefore, the guiding principle behind everything we these four dimensions and their connected topics lead Volvo Cars’ make at Volvo, is – and must remain – safety.’ work towards a sustainable future. Each of the dimensions has focus areas and Key Performance Indicators (KPIs). The ambition, Customers and employees have high expectations of Volvo Cars in targets and KPIs for each of the focus areas are set and progress terms of environmental care and social responsibility. We believe is followed up by the Volvo Cars Sustainability Board. Activities to that committing to sustainable development creates business improve performance within the sustainability focus areas are opportunities and will reinforce Volvo Cars’ competitiveness. integrated throughout Volvo Cars’ functions on all levels. The Ultimately, Volvo Cars realises that its stakeholders determine how results are described throughout this report. well it lives up to its responsibility. They determine Volvo Cars’ success by buying our products, working productively and doing business with us. 8 VOLVO CAR GROUP | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 INTRODUCTION PEOPLE S O C I E TA L • Diversit y & inclusion • Compliance & ethics • Health & safet y of our employees • Anti-corruption, anti-trust & fair competition • Employee engagement • Progress towards our Safet y Vision 2020 • Training & competence development • Value chain development • Stakeholder dialogue LONG-TERM PROFITABILITY ECONOMIC E N V I R O N M E N TA L • Job creation • Energy ef ficiency • Transfer of technology and knowledge • Zero environmental accidents • Payments to the public sector • Harmful emissions from production & cars • Mobilit y and infrastructure contributions • Water & waste management • R&D for future mobilit y • Materials & recycling SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 | VOLVO CAR GROUP 9 INTRODUCTION sustainability governance Responsibility at the heart of everything we do – sustainability is central to all Volvo Cars’ decisions and investments. It is key to successful and responsible business. As the responsibility of every manager and employee, sustainability line with Volvo Cars’ values, the Code of Conduct and the overall is based on Volvo Cars’ mission and on company-wide guidelines. Sustainability Strategy. The Board consists of the President and CEO Above all, it is a mind-set whereby all employees as individuals as well as other key Executive Management Team (EMT) members. consider the social and environmental consequences of their day-to-day decisions. Sustainability aspects related to corporate compliance and ethics are handled by the Corporate Compliance & Ethics Office, which is Sustainability at Volvo Cars is governed through the Sustainability supervised by the Global Compliance Committee consisting of Board. Volvo Cars’ Sustainability Board is a decision-making board members from the EMT who make decisions and provide guidance. responsible for Volvo Cars’ sustainability matters from a strategic The Global Compliance Committee supervises the development point of view as well as the governance, communication and and implementation of the Compliance Programme for the Volvo reporting functions. It is also responsible for the continuous Car Group, as well as reviewing policies, directives and other follow-up of progress and performance on sustainability. The procedures related to compliance and ethics. The Committee also members of the board have the mission of ensuring that the reviews and decides how to handle compliance cases reported by sustainability strategy is aligned with the Corporate Strategy and the Corporate Compliance & Ethics Office, events reported by the Volvo Cars Business Plan and that the company operates in Security as well as matters reported by Internal Audit. 10 VOLVO CAR GROUP | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 INTRODUCTION Commitments to Sustainability In 1999, Volvo Cars was one of the first companies to heed • The eight core conventions of the UN agency, ILO former UN Secretary General Kofi Annan’s appeal to become (the International Labour Organization): a signatory to the principles of the UN Global Compact. – Child Labour (138 and 182), Having signed the UN Global Compact in 2000, Volvo Cars – Forced Labour and Compulsory Labour (29 and 105), has since supported the precautionary principle. Volvo Cars’ decisions are made on the basis of the information available – Equal Remuneration and Discrimination (100 and 111), on each particular occasion. Nonetheless, inadequate or – Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining unreliable information is often a strong indication that (87 and 98) caution is advisable, both from a business perspective and in • The 10 principles of the Global Compact a broader, societal context. The UN Global Compact is not • The Universal Declaration of Human Rights the only commitment. Volvo Cars’ Code of Conduct stands as a general endorsement of the following human rights • UN Convention on the Rights of the Child frameworks and charters: • OECD Guidelines for Multinational Companies. Board of Directors VOLVO CAR CORPORATION BOARD OF DIRECTORS AUDIT COMMITTEE COMPENSATION COMMITTEE EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT TEAM (EMT) MARKET AND PRODUCTION PRODUCTS AND SERVICES PEOPLE AND TOOLS EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDER Volume Decision Board Product Board People and Organization Board Geely Volvo Project Governance Board Brand Management Meeting Quality Board IT Board Volvo Trademark Holding Strategic Product Board Sustainability Board Volvo Event Management Golf Board Design Board Global Compliance Committee Volvo Ocean Race Board CMA Steering Committee Decision Boards Decision Boards Internal Stakeholders External Stakeholders SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 | VOLVO CAR GROUP 11 INTRODUCTION stakeholder engagement We cannot find solutions in isolation. We will build and nurture open partnerships with a wide range of stakeholders. Volvo Cars maintains relationships with various stakeholders that encourages interested parties to provide input and pose questions influence or are influenced by its operations – from customers and whenever they wish; for example, through its website or at employees to business partners, organisations and the communities citizen@volvocars.com. in which the company operates. Each of these groups represents a special responsibility and Volvo Cars’ goal is to be, and to be In addition to its ongoing stakeholder engagement activities, during perceived as, a responsible partner in all of its relationships. 2014/15 Volvo Cars carried out a stakeholder consultation with a group of internal and external stakeholders, many of whom have Volvo Cars sees an ongoing and trustful interaction and dialogue an established relationship with Volvo Cars. These stakeholders with its stakeholders as key to providing guidance on how it should are located in Volvo Cars’ most important markets (Sweden, develop its work with sustainability. Volvo Cars has been developing China and other Asian countries, Belgium and other European various methods of interacting with key stakeholders over several countries). They were invited to share their views on Volvo Cars’ years. One of the objectives is to gather inputs on the sustainability general sustainability performance, sustainability focus areas issues Volvo Cars should focus its work on, how it should handle and sustainability communication through an online survey. The these issues and communicate about them in the sustainability results of the survey show that Volvo Cars’ stakeholders have a report. Another objective is to develop an ongoing two-way discussion positive perception of the company’s sustainability work, and that can lead to collaboration on specific issues and mutual benefits. indicate that its sustainability focus areas overall are material to the consulted stakeholders. The results will provide important Approach and outcome input to Volvo Cars’ sustainability management in future. Moreover, Volvo Cars believes in open communication channels and Volvo Cars will extend the survey in order to get even more input holds regular meetings with its major stakeholders. For this from a broader stakeholder base. reason, Volvo Cars participates in various networks, seminars and conferences to listen to the views of others and to For a detailed overview of our ongoing dialogues with Volvo Cars’ share information about Volvo Cars’ work. Volvo Cars also stakeholders, please see appendix 1 and ‘Societal engagement’ on page 72. 12 VOLVO CAR GROUP | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 INTRODUCTION GOVERNMENT, PUBLIC AUTHORITIES, POLITICIANS MEDIA SUPPLIERS INVESTORS, INDUSTRY BANKS, AND CONSUMER INSURANCE ASSOCIATIONS COMPAINES INDUSTRY VOLVO LOCAL NETWORK COMMUNITIES CARS PRIVATE ACADEMIA, OPINION UNIVERSITIES, LEADERS SCHOOLS DEALERS NGOs, CUSTOMERS ENVIRONMENTAL ASSOCIATIONS, HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANISATIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 | VOLVO CAR GROUP 13 ECONOMIC DIMENSION economic performance Driven by the complete renewal of our product range in the next four years, we aim to double sales by 2020 while improving profitability. This long-term strategy, which is expected to lead to sales of the spring of 2015, and for that purpose will recruit around 1,300 around 800,000 vehicles annually in 2020, is based on sustainable additional employees. In China, the Chengdu plant had its first full profitability and a strong focus on the key regions of Europe, China year of S60L production and started production of the XC60, and the US. With the ownership of Geely, Volvo Cars has the which meant an increase of around 500 employees. Meanwhile, operational, strategic and financial capability to achieve that the Daqing plant commenced production of the XC Classic, a ­s­­trategy. China-only version of the original XC90. The Daqing plant also started preparing to manufacture cars based on the SPA platform. A year of growth and expansion The plant in Ghent had its highest capacity utilisation within Volvo During 2014 Volvo Cars took several important steps towards Cars’ manufacturing footprint, with a full-year production of reaching these goals. Our first new car, the XC90, in a series of 264,200 cars, which made 2014 the second most successful year nine new cars saw the light of the day. The XC90 and all of the eight in the history of the plant. following cars will be built on an entirely new, in-house developed Scalable Product Architecture (SPA) technology that improves Volvo Cars made significant sales progress on the Chinese market driveability, provides a wider range of design options and will over in 2014. China, which is Volvo Cars’ second home market, became time generate significant economies of scale, improvement in Volvo Cars’ largest market in terms of sales in 2014, accounting for productivity and improved profitability. Furthermore Volvo Cars’ new 17% of Volvo Cars’ total sales during the year. In Sweden, Volvo Drive-E Powertrain family will power the majority of the vehicles to Cars’ home market, sales grew by 17.4% compared to 2013. Volvo come. Volvo Cars is thus positioning itself as the only premium car Cars was the fastest-growing brand among the main premium manufacturer to move away from large engines and fully focus on players in Europe in 2014, with strong growth in its key markets four-cylinder engines or smaller. To read more about the positive such as the UK and Germany. However, Volvo Cars did face a environmental effects of these technologies, please see page 20. challenging year in the US market, with sales decreasing to 56,371 units in 2014, despite positive car industry development in the US. Year 2014 was also a year of growth and expansion for Volvo Cars Volvo Cars’ sales performance in other markets was mixed. In in terms of investments and production capacity. In Torslanda, Russia, Volvo Cars managed to keep its sales in line with 2013 Volvo Cars prepared for the start of production of the new XC90 levels, even though economic sanctions and geopolitical tensions by opening a brand new, SPA-prepared body shop. This new facility placed severe pressure on the domestic car market. Sales in expands the capacity of Torslanda to 300,000 cars per year. This, Japan fell considerably, as the Japanese car market suffered from, in conjunction with a stronger demand for existing Volvo car among other things, tax policies that were unfavourable for the car models, also means that Volvo Cars will re-introduce a third shift in ­industry. 14 VOLVO CAR GROUP | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 ECONOMIC DIMENSION During 2014 Volvo Cars also took important steps in its development Progress in China of autonomous driving. In 2014 the first test cars in Volvo Cars’ Volvo’s continued journey globally took a huge leap forward in ‘Drive Me’ project, which features self-driving Volvos on public 2013, when our Chengdu plant opened in China. And in 2014, roads in everyday conditions, were rolled out around the Swedish China overtook the United States to become Volvo Cars’ largest city of Gothenburg. This project is an important step towards Volvo single market. Cars’ aim of having 100 self-driving cars in the hands of the customers on selected roads around Gothenburg by 2017. For Detailed information on the company’s economic results, including more information about Volvo Cars’ developments, projects and performance against the profitability target, is presented in Volvo technologies in terms of Future Mobility see page 66. Cars’ Annual Report on the company website: www.volvocars.com/investor-relations. Key facts & figures Growing sales Indirect economic impact 2014 was a record year for Volvo Cars in terms of sales. Retail Though Volvo Cars is a relatively small company, its brand is global sales increased by 8.9% in 2014 compared to 2013, reaching and so is Volvo Cars’ influence. Through its operations Volvo Cars record sales of 465,866 (428,840) units. Volvo Cars’ sales has significant direct and indirect economic impact. Volvo Cars success was mainly driven by significant growth in China and the directly impacts suppliers, sub-suppliers, dealers and employees. European markets. Volvo Cars for example generates an economic base for local contractors, consultants and workers. Indirectly, Volvo Cars also Income up has indirect economic impact through investments, research and Operating income in 2014 was MSEK 2,252, up from MSEK 1,919 collaboration projects and through municipal tax revenues. Volvo in 2013. This resulted in an operating margin of 1.7% compared Cars’ operations for example foster private purchasing power and with 1.6% in 2013. local small businesses. Volvo Cars actively manages and discusses its indirect economic impact – by engaging with external Employees worldwide stakeholders, amongst other methods. For more information on As of December 31, Volvo Cars worldwide employed 26,080 Volvo Cars’ stakeholder engagement, see page 12. ­people. NET REVENUE OPERATING INCOME KEY FIGURES 2012 2013 2014 MSEK MSEK Retail sales 421,951 427,84 465,866 150 2,500 China 41,989 61,146 81,221 120 2,000 USA 68,079 61,233 56,371 EU20 227,027 218,567 243,514 90 1,500 of which Sweden 51,832 52,26 61,357 Rest of the world 84,856 86,894 84,76 60 1,000 Wholesale 432,950 419,728 465,382 Net revenue, MSEK 124,547 122,245 129,959 30 500 Operating income, MSEK 66 1,919 2,252 Net income, MSEK –542 960 834 0 0 Operating & investing 12 13 14 12 13 14 cash flow, MSEK –4,929 109 –4,131 EBIT margin, % 0.1 1.6 1.7 EBITDA, MSEK 8,082 9,057 9,183 Equity ratio, % 28.5 28.1 29.9 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 | VOLVO CAR GROUP 15 ENVIRONMENTAL DIMENSION Managing environmental performance Responding to the challenges of climate change is tough. Our response is to continue creating wise and responsible products and services, to our customers and the world. Volvo Cars acknowledges the enormous impact that climate Volvo Cars. Reducing energy consumption and dependence on change has on nature, on people and, of course, on its own fossil fuels is critical to the survival of Volvo Cars as a company. business. A large portion of global anthropogenic greenhouse gas emissions come from transport. About half of these are from road Increased awareness and concern among consumers about transport. To be environmentally sustainable, the vehicles of the human-induced climate change, combined with rising fuel prices, future will have to be very efficient and capable of running on have led to greater consumer interest in more fuel-efficient vehicles. renewable energy. Responding to the challenges of climate Increasing demands are also being made by decision-makers, with change is fundamental for Volvo Cars. The issue is given highest the EU fleet average regulations limiting emissions of new cars priority and is addressed at senior governance level; it is also a sold to no more than 130 g CO2/km from 2015, with phase-in major focus of the research and development work carried out by requirements already in effect in 2012. ENVIRONMENTAL HERITAGE: The following timeline shows some of the highlights of Volvo Cars’ work on environmental issues over the years. “We are part of the problem and therefore Three-way catalytic converter with Paintshop at Torslanda plant is the we also need to be a part of the solution.” oxygen sensor (Lambdasond®) world’s cleanest. PG Gyllenhammar (former CEO) at the first removes up to 90% of noxious exhaust UN Conference on the environment. fumes – first on market. 1945 1972 1976 1987 1989 1991 Volvo introduces remanufactured spare Torslanda water treatment plant Volvo demonstrates alcohol power parts – an exchange system still in use. removes 90% of harmful effluents. technology: cleanest car tested to date. 16 VOLVO CAR GROUP | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 ENVIRONMENTAL DIMENSION Limiting CO2 emissions and curbing climate change is a tough Volvo Cars’ Environmental Strategy encompasses the car’s challenge, but also a great opportunity for technical development. environmental impact throughout its life cycle – from development, Volvo Cars has a long tradition of developing systems and use and service to recycling when the car is scrapped. Our greatest functions for cars that have benefited society in general. One such focus is on the actual use of the car because this affects the innovation is the Volvo Cars invention the Lambdasond (a three-way environment the most. A particularly significant factor is fuel catalytic converter), which has become standard in cars worldconsumption. For this reason alternative fuels and Powertrains are wide. Volvo Cars is developing leading innovations with regard a high priority for research within Volvo Cars. Although Volvo Cars’ to energy efficiency, with the aim that such innovations will become environmental improvement efforts to reduce climate impact focus new standards. mainly on vehicle development, they also include the environmental effects of all production facilities and logistics flows. V40 launched with CO2 emissions down at 88 g/km. Introduction of environmental Volvo uses only green electricity V60 Plug-in Hybrid (world’s first standards for suppliers. (hydropower) in European diesel-powered plug-in hybrid) manufacturing units. reaches the first customers. 1995 1996 1998 2008 2012 2015 Introduction of standards to improve Introduction of PremAir ® – a radiator The new XC90 Twin Engine T8 dealers’ environmental activities. ­coating designed to convert harmful launched at 49 g/km. ground-level ozone into pure oxygen. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 | VOLVO CAR GROUP 17 ENVIRONMENTAL DIMENSION Environmental strategy The Environmental Strategy for Operations has been implemented Volvo Cars’ Environmental Strategy is based on a holistic approach as targets and activities within different units, such as Purchasing in which environmental considerations form part of all operations. & Manufacturing, Research & Development and the Aftermarket The Environmental Strategy is not only an integrated part of the organisation. By doing so, Volvo Cars aims to increase efficiency overall Business Strategy – it is also included in all projects and and to encourage the whole company to improve the environmental daily operations. The Environmental Strategy is updated annually performance. according to current business development and global challenges in order to achieve a competitive environmental performance (see Volvo Cars continuously follows up on environmental objectives below). The different strategy areas are: and action plans in its operations. Refined targets were set in 2014 within the areas listed above, which include energy savings Products: (GWh) generated by specific projects and reduction of water used • Energy efficiency including electrification in operations. It has been concluded that while Volvo Cars did • Emissions progress in these areas during 2014, there is a need to focus on • Alternative fuels sustainable transportation and waste management. Stretched • Interior environment targets for these areas will be established during 2015. As part of • Materials and recycling the strengthened environmental target-setting process throughout the company, Volvo Cars continuously reports its performance Operations: against its Environmental Strategy to the Executive Management • Zero environmental accidents Team and the Board of Directors. • Water conservation and water emission performance • Energy efficiency and climate-neutral operations Core Value Statement – Environment • Emissions to air In addition to the Environmental Strategy, Volvo Cars also • Total waste management has a Core Value Statement – Environment (previously called • Soil and ground water management Environmental Policy). To read the Core Value Statement, please • Sustainable transport solutions see: www.volvocars.com/intl/about/our-company/core-values 18 VOLVO CAR GROUP | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 ENVIRONMENTAL DIMENSION Environmental governance Environmental training, awareness raising The Senior Vice President Purchasing & Manufacturing is the and communication ­ representative for environmental matters within the Executive Volvo Cars strives to make environmental issues a part of all Management Team (EMT). Operational environmental issues relevant training and educational initiatives. For example, a specific within Volvo Cars are governed and driven by an Environmental part of the competence development programme (followed by all Committee, which is chaired by the Head of Manufacturing. The employees training to become production team leaders) relates to Environmental Committee has the authority to make decisions on environmental issues. The expert competence within specific issues such as environmental audits, environmental communication, environmental issues is continuously kept up to date. consequences of new/changed legal demands, permits, site assessments and environmental insurance. It also makes Volvo Cars communicates the environmental performance of its recommendations to the Sustainability Board and/or EMT products and operations continuously through press releases and on environmental strategy, targets, policy, governing documents other communication material available on its website. At the and environmental management systems. The Environmental manufacturing site at Torslanda, Sweden, an exhibition about Volvo Committee reports to the EMT. Cars’ commitments to environment and safety is open to the public. Product-related issues are governed by the Product Board, headed by the Head of Product Strategy and Vehicle Line ­Management. The Attribute Managers at Research & Development have the operational responsibility. The Director of Environmental Protection monitors compliance by Volvo Cars’ plants worldwide with applicable environmental legislation. Volvo Cars works proactively to meet upcoming legislation and also to shape it as a part of a review process from policy-makers. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 | VOLVO CAR GROUP 19 ENVIRONMENTAL DIMENSION Environmental performance — products At Volvo Cars, we understand the impacts cars have on the environment – that’s why we develop and build cleaner cars. Volvo Cars’ approach to improving the environmental performance There are two main areas when discussing fuel efficiency. The first of cars is focused on six themes: includes the hard, technical solutions, such as improving aero1. Environmental innovation dynamics, rolling resistance, engine efficiency, gearing and gear2. Reducing the CO2 emissions of cars box losses. This is traditional engineering territory and Volvo Cars 3. Increasing the use of renewable fuels in cars works continuously in this area to make the cars better. The second 4. Weight reduction, management of substances and materials one is ‘soft’ and has to do with how a car is driven: the speed you 5. Interior environment – Clean Compartment drive at, what roads you take, when you choose to drive and how 6. Recycling and remanufacturing you plan your driving. Volvo Cars continues the work of making cars smarter, so that in future they will be able to make these Innovation with a positive impact decisions for you. on the environment Volvo Cars works continuously to improve the environmental In 2014 and before, a number of innovations were launched that performance of its products. In the past few years Volvo Cars have have a positive impact on the environmental performance of Volvo focused on innovation and development, but now is the time Cars’ products, as outlined below. to turn ideas into action. With nine new cars to be released in the next five years, Volvo Cars stands at the beginning of an New Drive-E Powertrain family unprecedented revitalisation of its product portfolio. Volvo Cars’ Drive-E Powertrain family has been developed in-house and will power the majority of the vehicles to come. The The development of Volvo Cars’ new product portfolio marks a Drive-E Powertrains are a modular family of four-cylinder, two-litre clear commitment to its environmental heritage. By continuing to petrol and diesel engines which offer a range of possibilities in improve fuel efficiency and provide alternative solutions, Volvo terms of output. With their uncompromising performance when it Cars takes the lead in meeting the growing demand from customers comes to fuel efficiency and CO2 emissions they allow Volvo Cars to provide not only safe but also more energy efficient cars. to lead the way in reducing CO2 emissions. The Drive-E engines 20 VOLVO CAR GROUP | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 ENVIRONMENTAL DIMENSION are also prepared for electrification, which opens up further In 2011, Volvo Cars started low-scale production of the Volvo C30 possibilities to reduce environmental impact via plug-in hybrid Electric. The fleet of 250 cars is leased to customers in selected drivetrains. In short, Drive-E technologies give the customer high European countries and they are also currently operating in performance, improved fuel economy, considerably lower emissions demonstration programmes in China, Sweden, Belgium, France, and a powerful sound character. Holland and other European countries. The Volvo C30 Electric has a 24 kWh battery that is recharged from a regular household Launch of S60L T6 Twin Engine – 50 g CO2/km power socket. A full recharge takes 8–10 hours and the operating In 2014, Volvo Cars revealed the Volvo S60L T6 Twin Engine range is up to 150 km per full charge. ­Concept Car. The petrol plug-in hybrid – an electric car, hybrid car and high-performance car all rolled into one – features the same In 2013 the first demo fleet of the C30 electric generation II with electrification technology as the Volvo V60 Plug-in Hybrid, the a new electric engine was launched. These cars have been world’s first diesel plug-in hybrid. The production version of the upgraded with a new electric engine and a new inverter from S60L T6 Twin Engine, with a CO2-efficient 238 horsepower Siemens, and have an extended range and better and faster Drive-E petrol turbo and plug-in hybrid technology, was launched charging capacity. In this fleet, Volvo Cars introduced the world’s in China early 2015 and is produced at the Chengdu plant. In first fast-charger that operates on a three-phase supply and is this car, the driver selects the required driving mode via three small enough to be fitted in the car. buttons that give the car three entirely different temperaments: Pure, Hybrid or Power. In the default hybrid mode, the carbon dioxide A full charge takes 1.5 hours with a range of 164 km, while a emissions are about 50 g/km. This corresponds to a fuel 10-minute plug-in adds power for another 20 kilometres of driving. consumption of just 2.0 l/100 km. This will support the partnership’s aim to develop electric cars with no compromises. The running of the test fleet has continued Launch of XC90 T8 Twin Engine – 49 g CO2/km ­during 2014 for further data collection. The all-new XC90 is the first of nine new cars to be released in the next five years by Volvo Cars. The XC90 captures Volvo Cars’ future design direction, incorporates its own range of new technologies New innovations in electrification technologies and utilises its new SPA technology and its highly efficient twoIn the past few years, Volvo Cars has worked on a number of litre, four-cylinder Drive-E Powertrain family. innovations in the field of electrification as part of its constant drive to further develop its electrification technologies. One example The T8 Twin Engine variant of the XC90 combines an electric is Volvo Cars’ participation in an advanced research project studying motor with Volvo Cars’ supercharged and turbocharged Drive-E the possibilities of inductive, cordless charging for electric vehicles. four-cylinder engine for a hybrid system that can run in electric-only mode for zero-emissions driving or combined with the ICE for increased power. In other words, the XC90 T8 is a plug-in electric car, hybrid car and high-performance car all rolled into one. This complicated combination of electric and petrol power allows drivers NEW DRIVE-E VS PREVIOUS ENGINES, CO 2 /HP to use their car in five separate modes, only emitting 49 g/km of CO2. As the world’s cleanest and most powerful SUV, the XC90 T8 CO2 (g/km) joins a long list of Volvo Cars’ innovations designed to create a 275 more comfortable driving experience, a cleaner environment and 250 safer roads. The new technologies were not developed for the 225 XC90 alone: all following models in the 90 and 60 cluster in the next few years will benefit from these technologies. 200 175 Pure electric cars – C30 Electric 150 Electrification represents an important and promising technological 125 step on the way to creating cars with a reduced environmental 100 impact. Electric vehicles have many benefits for the local environment – blissfully silent and with no tailpipe exhausts. Electric cars are 75 150 200 250 300 350 zero carbon emissions vehicles during use. Any emissions created Previous Engines New Drive-E Horsepower (HP) are indirect (coming from the original source of the electricity). Given that the batteries of electric cars are charged using the local power grid, electric cars are as clean as that grid. Further emissions In accordance with the strategy, the ratio between CO 2 emissions and are created during production of the cars and during their end-ofhorsepower has been significantly lowered for the Drive-E powertrains. life processes. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 | VOLVO CAR GROUP 21 ENVIRONMENTAL DIMENSION The results showed that this technology for transferring energy via has positive impacts on the environmental performance of cars. an electromagnetic field has a promising future. A Volvo C30 The present systems for auto braking, lane keeping aid and Electric test car could be fully charged in around 2.5 hours, by adaptive cruise control are examples of the first steps towards placing the car on top of an electromagnetic field in a charging autonomous driving. The next step is technology that follows the base station. car in front at higher speeds, allowing the driver to take their hands off the steering wheel while still surveying the drive. This in turn In another promising project, Volvo engineers developed a concept paves the way for the introduction of Highly Autonomous Cars that for lightweight structural energy storage components that could hand over responsibility to the vehicle, which handles all driving improve the energy usage of future electrified vehicles. The material, functions at the driver’s discretion. consisting of carbon fibres, nanostructured batteries and super capacitors, offers lighter energy storage that requires less space in Volvo Cars is now working on what is arguably the most ambitious the car, cost-effective structure options and is eco-friendly. The autonomous drive project in the world: the Drive Me pilot taking research project took place over 3.5 years and resulted in energyplace in Gothenburg, Sweden. The project, which will see 100 storage car panels on a Volvo S80 experimental car. self-driving Volvo cars on public roads in 2017, is moving forward rapidly. The first test cars, chauffeured by Volvo Cars engineers, Volvo Cars has also been studying the possibilities offered by started driving around Gothenburg in the spring of 2014 and the Flywheel KERS (kinetic energy recovery systems). The results sophisticated Autopilot technology has been performing well. For show that this technology has the potential to significantly reduce more information about Volvo Cars’ efforts within autonomous fuel consumption, while also giving drivers an extra boost in terms driving, see Future Mobility on page 66. of horsepower. Volvo Cars is now evaluating how the technology can be implemented in upcoming Volvo models. Emissions and fuel efficiency Limiting CO2 emissions is a challenge for all in the automotive Volvo Cars is also continuously exploring possibilities for development business. Volvo Cars works hard to reduce emissions and increase of inductive charging technologies. Data has been collected fuel efficiency. throughout 2014 and will be analysed during the coming year. Volvo Cars’ approach to reducing the CO2 emissions of cars Drive Me – self-driving cars for sustainable mobility Meeting the different legal requirements on CO2 emissions in Volvo Cars is working towards developing autonomous driving all markets is a considerable challenge from a product planning technologies – not only for the sake of safety, but also because it perspective. Planning Volvo Cars’ product range therefore involves 82 grams Reduced CO2 emissions from 129 to 82 g/km in the last 7 years. Jan Olausson Lloyd Neiberg Programme Quality Manager, R&D Programme Office Manager, R&D Krister Broo Ulf Nordström Programme Vehicle Engineering Chief Programme Engineer and Manager, R&D Project Leader, R&D 22 VOLVO CAR GROUP | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 ENVIRONMENTAL DIMENSION careful analysis of the need to meet future legal regulations. This These low fuel consumption and emission levels are the result of a is done in combination with a thorough analysis of foreseen number of technological improvements, such as: customer expectations on products. It is a demanding task as the • The number of cylinders has been reduced to four in automotive industry has very long lead times, where many years the new Drive-E Powertrains pass between initial planning and the launch of a new product. • Internal gearbox friction has been reduced Volvo Cars does, however, see this challenge as an opportunity to • The engine and gearbox software has been modified offer driving pleasure with a good conscience. Volvo Cars believes • The start/stop system cuts off the diesel engine when that the most effective way to cut its product range’s total CO2 the car is still rolling (below 5 km/h) emissions in the short term is to reduce the fuel consumption of • All electrical systems have been optimised to reduce the diesel and petrol engines of its cars. This is because cutting energy consumption the emissions of many cars sold in large volumes will have a bigger total effect and bring favourable results more quickly than making • The grill shutter in V40, S60 and V60 reduces fuel huge cuts in a small number of cars. Volvo Cars has therefore consumption, due to improved aerodynamic and faster introduced a range of high-efficiency diesel models with very low warm-up of the powertrain. CO2 emissions. The V40 is currently the most efficient model with fuel consumption (EU combined) down to 3.2 l/100 km and CO2 CO2 emissions of Volvo cars emissions at 82 g/km. The Volvo S60 and V60 have CO2 emissions Under the EU Regulation on CO2 emissions from new passenger of just 97 g/km and 99 g/km respectively – corresponding to fuel cars, the CO2 EU fleet average to be achieved by all new cars is 130 consumption of 3.4 and 3.6 l/100 km respectively. The XC60 and g/km by 2015 and 95 g/km by 2020. The 2015 target was being XC90 are market leading offers in their respective phased in from 2012. On a yearly basis, car makers are given segments. The XC60 with the Drive-E diesel engine has CO2 individual targets per brand, depending on the actual sales volume emissions of 117 g/km and the XC90 with similar Powertrain, average mass of their fleet. If car makers do not meet the targets, automatic gearbox and all-wheel drive has CO2 emissions of they have to pay ‘excess emissions premiums’. The CO2 limit target 149 g/km. Volvo Cars’ efficiency work also includes improvements for Volvo Cars for 2014 was 146 g/km. Volvo Cars’ fleet average of to the petrol engines. By optimising the four-cylinder, 1.6-litre T3 g CO2/km fell from 131 g/km in 2013 to 125 g/km in 2014 (-4.6%). engine (150 hp), which is available in the Volvo V40, S60 and V60, This is a strong improvement compared to previous years, mainly Volvo Cars has managed to bring fuel consumption down to due to the introduction of the Drive-E Powertrains, and strong sales 5.3 l/100 km in the V40. This corresponds to CO2 emissions at of the V40 D2 model. The average CO2 emission in all new 124 g/km. FLEET AVERAGE , 200 6 –2020 COMPLIANCE WITH EU REGUL ATION FOR HARMFUL EMISSIONS CO2 (g/km) % 200 100 160 80 120 60 80 40 40 20 0 0 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 10 11 12 13 14 Fleet average (CO2 g/km) Share of cars complying with Euro 5 or similar (%) EU fleet average target 2015 and 2020 Share of cars sold complying with Euro 6b/ULEV1 or better (%) 1 ULEV stands for ‘Ultra-Low Emission Vehicle’, and is an environmental classification in force in California that has set even higher demands for lower emissions than Euro 5 does. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 | VOLVO CAR GROUP 23 ENVIRONMENTAL DIMENSION Volvo Cars’ vehicles sold in 2014 in all markets declined by 44% better had reached 35%. Some of Volvo Cars’ ongoing development compared to 1995. The EU 2020 legal requirement for Volvo Cars’ areas in terms of meeting future upgrades of the Euro standards fleet average is projected to be 100–110 g/km, which means that include continuously lowering emissions from diesel engines and further improvements have to be achieved in the next few years. decreasing emissions of particulates from gasoline engines. Tailpipe emissions other than CO2 During 2014 Volvo Cars also started certifying cars to one of the European emission standards (Euro) define the acceptable limits world’s toughest emission regulations, the California Low-Emission for exhaust emissions other than CO2 of new vehicles sold in EU Vehicle Program (LEV III). The certification is based on the member states. The emission standards are regularly upgraded average emissions of a car company’s total sales and gets more and include increasingly stringent standards in terms of air pollution stringent for each model year up to year 2025. As an example of caused by road vehicles. The newest emission regulation, Euro 6, the stringency in the regulation, a car that has run 240,000 km came into force on September 1, 2014. After September 2015 should still meet the same emission limits as a brand new car. In all new registrations of cars within EU member states should Japan, Volvo has certified variants to the Super ultra-low emission comply with Euro 6. Main limits covered by the standard are for vehicle (SULEV) standard that are 75% below the legal requirement. hydrocarbons (HC), nitrogen oxides (NOx), carbon monoxide (CO) In 2014 a total of 80% of Volvo cars sales in Japan were SULEV and particulate matter (PM). These emissions are, however, not variants. related to fuel consumption or level of CO2 emissions. In other words, regardless of a car’s CO2 level, cars have to meet the same Noise emissions limits for HC, NOx, CO and PM emissions. Euro 6 has set even Volvo Cars recognises that noise emissions from cars can be a lower emission limits than its predecessor, Euro 5. For example, significant problem, especially in urban and high-traffic areas. all vehicles equipped with a diesel engine will be required to Therefore, all Volvo Cars vehicles are developed in line with our substantially reduce their emissions of nitrogen oxides. In 2014, strategic intention to decrease noise levels from the engine, tyre the share of Volvo Cars sold complying with the Euro 6 standard or rolling and wind through system and component optimisation. 24 VOLVO CAR GROUP | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 ENVIRONMENTAL DIMENSION Renewable fuels Another goal in Volvo Cars’ work with product material is to reduce Alternative fuels, i.e. biofuels, are foreseen to be a necessary part the total vehicle weight, because this lowers fuel consumption and of the global renewable energy strategy and an important means leads to a reduction of the overall CO2 emissions when the vehicle to reduce CO2 emissions. Volvo Cars believes that biofuels offer is used. Increased use of lightweight metals and composite materials the opportunity to significantly reduce CO2 emissions in an is one approach to achieving this goal. The all-new XC90 model, efficient way, depending on how the fuels are produced. Volvo for example, will be approximately 100 kg lighter with the new SPA Cars supports clear and harmonised fuel quality standards in order (Scalable Product Architecture) architecture compared to the to ensure car and engine compatibility, considering the increase in previous model. low blending level of biofuels. There is a need to ensure affordability for consumers as well as feasibility for Volvo Cars; the infrastructural Restricted substances and rare materials capacity is also crucial in this regard. Europe’s bioethanol refuelling Volvo Cars uses the global Restricted Substance Management infrastructure is expanding, partly as a result of constructive Standard (RSMS) to prohibit substances toxic to human health or cooperation between the car industry and several EU countries. the environment. In order to make sure that it complies with legal requirements Volvo Cars works with a material database called Volvo Cars offers models that are powered by petrol, diesel, ethanol IMDS. Suppliers report the material content of all parts in detailed and natural gas/biogas and has one of the broadest ranges of data sheets, which are uploaded to IMDS by suppliers and then Flexifuel models. What is more, on several European markets there reviewed by Volvo Cars. Thus IMDS enables Volvo Cars to track a are aftermarket-converted gas models that can run on up to five certain substance. fuels – natural gas, biogas, hythane (biomethane with low-blend hydrogen), E85 and petrol. Biogas in particular has excellent This way, Volvo Cars managed to phase out Decabromodiphenyloxide environmental properties. Within the next few years it will also be (Deca-BDE), which is bioaccumulative, persistent and toxic to possible to use second-generation biofuels such as synthetic both humans and the environment. Volvo Cars is ahead of legal diesel in Volvo’s cars. requirements with this phase-out, which is required no later than 2015. Volvo Cars also used IMDS when analysing where in the car Materials models rare earth minerals can be found. The analysis was carried Volvo Cars’ material usage is determined by the design requirements out in collaboration with Chalmers University of Technology. The for each and every part in its cars. The following table shows the demand and therefore the price for rare earth minerals is increasing breakdown of 6 of 12 car models. These 6 cars were selected to rapidly. The project revealed that due to electrification in Volvo’s represent Volvo Cars’ entire car fleet and refer to standardised cars, the use of such minerals is rising. The analysis marks the vehicle models. The breakdowns can vary slightly depending upon beginning of a new approach – in the future rare earth minerals will customised features. Amongst other goals, it is Volvo Cars’ aim to be reused. unify the material breakdowns of its car models to allow for comparison within its portfolio. TOTAL MATERIAL S BRE AKDOWN TOTAL MATERIALS S80 S60 V40 CROSS V70 XC60 ALL-NEW ­BREAKDOWN COUNTRY XC90 Polymers (kg) 216 246 253 284 293 329 Elastomers (kg) 70 63 66 75 82 168 Glass (kg) 42 48 37 50 52 63 Others (incl. liquids, kg) 75 56 86 111 104 113 Metals* (kg) 1,258 1,178 1,087 1,258 1,281 1,363 *METALS S80 S60 V40 CROSS V70 XC60 ALL-NEW BREAKDOWN COUNTRY XC90 Ferrous metal (kg) 1,040 955 855 1,029 1,057 974 Magnesium (kg) 7 11 3 7 7 9 Aluminium (kg) 167 165 179 174 168 314 Copper (kg) 27 23 25 24 24 31 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 | VOLVO CAR GROUP 25 ENVIRONMENTAL DIMENSION Interior environment: air quality and of how Volvo Cars improved the in-car environment of its cars is contact allergies the fact that all textiles fulfil stringent requirements, making sure Volvo Cars’ work with the interior environment can be divided into that the materials do not include harmful substances. Metallic two main areas: air quality and contact allergies. The main objective components, such as handles, buttons and keys are tested for is to make the environment inside the cabin cleaner than the air nickel leakage. outside. There are no societal standards for in-car air, so Volvo Cars created its own in-car air quality requirements that are used Volvo Cars’ ‘Clean Compartment’ work is an example of efforts when developing new Volvo models. This includes the air entering in line with the precautionary principle. This work reduces health via the climate system as well as the emissions from the materials risks for passengers with asthma or allergies by replacing interior inside the cabin. Volvo Cars has developed two systems, Interior trim with materials exceeding the requirements of current legislation. Air Quality System (IAQS) and Clean Zone Interior Package (CZIP), Volvo Cars measures its performance against the World Health to cover this area. Organization’s (WHO) recommended levels. Volvo Cars fulfils the WHO Air Quality Guideline, relating to NO2, particulate matter, CO, IAQS monitors the quality of the incoming air and automatically benzene, ozone and SO2. closes the air vents if the levels of harmful substances become too high. A multi-filter removes particulates and pollen but also uses a Recycling layer of active charcoal to remove odours and ground-level ozone. The IMDS database also makes it possible to calculate how much The system automatically closes the air vents when, for example, of the total weight of the car components consist of fluids, metals, driving through a tunnel. The CZIP technology ensures that the air and other materials. This database enables Volvo Cars to analyse in the car is automatically vented out within one minute from the which proportion of a car is recyclable. The long-term strategy time the car is unlocked with the remote control. for reducing material intensity within Volvo Cars’ operations is to increase the amount of sustainable material; in other words A second aim is to improve the in-car environment in order to renewable and recycled content. Recycled input materials are ensure that the materials used inside the vehicles are not harmful divided into metallic and non-metallic materials. The current Volvo to human health or the environment, as well as to avoid using asthmamodels consist of 10 to 15 kg recycled non-metallic materials (such inducing and allergenic substances in car interiors. Volvo Cars as post-industrial plastics in wheel arch liners, the engine cover and performs careful measurements during the design phase of car sound absorbers), depending on the specification of the car. models and in the first few years of the vehicles’ life. An example ALUMINIUM SAVINGS FROM REMANUFACTURING REMANUFACTURING DEVELOPMENT Tonnes (accumulated) Amount of remanufactured parts sold 2,000 120,000 1,600 96,000 1,200 72,000 800 48,000 400 24,000 0 0 09 10 11 12 13 14 09 10 11 12 13 14 26 VOLVO CAR GROUP | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 ENVIRONMENTAL DIMENSION Volvo Cars has no direct influence on the reclaiming and scrapping Remanufactured spare parts are a cost-efficient and environmentally process of cars in the end-of-use phase. The percentage of Volvo friendly alternative to newly manufactured parts. The remanufactured cars sold that are reclaimed is currently not known. However, in spare parts fulfil the same quality standards, specifications and compliance with the RRR Directive 2005/64/EC on type approval warranty as newly made components. of vehicles for reusability, recyclability and recoverability, metals, oils, fluids, rubber and certain plastics corresponding to at least A remanufactured part requires up to 85% less raw material and 95% of the weight of a Volvo car can be recovered and 85% 80% less energy compared with a newly made product. In 2014, can be recycled. Volvo calculates the recyclability rate and the Volvo Cars saved approximately 300 tonnes of aluminium and 800 recoverability rate of its cars according to the ISO 22628:2002 tonnes of steel, which is equivalent to reducing approximately method. Metallic materials are reused, but the exact amount is not 4,000 tonnes of CO2 emissions. measured due to the complexity of the process. Volvo Cars continuously strives to further increase the product Remanufacturing areas included in the Exchange System and the proportion of Around 15% of Volvo Cars’ spare parts sales consist of parts remanufactured parts sold. However, as shown in the graph below, included in the Volvo Cars’ Parts Exchange System. Dealers the number of remanufactured parts sold decreased in 2014 connected to the Parts Exchange System have a return obligation compared to the previous year. The two main reasons for this are for replaced parts included in the exchange product range. The that customer demand for basic remanufactured components that parts that meet the requirements are then remanufactured by more automatically bring higher sales figures was lower compared external suppliers according to Volvo Cars’ original specifications. to previous years and that the quality of Volvo Cars components After the industrial remanufacturing process the parts are handled has improved in recent years, which means a decrease in warranty as a regular spare part and distributed in the ordinary logistic flow. sales of remanufactured parts. Today, Volvo Cars Exchange System contains an even larger number of components – it includes everything from gearboxes to During 2014 Volvo Cars increased the portfolio of Exchange injectors and electronic components. Product Areas from 41 to 43, underlining that remanufacturing and life cycle management of products is of continued strategic importance to Volvo Cars. In 2015 and onwards, we will look into how we can strengthen this work further. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 | VOLVO CAR GROUP 27 ENVIRONMENTAL DIMENSION Environmental performance — operations Our production plants are more than factories; They are proof points to our social and environmental commitments. Volvo Cars strives for continuous improvements in all its operations. China: Zhangjiakou The company strongly believes that the environment needs to be • Designed for closed loop water treatment system which means a part of the existing efficiency work within the organisation. no emission of industrial polluted water. Environmental issues are not handled separately by a central • Full facility equipped with LED lights. organisation; they are a natural part of our operations that is integrated in the day-to-day work. Some of our achievements are Chengdu highlighted below. • Waste water treatment plant with both chemical and biological treatment steps. Belgium: Ghent • Climate-neutral electricity from certified hydroelectric sources. • Own wind turbines produce approx. 15% of the needed ISO 14001 and beyond electricity. Globally, Volvo Cars manufacturing operations have been ISO • Paint shop has one of the lowest levels of emissions of 14001 certified gradually since 1996 and the environmental solvents to air in the world. management system is a part of the overall management system within Volvo Cars. In 2013, Volvo Cars’ Executive Management Sweden: Torslanda Team (EMT) took a decision to extend the ISO 14001 certifications • Climate-neutral electricity from certified hydroelectric sources. to all corporate functions. Every year an external auditor conducts • Waste heat from nearby oil refinery used for heating. audits at Volvo Cars to ensure that the standards are being met • Paint shop has one of lowest levels of emissions of solvents and opportunities for improvement are being identified. Remediation to air in the world. plans are created for all audit findings, but major audit findings (if any) get the highest priority. Floby • Climate-neutral electricity from certified hydroelectric sources. In 2014, Volvo Cars continued implementing Volvo Cars management • Climate-neutral district heating from biomass. systems in its China operations in order to set the same standard as within the rest of the organisation. Other initiatives during 2014 Skövde included a gap analysis of Volvo Cars’ China operations to prepare • Climate-neutral electricity from certified hydroelectric sources. these locations for ISO 14001 certification. The target is to start • Low carbon district heating. to certify Volvo Cars’ China plants in 2015. As 2015 will be • Plant designed for environmental protection, e.g. risk the first year of full production capacity in the Chinese plants, management, waste and chemical handling. data from Volvo Cars’ China operations will be included in the 2015 ­ sustainability report. Volvo Cars also has a programme Olofström for internal audits relating to environment, the operational • Climate-neutral electricity from certified hydroelectric sources. ­management system and legal compliance as well as handling of • On site generation of hydroelectric power. dangerous goods. The aim of this programme is to monitor Volvo Cars’ operations and thus find improvement areas. Volvo Cars works intensively to improve the effectiveness of its operations. In 2014, focus areas of the internal audits included the handling of chemicals and environmental targets. 28 VOLVO CAR GROUP | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 ENVIRONMENTAL DIMENSION Towards climate-neutral production In 2014, several energy-saving projects were conducted, ­resulting Car manufacturing requires large amounts of energy, which in savings of 39.6 GWh, including the following: potentially could have a negative impact on the environment. Volvo Cars has the overall target to continuously reduce its total Torslanda Plant energy consumption and ultimately become climate-neutral. At its • Closing of a body wash, saving approx. 3 GWh per year. headquarters, Volvo Cars has employees dedicated to work solely • Optimisation of heating and ventilation, saving approx. 7 GWh on energy and climate change related issues and at each site per year. one person has been given the responsibility for energy issues. In addition, full-time employees are working with energy optimisation Ghent Plant to improve efficiency even more at all operational sites. • Optimisation of heating and ventilation, saving approx. 13 GWh per year. Volvo Cars has performed an inventory of energy use in most of its buildings and operational processes. This is an important step Olofström Plant towards reducing energy consumption. Remedial programmes • Optimisation of ventilation, saving approx. 5 GWh per year. have been performed at several sites and information campaigns conducted to educate employees on the importance of energy Skövde Plant saving and efficiency. Checklists are used at team level, clarifying • Recycling of heat, saving approx. 3 GWh per year. when and how to turn the various pieces of equipment on and off. Minor activities such as these complement larger energy-saving Thanks to these and other initiatives, together with the fact that projects. 2014 was a relatively warm year, Volvo Cars was able to reduce total (direct and indirect) CO2 emissions in 2014 to 49,918 tonnes compared to 59,729 tonnes in 2013 – a reduction of 16.4%. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 | VOLVO CAR GROUP 29 ENVIRONMENTAL DIMENSION Energy consumption is delivered to the same network. Therefore, it is impossible to say In its energy consumption, Volvo Cars uses energy in the form of where an individual kilowatt-hour is generated, but by demanding natural gas, LPG (liquefied petroleum gas), diesel oil and petrol for certified renewable energy from electricity providers, Volvo Cars production purposes. This energy is used to heat ovens and other encourages the move towards greater renewable energy production. equipment. Volvo Cars aims for a transition from LPG and natural All the electricity that Volvo Cars buys and uses in Europe is gas to biogas to take place as soon as possible, but at present certified hydropowered electricity and wind power. In Malaysia, it is there are no suppliers that can deliver the quantities Volvo Cars generated from coal. In China, the supply of renewable energy is needs. still under development, but it is expected to grow strongly in the years to come. Volvo Cars follows this development closely and As shown in the graph below, although Volvo Cars’ total energy aims to contribute to the shift from traditional to renewable sources consumption decreased in 2014, its direct energy consumption of energy. increased compared to 2013 due to higher production volumes. In 2014, due to higher production volumes, Volvo Cars’ consumption Indirect energy consumption of purchased electricity increased, as shown in the graph above. Volvo Cars’ indirect energy consumption is through purchased Hydropower accounts for around 95% of Volvo Cars’ indirect electricity and district heating for its facilities. There are various energy consumption and was the type of energy use that increased ways of describing the primary energy source of the electricity the most in 2014. However, there was also a slight increase in the purchased in a given country during a certain period. The European use of energy from condensing coal-fired plants in Malaysia. electricity grid is interconnected and all electric power generated TOTAL ENERGY CONSUMPTION 1 DIRECT ENERGY CONSUMPTION BY SOURCE 2014 (%) 1 MWh 1000,000 800,000 600,000 400,000 200,000 Natural gas/LPG, 98% Oil/diesel/petrol, 1% Renewable (non-biomass), 1% 0 09 10 11 12 13 14 Indirect energy3 Direct energy2 1 The Volvo Cars facilities included in the data are Volvo Cars Torslanda Plant (Gothenburg, Sweden), Volvo Cars Ghent Plant (Ghent, Belgium), Kuala Lumpur (Malaysia), Volvo Cars Skövde – Engines (Skövde, Sweden), Volvo Cars Floby (Floby, Sweden) and Volvo Cars Olofström – Body Components (Olofström, Sweden). 2 Energy produced for own consumption 3 Purchased electricity and heating 30 VOLVO CAR GROUP | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 ENVIRONMENTAL DIMENSION 40 GWh Energy savings of almost 40 GWh were achieved in 2014. (The equivalent of 24,000 barrels of oil) Sofia Boyagi Operational Development Manager, Environmental Care Mihkel Laks Director, Environmental Technical Operations INDIRECT ENERGY CONSUMPTION: INDIRECT ENERGY CONSUMPTION: ELECTRICIT Y BY SOURCE 1 DISTRICT HE ATING SOURCE 1 MWh MWh 500,000 150,000 400,000 120,000 300,000 90,000 200,000 60,000 100,000 30,000 0 0 09 10 11 12 13 14 09 10 11 12 13 14 Condensing coal-fired plants Fossil fuels + electricity Wind power Biofuels Hydropower Waste heat 1 The Volvo Cars facilities included in the data are Volvo Cars Torslanda Plant (Gothenburg, Sweden), Volvo Cars Ghent Plant (Ghent, Belgium), Kuala Lumpur (Malaysia), Volvo Cars Skövde – Engines (Skövde, Sweden), Volvo Cars Floby (Floby, Sweden) and Volvo Cars Olofström – Body Components (Olofström, Sweden). SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 | VOLVO CAR GROUP 31 ENVIRONMENTAL DIMENSION Managing emissions to air Ghent paint shop approximately 14 g/m² of painted surface. The Volvo Cars’ plants produce direct and indirect emissions of several paint operations in the Chengdu plant are based on the use of types. Volvo Cars actively manages and reduces its Volatile mainly water-borne paints and the same state-of-the-art paint Organic Compounds (VOCs) and CO2 emissions as well as other application equipment that is used in Torslanda and Ghent. Volvo greenhouse gas emissions. Cars will continue its efforts to further reduce emissions with the ambition to make all paint shops best-in-class. CO2 emissions: In order to reduce CO2 emissions from operations Volvo Cars continues to manage the consumption of energy as SOx and NOx: Volvo Cars’ plants produce emissions of sulphur described in the section ‘Towards climate-neutral production’, on oxides (SOx) and nitrogen oxides (NOx). Emissions of sulphur page 29. In 2014, this work led to a significant decrease in direct oxides have been reduced significantly over a long period, mainly and indirect CO2 emissions, as shown in the graphs below. as a result of Volvo Cars’ change from oil to district heating and gas. The improvement is also due to the use of cleaner Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs): VOC emissions are caused fuel oils at those locations where oil is still used for heating mainly by painting operations. Since the commissioning of the purposes. Emissions of nitrogen oxides are mainly caused Torslanda paint shop in 1991, this shop has proved to be one of the by combustion temperature. Paint shops normally use high very best in the world in terms of the level of hydrocarbons emitted combustion temperatures, which yield low emissions of CO2 and per unit of painted surface. In 2007, the European Union imposed VOC, but higher levels of nitrogen oxides, whilst other combustions a limit of 60 g/m² of painted surface on hydrocarbon emissions take place at boiler houses with low NOx emissions. from existing automotive paint shops. Volvo Cars’ paint shop in Torslanda emits approximately 13 g/m² of painted surface, and the During 2014, Volvo Cars’ total emissions of greenhouse gases decreased compared with the previous year. Volvo Cars calculates ESTIMATED DIRECT AND INDIRECT CO 2 EMISSIONS 1, 2 EMISSIONS OF SOX , NOX AND VOC Tonnes 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 80,000 Emissions of SOx (tonnes)1 <1 <1 <1 <1 <1 <1 64,000 Emissions of NOx (tonnes)2 71 85 80 72 76 77 48,000 Emissions of VOC (tonnes)3 527 738 828 796 724 675 32,000 1 SOx emissions are calculated on the basis of the sulphur content in the fuel. 16,000 2 The NOx emissions are calculated based on the quantity of fuel. Spot tests are also performed. 3 Calculations of VOC emissions are based mainly on the amount of solvents 0 09 10 11 12 13 14 in materials used and on measurements of the degree of purification of the Indirect emissions of CO2 from district heating equipment. Indirect emissions of CO2 from electricity Direct emissions of CO2 from natural gas and renewable STOCKS OF OZONE-DEPLETING SUBSTANCES IN EU 1 The Volvo Cars facilities included in the data are Volvo Cars Torslanda Plant (Gothenburg, Sweden), Volvo Cars Ghent Plant (Ghent, Belgium), Kuala 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 ­Lumpur (Malaysia), Volvo Cars Skövde – Engines (Skövde, Sweden), Volvo Cars Floby (Floby, Sweden) and Volvo Cars Olofström – Body Components Installed amount (Olofström, Sweden). HCFC (kg) 703 630 486 432 358 256 CFC equivalent (kg) 35 31 24 21 17 12 2 Indirect emissions are estimated based on our assumptions for the primary energy sources for the countries in which we operate, as described under EN4. The primary energy source for electricity in Europe is hydropower, which is ­climate-neutral, while the primary energy source in Malaysia is assumed to be coal (720 kg CO2/MWh). 32 VOLVO CAR GROUP | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 ENVIRONMENTAL DIMENSION the CO2 emissions according to the EUETS system. The total 2014, this was done for example when building the new engine amount of CO2 equivalents is currently not calculated. plant in China. Volvo Cars does not use chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) in any Waste water management application, although HCFCs are used to some extent in air In order for waste water to be treated by municipal waste water conditioning systems. Since 2002, no new systems have been treatment facilities it must meet various requirements in terms of, filled with HCFCs. for example, contamination levels. Volvo Cars therefore cooperates with municipality and local waste water treatment organisations in Water management order to optimise waste water treatment as much as possible. Volvo Cars works in a targeted manner to reduce emissions to Volvo Cars’ discharges of water consist of internally pre-treated water and water use, and endeavours to be among the leaders in process water, and waste water discharged from catering and the automotive industry in this respect. restroom facilities to the domestic water systems in the plants. The volume of recycled and reused water is currently not measured; Fresh water management neither is the volume of discharges of water judged to be significant. Volvo Cars uses municipal water supplies only. Based on the Water Footprint calculations, Volvo Cars has identified sites where water In China, Volvo Cars works actively with waste water management conservation has highest priority. In such areas, Volvo Cars works to ensure that it fulfils its global standards, which are significantly proactively to secure minimal environmental impact. It is Volvo stricter than the local legal requirements. The waste water Cars’ ambition to take the lead in water conservation activities in treatment plant in Chengdu is designed with both chemical and areas with fresh water scarcity and to contribute with competence biological treatment steps before the water is released to a municipal in waste water treatment processes and closed loop systems. In waste water treatment facility. This treatment level exceeds local legal requirements in China. TOTAL WATER CONSUMPTION 1 WATER CONSUMPTION PER VEHICLE 2 m3 m3 750,000 2.0 600,000 1.6 450,000 1.2 300,000 0.8 150,000 0.4 0 0 09 10 11 12 13 14 09 10 11 12 13 14 Water consumption (m3 municipal water supplies) Water consumption (m3/vehicle2) 1 Manufacturing plants are Volvo Cars Torslanda, Volvo Cars Ghent and Malaysia. 2 KPI water consumption/vehicle is based on the number of produced cars in manufacturing plants. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 | VOLVO CAR GROUP 33 ENVIRONMENTAL DIMENSION Examples of measures taken in 2014 to improve waste water Waste management management include the closing of a body wash in the Torslanda Volvo Cars works continuously to reduce waste by applying the plant which will reduce water consumption by approximately 60,000 following priorities: m3/year. In total, Volvo Cars’ water consumption decreased in 2014 to 617,000 m3 compared to 626,000 m3 the year before. Further 1. Avoidance and prevention of waste initiatives to reduce water consumption will be taken in 2015. 2. Material recycling 3. Energy recovery from waste 4. Landfill or destruction WASTE MATERIAL BY T YPE AND PROCESSING METHODS 1 Treatment by a professional contractor Recycled incl. With energy Without energy 2014 (tonnes) Metal scrap recovery recovery Landfill TOTAL Non hazardous waste 204,216 4,565 342 343 209,466 Hazardous waste 1,535 2,265 6,219 595 10,614 TOTAL 205,751 6,830 6,561 938 220,080 1 The Volvo Cars facilities included in the data are Volvo Cars Torslanda Plant (Gothenburg, Sweden), Volvo Cars Ghent Plant (Ghent, Belgium), Kuala ­Lumpur (Malaysia), Volvo Cars Skövde – Engines (Skövde, Sweden), Volvo Cars Floby (Floby, Sweden) and Volvo Cars Olofström – Body Components (­Olofström, Sweden). The figures are provided by Volvo Cars’ waste disposal contractor. 2 Hazardous waste from Volvo Cars production plants includes: waste water sludge, oils, cutting fluids, paint sludge, adhesive residues and solvents. The target is to reduce hazardous waste. WASTE MATERIAL S BY T YPE 1 Tonnes 1 Until 2011, the figure included Sweden and Belgium. The Volvo Cars facilities 250,000 included in the data for 2012 are Volvo Cars Torslanda Plant (Gothenburg, Sweden), Volvo Cars Ghent Plant (Ghent, Belgium), Kuala Lumpur (Malaysia), 200,000 Volvo Cars Skövde – Engines (Skövde, Sweden), Volvo Cars Floby (Floby, Sweden) and Volvo Cars Olofström – Body Components (Olofström, Sweden). 150,000 100,000 50,000 0 09 10 11 12 13 14 Non-hazardous waste Hazardous waste 34 VOLVO CAR GROUP | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 ENVIRONMENTAL DIMENSION For Volvo Cars, the biggest waste category is metal waste dedicated team it is now easier to design, control, measure and stemming from car production in Sweden, all of which is recycled. improve Volvo Cars’ transportation and logistics requirements. In During 2014 a project was launched to improve the waste line with this ambition to streamline transportation Volvo Cars has, management even further. The project has resulted in increased since 2012, been designing an inbound network that is as efficient awareness and means to decrease waste. The project will as possible. The overall aim of the network is to achieve optimal be continued during 2015 focusing on implementing defined transport mode as well as concept selection, together with improvement actions, such as improved fraction cleanliness and a improved utilisation of trucks. An improved logistics network will reduction of hazardous waste by 60% in Skövde engine plant, as not only have a positive financial impact but will also result in lower well as strengthening the focus on avoiding waste in early phases. environmental impact per shipment. Waste increased by around 5% between 2013 and 2014, due to rising production volumes. Volvo Cars has made significant investments in terms of resources and IT systems to enable it to perform network planning and Preventing environmental accidents for 20 years operational management more efficiently. It is also equipped for Volvo Cars works proactively to minimise the environmental risks in continuous optimisation. Managing the logistics activities with an its operations. Advanced processes and technical installations are in-house organisation has resulted in increased efficiencies and in place to prevent such environmental accidents. Two examples reduced environmental impact. illustrate this: • To prevent environmental spillage and incidents, Volvo Cars Key enablers to sustainable logistics solutions has developed a risk analysis process. Regular risk analyses The biggest environmental impacts from transportation consist are performed at all sites where environmentally hazardous of emissions to air and water (such as CO2, SOx & NOx) from the activities are carried out (in line with the definition in the different modes of transport. Besides emissions, noise from Swedish Environmental Code). transportation as well as injuries from accidents during the logistics process are focus areas for a sustainable transport and logistics • All plants report environmental incidents and ‘near-misses’ operation. to Volvo Cars’ Environmental Protection Department in Gothenburg, Sweden. Focus on reducing waste in transport: In line with Volvo Cars’ lean manufacturing approach the Logistics In the past 20 years, Volvo Cars has not been notified or found organisation aims for the highest possible efficiencies when culpable of any breach of environmental standards or operating choosing and setting up transport and warehousing operations. licences in any of its plants. All environmental activities are Volvo Cars has a complete focus on reducing waste in the logistics conducted in compliance with applicable legislation and permits. network and in the entire logistics organisation. The examples No serious environmental accidents requiring reporting to the below demonstrate how Volvo Cars strives for greener and more authorities occurred in 2014. environmental friendly logistics services: Transport and logistics • ‘Ship direct’: This principle aims at minimising transportation In 2011, Volvo Cars set out a strategy to restructure its logistics distance between two locations and to avoid multiple handling operations to better control and manage this core activity. Since and reloading activities. Both large-scale and small-scale then it has been attaching ever-greater importance to logistical adjustments to the logistics network resulted in shorter activities and processes. In 2012, Volvo Cars insourced the transportation distances in 2014 and thus had a positive commercial and operational responsibility for global outbound environmental impact. transportation, which is the distribution of finished vehicles to • Eliminating unused capacity: Better planning and constant dealers and customers worldwide. During 2014 another major optimisation helped Volvo Cars achieve up to 15% better milestone in Volvo Cars’ logistics strategy was achieved in setting utilisation of the transport capacity and has resulted in reduced up the inbound logistics operations as an in-house function. emissions. Volvo Cars has teamed up with other shippers of Inbound logistics comprises the transportation of production material cargo and the combined volumes help to better fill up the and spare parts from suppliers to factories, warehouses and other available capacity and enable highly efficient transport solutions. sites. • Reduce empty driving by utilising trucks on the return route: Volvo Cars is in constant discussion with logistics service Taking over these responsibilities enables Volvo Cars to better providers to seek opportunities to better use available plan the logistics strategies and directly procure logistics services equipment. Dynamic optimisation of routes and pick-up dates for material arriving at factories and cars leaving to dealers. With a enable a certain degree of flexibility to make efficient round trips. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 | VOLVO CAR GROUP 35 ENVIRONMENTAL DIMENSION Focus on sustainable logistics providers: On top of the new logistics set-up Volvo Cars has invested and Besides focusing on internal improvements Volvo Cars is committed taken control of returnable materials from the packing of parts that to creating sustainability beyond its own operations. Therefore are shipped from around 1,500 suppliers’ sites to our factories and Volvo Cars requires its logistics service providers to meet its warehouses. The purposes of the new packaging solution are to sustainability standards and minimise their emissions. secure safe transport, support ergonomic handling and also to avoid one-way packaging and reduce the environmental impact of In order to achieve its sustainability objectives Volvo Cars carefully disposing or recycling packaging material. Packaging pool locations selects logistics providers and together with them reviews how have been implemented to sort, clean and distribute the packaging efficient and eco-friendly solutions can be implemented and back to suppliers. developed. Volvo Cars also demands that its suppliers should be ISO 14001-certified and that they operate a truck fleet with Euro The distribution of cars has been handled by an in-house 5 and higher emissions standards. These standards are regularly organisation since 2012 and during 2014 Volvo Cars worked hard reviewed and measured. to further improve the logistics network and develop better routings. Over 50% of the logistics contracts have been carefully Initiatives that contribute to environment and sustainability re-evaluated and this has already led to improved efficiencies and The new inbound logistics organisation and network started will reduce emissions by over 6.5% when these contracts come operations in 2014. This included setting up over 20 new logistics into effect in January 2015. providers and establishing almost 5,000 new routes. The emphasis in the first half of the year was to stabilise the operations and Volvo Cars started to manage the vehicle distribution yard in Ghent ensure that processes and systems were running reliably. The with internal resources during 2014. This change enables Volvo second half of the year was devoted to structural fine-tuning of the Cars to directly verify the emission level of trucks transporting network and set-up, in order to realise a 15% improvement in Volvo cars. It also enables Volvo Cars to plan the loads and thus efficiency and cost, which also directly decreases emissions. have better control over the utilisation of trucks, which in turn leads to reduced emissions. 36 VOLVO CAR GROUP | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 ENVIRONMENTAL DIMENSION Plans for 2015 demands and requirements in terms of sustainability as Volvo Cars’ In recent years Volvo Cars has seen significant growth in vehicles own operations. The PS&L department launched a number of produced and sold in China. It is our objective to produce vehicles improvement initiatives during 2014 that cover sustainability and where we sell them and source parts where we produce cars. Our environmental aspects. However, PS&L continuously seeks new production in China has an enormous impact on reduced emissions ways of reducing energy consumption. By improving the lighting in vis-à-vis vehicles produced in Europe and shipped to China. Our aim the CDC for example, Volvo Car Customer Service has saved is to ensure we run as efficient and focused a logistics operation in 2 million SEK per year in energy costs. As for the other outbound China as we do in Europe. We foresee starting a similar initiative as transport carriers, PS&L puts sustainability demands on these we have done in Europe in recent years and plan a large-scale partners as well. All carriers are contractually obliged to be ISO project to restructure our logistics network. The aim is to streamline 14001 certified or have equivalent certification. Environmental the logistics flows, to better utilise the equipment employed and to initiatives within this area also include investigations on alternative establish contracts that consider sustainability and emissions with fuel cars/truck fleets, improvement of filling ratio, as well as using the Chinese logistics supply base. During 2015 we will re-evaluate train transport instead of road transport to reduce environmental the logistics routes for about 50% of our in-bound transports and impacts. for finished vehicles for 10–12 European countries. We aim to find better routings and better utilisation of trucks, and therefore reduce Business travel and commuting the environmental impact on transports. Volvo Cars actively reduces the impact from employees’ business travel and commuting. The necessity of any trip must be evaluated Parts Supply & Logistics and the possibility of conducting a telephone or video conference The Parts Supply & Logistics (PS&L) network supports the Volvo call as an alternative must be considered. Employees must always Car Customer Service business by distributing parts and accessories choose the most suitable route and type of transport from Volvo with high availability and short lead times. The Central Distribution Cars’ point of view. Environmentally friendlier means of transportation Centre (CDC) in Gothenburg stores more than 75,000 different (e.g. train instead of flight for domestic travel) must be considered part numbers which are supplied to dealers globally, mainly via as far as possible and if reasonable from a time perspective. 45 Distribution Centres around the world. PS&L cooperates with a number of external third-party logistics providers for both As of 2014, Volvo Cars can measure and manage the CO2 emission warehousing and transportation. All of these have the same per passenger/kilometre and the total CO2 emission for all trips booked through the corporate travel agency. These figures will build the baseline for setting targets for emissions from b ­ usiness travel in the future. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 | VOLVO CAR GROUP 37 PEOPLE DIMENSION PEOPLE VISION AND STRATEGY We need the best people to create premium. That means giving our employees the means to be challenging and daring, yet without compromising our values. Volvo Cars has a clear vision: to be the world’s most progressive motivated and exert extraordinary effort to perform at their very and desired premium car brand. Volvo Cars’ employees are the best; and that we have a high quality engagement with our people who will make this happen. This is why Volvo Cars aims to customers and other external stakeholders. Examples of what the become an employer of choice that attracts and retains the people company focused on during 2014 include communication who will build the future for Volvo Cars. Part of this is enabling and on-boarding of Volvo Cars’ corporate strategy; carrying out those people to work together in an efficient way and create a leadership programmes in Research & Development, Purchasing high-performing organisation. To achieve this, Volvo Cars has made & Manufacturing, and Marketing, Sales and Service; further it a strategic target to become a lean and nimble company that implementing Volvo Cars’ new Resource and Competence Centre, challenges traditional ways of doing things. In practice this means which aim at increasing flexibility and mobility within Volvo Cars, as becoming a healthy organisation aligned around a compelling well as continued roll-out of Volvo Cars’ activity-based workplace vision and strategy, having the ability to execute that strategy and concept ‘Designed Around You @ Work’. the ability to renew and adapt to changes in the external environment, yet never compromising the respect we have for each other. An employer of choice An important part of organisational health is providing a good Organisational health working environment. During 2014, Volvo Cars made good Volvo Cars builds a global organisation based on a balance progress towards its goal of becoming an employer of choice. between performance and health. Organisational health is defined Volvo Cars is on the Universum list of the world’s most attractive as our ability to align, execute and renew ourselves faster than the employers, in which students around the globe are asked about competitors and thus ensure that Volvo Cars has the capabilities their ideal employers. In 2013, Volvo Cars was ranked 49 on the to build strong performance over time and realise the corporate list of most attractive companies by engineering students in the strategy. In other words, organisational health encompasses all world’s 12 largest economies, and in 2014 its ranking was number aspects of the organisation’s inner workings – direction, leadership, 40. During 2014, Volvo Cars was also recognised by the public as culture, accountability, coordination and control, capabilities, a top employer brand in the three countries where it has the most motivation, external orientation and innovation and learning. employees: Belgium, China and Sweden. In Belgium, Volvo Cars Ultimately it is about realising the full potential of Volvo Cars and Ghent has been part of the Randstad Award survey since 2010, in fulfilling Volvo Cars’ company purpose. which a representative sample of employees and job-seekers between the ages of 18 and 65 are asked for their views on the The Organisational Health Index (OHI) is a data-driven model and 150 largest companies in the country. Volvo Cars Ghent has survey used to understand the current status and derive corrective increased its ranking from number 117 in 2010 to number 49 in actions. According to the OHI, Volvo Cars’ current strengths lie in 2013. In China, Volvo Cars China was named the Best Employer of the areas of direction, motivation and external orientation. That 2014 by major recruitment social media in China. Volvo Cars China means Volvo Cars’ employees have a clear sense of where the was for example named ‘The Top 30 Shanghai Best Employer of company is heading, how to get there and what it means to all 2014’ by Zhaopin.com, one of the biggest job search websites in Volvo Cars employees across the world; that employees are China. Furthermore, Volvo Cars China was named as ‘The Top 100 38 VOLVO CAR GROUP | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 PEOPLE DIMENSION China Best Employer of 2014’ by Dajie.com, a new recruitment In 2014, Volvo Cars expanded the business by welcoming new social media. In Sweden, Volvo Cars rose sharply in Universum’s members to the global team. This included close to 300 new list of most attractive employers according to engineering employees from one of our subcontractors, Johnson Controls students from colleges and universities across Sweden: from Interior, from which the assembly business for headliner and tunnel number 26 in 2012 to number 13 in 2013 and number 8 in 2014. consoles was insourced into our plants in Ghent and Torslanda. At Moreover, Volvo Cars was ranked as Sweden’s fourth most attractive the Ghent plant the majority of the insourced assembly workers multinational employer by Randstad Award. are female, which contributes to increased diversity within the plant. In Torslanda, the opening of a brand new, SPA-prepared The Volvo Cars Culture body shop, in combination with stronger demand for existing cars, The Volvo Cars Culture is expressed by three cultural values that means that Volvo Cars will re-introduce the third shift in the spring all employees should live by: Passion for Customers & Cars; Move of 2015. This related recruitment of around 1,300 employees Fast, Aim High; and Real Challenge & Respect. Our Volvo Cars further underlines the role of Volvo Cars as one of the largest Culture unites us as a company and it starts with our commitment employers in Sweden. Volvo Cars also expanded its China operations to making a difference in people’s lives. We define our culture by in 2014 and increased the number of employees at the Chengdu three values: plant by around 500. • Passion for customers and cars: Being curious and customer oriented in everything we do. Volvo Cars experiences low employee turnover rates (3.7% in 2014). The higher employee turnover rates in China compared • Move fast and aim high: Seeing and seizing opportunities. to Sweden and Belgium are due to general labour market trends. • Real challenge and respect: Taking initiative and acting on The average employee tenure at Volvo Cars is 14 years, which your experience. indicates that employees who join Volvo Cars stay for many years. The worldwide Volvo team Around the world Volvo Cars employs about 26,000 people. Employees have opportunities to work cross-functionally in a dynamic global organisation. The diversity of personal backgrounds, skills and experiences not only makes the company strong in a global business environment – it also enriches the daily working life at Volvo Cars. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 | VOLVO CAR GROUP 39 PEOPLE DIMENSION ING LABOUR RI PECT GHT RES S TALENT ACQUISITION E PERFORMAN NAG CE PLAN ATTRACT RECRUIT ONBOARD MA > REER AND SUCC D SAFETY OF EMPL END OF EMPLOYMENT GANISATION OR E CA H AN ADERSHIP E FACILITIE ES OYE LE MANAG AG SIO ALT ES S N HE CULTURE MA N > DEVELOP > <R E WA IZ E RD AND RECO GN D IV ION E R S IT Y AND INCLUS In recent years Volvo Cars has expanded its global operations, People and competence which has led to an increasing number of employees who have Volvo Cars invests in the continuous development of its employees worked for Volvo Cars for less than five years. to create value for the company. This entails having an understanding of the competence needs of today and tomorrow in The people value stream order to both develop the competence of our current colleagues To become a healthy and high-performing organisation and enable and attract the right external candidates and business partners. our employees to build the future of Volvo Cars we need to offer The overall learning vision is to enable employees to be active in an attractive and stimulating work environment. This is done by driving their own development, while Volvo Cars moves from being leveraging on Human Resources main processes shown in the a learning provider to being a learning enabler and promoter of People Value Stream (see figure above). knowledge sharing. This is what composes the middle circle in the People Value Stream model and how Volvo Cars aim to secure the Firstly, as shown in the middle circle, we secure the flow of employees flow of people and access to competence: by offering continuous in the organisation – by understanding the competence needs of performance management, professional development, reward and tomorrow and making sure we attract, recruit and retain the right recognition to employees, and career management support. employees. Performance management Secondly, as is shown in the inner circles, we build the culture and The Volvo Cars corporate culture is the foundation on which leadership needed to develop a high-performing organisation. its employee performance management framework is based. Every employee is responsible for defining personal goals and Thirdly, as shown in the outer circle, Volvo Cars has identified development activities in order to support the business and three fundamental areas. These are Health & Safety, Diversity & prepare themselves for future challenges. The manager’s Inclusion, and Respecting Labour Rights. These areas underpin responsibility lies in enabling this process by leading, managing our People Policy, which aims to ensure that Volvo Cars adheres and coaching with relevant feedback and support. During 2013, a to and respects labour rights, offers a safe and sound working new method of performance rating was launched. The main environment, from a physical as well as a psychosocial perspective, purpose of the rating is to give a reflection of the extent to which and gives all employees equal opportunities. employees fulfil the main requirements in their job descriptions, thereby identifying future development needs, career opportunities The implementation and integration of the people value stream proand reward (salary, bonus, etc.). The rating is done once a year and cesses will largely determine the health of the organisation and all employees are expected to use the rating system unless there Volvo Cars’ competitive advantage in terms of human capital vis-àare legal obstacles to doing so. vis competitors. In this chapter, more elaborate descriptions are ­provided on the middle circle of the model – People and C ­ ompetence. Developing leaders The areas that form the outer circle will be discussed in later Strongly connected to developing and maintaining Volvo Cars ­chapters. Culture is leadership. To us, leadership is about ensuring that the company’s leaders share a common vision for the future and that they provide good role models for employees to follow. Therefore 40 VOLVO CAR GROUP | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 PEOPLE DIMENSION RATE OF EMPLOYEE TURNOVER 2014 BY GENDER AND EMPLOYMENT T YPE Turnover % Female Male Blue collar White collar Total Total 2013 N/A N/A N/A N/A 3.8% 2014 N/A N/A N/A N/A 3.7% Sweden 2013 2.8% 3.1% 2.5% 3.5% 3.0% 2014 2.7% 3.0% 2.5% 3.6% 3.1% Belgium 2013 5.5% 5.1% 4.9% 6.4% 5.1% 2014 5.1% 4.9% 5.3% 2.6% 4.9% China 2013 N/A N/A 6.5% 10.9% 9.6% 2014 N/A N/A 7.7% 10.7% 9.1% TOTAL NUMBER OF TOTAL NUMBER OF NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES PER EMPLOYMENT T YPE EMPLOYEES – GLOBAL EMPLOYEES – SWEDEN White collar Blue collar Total Global 11,391 14,689 26,080 Sweden 7,643 8,340 15,982 Belgium 392 3,773 4,165 China 1,654 2,244 3,898 Thailand 25 0 25 Malaysia 27 314 341 Market Companies 1,931 18 1,669 Sweden Sweden, 61% Torslanda plant, 21% Torslanda plant 247 3,182 3,429 Belgium, 16% Gothenburg excl Gothenburg excluding China, 15% Torslanda plant, 55% ­Torslanda plant 7,077 1,911 8,770 Other markets, 8% Skövde incl Floby, 13% Skövde incl Floby 367 1,663 2,029 Olofström, 11% Olofström 170 1,584 1,754 NEW HIRES AND REHIRES 2014 BY AGE 1 EMPLOYEE TENURE 2 : NUMBER OF YE ARS WITH VOLVO CARS 7,500 10,000 6,000 8,000 4,500 6,000 3,000 4,000 1,500 2,000 0 0 15−29 30−49 50−69 0−5 6−10 11−15 16−20 21−25 26−30 >30 Total China Belgium Sweden 1 New hires and rehires include regular, temporary and International Service Employee (ISE) inbound employment. 2 As per December 31, 2014; Sweden, Belgium and China; white collar and blue collar. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 | VOLVO CAR GROUP 41 PEOPLE DIMENSION we aim to develop leaders for a global market who are courageous, With public funding such as the European Social Fund, Volvo Cars accountable and empowering, and who apply our six humanhas had the opportunity to allocate even more resources to training centric leadership behaviours in the daily work: Create Meaning, and competence development in recent years. In future, Volvo Customer Focus, Show Courage, Make Things Happen & Innovate, Cars will continue to work with public funding through partnerships Believe in People, and Challenge & Support. with suppliers and other companies, with the aim of making available even more resources for competence development and Volvo Cars believes that our managers have a fundamental role to improving collaboration and cooperation with relevant stakeholders. play in attaining our business objectives and in the engagement We use the 70/20/10 concept – 70% on-the-job experience, and development of all our employees. To equip them for this task, 20% learning from others, e.g. mentorship, and 10% courses and all new managers go through a 13-day Introduction to Management education. (ITM) programme when they start their new role. The aim of the programme is to make all managers aware of relevant procedures Volvo Cars also provides employees with international opportunities and methods within Volvo Cars, and to give them access to tools to develop between different Volvo Cars operations and locations. that might be of assistance in their daily work. During 2014, For example, Volvo Cars offers opportunities for exchange approximately 260 managers participated in this training, programmes between Volvo Cars China and Sweden. Within these which included courses on diversity, discrimination law and the programmes, Volvo Cars’ employees get the opportunity to work in psychosocial work environment. The Swedish programme is used China and vice versa for a specified period. The purpose is to as a basis for the US and European programmes and was last strengthen individual and functional competence, enable sharing updated in 2011. The Belgian programme is developed and delivered and learning across different locations, build networks for continuous locally, as is the Chinese programme. All our procedures and collaboration within Volvo Cars and to support its development regulations are updated regularly by the relevant experts in Sweden, into a coherent global organisation. In 2014, around 20 Belgium and China. The programme has consistently scored employees from the Purchasing and Research & Development above five points on a six-point scale in participants’ evaluations. units participated in the exchange programmes. Other initiatives include shortand long-term International Service Employee (ISE) During 2014, all Global Leadership Team members (150 most assignments and shadowing programmes whereby a Volvo Cars’ senior managers) participated in a mentoring initiative called ‘Go employee gets the opportunity to observe another employee or Out and See’, in which each senior manager set up a mentoring manager in a different operation or location. relationship with three cross-functional managers. This enables senior managers to hear first-hand about the realities in different Career and succession management at Volvo Cars is about parts of Volvo Cars, and provides first-line managers with the identifying, developing and maximising career opportunities for opportunity to learn more about the company strategy and the our employees, making Volvo Cars the employer of choice and challenges the company is facing. ensuring we have the people we need to build the future for Volvo Cars. Developing employees Volvo Cars strives to understand the competence needs of tomorrow The Volvo Car Academy and act on them today. Our goal is for each employee to have a The Volvo Car Academy is a department established in 2013 personal development plan, developed in dialogue with his or her to work as a platform for training within Volvo Cars. Its main task manager. Development plans will lead to a variety of development is to develop new learning activities as well as translate strategic activities – education, training, courses, skills development, leisure competence needs within the organisation to training activities studies, knowledge sharing or just pure experience. The purpose and to deliver corporate leadership training. Through these training is to ensure we develop our people based on what is best for activities, the Academy supports transparency and builds individual employees and the business as a whole. synergies between different functions within the organisation. The learning activities are developed in partnership with business units During 2014, Volvo Cars offered approximately 500 different and at regular intervals with business schools, technology schools courses in 3,000 sessions, with a total of almost 40,000 participants. and universities in order to provide relevant and quality assured The main training areas included: product-related issues training according to the various needs across different functions (engineering); IT systems and tools; leadership and organisational within Volvo Cars. The Volvo Car Academy oversees and governs development; process-related manufacturing; compliance and supplier training, and is the provider for an online portal where all Code of Conduct; and safety, health and environment. Volvo Cars employees can find various training material, information and also offered competence development activities such as mentoring, e-learning. project work, job rotation and literature studies, which are important parts of the learning model. 42 VOLVO CAR GROUP | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 PEOPLE DIMENSION Reward and recognise • Have financial security in cases of disability, work injury Volvo Cars has two global incentive programmes: a global cashand during company travel based short-term incentive programme (STI) for all employees and • Know that there is an existing survivor’s policy in case of death. a long-term incentive programme (LTI) for executives and senior • Know that occupational pensions are long-term and managers. The design and pay-out of these programmes are sustainable subject to the Board of Directors’ annual approval. Both programmes have common targets for all employees and are not • Know that Volvo Cars’ old age pension benefits are subject to individual differentiation. The purpose of the STI competitive in the market and in the country of residence. programme is to strengthen global alignment among employees around Volvo Cars’ vision, objectives and strategies and to encourage To implement the new policy, Volvo Cars developed the Volvo Cars’ all employees to achieve and exceed the business plan targets in Global Pension & Insurance Strategy. As a first action in the order to reach the long-term targets. The purpose of the LTI strategy Volvo Cars successfully developed a new global Business programme is to attract, motivate and retain key competence within Travel Insurance. The new insurance is valid from January 1, 2015 Volvo Cars. The LTI programme is based on calculated market value and covers all employees all over the world when travelling of Volvo Cars. Pay-outs were made for both the STI and the LTI for business. In 2015, further steps will be taken to implement programmes in 2014. the global pension and insurance policy. The focus will be on investigating to what extent employees have financial security in Pension and insurance policies case of disability or work injury, as well as on existing survivors’ Against the background of the aspiration to be the employer of policy in case of death. When the mapping has been carried out, choice and being a responsible company, Volvo Cars started a decisions on next steps will be taken. project to develop a global pension and insurance policy in 2013. In Sweden employees’ occupational pensions are managed The policy was approved at the end of 2013 and implementation through the Swedish corporate pension fund (Volvo Personvagnars commenced in 2014. According to the policy all employees at Pensionsstiftelse VPPS), which is a separate legal entity. VPPS Volvo Cars shall be sustainably and respectfully insured and all has incorporated ethical considerations regarding environment, employees shall: consumers, employees and communities in its investment policy. These considerations are derived from Volvo Cars’ Code of Conduct and will be further developed during 2015. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 | VOLVO CAR GROUP 43 PEOPLE DIMENSION Health and safety of employees Health encompasses all aspects of our organisation and is a crucial factor in delivering performance now and in the future. Volvo Cars’ ambition is to create a suitable, structured working • The Work Environment Committee has the mission to environment jointly with its employees. All Volvo Cars operations develop Volvo Cars’ work environment policy and to ensure globally should meet the same safety compliance standards. The compliance. The committee also encourages line organisations same tools and health and safety organisation applies to all of to develop goals and action plans relating to the work Volvo Cars’ operations. It should be as safe to work at a production environment, and works to enhance cooperation within Volvo unit in China as it is to work at a similar unit in for example Sweden. Cars and the industry. All committees are driven by local management. In 2014, committees were established in China. Health & safety governance • The Safety Review Board has full management authority to Volvo Cars’ corporate health and safety department ensures legal review and take decisions on all aspects of health and safety compliance and monitors the company ambition of being the within its purview. The intention is to standardise this forum as employer of choice. Each division is supported by health and safety a management safety tool throughout Volvo Cars. specialists who coordinate and manage health and safety efforts. Leadership Safety Walks are opportunities for managers •  Volvo Cars also contracts an external health service company with to discuss safe behaviour and ways of improving safety with medical and technical professionals who assist with surveys, employees in their actual job function. assessments and advice. To guarantee its commitment to the health and safety of all employees, Volvo Cars has established the • Health & Safety integrated in Volvo Car Business following structures and procedures: Management System is the management system for systematic work with, and follow-up of, work environment • Volvo Cars Work Environment Directive covers Volvo issues which brings about opportunities for continuous Cars’ policies on labour practices and working conditions. improvements and maintains the focus on work environment The d ­ irective aims to improve the work environment, health issues on a daily basis in manufacturing operations. All and safety. It describes organisational responsibility, work workplaces are screened regularly by managers and Safety ­environmental programmes, job adaptation and rehabilitation, Officers and deviations are corrected. Risk assessments on company health care and future work environment. different levels and topics are standard procedures and used throughout Volvo Cars. 44 VOLVO CAR GROUP | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 PEOPLE DIMENSION • Volvo Cars’ Safety Officers function as representatives of a basis for our preventive programmes. The action plan for work all employees and must work to promote a satisfactory work environment activities places particular emphasis on reporting ­environment. At Volvo Cars Sweden, Safety Officers and union incidents which might have resulted in personal injury. Volvo Cars’ representatives are involved in the planning and implemention injury prevention programmes cover all units and operations in of measures. This involves studying working conditions, Sweden, as well as the production units in Belgium and Malaysia. ­planning remedial actions and conducting annual follow-ups. China will be covered during 2015. Volvo Cars’ Safety Officers are vital project resources and agents of change, and must take part in the initial stages of Volvo Cars will also monitor near-misses, accidents and incidents such measures. in all its operation sites through the TIA system. This is an •  The Green Cross tool provides a visual means for following internet-based system used for reporting incidents and risk up workplace injuries. The overall purpose of the tool is to observations, in terms of health and safety and environmental ensure that the risk of workplace injuries is minimised through issues, directly into any computer nearby. When fully operational, investigations, preventive actions and reporting. The tool can the system will be an important additional tool for preventing risk. be used by all units, levels and departments. In 2013, the TIA system was available at Volvo Car Customer Service (VCCS) and Volvo Cars Torslanda (VCT). As part of the Aspired Safety Culture programme, the TIA system was rolled out Safety leadership further in 2014 and will be implemented globally in 2015. In 2014, Volvo Cars acknowledges that as an employer it is responsible for the near-misses and risk observations reported through TIA organising and conducting its operations in a manner designed to consisted of 46,311 cases. prevent accidents and work-related illnesses. In the past ten years there has been a downward trend in the risk of sustaining a Over the years Volvo Cars has worked systematically to reduce work-related injury or illness at Volvo Cars. Employee participation occupational risks through training programmes with a focus on is one of the cornerstones in Volvo Cars’ health and safety high-risk areas and personal behaviour. A comprehensive training approach, and for this reason Volvo Cars conducts company-wide programme for managers and Safety Officers is one of the means injury prevention programmes. As part of this programme all adopted to achieve this aim. Training and supplementary training employees are responsible for reporting injuries and serious on work environment is offered to Safety Officers and all first-line incidents to their immediate superior. Volvo Cars compiles an managers. Middle managers are offered two days of working annual report of all reported injuries and incidents, which provides environment training and senior managers a half-day introduction. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 | VOLVO CAR GROUP 45 PEOPLE DIMENSION In 2014, Volvo Cars kept up its efforts on training for new employees In 2014, Volvo Cars focused primarily on providing preventive in health and safety leadership. health measures to employees to support a sustainable work–life balance. A pilot project was carried out in which health coaches Volvo Cars’ new ‘Aspired Safety Culture’ leadership programme is were appointed for white collar employees in the Quality and part of a broader leadership programme and includes training and Customer Service functions. The purpose of the health coaches is coaching in proactive safety culture. The programme aims to to engage and support employees in their respective units in encourage greater team involvement in incident reporting and an preventive health issues. The coaches are employees who have increased focus on preventive ways of working, through, for applied and been appointed by managers within their units. They example, improved risk observations. A pilot started in Volvo Cars dedicate time and resources to support their units and conduct Body Components and Volvo Cars Ghent in the second quarter of common activities such as walks during lunch and testing new 2014. In 2015, the Aspired Safety Culture programme will be rolled sports activities. All health coaches appointed receive education out globally throughout Volvo Cars including China. and support from Volvo Cars’ partner organisation, Feelgood, which specialises in occupational health services. The project will Safety in numbers continue in 2015. Volvo Cars’ goal is to achieve a lost time case rate (LTCR) of 0.1 by 2020. To reach this goal, Volvo Cars will work intensively to achieve 45% behavioural change through the Aspired Safety Culture programme, along with continuous development of reporting tools, corrective actions and organisational structure. In 2014, the lost time case rate (LTCR) reduced by 45% and was at an all-time low of 0.34, with a total of only 65 cases. This means that injuries have reduced by 77% since 2007. reduction of injuries in 2014 Volvo Cars also has high ambitions to reduce accidents, injuries and near-misses among its suppliers. In 2014, Volvo Cars engaged (77% since 2007) 450 suppliers in 300 reconstruction projects in Sweden. Volvo Cars’ representatives cooperate on site with suppliers in each reconstruction project, to identify and mitigate health and safety ‘Sustainable Work Life’ is a project that started in 2013 and risks. During 2014, no serious injuries occurred in any of the continued throughout 2014. The aim of the project is to ensure reconstruction projects. However, three injuries were sustained that manufacturing sites and office facilities are better suited for among contractors during 2014. Volvo Cars’ ageing workforce. In 2014, Volvo Cars conducted ergonomic reviews of the Ghent assembly line, as a part of this Health in numbers project. Reviews will also be conducted in the production stations Sick leave among employees in Sweden and Belgium has been to better understand how each activity is performed and what type decreasing as a result of Volvo Cars’ systematic health and safety of physical strengths are needed to perform it. efforts. Volvo Cars achieved a continued low sickness ­absenteeism level of 4.5% in 2014. Variations in sick leave on this low level are Volvo Cars is currently revising its health care plans, organisation natural not necessarily a cause for concern. In general the factors and tools to improve the way it deals with issues such as psychocontributing to the low sickness levels at Volvo Cars are a social health, stress, and social environment among white collar ­combination of efforts in terms of internal procedures, ­governmental employees. regulations and behavioural change. Outside Europe, sick leave is measured differently. Volvo Cars’ ambition is to unify measurement Designed around you @ work and reporting over its entire operations. In 2013, Volvo Cars rolled out a change programme called ‘Designed Around You @ Work’ that involves 10,000 employees at Supporting a sustainable work–life balance Volvo Cars in Sweden and Belgium. This change programme entails The automotive market puts high demands on Volvo Cars, which redesigning the Volvo Cars workspaces along activity-based lines. means that the employees of Volvo Cars need to be able to Employees will have redesigned workspaces with ergonomic work at a high tempo and adapt quickly to new demands and equipment and updated technology. The change programme also changing circumstances. To prevent employees from suffering encourages changes in behaviour. With more open spaces and stress-­ related illnesses, Volvo Cars recognises the need more areas to meet and socialise, Volvo Cars employees have to support the organisation, management and employees in better opportunities to collaborate and learn from each other. The achieving a sustainable work–life balance. vision is to create a workplace that can support Volvo Cars’ 46 VOLVO CAR GROUP | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 PEOPLE DIMENSION long-term goals; increasing customer orientation, innovation, chemical substances. In 2014, no chemical accidents were productivity, product quality and internal collaboration. The pilot reported. project with an office building in Gothenburg, Sweden was well received and Volvo Cars’ IT office moved into an activity-based Volvo Cars has implemented cross-functional working groups and work space in January 2014. In 2015, Volvo Cars plans to extend tools to manage the use of chemical substances. The working this programme further and implement it in other countries of groups, in which all production sites are represented, work closely operation as well. with R&D, the purchasing department and the aftermarket organisation. Volvo Cars also participates in external task forces Chemicals management such as the REACH task force of the European Automobile Volvo Cars carefully manages the use of chemicals within the Manufacturers’ Association (ACEA). The tools (such as Chemsoft company at all stages – from substances used by research and and the IMDS – see above) support Volvo Cars not only in minimising development (R&D), to substances used in car production until the and phasing out certain substances, but also in their communication chemicals become waste. The overarching ambitions are to: obligations (such as REACH reporting), and also in managing the • minimise the use of hazardous chemicals implications of changing legislation. During 2014 Volvo Cars translated and implemented Chemsoft in China. One resource has • reduce the negative impact of chemical substances also been appointed for chemicals management in China. on the environment • ensure the safe handling of chemicals During 2013 a reorganisation project for chemical management was initiated. The objective of this project is to streamline the Every chemical substance used at Volvo Cars has undergone a processes of chemical management by interconnecting the risk assessment and approval process before being introduced. different functions working with chemicals in a better way. The new Upon approval, safety instructions are created for every workplace process, effective as of 2014, will also include definitions and and every product. Once a year, all sites conduct an inventory of control KPIs. TOTAL NUMBER OF ACCIDENTS SICK LE AVE PER AVAIL ABLE HOURS (%) % 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 10 Injuries1 (LTCR) 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.55 0.62 0.34 Serious injuries2 6 6 15 9 6 1 8 Injuries3 contractors — — 17 21 9 3 Fatalities 0 0 0 0 1 0 6 4 1 LTCR is defined as the number of work/occupational accidents and illnesses 2 reported and at least one day sick leave, divided by 200,000 hours worked (equivalent to 100 man years). 0 2 Defined as total number of injuries leading to fractures, unconsciousness, etc. 09 10 11 12 13 14 3 Lost time case (LTC) figures only, worked hours for contractors is not Sweden measured therefore no figures for LTCR for contractors. Volvo Cars total SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 | VOLVO CAR GROUP 47 PEOPLE DIMENSION Diversity and inclusion We have a global talent approach, based on holistic diversity that will be visible on all levels throughout our company. Our ambition is to create a work environment in which any individual Diversity targets or group can be and feel welcomed, respected, supported and Volvo Cars is focusing on improving and incorporating a global valued. Our belief is that an inclusive and welcoming climate perspective on culture, diversity and inclusion in all processes embraces differences and offers respect in words and actions, throughout the organisation. In 2015, we will focus efforts on which in turn enables all people to fully participate in our organisation selected global HR processes with the aim of ensuring that and support our vision and mission. diversity and inclusion perspectives are integrated in them. Volvo Cars’ specific diversity target is to achieve 35% women in leading Diversity governance positions by the year 2020. In order to achieve this, we have set a The new People Policy was implemented in 2014 and outlines the target for 2015 that 40% of those recruited for leading positions values and expectations that we have for diversity and equal during the year should be women. The specific activities launched opportunities within our organisation. Volvo Cars’ Diversity to reach these targets are defined in our Diversity Plan. Steering Committee was established with the aim of securing continuous improvement of diversity work. Members of the Diversity plan Committee are the Diversity Manager, three representatives from Volvo Cars’ Diversity Plan 2013–2015 includes a series of the Executive Management Team, and two from the Global activities to accelerate progress towards increasing diversity and Leadership Team. Volvo Cars’ Global Diversity Council consists of to utilise diversity within the company. The Diversity Plan has four 18 Culture and Diversity Champions who meet bi-monthly. A focus areas: Culture and Diversity Champion is appointed for each business • Improvement of diversity and inclusion communication: area in Volvo Cars, with the aim of integrating the diversity work we will continue to improve our internal communication more effectively into its daily operations. The Global Diversity regarding our vision and work within the areas of company Council is chaired by the Diversity Manager, and its role is to culture, diversity and inclusion. In 2014, the communication on pursue diversity issues in Volvo Cars and support diversity efforts, our intranet was significantly improved in this regard. Ongoing focusing on concrete actions. communication also takes place through our internal employee magazine Agenda. • The development of a Gender Diversity Plan: a Gender Diversity Plan focusing on recruitment processes is under development. The plan includes tangible targets for every business unit, and each unit drives their activities to reach their targets. 48 VOLVO CAR GROUP | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 PEOPLE DIMENSION During 2014 we also launched an initiative aiming to identify and faces the challenge that the ratio of women attaining senior nominate Volvo Cars culture role models. The idea behind this positions is dramatically lower than that of men. We regard this to initiative is to showcase the great variety of people, competencies be a significant concern, which is why we see it as a top priority to and roles within our organisation with the aim not only to foster a address the imbalance. sense of inclusion for all employees but also to highlight the need for diversity if we are to succeed as a company. People who are In March 2015, the Board of Directors took the decision to have a nominated are featured in Volvo Cars’ employee magazine, Agenda. balanced composition when it comes to gender and by 2020 it is the ambition that each gender shall have a share of at least 40% Outlook 2015 of the board members elected by the Shareholders’ Meeting. As Volvo Cars’ current Diversity Plan is valid for 2013–2015, we The Unions represented on the Volvo Car Board of Directors will will focus during the coming year on developing targets and be encouraged to apply the corresponding goal when appointing planning activities for 2016–2018. This includes setting more their representatives. elaborate KPIs for both diversity and avoidance of harassment. The proportion of women in leading positions (managers with A main focus during 2015 will be to achieve the target that 40% of direct reporting responsibilities, programme managers, project recruitments to leading positions during the year should be women. leaders and specialists in leading positions) increased from 18% Connected to this, another major focus for the coming year will be in 2006 to 24.5% at the end of 2014. This is the result of to integrate diversity, inclusion and culture perspectives in selected dedicated work over a long period, which will be continued during global HR processes. We will also continue our efforts to attract the coming years. female graduates to increase the number of women in leading positions, and we will review our strategy for attracting new Fair and equal treatment employees with diverse backgrounds. An important aspect of diversity is to ensure fair and equal treatment of all employees. Volvo Cars has implemented clear Diversity in numbers remuneration principles and a structured salary process to ensure In 2014, the Volvo Cars Executive Management team consisted of fair and equal payment. According to the Volvo Cars People Policy, 11 people: 10 men and 1 woman. The Board of Directors wages and benefits shall always be at least equivalent to legal or consisted of 13 people: 11 men and 2 women. Thus Volvo Cars industry standards. Information on wages and benefits shall be available to employees in accordance with applicable law. PERCENTAGE OF WOMEN IN LE ADING POSITIONS 1, VOLVO CARS – GENDER VOLVO CARS – GENDER 200 6 –2020 DISTRI­B UTION WHITE DISTRI­B UTION BLUE COLL AR – GLOBAL COLL AR – GLOBAL % 40 32 24 16 8 Women, 26% Women, 16% 0 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Men, 74% Men, 84% Target 1 ‘Leading position’ covers managers with direct reporting responsibilities, programme managers, project leaders and specialists in leading positions. As of 2014, the data includes China, Belgium and Sweden. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 | VOLVO CAR GROUP 49 PEOPLE DIMENSION The salary comparisons in the tables below show that there is a set up nursing rooms in Jiading and Pudong offices for female slight tendency towards lower salaries for women throughout all of employees who have recently returned from maternity leave. In the categories of white collar workers. The discrepancy is the Belgium, diversity initiatives include facilitating awareness of highest in the most senior position category. Volvo Cars works different nationalities among Volvo Cars employees through a continuously to eliminate salary discrimination by gender. For cultural awareness programme. Other initiatives include Volvo example, we have a gender-neutral salary policy and require that Cars’ Business Women’s Advisory Board and the Business the same proportion of salary raise is allocated to women and men Women’s Network (BWN), which both aim at encouraging in the annual salary revisions. The differences that still exist can be women’s networking activities and knowledge sharing. Initiatives explained by the fact that women have a lower average age within to support young unemployed people are also driven by Volvo each salary group and that women in general progress faster Cars, such as the Volvo Experience Programme. between different salary groups, meaning that they have participated in fewer revisions within each group. Within the group Volvo Experience Programme of blue collar workers, salaries between women and men are The Volvo Experience Programme (VEP) is an internship levelled within the employee category overall. programme open to long-term unemployed people in Sweden between the ages of 18 and 24. By providing the opportunity to Training in diversity carry out a seven-month internship at Volvo Cars, the aim of the Since 2010, Volvo Cars has provided an extensive diversity training VEP is to provide useful work experience that can help young programme for managers. In 2013, Volvo Cars decided to conduct unemployed people to get a job or inspire them to enter further training for Diversity Champions and Managers on harassment, education in the future. To that end, 15% of the working time discrimination law and equal opportunities. During 2014 a total of within the programme consists of mentoring and training activities. 160 people attended this training, which included 75% of all Volvo Cars’ aim is that the yearly number of interns should be Diversity Champions. The training will continue during 2015 in equivalent to 1% of its total Swedish workforce, which amounts to selected functions. about 150 interns every year. In identified functions, extra focus on harassment training has The VEP was initiated by Volvo Cars President & CEO Håkan been completed during 2014. Samuelsson and launched (together with the Swedish Employment Service) in 2013. The programme has developed during 2014, and Diversity initiatives in 2014 a fourth intake with 60 interns will be run in 2015. From 2015 it will Volvo Cars sees diversity as ‘business as usual’, but it also has be possible to get an internship as part of the Volvo Experience certain activities that are aimed at supporting its diverse workforce Programme in various blue collar positions. and environment. Those initiatives include, for example, a Swedish mentor programme that aims to create opportunities and networks For 2015 further initiatives within the area of diversity are planned, for people with other backgrounds than Swedish, and a Swedish such as PEPP, which is a mentor programme targeting girls and employee-founded initiative with the purpose of increasing women at university and high school level to raise interest among awareness within Volvo Cars about co-workers living with children females in training and working within the field of engineering. with disabilities and special needs (Disability parenthood network). Volvo Cars is also preparing for another mentoring initiative in Volvo Cars also established a female committee within the trade cooperation with ‘Öppet Hus’ (a Swedish organisation with a union in Volvo Car China. The committee is devoted to ensuring diversity focus) that aims at helping young people to enter the equal rights for female employees. During 2014, the committee Swedish labour market. 50 VOLVO CAR GROUP | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 PEOPLE DIMENSION BASIC SAL ARY RATIO BET WEEN WOMEN AND MEN BY EMPLOYEE CATEGORY (WHITE COLL AR WORKERS) 1 Administrative Group Manager, assistant, Engineer senior, Group Manager, Appointed Administrative ­Engineer entry Engineer supervisor Qualified ­Specialist,­ Section Department 2014 service position ­experienced ­production ­professional Project Manager ­M anager Manager Ratio salary² 1.02 1.00 1.01 0.98 0.99 0.98 0.97 0.85 1 Extract: Sweden only. 2 Salary ratio indicates women’s salary in relation to men’s in each employee category. BASIC SAL ARY RATIO BET WEEN WOMEN AND MEN BY EMPLOYEE CATEGORY (BLUE COLL AR WORKERS) 1 2014 Administrative service, logistics Skilled worker Highly skilled worker 13 Highly skilled worker 23 Ratio salary² 1.02 1.00 0.98 1.00 1 Extract: Sweden only. 2 Salary ratio indicates women’s salary in relation to men’s in each employee category. 3 Highly skilled workers are divided into two different categories based on salary grade according to increasing level of qualification. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 | VOLVO CAR GROUP 51 PEOPLE DIMENSION RESPECTING labour rights For Volvo Cars’ future success it is of greatest importance to attract and retain skilled and motivated employees. Adhering to and respecting labour rights is a prerequisite for this. Labour rights governance and to bargain collectively. Volvo Cars does not accept disciplinary Volvo Cars’ efforts to ensure that we respect labour rights or discriminatory actions against employees who choose to throughout our operations worldwide are governed by our People peacefully and lawfully organise or join an association. Policy. This policy, which was approved by the Board of Directors and launched in 2014, is about getting the basics right in terms of In the China Operations a trade union employee labour dispute working conditions. The People Policy covers all units globally and coordination mechanism was developed during 2014 and launched is guided by international human rights standards, including the at the beginning of 2015, with the purpose of protecting the interests Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Labour of each employee and ensuring that employees are treated fairly. The Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights trade union in China Operations also plays an important role in at Work, and the United Nations Global Compact. organising social activities and health activities for their members. To strengthen this work further, a new Global Labour Affairs Directive Volvo Cars follows national legal or collectively bargained information was developed and approved at the end of 2014 The Directive will be duties and minimum notice periods regarding significant launched during spring 2015. The purpose of the Directive is to operational changes. In Sweden approximately 100 people, ensure that all units globally meet or exceed requirements in labour consisting of representatives from Human Resources, trade law legislation and applicable collective labour agreements, as well unions and local safety representatives, were trained in the legal as encouraging a sound dialogue with trade unions or other employee negotiation process for major changes at the workplace, an representatives. A yearly self-evaluation process is managed by initiative that was started during 2013. In 2014, globally, Volvo Cars’ Global Labour Affairs coordinator. approximately 80% of Volvo Cars’ employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements, a decline from 85% due to the Freedom of association and collective bargaining growing number of employees in China, where employees are not Volvo Cars’ People Policy clearly states that all employees have currently covered by collective bargaining agreements. the right to form or join associations of their own choosing concerning the relationship between the employer and the employees Looking outside our own organisation, our Code of Conduct requires that all our suppliers uphold freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining in their operations, where legally possible. For further information about Volvo Cars’ labour rights management in the supply chain, please see page 68 in this report. 52 VOLVO CAR GROUP | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 PEOPLE DIMENSION Child labour and forced labour Harassment and discrimination Child labour is not accepted in any of Volvo Cars’ businesses. Volvo As part of Volvo Cars’ commitment to having a diverse and Cars will not employ any persons below a country’s legal minimum inclusive workplace, Volvo Cars have zero tolerance towards working age and never a person below 15 years old, even if the legal discrimination, harassment and bullying. All employees are minimum working age in a country is below 15 years. Governmentexpected to treat one another with respect, dignity and common authorised job training or apprenticeship programmes that are courtesy. The overall regulation is found in Volvo Cars’ People clearly beneficial to the participating individuals may be exceptions. Policy, with the underlying Discrimination and Victimization at Work Directive which gives definitions of harassment and Furthermore, forced labour is not accepted in any of Volvo Cars’ discrimination, responsibilities and internal quality assurance businesses. We do not engage in or support the use of forced audits, and guide managers and employees on procedures when labour, nor shall any employee be required to deposit identity an incident of harassment or discrimination has occurred at the papers at the start of employment. Employees are free to leave workplace. These efforts strongly connect to our ambition to their employment after a notice period, as required by law and enhance diversity throughout our organisation and ensure equal contract. Volvo Cars shall guarantee that all working conditions opportunities for all our employees. For more information about comply with all statutory requirements. All employees have the this work, please see the chapter on Diversity and Inclusion in this right to have written contracts, in a language that they can easily report (page 48). understand, specifying their terms of employment. In 2014, eight cases of suspected harassment and discrimination As made clear by our Code of Conduct, we do not accept child or were reported globally to local Human Resources. The cases were forced labour at our suppliers, dealers and subcontractors. During carefully investigated by local Human Resources or central 2014 Volvo Cars Indirect Purchasing carried out a pilot for an Employee Affairs; two are still under investigation. In three extended Supplier Evaluation Model, where questions regarding instances corrective and supportive actions were taken and in one child labour, forced labour, harassment and discrimination, among case the employment was terminated as a result of harassment. In others, were added to the self-evaluation for suppliers. For further the last two cases no evidence of wrongdoing could be found. information about Volvo Cars’ labour rights management in the supply chain, please see page 68 in this report. Non-discrimination is also an integral part of Volvo Cars’ Code of Conduct, meaning that this principle also applies to all our suppliers and other business partners. For further information about Volvo Cars’ labour rights management in the supply chain, please see the chapter on Value Chain Management in this report (page 68). SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 | VOLVO CAR GROUP 53 PEOPLE DIMENSION ETHICS and integrity Volvo Cars expects all our employees to champion ethics and integrity in their daily work. Ethics and integrity governance Volvo Cars updates the Code of Conduct regularly to comply with Ethics and integrity are prerequisites for Volvo Cars’ success as a changing requirements and stakeholder expectations. The latest company. Therefore, Volvo Cars addresses these issues on the review of the Code of Conduct and its underlying policies and highest level. The most senior position responsible for issues directives was completed in 2014. As part of this process, Volvo related to corruption, anti-competitive behaviour and compliance Cars conducted a risk assessment survey to identify legal and is the General Counsel and Senior Vice President Group Legal. ethical risks that it is exposed to. The main risk areas identified The Corporate Compliance & Ethics Office was established in were: Bribery & Corruption, Gifts & Events, Conflict of Interest, 2012 with the aim of promoting coordination in Volvo Cars’ work Health & Safety, and Intellectual Property. Following this work, on compliance, business ethics and integrity. The Compliance & updated corporate policies and a new version of the Code of Ethics Office is headed by the Chief Compliance & Ethics Officer Conduct were approved by the Board of Directors and launched in who reports to the General Counsel and to the Board’s Audit 2014. To make the documents more user friendly, the updated Committee. The Compliance & Ethics Office is responsible for documents are shorter, easier to understand and more relevant to implementing and maintaining an effective global Compliance & all employees and business units. Ethics programme covering the areas of anti-corruption, anti-trust and competition law, data privacy and export control within Volvo The updated Code of Conduct is based on the relevant international Cars. conventions and standards relating to corporate responsibility. More specifically, the Code of Conduct sets out to comply with the Historically, the organisation has been subject to multiple eight core conventions of the International Labour Organization group-wide risk assessments every year by different corporate (ILO) on labour rights, the ten principles of the Global Compact, functions. For example, risk assessments have normally been the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the UN Convention on conducted by Internal Audit, Compliance and Internal Control. A the Rights of the Child and the OECD guidelines for multinational cross-functional collaboration has been launched to integrate companies. these processes so that joint risk assessments can be performed covering all the various risk assessment needs. In this way, overall The Code of Conduct sets out the compliance and ethics topics risk interviews can be done once rather than multiple times in which are relevant for Volvo Cars’ business, and makes reference different functions creating a more nimble process. to important corporate policies. All employees must know and comply with all company policies and directives relevant to their In 2014 the Compliance & Ethics Office also established a work. The Code of Conduct is available both on the intranet and cross-functional Responsible Business Network with participants publicly at: http://www.volvocars.com/sustainability from different Volvo Car Group functions. The main purpose of this network is to ensure global alignment in sustainability and Training employees in compliance and ethics compliance issues and to be a sounding board for policy development, Training and internal communication represent an important part of implementation and communication in these areas. This network Volvo Cars’ Compliance & Ethics programme. Before implementing played an essential part in the global roll-out of the Code of and communicating the new version of Volvo Cars’ Code of Conduct during 2014. The Compliance & Ethics Office also has an Conduct in the spring of 2014, we challenged ourselves with the ongoing collaboration with the global network of Legal Counsels following questions: How do we generate real engagement in Volvo which enables global reach of the Compliance Programmes as Cars, and how do we focus attention on ethical questions in a well as local expertise in compliance-related matters. corporate environment? To address these questions we started a collaboration with Guido Palazzo, professor in Business Ethics at Code of conduct University of Lausanne in Switzerland, who developed a face-toVolvo Cars strives to combine business objectives with social, face training concept on the theme ‘Ethical blindness – Why do ethical and environmental responsibility. This commitment is good people make bad ethical decisions?’ This training forms the described in the Volvo Car Group Code of Conduct. The Code of platform for the global implementation of our new Code of Conduct applies to all employees, and Volvo Cars expects that all Conduct. In 2014, the 150 most senior managers (Volvo Cars’ of its business partners will be governed by the same or similar Global Leadership Team) and about 5,000 employees from all principles as stipulated in our Code of Conduct. parts of the organisation around the world participated in the faceto-face training. 54 VOLVO CAR GROUP | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 PEOPLE DIMENSION CODE OF CONDUCT The Code of Conduct is our tool to help ourselves conduct business honestly and with integrity. Ethics is everyone’s responsibility, starting from the top. By acting with integrity, we each do our part to create a company where we are proud to work. 1 2 3 4 5 PEOPLE POLICY ANTICORRUPTION POLICY CONFLICT OF INTEREST POLICY PRIVACY POLICY COMPETITION LAW POLICY 6 7 8 9 10 INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY POLICY PROTECTION OF COMPANY ASSETS AND INFORMATION POLICY COMMUNICATION POLICY EXPORT CONTROL POLICY INTERNAL REPORTING POLICY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 | VOLVO CAR GROUP 55 PEOPLE DIMENSION ‘Ethical blindness’ refers to the temporary inability to see the Volvo Cars has a Compliance & Ethics Officer in China and will ­ethical dimension of a decision. The training concept explores the strengthen the presence in China with one additional resource in various psychological forces and effects that drive ethical 2015. The governance is also strengthened with dual reporting to ­blindness, and teaches basic knowledge on the content of the both the China Executive Management Team and the Compliance Code of Conduct and corporate policies. It aims to help employees & Ethics Office on group level. Volvo Cars has started to establish understand not only why we need a Code of Conduct to guide us, a network of compliance and ethics ambassadors in its business but also how and when it should be used. organisation in relevant countries. These ambassadors will be supporting local implementation of training and assist in identifying Part of the training is to play the ‘Volvo Cars Dilemma game’ in local concerns. small groups. In the game, questions are asked about ethical dilemmas and every player chooses one of several options/ In 2014 Volvo Cars implemented compliance with the Code of ­solutions, which is followed by a discussion about the rationale for Conduct as a criterion for pay-out of employee incentives. This their decision-making. Through this exercise the participants learn means that any confirmed breaches of the Code of Conduct by the that there might be more than one way to solve an ethical dilemma employee may impact the employee’s right to incentive pay. and that different people approach things differently. It is not always about ‘common sense’. 5,000 The training has created engagement and attention and increased awareness among our employees of our Code of Conduct. It has also been important for the understanding of risks and risk management as part of the Compliance Risk Assessment process within Volvo Cars, as the training includes a part where the participants share the ethical dilemmas that they have experienced in their own business situations. employees from all parts of the In 2015, more training sessions will be held in additional units and organisation around the world countries and we will launch a new dilemma-based eLearning. participated in the face-to-face Bribery and corruption Volvo Cars does not tolerate any form of bribery or corruption and Code of Conduct training. it is the company’s absolute ambition to comply with all applicable laws, rules and regulations in all countries where it operates. At Volvo Cars, it is policy not to engage in any action that could Grievance mechanisms possibly be perceived as taking part in any kind of corruption. All employees at Volvo Cars have the responsibility, and are Volvo Cars’ Code of Conduct includes clear provisions relating to expected, to report any serious violation of the Code of Conduct bribery, corruption, conflicts of interest, gifts and entertainment. to the appropriate representative within the company. In cases where employees do not feel comfortable reporting in this way, Corrupt business practice is a global problem and Volvo Cars is they have the option of sending a report to an email address present in many so-called high-risk countries. To address this risk managed by the Compliance and Ethics Office. This email address Volvo Cars is reaching out in the different regions with internal is communicated on Volvo Cars’ intranet and website. In addition, a training on the Code of Conduct as well as specific training on new ‘Tell Us’ system will be implemented during 2015 that will also business ethics and anti-corruption. In November 2014, a supplier make it possible to file reports on the web or by phone. The Tell Us convention was held in China for 170 suppliers at which Volvo system will be managed by an external supplier. Since 2012, Cars’ senior management emphasised the importance of ‘clean suppliers and other business partners of Volvo Cars have been business’. Business ethics and anti-corruption requirements are able to report Code of Conduct violations through our supplier also included in contractual agreements with business partners, portal website or on the corporate website. suppliers and dealers. 56 VOLVO CAR GROUP | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 PEOPLE DIMENSION Volvo Cars has a policy of non-retaliation, which clearly states that In 2014, 34 reports were recorded and investigated by the retaliation is forbidden towards any employee who raises an issue Compliance and Ethics Office. 60% of the reports were received in good faith, or who cooperates in a company investigation of an through Volvo Cars’ internal reporting email address. The most issue. All employees have the right to report anonymously, where frequently reported issue was suspicions of bribery and corruption, legally permitted. followed by various conflicts of interests. Violations of Volvo Cars’ People Policy were also frequently reported. After investigations, The Compliance and Ethics Office is responsible for investigating disciplinary actions were proposed when relevant and decided reported violations of the Code of Conduct. All reported violations upon by the Global Compliance Committee. In a few serious of the Code of Conduct that come to the attention of the cases, the result of the investigation has led to termination of Compliance & Ethics Office are investigated and reported to the employment. Global Compliance Committee and the Board’s Audit Committee. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 | VOLVO CAR GROUP 57 SOCIETAL DIMENSION Product responsibility Our safety vision: no one should be killed or seriously injured in a new Volvo car by the year 2020. Traffic safety is one of Volvo Cars’ Core Values, and should thus cars, accessories and relevant services must not only meet, but permeate our organisation, our products and our way of working. exceed, customers’ expectations when it comes to safety. Our goal is to maintain a leading position in these areas. To strengthen our commitment to, and maintain leadership in safety, Internationally, Volvo Cars is regarded as the role model for traffic we aim for top performance, in real traffic situations as well as safety. This is something that we are proud of. We are committed official safety ratings. We do that by creating our safety offers in an to maintain leadership through: intelligent and innovative way based on actual traffic situations. We • creating safety features in an intelligent and innovative way also enhance wellbeing by helping to prevent collisions and reduce based on real traffic situations injury when a collision is unavoidable. • helping to prevent collisions and reducing injuries when a collision is unavoidable Safety vision: towards zero crashes Volvo Cars applies a knowledge-driven approach to safety – • maintaining industry-leading competence in safety ­combining research on driving behaviour with research on safety optimisation and development. The safety of everyone inside, and Safety highlights 2014 outside, a Volvo car is part of the philosophy that the founders of In 2014, new Volvo models are available with the very latest safety Volvo Cars introduced as far back as 1927. Over the years, technology. Examples of technological solutions include City ­technology developed by Volvo Cars, ranging from the three-point Safety, Run-Off Road Protection, Adaptive Cruise Control and safety belt and rear-facing child car seat to active safety solutions Inflatable Curtain (IC,) which is also active in several types of such as City Safety and Pedestrian & Cyclist Detection, has helped angled frontal collisions. save over one million lives. City Safety Continuing to build on our heritage, our long-term vision is to City Safety is the umbrella term for all of Volvo Cars’ auto brake design cars that do not crash. Our short-term goal is that no one functions. The continuously enhanced collision-avoidance and should be killed or seriously injured in a new Volvo car by the year mitigation technologies, which are standard in the XC90, include 2020 . To this end, Volvo Cars is dedicated to keep on creating yet another Volvo world first: automatic braking if the driver turns in innovative, smart and integrated safety solutions that address front of an oncoming vehicle. The system is active at all speeds ­passengers in our vehicles but also other road users. All Volvo from 4 km/h. The auto brake at intersections is a world first that 58 VOLVO CAR GROUP | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 SOCIETAL DIMENSION deals with a common scenario at busy city crossings as well as locates collision-free escape routes, Volvo Cars has taken one of highway crossings, where the speed limits are higher. City Safety the final steps towards realising its vision that by 2020 no one is based on a combined camera and radar unit integrated at the should be killed or seriously injured in a new Volvo car. top of the windscreen, in front of the interior rear-view mirror. The latest technology upgrade is a smarter and faster high-sensitive, Drive Me megapixel image camera combined with advanced exposure In 2013, Volvo Cars initiated a Swedish pilot project with self­­control. This makes the detection and auto brake technology work driving cars on public roads – the first project of its kind in the effectively even when driving in darkness. world. The ground-breaking project ‘Drive Me – Self-driving cars for sustainable mobility’ is a joint initiative between Volvo Cars, the Run-Off Road Protection Swedish Transport Administration, the Swedish Transport Agency, Run-off road is a common accident type with different causes, Lindholmen Science Park and the City of Gothenburg. Drive Me such as driver inattentiveness, fatigue or poor weather conditions. will feature 100 self-driving test cars on public roads in everyday The run-off road protection solution in the all-new XC90 detects driving conditions driven by Volvo Cars’ customers by 2017. This the run-off road scenario and makes the front safety belts tighten public pilot will provide valuable insight into the societal benefits of automatically to keep the occupants in position. To help prevent making autonomous vehicles a natural part of the traffic spine injuries, energy-absorbing functionality between the seat ­environment. In 2014 the first test cars were rolled out around the and seat frame deforms mechanically to cushion the vertical ­ Swedish city of Gothenburg, and the sophisticated Autopilot forces that can arise when the car encounters a hard landing in the ­technology is working well. terrain. AstaZero 50 years of dedication to child safety AstaZero is the world’s first full-scale proving ground for future Volvo Cars’ dedication to protecting the smallest and most traffic safety solutions. Its opening has brought Volvo Car Group a ­vulnerable car occupants celebrated its 50th anniversary in 2014. step closer to realising the vision that by 2020 no one should be This ground-breaking work started with the world’s first rear­-facing killed or seriously injured in a new Volvo car. An important step child seat prototype in a PV544 back in 1964 – and the latest towards achieving this goal will be the development of active safety innovation is an Inflatable Child Seat Concept, described below. systems, which will help to prevent accidents. One of the facility’s The differences in anatomy between children and adults form the greatest assets is its flexibility, with a design that permits the foundation for Volvo Cars’ child safety developments in terms of ­construction of unique, customised environments. The AstaZero both car integrated features and accessories. Children are not facility will serve as an open, international platform for all i­nterested small versions of adults, which is why children need special stakeholders like vehicle manufacturers, suppliers, legislators, restraints when travelling in cars. Inflatable Child Seat Concept In 2014, Volvo Cars designed a lightweight and inflatable r­earward­faced child seat concept using ground-breaking t­ echnology. The seat is safe, easy to pack and carry and will enable parents to use it in many situations not practical with the seats on the market today. VISION 2020 IN SIGHT – WITH RE AL-LIFE IN FOCUS The innovation, which is still in the development stage, is easy to install and can be tucked away in a small bag when not in use. This Reference means that the child seat can be easily transferred between cars and the bag even fits in carry-on luggage when ­flying or travelling. Injury / 1 B km 360° view technology In December 2014, the four-year Non-Hit Car and Truck project S80/V70 came to a close, leaving as its crowning achievement the XC60 ­development of next-generation sensor fusion technologies that 1 st Gen. XC90 provide a seamless 360° view around a car. The 360° view is Target New XC90 Goal enhanced by the manoeuvre generator, a new safety feature that uses software to identify collision-free escape routes in all traffic scenarios. The system, which works by constantly analysing 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Year threats around the car, can even assist drivers with auto braking and steering. With the development of a new safety feature that SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 | VOLVO CAR GROUP 59 SOCIETAL DIMENSION road agents, universities, and technical institutes from around the To meet the new criteria, cars making the Top Safety Pick+ grade world. AstaZero’s industry partners are Volvo Car Group, Volvo must offer the ability to stop or slow down without driver Group, Scania, Autoliv and Test Site Sweden. ­intervention before hitting a target in IIHS tests at 12 mph, 25 mph or both. Volvo Car’s front crash avoidance technology, City Safety, Driver State Estimation which is standard in all new Volvos, effectively helps to detect and Volvo Cars conducts research to develop driver sensors in order to brake automatically to mitigate or prevent a car-to-car rear end create cars that get to know their drivers. The sensors are placed on collision without driver intervention. Volvo’s City Safety technology the dashboard to monitor aspects such as the direction the driver is has been shown to reduce insurance claim frequency by 16%. looking in, how open their eyes are, and their head position and angle. Analysis of the driver’s state, known as Driver State E ­ stimation, Safety around you – makes it possible to develop precise safety systems that detect the a knowledge-driven process of real-life safety driver’s state and are able to adjust the car a­ ccordingly. This also Product safety is incorporated in every phase of developing a means that the car will ensure that it does not stray out of the lane Volvo car. This means that we are constantly aware of the safety or get too close to the car in front when the driver is not paying requirements of our customers and collect real world data to guide attention, as well as being able to wake a driver who is falling asleep. our product development efforts. This technology is already installed in test vehicles. Volvo Cars is also conducting research together with partners including Chalmers Real world data University of Technology and Volvo Group to identify effective Volvo Cars bases its research on a variety of parameters, with the ­methods for detecting tiredness and inattention. ultimate aim of finding new technologies to help fulfil the Volvo Cars’ Safety Vision. It is therefore essential to carry on Volvo Cars’ 2014 IIHS Top Safety Pick+ long history of obtaining unique data by investigating actual road In December 2014, Volvo Cars’ S60, V60, S80 and XC60 were accidents and incidents. awarded Top Safety Pick+ grade. Volvo Cars was the only ­European brand with more than two models on the list. The Top Safety Pick+ Volvo Cars’ Traffic Accident Research Team, established in 1970, award criteria have become tougher in the last 12 months, with has collected statistical accident data from more than 40,000 increased demands around the standard for front crash ­prevention. accidents involving Volvo cars in Sweden. The team conducts SAFET Y AROUND YOU INDEPENDENT TESTS RESULTS 1, 2 A % DAT SAF ETY ORLD RE W QU 100 AL IR RE E TS 80 MEN 60 N DEVELO DUCTIO 40 PRODUCTION PME PRO 20 NT 0 09 10 11 12 13 14 Share of independent tests where Volvo cars received the highest rank VE 1 The figures include test results from the following test bodies: Euro NCAP, RI FIC E AT YP US NCAP, China NCAP, NCAP, IIHS and Folksam. ION OT PR OT 2 Restated due to change in calculation methodology 60 VOLVO CAR GROUP | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 SOCIETAL DIMENSION in-depth studies of accidents and Field Operational Tests (FOT) to From product development to verification evaluate the safety performance of our vehicles. In addition, our During the development phase, all components, systems and collaboration with the Swedish insurance company Volvia has complete cars are extensively tested by computer stimulated ­ helped even further to provide detailed information about ­incidents ­programmes. We also perform simulated accident reconstructions and the outcome of accidents with new Volvo cars in Sweden. in our state-of-the-art crash laboratory which provides additional knowledge that is applied when designing and developing new The Volvo Accident Database shows that the risk of being injured cars. Third-party and governmental crash tests often include only in recent Volvo models has decreased by two-thirds compared to front, rear and side impacts on one test vehicle, at one impact the risk of being injured in old car models. speed from one angle. Real crashes are more complex than that, which is why Volvo Cars looks at the entire scope of possibilities. Safety requirements This working method helps Volvo Cars decide what areas to focus All modern Volvo cars meet or exceed current statutory on to further enhance safety for customers. We can see that our ­requirements set by governments for car manufacturers. In 2014, approach works, not only in real-life crash statistics, but also in there were no incidents of non-compliance with regulations or third-party and governmental crash tests, as can be seen in the ­voluntary codes regarding safety that resulted in a fine or penalty. graph below. In fact, by pushing technological boundaries, Volvo Cars has reduced the risk for Volvo drivers and passengers of being hurt in Volvo Cars takes a holistic approach to safety. Many of the new an accident by 50% since 2000. technologies are tailored to the way drivers behave in the modern traffic environment. In a pilot project, Volvo test cars using cloudVolvo Cars’ customers can monitor their cars’ safety performance based communication detect icy or slippery road conditions and through independent rating programmes. Laboratory crash tests transmit information to other approaching vehicles, which will are executed by rating institutes, and field performance based on make it possible for the drivers to take action to avoid a critical real-life accident data is provided by, for example, insurance situation. Other examples of safety research areas in focus are: ­companies. • autonomous driving • avoiding collisions with wild animals • intelligent interventions to avoid accidents, including steering and/or auto braking adaptive occupant protection. THE HOLISTIC APPROACH TO SAFET Y STATE OF THE DRIVER AND TRAFFIC ENVIRONMENT VEHICLE CONFLICT SITUATION DRIVER UNABLE TO AVOID CRASH, CAR STILL ABLE TO AVOID CRASH DRIVER AND CAR UNABLE TO AVOID, REDUCE SEVERITY AND PREPARE TO CRASH CRASH PROTECTION NORMAL DEVIATION EMERGING CRITICAL CRASH CRASH DRIVING FROM NORMAL SITUATION SITUATION UNAVOIDABLE TIME ∞ 2-3 SECONDS 1 SECOND 0 SECOND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 | VOLVO CAR GROUP 61 SOCIETAL DIMENSION Working with vehicle safety City of Gothenburg. The project is endorsed by the Swedish Working with vehicle safety within Volvo Cars requires different ­ Government. The aim is to pinpoint the societal benefits of types of competences. Among other partners, Volvo Cars works ­autonomous driving and position Sweden and Volvo Cars as ­leaders with academia to ensure the company can make use of the best in the development of future mobility. See page 59 and page 66 for knowledge available. Within Volvo Cars Research and D ­ evelopment, more information on this project. there is a range of special competencies ranging from PhD ­students to adjunct professors who are involved in areas such as Chalmers University of Technology driver behaviour, the human–machine interface, biomechanics, Volvo Cars’ cooperation with Chalmers University of Technology automatic control and advanced materials. has the aim of sharing knowledge about car safety and creating a forum where the company can itself gain knowledge. The SAFER Volvo Cars also actively disseminates its knowledge to its project is a platform in which different stakeholders can channel ­ stakeholders. For example, external competence development research issues relating to safety as well as obtain further campaigns are directed towards Volvo Cars’ dealers. We also ­qualifications in safety research. Volvo Cars’ employees, students, organise seminars and lectures for journalists and government researchers and teachers meet here to discuss traffic safety at an authorities on how Volvo Cars works with vehicle safety. academic level. Collaboration for enhanced safety The China–Sweden Research Centre for Volvo Cars acknowledges that it cannot find solutions in isolation. Traffic Safety in Beijing The company therefore aims to build and nurture open partnerThis research centre focuses on a number of areas, such as ships with a wide range of societal stakeholders. Some examples improving traffic safety in Sweden and China and promoting the of Volvo Cars’ collaboration with partners on specific projects are exchange of technology and knowledge between both countries. listed below. The Centre also acts as a platform for supporting government decision-making in matters relating to traffic safety. Drive-Me – Self-driving cars for sustainable mobility ‘Drive Me – Self-driving cars for sustainable mobility’ is a joint Apart from Volvo Cars, the other research partners in this project ­initiative between Volvo Cars, the Swedish Transport ­Administration, are Volvo Group, Chalmers University of Technology, the Chinese the Swedish Transport Agency, Lindholmen Science Park and the Ministry of Transport’s Research Institute of Highway and Tongji University in Shanghai. “No one should be killed or seriously injured in a new Volvo by 2020.” Cecilia Larsson Director, Volvo Cars Safety Centre 62 VOLVO CAR GROUP | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 SOCIETAL DIMENSION Partnership with China Automotive Technology Partnership with high-tech sports gear developer and Research Centre (CATARC) POC to explore new safety ideas In 2013, Volvo Cars and CATARC agreed to initiate joint research In 2014, Volvo Cars established a partnership with the Swedish and discussions in three key areas: safety, environment and company POC, which develops high-tech protective gear for ­wellbeing (cabin air quality solutions). In this cooperation, Volvo ­ gravity sports athletes. The two companies will exchange Cars shares its global experience and knowledge with CATARC to ­knowledge in order to explore new ideas within safety and design. promote better understanding of new possibilities in the three key The new partnership will explore and use the possibilities to extend areas. Both parties co-host seminars to discuss common goals the safety knowledge and product offer for Volvo Cars as well as and a technology roadmap with regard to new solutions, s­ tandards, POC. The initial research and development project will focus on regulations and policy development in the industry. communication between cars and cyclists. The China–Sweden Research Centre for Traffic Safety (CTS) Non-Hit Car and Truck project The China–Sweden Research Centre for Traffic Safety (CTS) in The Non-Hit Car and Truck project, an 80 million SEK endeavour Beijing is an initiative led by Volvo Cars together with RIOH, Tongji started by Volvo Cars and its partners in September 2010, was University and Chalmers University of Technology. In 2014, CTS concluded in December 2014. The focus has been on developing initiated a close-up study of driving behaviour in the Chinese technologies to reduce accident risks for both passenger cars and ­megacities Beijing and Shanghai. As part of the study, a large commercial vehicles. Partners include: Volvo Cars, Volvo Group, ÅF number of real customers in Beijing and Shanghai will drive the (sensor fusion development), HiQ (sensor fusion development, cars during a ten-month test period The insight into how drivers threat assessment), Mecel (sensor supplier) and Chalmers handle these exceptionally busy traffic environments will be an ­ University of Technology (sensor fusion development, driver important part of Volvo Cars’ aim to develop safety systems that ­adaptation). The Non-hit Car and Truck project is associated with help drivers all over the world to avoid accidents. The collected the SAFER Vehicle and Traffic Safety Centre. material, approximately 5 terabytes of data from about 100,000 km of driving, will be analysed during 2015. Partnership with Swedish Transport Administration and the Norwegian Public Roads Administration In 2014, Volvo Cars, the Swedish Transport Administration (Trafikverket) and the Norwegian Public Roads Administration (Statens Vegvesen) joined forces in a pilot project in which road friction information from individual cars is shared within a cloudbased system. The real-time data about slippery patches on the road are used to warn vehicles nearby, at the same time as they contribute to making winter road maintenance more efficient. For example, when the Volvo test car detects an icy or slippery road patch, the information is transmitted to Volvo Cars’ database via WARRANT Y CL AIMS 1 the mobile phone network. An instant warning is transmitted to other vehicles approaching the slippery area, making it possible for 200 the drivers to take immediate action to avoid a critical situation. Quality management 150 Volvo Cars’ Quality Management is guided by the Core Value Statement for quality, expressing our goal to provide products and 100 services designed around people’s needs, giving them an ­experience that makes them feel that we care for them, and ­simplify their lives. 50 Therefore globally, all Volvo Cars manufacturing facilities are ­certified according to the ISO 9001 quality m­ anagement system. During 2013, Volvo Cars’ Executive M­ anagement Team (EMT) took 0 a decision to extend the ISO 9001 certifications to all corporate 09 10 11 12 13 14 functions. Read more about our Core Values on page 7. Result Target Warranty targets and performance: Repairs/1,000 cars, 1 3 months in service in all cars and all markets SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 | VOLVO CAR GROUP 63 SOCIETAL DIMENSION Quality Transformation Volvo Cars collects direct feedback from customers through Volvo Cars’ Quality Transformation programme, which began in ­surveys and, importantly, by engaging in dialogue. Social media is 2011, still plays the leading role as a company-wide initiative to becoming an increasingly important channel in this regard, both improve the quality of its products and services, both internally and for collecting feedback and communicating with customers. We externally. The programme, now entering its second phase with 23 will therefore continue to develop our capacity and methods for work streams running, is a change programme designed to achieve social media communication with our customers. As well as the aim expressed in the Core Value Statement. The aim is to engaging in direct customer dialogue, we continuously collect reach Excellence in Customer Satisfaction by: ­in­direct feedback from various sources, including the media and • Having customer satisfaction rooted in all Volvo dealers across the globe. decision-making processes Volvo Cars’ customer satisfaction goals are updated yearly and • Establishing effective and manageable quality reflect our overall long-term ambitions. Volvo Cars’ current KPIs structures and processes when it comes to customer satisfaction are Vehicle Net S ­ atisfaction • Increasing customer satisfaction awareness in and Sales and Service Satisfaction, which are monitored by co-workers’ everyday work. ­different surveys. Disclosure of these KPIs and results will be available in the next sustainability report. The objective is both very simple and very difficult: Volvo Cars shall achieve top-level customer satisfaction in products and services. To emphasise the importance of customer satisfaction to Volvo Volvo Cars is determined to reach the target and has established Cars, selected customer satisfaction metrics are part of an several KPIs to track improvements. There is also a designated ­incentive programme that includes all Volvo Cars’ employees. In project manager who is responsible for driving the Quality 2014, the customer satisfaction related goals in the employee ­Transformation programme. incentive programme were met to 100%. In 2014, under the governance of the Quality Transformation Automotive regulatory compliance ­programme Volvo Cars continued to improve on all our quality Laws and regulations concerning cars and car parts are complex. ­performance indicators. For example, by increasing supplier q ­ uality Requirements can vary by region and market, and might change we improved reliability in terms of warranty repairs by 20% during rapidly. It is therefore crucial to have a good understanding of the 2014. This meant that both product and service satisfaction scope and impact of regulatory requirements in every country increased significantly. Our ability to solve customer concerns has where a Volvo product can be bought. By managing regulatory also improved continuously and lead times to solve customer requirements Volvo Cars minimises the risks of being late to adapt issues were at an all-time low in 2014. Volvo Cars’ target for 2014 to the market and of suffering the effects of non-compliance. was to come up with an interim solution to 90% of customer Volvo Cars has the aim of always going beyond regulatory ­concerns within 14 days; in the event a level of 87% was achieved. ­compliance (in particular in the safety area) – the Volvo Standard Translated into lead times, this means that the average lead time defines internal requirements for the different parts and functions for reaching an interim solution to a customer concern was 16 of its car models. days in 2014 compared to 49 days in 2011. Volvo Cars manages automotive regulatory compliance along As the transformation programme continues more focus will be three pillars. The Volvo Regulatory Affairs Department constantly placed on developing a new management system, based on monitors automotive regulatory developments and makes sure ­excellence models, and on maximising the operational strength of that information is made available to all relevant functions within the Volvo Cars value chain and its supporting processes. the organisation. The Regulatory Compliance Project Team acts as an interface towards R&D to ensure the regulatory compliance Customer satisfaction of research and development projects. The Certification Group on Customer satisfaction is a key to successful business. Volvo Cars the other hand handles type approval and homologation p ­ rocesses, aims to reach excellence in customer satisfaction as defined by its during which Volvo cars (and car parts) are approved by authorities holistic view on customer experience. This means that we want to in order to be registered for sale. understand the full picture of how our customers perceive Volvo Cars, including satisfaction levels in terms of product quality and Volvo Cars is in constant dialogue with authorities and government performance, sales and service, financial offer and website services. agencies in all markets where we have a presence. Volvo Cars also participates in different external working groups, which discuss regulatory changes and their implications. Volvo Cars contributes 64 VOLVO CAR GROUP | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 SOCIETAL DIMENSION to policy and legislation development in all major markets. For Volvo Cars continuously reviews its marketing. This responsibility more information see the section on ‘Public authorities and lies within the Global Communications and Safety Communication ­politicians’ on page 72. departments supported by Group Legal. Each market worldwide is responsible for its own marketing and for ensuring that marketing Product labelling and owner manual initiatives are carried out in accordance with Volvo Cars’ Marketing Volvo Cars actively informs customers about risks, hazards and the Instruction. There were no incidents of non-compliance with proper use of its products and services. All car models are required regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing ­ by law to have safety-related labels regarding airbags, fuel type ­communications during 2014. and tyre pressure. Moreover, there are additional labels that are required by specific markets only, such as fuel economy labels for Fair competition China, the USA and Canada. Besides labelling information, Volvo Volvo Cars is committed to comply with competition and anti-trust Cars’ website provides extensive technical information for each laws, and fair competition is vital to the company’s success. Volvo car model, such as fuel consumption and CO2 emissions. Volvo Cars wants to compete vigorously and aggressively – but fairly and Cars also issues recycling information and comprehensive safety without any anti-competitive understandings or agreements with information about the safety rating of its products. competitors. Volvo Cars also expects its business partners such as dealers and other independent businesses engaged in selling the Volvo Cars provides each customer with an owner manual. This company’s products to comply with competition laws that apply to includes guides for energy conservation while driving as well as them. Such competition laws protect the distributors’ right to safety information, e.g. about airbags, child seats and safety belts. ­conduct their business independently. The Competition Law Policy Labels and information provided in the owner manuals are verified summarises Volvo Cars’ internal rules related to anti-competitive during the product development process by both company audits behaviour, anti-trust and monopoly practices. It summarises the and government authorities within the homologation process. This principles that should guide employee conduct in relationships is done to ensure that all customers worldwide receive accurate with competitors, customers and suppliers. The Volvo Cars’ Code information. of Conduct, an important binding internal document for our employees, also explains the company’s policy on anti-trust, equal Volvo Cars also publishes information on particular topics. For competition and integrity, especially with regard to relations with example, in 2013 it issued a safety manual ‘Children & Cars’ governments, suppliers, business relations and the use of ­company (downloadable at http://esd.volvocars.com/site/TopNavigation/ information and community involvement and overall non-­ About%20Volvo/Safety/safetymanual2013_eng.pdf) to help all compliance. No legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, those who carry child passengers – parents, taxi drivers, or anyone ­anti-trust or monopoly practices were initiated against Volvo Cars else – gain a better understanding of child safety matters. in 2014. Volvo Cars has not identified any non-compliance with laws and regulations in 2014. There were no incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labelling during 2014. Marketing of products and services Volvo Cars’ in-house guidance states that all products and s­ ervices shall be marketed and sold in a fair and honest manner. Marketing of products and services, dealer marketing included, should always comply with national legislation and be conducted in an honest and fair way in relation to the characteristics of the product or service. Volvo Cars’ Corporate Marketing Instruction provides guidance on the preparation and documentation of the company’s advertising and PR material, such as, but not limited to, press releases and launch material. The instruction reaffirms the ­commitment of Volvo Cars that its advertising and PR material shall be accurate, truthful and in good taste. Volvo Cars Corporate Marketing Instructions were produced in accordance with ­applicable laws and regulations, and in line with its own applicable guidelines. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 | VOLVO CAR GROUP 65 SOCIETAL DIMENSION Future mobility We will lead the debate and actively innovate so that sustainable mobility is an attractive, scalable and tangible solution. Outlook Moreover, we aim to make our manufacturing processes as Megatrends such as the growing global population and the rise of ­efficient and sustainable as possible. But we also acknowledge megacities bring extensive social and environmental challenges that we cannot do all this on our own – we need to work together that also have a significant impact on Volvo Cars. For example, with all our stakeholders. continued urbanisation will lead to impaired mobility and ­congestion, but also brings the need to provide safe ­transportation, Volvo Cars aims to offer cars that are safe for all people in all and to reduce pollution and CO2 emissions. Moreover, increased ­imaginable traffic situations. Volvo Cars’ aim for 2020 is that no connectivity is likely to change future perceptions of personal one should be killed or severely injured in a new Volvo car. mobility, vehicle usage and ownership as an increasing number of ­Achieving this will be challenging and the key to this is to design people start to explore common ownership structures and other safety systems that are both smart and integrated. Current data solutions for shared mobility. show that Volvo Cars is on the right track to fulfil the vision and the short-term aim for 2020. We strongly believe that these challenges in fact present ­significant business opportunities to our company. By being in the forefront of Autonomous driving technology development and innovation, Volvo Cars can and will be Autonomously driving cars can be part of the solution to many of a part of finding the solutions to current and future challenges. We modern society’s challenges. For example, autonomous driving aim to do this by following our overriding objective to develop cars can reduce fuel consumption by up to 50% in certain situations, that are both safe and environmentally sound. Volvo Cars is thereby helping reduce environmental impact. In terms of traffic determined to lead the debate and actively innovate so that ­ safety, statistics show that about 90% of all accidents are caused ­sustainable mobility is an attractive, scalable and tangible solution by distracted drivers. By leaving the driving to the car itself, now and in the future. The company is pursuing this by, for example, ­autonomous driving will significantly improve safety for p­ assengers ­i­­­ntroducing electrification of vehicles whilst also increasing fuel and other people in the traffic. Autonomous driving will also allow efficiency and the use of renewable fuels in conventional cars. 66 VOLVO CAR GROUP | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 SOCIETAL DIMENSION future Volvo drivers to plan their drive with a mix of autonomous towards Volvo Cars’ aim to produce cars that will be able to drive and active driving, allowing for efficient use of the daily journey. In the whole test route via Autopilot – on a highly autonomous mode. a more long-term perspective, autonomous driving might also The Drive Me public pilot will provide valuable insight into the facilitate car sharing by allowing parked cars to travel without ­infrastructure requirements, the societal and economic benefits of ­drivers to the locations of different users. making autonomous vehicles a natural part of the traffic ­environment, and how Volvo Cars designs technical solutions for Autonomously driving cars are not far from realisation. The first future vehicles. As the project enters its second year, Volvo Cars is steps towards autonomous driving are underway through systems moving rapidly towards the aim of placing 100 self-driving cars in such as automatic braking, lane keeping aid, adaptive cruise the hands of customers on selected roads around Gothenburg by ­control, 360° view technology and park assist pilot. These systems 2017. are paving the way for the Highly Autonomous Cars that will ­enable the driver to hand over the driving to the vehicle, which takes care Volvo Cars’ smart vehicles are a key part of the solution to many of of all driving functions. society’s challenges in terms of transportation. However, a broader societal approach is also vital to offer sustainable personal ­mobility Volvo Cars’ ground-breaking ‘Drive Me’ project features self-­ in the future. Drive Me focuses on the need for cross-functional driving Volvos on public roads in everyday driving conditions. In cooperation between the various actors in traffic to create mobility 2014, the first test cars were rolled out around the Swedish city of in a sustainable society. Drive Me is a joint initiative between Volvo Gothenburg with the sophisticated Autopilot technology. The test Car Group, the Swedish Transport Administration, the Swedish cars are able to handle lane following, speed adaption and m­ erging Transport Agency, Lindholmen Science Park and the City of traffic all by themselves. Selected Volvo Cars’ customers will drive ­Gothenburg. The Swedish Government is endorsing the project. the 100 test cars on approximately 50 kilometres of selected roads in and around Gothenburg, characterised by motorway For more information and a short video on the sustainability of ­conditions and frequent queues. This project is an important step autonomous driving, see: www.media.volvocars.com. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 | VOLVO CAR GROUP 67 SOCIETAL DIMENSION VALUE chain management Ongoing and trustful interaction throughout Volvo Cars’ value chain is key to providing guidance on how we will develop and work with sustainability. Supplier management and key facts Social and environmental requirements on suppliers Volvo Cars has approximately 500 business partners delivering Volvo Cars’ sustainability requirements on suppliers are f­ ormulated production material for serial production and roughly 3,500 in our Terms and Conditions for suppliers, our Code of Conduct ­preferred suppliers delivering indirect products and services. and our Social Responsibility and Environmental web guides. Volvo Cars expects that the Supplier – as a business partner of Volvo Volvo Cars’ cooperation with our suppliers is vital not only in terms Cars – is governed by the same or similar principles as those set of business continuity and effectiveness but also in managing out in our Code of Conduct. ­sustainability. The majority of the components used in our vehicles • In accordance with the Code of Conduct, Volvo Cars’ are manufactured by suppliers, therefore their environmental and requirement on suppliers is that no child labour or physically social responsibility footprint is very important to Volvo Cars. The abusive disciplinary practices are allowed and suppliers shall foundation of Volvo Cars Purchasing operations strategy is to not engage in any act or omission that could possibly be ­incorporate and adapt sustainability activities into Purchasing’s dayconstrued as giving or taking a bribe, or in any other kind of to-day processes and tools. The Senior Vice President Purchasing corruption. (See page 54 for more information on the & Manufacturing is responsible for supporting and managing Code of Conduct.) ­environmental and social responsibility related to the supply chain. • Suppliers are required to be third-party certified according to the ISO 14001 environmental management system. Sustainability country risk assessment Volvo Cars Purchasing uses a model for rating our supplier • DM suppliers shall comply with substance use restrictions ­countries and potential supplier countries from a sustainability risk outlined in the Volvo Cars Restricted Substance Management point of view. The model assesses countries based on three Standard (RSMS). aspects relating to social responsibility: • Suppliers are obliged to adhere to chemical legislation to • lack of democracy, civil and political rights  be able to put substances, preparations or articles on intended markets. • living standards • A Sustainability Self-Assessment must also be filled out by • corruption. each supplier upon request. The risk country model is valid for Direct Material (DM) and Indirect Requirements on Volvo Cars’ suppliers are communicated through Purchasing (IDP) and is updated annually. The model is mainly Volvo Cars’ Supplier Portal. The legal documents and ­requirements used to prioritise activities such as supplier training and supplier are also distributed as part of the sourcing process. Since its audits. Because of the extensive variety of purchased commodities ­introduction in 2010, Volvo Cars has registered 1,200 suppliers in in the IDP supplier category, Volvo Cars uses two additional its Supplier Portal. During 2014, 190 new suppliers signed up as ­models: a risk rating model related to the supplier’s environmental users. impact at Volvo Cars operations and a social responsible risk ­rating model on commodity level. 68 VOLVO CAR GROUP | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 SOCIETAL DIMENSION Ensuring supplier compliance the self-assessment, 66 completed the assessment. Based on the To manage the environmental and social responsibility of its supply results, follow-up procedures will be implemented in 2015. This chain, Volvo Cars assesses, evaluates and audits suppliers. includes cooperation with suppliers to strengthen their ­performance within prioritised areas in order to comply with Volvo Assessing suppliers Cars’ requirements for suppliers. Volvo Cars’ global Manufacturing Site Assessment (MSA) ­evaluates whether a supplier is performing according to customer In 2015, new suppliers will be invited to conduct the Selfexpectations and requirements regarding manufacturing quality. Assessment Questionnaire. The MSA is performed by the Supplier Quality Management Department and reviews the fundamental areas of the supplier’s Auditing suppliers manufacturing processes and metrics on site. The assessment Volvo Cars’ supplier sustainability audit assessment criteria are also includes areas related to health and safety, risk management based on Volvo Cars’ Working Condition & Environment Audit and environment. MSA is conducted for new suppliers before Checklist. Areas covered in these assessment criteria are labour sourcing and on a recurring basis for existing suppliers. conditions, business ethics, health and safety (including risk ­ management and emergency preparedness), environmental Evaluating suppliers ­protection, compliance and management system. Volvo Cars has a global Supplier Evaluation Model (SEM) that supports the selection of new suppliers. The model evaluates ­ In 2014, Volvo Cars’ purchasing department focused on identified potential suppliers from a holistic perspective, covering areas such non-conformities from the audits that had been carried out in as working conditions, business ethics and environmental impact. 2013 and worked with concerned suppliers to improve and verify The model can also be used for analysing current suppliers. For implemented corrective actions. IDP suppliers, the SEM is a prerequisite to fulfil the criteria in the model in order to qualify for the Volvo Quality Excellence Award Supplier Escalation Process (see below) as well as for assessing new suppliers. The Supplier Escalation Process is a procedure used to escalate procedures against suppliers that deviate from the agreed Supplier sustainability self-assessment ­deliverables stated in agreements and therefore pose a risk for During 2014, Volvo Cars developed a supplier Sustainability quality/­ delivery or other major problems. In 2014, Volvo Cars Self-Assessment Questionnaire (SAQ) covering the social, ­ expanded the criteria for the Supplier Escalation Process to include ­environmental and sub-supplier responsibility and business ethics. ­environmental and social responsibilities. There are three c­ ategories Out of the 90 suppliers that were asked in the pilot phase to fill out in Volvo Cars Supplier Escalation Process: U ­nderperforming, ACTIVITIES FOR ENSURING SUPPLIER´S COMPLIANCE TOP TEN SUPPLIER COUNTRIES 1 Reactive AUDIT E SCAL ATION PROCE SS FOLLOW UP NC Germany, 20% SUPPLIER SUSTAINABILITY SELF-ASSESSMENT China, 15% Sweden, 13% France, 9% SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT Czech Republic, 5% (MSA & SEM) Great Britain, 5% Poland, 4% Spain, 4% VOLVO CARS REQUIREMENTS Belgium, 3% Italy, 3% LEGISLATION 1  op 10 supplier countries, T % of supplier manufacturing sites. Proactive SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 | VOLVO CAR GROUP 69 SOCIETAL DIMENSION ­ erious Concern and Constraints. The underperforming supplier S that received the Volvo Cars Award of Excellence in the E ­ nvironmental escalation process begins when suppliers have systematic or and Social Responsibility ­category in 2014 was recognised for its repeated issues in their daily business, and show low progression long-term sustainable operational performance and contribution to in resolving the issues. The Serious Concern escalation process is society through multi-cultural cooperation. activated if a supplier incident occurs, or if a circumstance at a supplier causes a serious operational problem to Volvo Cars. Supply chain management training Finally, the Constraint escalation process starts when there is a Volvo Cars adopted a new Code of Conduct in 2014. All ­purchasing disturbance of supply related to agreed deliverables. employees globally have been invited to face-to-face training on the Code of Conduct, and the ten policies that it is based on. The In 2014, the supplier escalation process was not activated due to training also included questions and group discussions about environmental or social responsibility reasons. ­ethical dilemmas. In total 549 employees have participated in the training: 327 in Europe and 222 in China. Supplier awards Volvo Cars’ requirements on quality, product development, cost In addition to the Code of Conduct training, 52 new employees in efficiency, delivery capacity and environmental care are high. To Gothenburg have gone through the Purchasing Introduction encourage suppliers to live up to these requirements, Volvo Cars ­ training, including social and environmental responsibility has initiated two supplier award schemes. ­ information. Moreover, 78 employees from Volvo Cars China ­Purchasing participated in Social Responsibility training. The focus Volvo Cars Quality Excellence of this training was to review Volvo Cars’ requirements on suppliers Quality is one of Volvo Cars’ Core Values. To let suppliers in terms of social responsibility and working procedures/tools used ­understand exactly where they stand in relation to Volvo Cars’ within purchasing, e.g. supplier audits, MSA, supplier self-­ requirements and help them achieve continuous improvement, the assessment. Environmental awareness training was ­conducted in Volvo Cars Quality Excellence Award (VQE Award) was introduced the IDP organisation in Gothenburg, with 50 attendees. in 2012. The VQE Award is based on a set of fundamental quality and manufacturing disciplines which ensure a supplier’s success. During the last year, Volvo Cars was also part of organising a supplier event in Turkey. At the event, automotive original ­ Volvo Cars wants all our suppliers to meet the VQE requirements. ­equipment manufacturers (OEMs) presented their expectations on This means that the suppliers’ facilities have to achieve excellence suppliers regarding social responsibility and environment and in the following areas: capable systems, capable manufacturing group discussions were held. 99 suppliers attended, eight of which process, ongoing performance, as well as customer plant impact were unique for Volvo Cars. and customer endorsement. In China, a major Supplier Convention was held and 153 suppliers The VQE Award consists of 11 award performance elements and attended the meeting. Sustainability information and expectations a 12th complementary element for the final award step: customer on suppliers were part of the agenda and communicated to the endorsements. Fundamental requirements include environmental suppliers. certification according to ISO 14001 and quality certification ­pursuant to ISO TS 16949. VQE also includes quality assurance of suppliers’ manufacturing processes and working environment and Industry collaborations and networks monitoring suppliers’ quality and delivery performance. Since the To the extent legally allowed, Volvo Cars works actively with start in 2012, Volvo Cars has presented the award to more than ­industry peers and organisations to achieve a more sustainable 100 suppliers on a yearly basis. By the end of 2014, 301 DM supply chain for the automotive industry as a whole. ­supplier sites and 58 IDP suppliers had received the award. European working group on supply chain Volvo Cars Award of Excellence sustainability Volvo Cars Award of Excellence is an annual award that The European Automotive Working Group on Supply Chain ­acknowledges top-performing suppliers who have gone the extra ­Sustainability consists of several automotive manufacturers working mile together with the company. Only the best suppliers are invited together – in addition to their own efforts – to enhance sustainability to participate in Volvo Cars Award of Excellence. The objective is to in their supply chains. The working group believes in the benefits reward above-average effort and encourage further ­improvements. of a common approach and common messages towards suppliers Winners are named in each of the categories ­Environmental and in the area of sustainability, i.e. training and other activities. Social Responsibility, Technology, Quality, Cost Competitiveness E xamples of outcomes of the cooperation are a Supplier ­ and a ‘Special Award’ which suppliers cannot apply for and which is Sustainability Self-Assessment Questionnaire and the supplier ­ given only to suppliers that have achieved an extraordinary event in Turkey (see page XX). Every company in the group retains ­performance during the year. Around 120 DM and IDP suppliers the management of its independent supply chains. In the process were invited to apply for one or other of the c­ ategories. The supplier of collaboration, the participants acknowledge the importance of 70 VOLVO CAR GROUP | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 SOCIETAL DIMENSION being legally compliant and accordingly agree to work together third party. In 2014, 1,423 dealers (out of 2,280 in total) were only to the extent permissible under relevant competition laws and audited. Dealers that were not audited are mainly in Sweden and regulations. Germany, where negotiations on contractual agreements resulted in audit delays, as well as in some smaller markets where the Dealers resources for conducting such audits are more limited. In 2015, Volvo Car dealers sell and provide maintenance for Volvo vehicles. Volvo Cars plans to audit an even higher number of dealers. There Besides new and used car sales, Volvo dealers also sell were no incidents of non-compliance related to e ­ nvironmental ­accessories, extended warranties, finance and insurance p ­ roducts. violations in 2014. In 2014 Volvo Cars had around 2,300 dealers in approximately 100 countries. New dealers are appointed through a selection At Volvo Cars’ global competence centre in Gothenburg, process within each respective market through the National Sales ­representatives of the National Sales Companies are trained and Company. Selection is based on the financial strength of the given information that they then pass on to dealers of their ­applicant, their experience and competence in car retailing and on ­ respective markets. Volvo Cars’ training system covers a wide their reputation and ethics. Selection criteria are adopted on a range of areas, from new car introductions and repairs to work country-by-country basis in line with each country’s national processes and service issues. For example, when a new car model guidelines. is being introduced, dealers are informed about the new active safety ­systems in the car and clean cabin features. Volvo Cars works intensively to make the customers’ everyday lives easier by building strong, long-term relationships with dealers. Volvo Cars as a sustainable supplier Every dealer must meet the Volvo Cars Dealer Standards which Volvo Cars is committed to being seen by our corporate and public include requirements in a wide range of areas including legal sector customers as a responsible sourcing alternative. In line with compliance and environment. All dealers must f­ollow local ­ this, Volvo Cars is a holder of ISO 9001 and 14001 certificates environmental legislation. If a dealer does not comply with the and holds a SMETA Responsible Sourcing Audit (RSA) certificate dealer standards, Volvo Cars reserves the right to ­terminate the from SEDEX since 2013. Being a holder of these certificates contract. The dealer must also appoint an environmental implies that Volvo Cars is regularly audited on quality, environment ­coordinator to be responsible for the safe storage of chemicals, and ethics by independent certification organisations, and obliged waste sorting and recycling. In 2011, the Dealer Development to solve any non-conformities identified. ­Portal (DDP) was launched, which is a platform on which Dealer Standards are managed, monitored and reported. The dealers can For information on ISO 14001, see ‘ISO 14001 and beyond’ on access the DDP, study and follow the guidelines and requirements page 28. For information on ISO 9001, see “Quality management” which will then be measured and audited through an independent on page 63. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 | VOLVO CAR GROUP 71 SOCIETAL DIMENSION Societal engagement We design cars around you. Therefore we need to interact with the world around us to gain knowledge and understanding of what cars society needs. All units within Volvo Cars communicate directly or indirectly with Volvo Cars continuously exchanges information and ideas with society as part of their ongoing business processes. As a ­company, these groups through ongoing dialogue and other forms of Volvo Cars relates to society through the stakeholder groups that ­communication. But Volvo Cars aims to do more than exchange influence and are influenced by its operations, knowhow, products information and ideas; it acknowledges that it cannot find ­solutions and brand. In this context, Volvo Cars’ definition of society is in isolation. Volvo Cars therefore aims to build and nurture open ­confined to the following main stakeholder groups: partnerships with societal stakeholders. This cooperation is essential if Volvo Cars is to gain the knowledge and understanding it requires to develop the cars that society needs and to act as a • public authorities and politicians, responsible company. • NGOs (non-governmental organisations) and Public authorities and politicians international organisations, As a company, Volvo Cars is affected by political decisions, rules and regulations that are made in all countries in which it operates. • universities and the educational community, Therefore, Volvo Cars works continuously to establish access to politicians, authorities and institutions through dialogue. This is • the media, done to obtain information on important legislation and ­regulations that impact Volvo Cars’ strategic decisions and plans. Through • local communities and these dialogues, Volvo Cars shares knowledge and experiences that it believes will drive societal developments in a favourable way. • industry networks. In dialogue with public stakeholders, Volvo Cars uses position papers, which are constantly updated to ensure they have a President Xi Jinping of the People’s Republic of China and First Lady Mme Peng Liyuan, joined by King Philippe and Queen Mathilde of Belgium, visited the Volvo Cars facilities in Ghent, Belgium in April 2014. 72 VOLVO CAR GROUP | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 SOCIETAL DIMENSION c­onsistent message. Topics covered include safety, mobility, At Volvo Cars we are continuously expanding our strategic ­emissions and research. The position is in line with the sustainability dialogues with academia. For example, in Sweden, Volvo Cars ­ strategy as communicated in this report. already has a strategic agreement for collaboration with Chalmers University of Technology. Volvo Cars is also in discussion with NGOs and international organisations ­ several universities on how to develop stronger research Volvo Cars regards established, independent and credible NGOs ­collaborations with mutual benefits. In China, we are developing a and intergovernmental organisations (IGOs) as important drivers closer relationship with Tongji University (Shanghai). In 2014, Volvo for sustainable development. NGOs help to change attitudes by Cars has had positive experiences from having Swedish students getting involved and moulding public opinion on major societal working on their Masters’ thesis at Tongji University in ­collaboration issues, thus driving sustainable development forward. Volvo Cars’ with Linköping University in Sweden. Tongji University is also part relations with NGOs and IGOs are based primarily on knowledge of the China–Sweden Research Centre for Traffic Safety (see page exchange and partnerships in which the company is responsive to 62), where a number of research projects are currently ongoing. their standpoints and criticism. In the USA, Volvo Cars has a number of research agreements with Volvo Cars is also a member of a number of trade and interest different universities, e.g. Massachusetts Institute of Technology, organisations for car manufacturers in the countries we operate in, the University of Wisconsin, the University of Ohio and the e.g. the industry organisations ACEA and the Alliance of A ­ utomobile ­University of Pennsylvania. In Brazil, Volvo Cars has started initial Manufacturers (Auto Alliance), whose goals are to develop and discussions investigating possibilities for local research activities implement constructive solutions to public policy. with relevant partners, planned to come in to effect during 2015. The main focus for these collaborations is safety. Universities and educational community To ensure access to the right expertise Volvo Cars has a strong Media need to identify and utilise alliances, networks and collaborations, Since the media are the channels of communication that penetrate especially with academia. This is also important in ensuring that furthest into all areas of society, an open and honest relationship Volvo Cars attracts future employees with relevant competence. with them is important to Volvo Cars. Although Volvo Cars cannot During 2014 Volvo Cars continued to be active and involved in control the media or influence what is written, it can produce and several research programmes with academic partners, both supply them with accurate information on products, methods and nationally and in the international arena. The main programme for experience. All press releases are publicly available at: collaborative research is the Swedish Strategic Vehicle Research https://www.media.volvocars.com. and Innovation programme (FFI), also involving other key Swedish stakeholders in vehicle and transport related research. The FFI Local communities programme offers a comprehensive national platform for sharing In communities where Volvo Cars is a major employer, the comresults supporting the development of a strong national cluster of pany holds regular meetings with local authorities. Volvo Cars competitive automotive competence. On a European level, Volvo informs the authorities of its plans and learns how the community Cars have played an active part in joint applications to ­Horizon2020 seeks to develop. Volvo Cars also assesses opportunities for for collaborative research. In 2015, some of these applications will, cooperation, such as the Drive Me partnership with the city of after approval, transform into multi-stakeholder research projects. Gothenburg that was started in 2014. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 | VOLVO CAR GROUP 73 SOCIETAL DIMENSION Apart from authorities, Volvo Cars also aims to communicate with Good citizenship projects members of the local communities in which its main operations are Volvo Cars supports projects, initiatives and events in areas that located. An example is the Volvo Cars Visitor Centre in ­Gothenburg, are connected to Volvo Cars’ operations and that aim to support Sweden, which welcomes about 30,000 visitors every year. the revitalisation of the Volvo brand. By sponsoring long-term ­initiatives that are in line with our brand values, Volvo Cars aims to Industry networks build brand ambassadors and apply Good Citizenship practices. Volvo Cars is involved in a number of industry networks. For Many of the projects that Volvo Cars engages in are closely ­example, Volvo Cars has been a member of the Swedish Network ­connected to the success of the company’s mission and vision, for Business and Human Rights since its launch in 2012. This ­covering areas such as education and research, traffic safety, and ­network aims to provide a forum where the members can build children’s welfare (often in relation to issues such as safety and knowledge and exchange experiences when it comes to business education). Volvo Cars avoids long-term endorsements of and human rights. The network is a cross-industry initiative and ­individuals. Some examples of Good Citizenship projects that Volvo has several leading companies as members, including Alfa Laval, Cars sponsored or was involved in during 2014 are: ­Electrolux, H&M, ICA, Oriflame, SCA, Stora Enso, SKF, TeliaSonera • National Association of Women Highway Safety Leaders: and Vattenfall. Volvo Cars sponsored a safety leader conference for women focusing exclusively on crash prevention in the US. • China Automotive Technology & Research Centre: Volvo Cars China works in partnership with CATARC with the aim to support children safety seat legislation in the country. 74 VOLVO CAR GROUP | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 SOCIETAL DIMENSION • Ein Herz für Kinder (A Heart for Children): The association ­ rocess is applied by which ports for the race are selected a­ ccording p funds many institutions and projects focusing on children in to strict compliance and ethics rules in order to minimise corruption need all around the world, with a key focus on Germany. risks. Other selection criteria include respect for human rights For each new Volvo car sold in Germany our dealers donate ­during port construction and that there are l­ong-term uses for the a sum of money (15 Euro per car in 2014) which goes to the port. organisation. Close partners and suppliers to Volvo Cars Germany also contribute to the organisation and the Other crucial aspects of the set-up of the race include strict fundraising is organised by Volvo Cars Germany. ­adherence to Volvo Cars’ Code of Conduct for invitations, which means that participants must obey strict rules covering, for Volvo Ocean Race ­example, entertainment. Volvo Cars has a longstanding tradition of supporting the Volvo Ocean Race as its major sponsorship project. This support was During the race Volvo Cars also undertakes a number of initiatives continued in 2014. The Volvo Ocean Race is the world’s p ­ reeminent to raise awareness of environmental and traffic safety issues by round-the-world yacht race and one of the most coveted prizes in conducting specific communication campaigns and research the sport. The race is an event jointly owned by Volvo Cars and ­projects. During the race, several Good Citizenship initiatives also Volvo Group and is a key enabler for Volvo Cars to convey to the take place, such as beach cleaning, fundraising for the Save the world our brand values and our products, aiming to develop brand Albatross project and the Team Jolokia project, which assembles attraction and increase consideration to buy. a diverse racing crew that participates in the race to demonstrate how diversity can be an asset. The race incorporates a range of sustainability measures in its set-up and implementation. For example, a sustainable port s­election SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 | VOLVO CAR GROUP 75 GRI INDEX gri index 1. Strategy and Analysis Indicator Description Page 1.1 Statement from the CEO Inside cover and 1 Inside cover–2, 8–13, 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities AR1) 6–11, 38–39 2. Organisational Profile Indicator Description Page 2.1 Name of the organisation 4 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services 4 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation AR1) 35, 80 (note 7) 2.4 Location of organisation’s headquarters 4–5 2.5 Number/name of countries where the organisation operates 4–5 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 4, AR1) 35–37 2.7 Markets served 4 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation 4–5, 15, 41 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership AR1) 37–38 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period 3, 39 3. Report Parameters Indicator Description Page 3.1 Reporting period for information provided 80 3.2 Date of most recent previous report 80 3.3 Reporting cycle 80 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents 81 3.5 Process for defining report content 8–9, 12–13, 80 3.6 Boundary of the report 80 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report 1 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations 80 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations 80–81 3.10 Effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports 81 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods 81 3.12 GRI Content Index 76–79 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report 80 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement Indicator Description Page 3, 10–11, 39–40, AR1) 4.1 Governance structure of the organisation inside cover, 38–40, 84–87 4.2 Indication whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer AR1) 84–87 Number and gender of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or 4.3 non-executive members AR1) 84–87 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest 52, 79, 4.4 governance body AR1) 39–40, 85 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and 4.5 executives and the organisation’s performance 42–43, AR1) 39 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided AR1) 39–40 Process for determining the composition, qualifications, and expertise of the members of the highest 4.7 governance body and its committees AR1) 39 Statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental, 4.8 and social performance and the status of their implementation 6–7, 42–43, 54–57 Inside cover –1, 10–11, Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organisation’s identification and 54–57, 4.9 ­management of economic, environmental, and social performance AR1) 6–7, 39–40 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance AR1) 39 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organisation 11, 21 1) AR = Annual Report 2014 76 VOLVO CAR GROUP | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 GRI INDEX Cont. 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement Indicator Description Page Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives 4.12 to which the organisation subscribes or endorses. 11 4.13 Memberships in associations 62–63, 70–71, 74, 79 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation 12–13, 79 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 12, 79 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement 12, 79 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the 4.17 ­organisation has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting 12, 79 Dimension UNGC Principle Page Management Approach Economic Dimension 1, 4, 6, 7 8–11, AR1) 39 Management Approach Environmental Dimension 7, 8, 9 8–11, 16–19 8–11, 38–40, 44–45, Management Approach People Dimension 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 48–49, 52, 54 Management Approach Societal Dimension 1, 8, 10 8–11, 72, 58, 68 Economic Indicator Description Coverage UNGC Principle Page EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed — AR1) 3, 57 Note 9 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the Inside cover –1, 20–22, EC2 ­organisation’s activities due to climate change 7 66–67, AR 6–7 EC3 Coverage of the organisation’s defined benefit plan obligations — 43, AR1) 71–72 Note 24 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, EC8 or pro bono engagement — 15, 72–75 Environmental Indicator Description Coverage UNGC Principle Page EN1 Materials used 8 25–26 EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials 8, 9 26 EN3 Direct energy consumption 8 2, 30–31 EN4 Indirect energy consumption 8 2, 30–31 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements 8, 9 2, 29–31 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based EN6 ­products 8, 9 2, 20–23 EN8 Water withdrawal 8 33–34 EN16 Direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions 8 2, 29–33 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances 8 32–33 EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions 8 2, 32–33 EN22 Waste 8 2, 33–35 EN23 Significant spills 8 35 EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services 7, 8, 9 2, 20–25 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the organisation’s operations, EN29 and ­transporting members of the workforce Partially 8 35–37 Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work Indicator Description Coverage UNGC Principle Page LA1 Workforce — 2, 40–41, 49, AR 29 Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover LA2 by age group, gender, and region 6 2, 41 LA4 Employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 1, 3 52 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 | VOLVO CAR GROUP 77 GRI INDEX Cont. Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work Indicator Description Coverage UNGC Principle Page LA5 Minimum notice period regarding significant operational changes 3 52 Workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and LA6 safety committees 1 45 Injuries, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and LA7 ­number of work-related fatalities 1 2, 44–46 LA10 Hours of training per year per employee — 42 LA12 Performance and career development reviews — 42 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees LA13 according to indicators of diversity 1, 6 2, 41, 49–50, AR 29 LA14 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men 1, 6 2, 50 Social: Human Rights Indicator Description Coverage UNGC Principle Page Significant suppliers, contractors and other business partners that HR2 have undergone human rights screening 1–6 53, 68–70 Employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of HR3 human rights 1–6 56, 70 HR4 Incidents of discrimination and actions taken 1, 2, 6 53, 56 Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be HR5 ­violated or at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights 1, 2, 3 52, 68–69 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to HR6 the effective abolition of child labor 1, 2, 5 53, 68–69 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to HR7 ­contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor 1, 2, 4 53, 68–69 Grievances related to human rights filed, addressed and resolved HR11 through formal grievance mechanisms 1–6 53, 57 Social: Society Indicator Description Coverage UNGC Principle Page SO3 Employees trained in organisation’s anti-corruption policies and procedures 10 55–56 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and SO5 lobbying 1–10 72 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly SO7 ­practices and their outcomes — 65 Significant fines and non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with SO8 laws and regulations — 65 Social: Product Responsibility Indicator Description Coverage UNGC Principle Page Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and PR1 services are assessed for improvement 1 2, 60–61, 65 PR3 Product and service information required 8 25–26, 65 Incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes PR4 concerning product and service information and labeling 8 65 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys PR5 measuring customer satisfaction. — 2, 64 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes PR6 related to marketing communications — 65 Incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes PR7 concerning marketing communications — 65 Value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations PR9 concerning the provision and use of products and services — 65 78 VOLVO CAR GROUP | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 APPENDIX 1 appendix 1 Stakeholder Examples of engagement methods Extract of More group to discuss sustainability issues discussed topics information Employees • Regular discussions with organisations • Environmental performance 12, 16–19, 28–29, representing the workforce • Human rights 38, 44, 52–57 • Workshops • Ethics and integrity • One-to-one dialogues • Health and safety • Anonymous survey • Quality • Sustainability performance and ­communication Suppliers • One-to-one dialogues •S  ocial responsibility and business ethics 68–70 • Supplier trainings • Health and safety • Self-assessments •E  nvironmentally responsible p ­ roduction and • Daily liaison recycling Academia, • Project cooperation and partnership • Rare materials in cars 3, 62–63, 73 Universities, agreement with Chalmers University of •D  eveloping a legitimate value p ­ roposition Schools Technology towards mobility • Strategic discussions on collaborations • Fuel efficiency with several national and international • Alternatives to fossil fuels universities • Environmental friendly production • Student activities • Talent recruitment at universities • Anonymous survey •A  utonomous Driving – transport ­efficiency •T  alent recruitment and scholarship ­programmes •S  ustainability performance and ­communication Industry network • Swedish Business and Human Rights • Human rights management within 12, 72, 74 Network ­multinational organisations • One-to-one dialogues • Fuel efficiency • Joint projects • Sustainability performance and ­communication • Anonymous survey Customers • One-to-one interviews •E  nvironmental friendliness and energy 60–61, 64 • Customer surveys ­efficiency in the user phase of a car • Safety standards • Customer satisfaction Dealers • National sales companies (interface •S  afety systems and clean cabin ­features 15–17, 49, 71 between the dealer network and •L  egal compliance, environment and Volvo Cars) ­anti-­corruption • Dealer Development Portal (DDP) Government, • One-to-one dialogues • Fuel efficiency 19, 64, 72–73 Public authorities, • Public dialogues • Reduction of CO2 Politicians • Safety Local communities • Regular meetings with local • Reducing emissions 22, 53, 66–67, ­representatives • Electric cars 73–74 • One-to-one dialogues • Autonomous driving • Joint pilot projects NGOs, IGOs, • Ongoing dialogues • Human resources issues and ­recruitment 12, 50–51, 73–74 charity organisa• Joint projects • Quality tions • Anonymous survey • Health and safety • Reduction of CO2 emissions •S  ustainability performance and ­communication Media • Press releases • Environmental and social impact as well as 19 • Company visits safety performance of Volvo Cars • One-to-one interviews • Product development Industry and • Memberships in industry associations • Sustainability in supply chain 59, 70, 73 consumer • AstaZero • Development of the world’s first ­full-scale associations • One-to-one dialogues ­proving ground for future traffic safety ­solutions • Communication with authorities and customers SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 | VOLVO CAR GROUP 79 ABOUT THE REPORT about the report Volvo Cars has been reporting on environmental, health and safety This report describes Volvo Cars, defined as Volvo Car Corporation aspects of its products and production since it signed the UN and its subsidiaries, joint venture companies and affiliated Global Compact in 2000. In 2003, the company produced its first ­companies in China which are governed and operated by Volvo Sustainability Report in line with the international reporting Cars. Definitions regarding boundaries as well as measuring ­guidelines from the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). By applying ­techniques and calculations for each performance indicator are and living up to the GRI’s international guidelines for sustainability given in respect to the indicator concerned. The car manufacturing reporting, Volvo Cars aims to ensure transparent reporting based plant in Chengdu, which is owned by an affiliated company (being on content which is relevant to its stakeholders. The report is a subsidiary of Geely Zhao Yuan International Investment Co. Ltd) structured according to the four dimensions of Volvo Cars’ but is operated by Volvo Cars, as well as the operations in the two ­sustainability agenda: Chinese joint venture companies Zhangjiakou Volvo Car Engine Manufacturing Co. Ltd and Daqing Volvo Car Manufacturing Co. Ltd • Economic dimension – which were established in late 2013 – are included in the specific • Environmental dimension information on indicators in this report where possible. More • People dimension ­complete information from these units will be included in 2015 • Societal dimension report. No other significant changes have been made with regard to scope, boundary and measurement methods compared to previous For 2014, Volvo Cars reports at GRI level B (self-declared, version reporting periods. G3.1). The company reports on an annual basis. This report’s ­sustainability data cover the period 1 January to 31 December The Volvo Cars’ Sustainability Report 2014 has not been verified by 2014. The 2013 report was issued in May 2014 and is available at a third party. However, Volvo Cars may consider this in the future. Volvo Cars’ website: www.volvocars.com. As a signatory to the UN Global Compact, the Sustainability Report is also our Communication on Progress. Please see GRI Index on page 76 for further reference. 80 VOLVO CAR GROUP | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 information and contact Volvo Cars values your comments and welcomes any questions you might have on sustainability and the latest Sustainability Report. Contact person for this report: Niklas Kilberg Director Sustainability Coordination & Communication Volvo Car Group Headquarters Corporate Communications SE-40531 Gothenburg, Sweden citizen@volvocars.com www.volvocars.com/sustainability To read more about Volvo Car Group, see the annual report 2014 and website. Our global success will be driven by making life less complicated for people, while strengthening our commitment to safety, quality and the environment.
