United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Report For the period of 14 December 2014 to 13 December 2015 En Masse Pty Ltd 9 William Street, Cremorne VIC 3121|En Masse Pty Ltd ABN 31 142 435 532 1. En Masse’s Support for the UN Global Compact En Masse proudly became a signatory to the UN Global Compact within its first year of operations, at the end of 2010. I am pleased to confirm that En Masse will continue its support of the ten principles of the Global Compact, with respect to human rights, labour, environment and anti-­‐ corruption, through the year 2016. En Masse is a positive behaviour change company. We provide mental health and wellbeing, equal opportunity, human rights and behaviour change programs to businesses, government organisations, not for profits and educational institutions. En Masse’ policies, public commitments, organisational goals and initiatives are in line with this central focus, and are strongly guided by the principles of the Global Compact. Last year En Masse developed and delivered our first domestic violence awareness and risk reduction training program to a pilot group within a major international bank. We also completed our first significant government grant funded gender equality program, Equal Footing, through the Victorian Health Promotion Foundation, as well as a number of training programs, dealing with equal opportunity and anti-­‐discrimination, anti-­‐bullying and mental health promotion and other interventions. We have maintained our commitment to these activities in 2015, and have extended our commitment to the principles of the Global Compact by developing and engaging in a number of new activities and programs, including, but not limited to: • Establishing further mental health intervention based programs including a digital portal that tracks an individual’s journey towards better mental health outcomes; • Establishing a foothold within the domestic and family violence awareness and intervention space; • Further our work in building resilience in workplaces; 2 • Rolling out programs that help improve mental health outcomes for workers in the aged care space; and • Building a relationship with the Brain & Mind Institute at the University of Sydney to study the impacts of a positive psychology based social media tool on mental health outcomes for young people. We are pleased to present this, our fifth annual Communication on Progress under the United Nations Global Compact, and are inspired to continue our development as an organisation and make further progress towards the principles of the Compact during the next year of our signatory status. Mark Dean, Managing Director 23 December, 2015 3 2. En Masse’s Progress in Supporting the UNGC’s 10 Principles 2.1 Human Rights • Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and, • Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. En Masse’s employees are trained in the fundamental principles of human rights using the acronym FRED – Freedom, Respect, Equality and Dignity. Human Rights is one of En Masse’s values, and we ensure that our people behave in a manner that is respectful of human rights including through our performance monitoring and review processes. We proudly incorporate our commitment to the advancement of human rights through our business policies and activities, and it is central to our mission. Our Code of Conduct states that employees “must agree to uphold and respect the law and the principles of human rights.” En Masse’s external services are all based upon the delivery of human rights based programs and in 2015, we have reached thousands of workers through their employers with our programs that help individual workers, their managers and their leaders to protect and respect themselves and each other at work. In 2015, En Masse advanced our psychological health and safety impacts by launching a psychological health and safety awareness and risk reduction program, that helps ensure that leaders of organisations understand their responsibilities as well as some key strategies for eliminating psycho-social risks at work. Our manager and leader training programs were also further developed this year to include additional online (video based) resources that help managers to spot the signs early that workers may be struggling with mental health issues, or be being subjected to inappropriate behaviours including discrimination and victimisation, and to intervene in a protective, respectful manner that helps de-escalate risks. 4 2.2 Labour • Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; • Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; • Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour; and • Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. En Masse is a small organisation that focuses on the provision of professional services and related online training and awareness raising programs. Thus, we are not confronted with the labour related human rights issues that many other organisations face by virtue of their scale and operations. Despite this, En Masse maintains a firm resolution to uphold the principles of fair labour in all its dealings, and seeks to eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. En Masse is particularly committed to the promotion of this principle both within its organisation and within the broader government and community. Our extensive corporate training programs deal with workplace behaviour, and refer to equal opportunity and anti-­‐discrimination as vital guiding principles for healthy workplace behaviour. We are able to measure the positive outcomes of these training programs through embedded assessment processes, and have ascertained that they tend to result in reduced discrimination, increased productivity, and better mental health outcomes among participants and all stakeholders. En Masse prides itself on its non-­‐discriminatory hiring practices, and its flexible work arrangements offered to suit parents and carers. 85% of our workforce works on part time and/or flexible arrangements. Our small workforce in Australia is comprised of employees and contractors who come from a variety of different backgrounds, including minority groups of differing ethnicity and sexuality, those of non-­‐English speaking background. In addition to this, 5 more than 60% of our permanent and contract workforce, including shareholder directors, are female. 2.3 Environment § Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; § Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and § Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. As a small organisation, we have a relatively small carbon footprint and use minimal resources. However, we are endeavouring to further minimise our environmental impact and carbon footprint, and promote sustainability within our organisation and the broader community. In 2015, En Masse has continued to commit itself to making progress in the following key areas: • Reducing the use of paper based records through electronic record keeping and committing to a 70% reduction in the use of paper; • Finding more sustainable sources for all of our consumables; • Reducing waste and promoting recycling; • Reducing travel through phone and video conferencing – to this end, in 2015 we have also built a new online workshop based platform that will be piloted with our major clients in February 2016; and • Relocating our office to a building that enhances the use of natural light and we anticipate will cut our electricity consumption by around 50% per square metre of office space. 6 Our commitment to sustainability is embraced and driven by senior management within the company, and we have appointed a dedicated green office coordinated to ensure progress is being made. 2.4 Anti-Corruption • Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. En Masse works against corruption in all its forms at an intrinsic and extrinsic level, ensuring that wherever En Masse and its people operate, we reduce the risk of corruption, extortion and bribery occurring. Our principal methods for ensuring this include: a) Conducting training programs on a regular basis to ensure that our people understand and are able to promote the 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact, including those principles which relate to anti-­‐corruption; and b) Through our Code of Conduct. Specifically, En Masse’ Code of Conduct states that our employees and contractors must: • Act in good faith and with honesty; • Apply integrity, transparency and impartiality to all of your activities, decisions and in the discharge of your responsibilities; • Communicate regularly with your manager about your dealings with En Masse’s clients and promptly raise any concerns about the behaviours of any people working with out clients that may impact negatively on your wellbeing, the wellbeing of anyone at En Masse or any other person or group of people affected by our clients’ activities; and, • Promptly report any conflicts of interests, fraud or corruption. These policies, as written in our Code of Conduct, reflect En Masse’s commitment to ensuring acts of corruption are prevented and discouraged, and are to be dealt with promptly should they arise. 7 En Masse is also currently working as a consultant to government agencies, training them on best practice and behaviour change to help reinforce anti-­‐corruption objectives. In 2015, En Masse commenced working on program called Project Integrity within a major Victorian Government organisation. One of the significant touch-­‐points of Project Integrity is to pilot some innovative ways to ensure the elimination of risks in relation to corrupt behaviours within government. This program is expected to gain significant traction in 2016. 3. Measurement of impacts of business activity During 2015, approximately 25,000 people participated in En Masse’s behaviour change programs online and face to face. Our face to face training programs have resulted in up to a 100% increase in self efficacy in relation to reducing psychological risks at work, measured by individual competence and confidence in relation to the skills and willingness required to intervene where psychological risks are evidence in the workplace. The measurement of outcomes to be obtained from En Masse’s efforts as a human rights and behaviour change organisation is a long term process. Next year, we will be reporting on the number of people who have taken up our behaviour change programs during 2016, and a summary of the results of those programs from our forthcoming surveys including with respect to positive impacts on the lead indicators of gender equality outcomes and domestic and family violence risk reduction. 8 4. Conclusion In summary, during 2015 En Masse has continued its commitment to honour and promote the principles of the United Nations Global Compact, both internally and externally. This, our fifth Communication on Progress demonstrates a number of policies, actions and initiatives which we have implemented to support this commitment. Through 2016, En Masse will continue to implement a number of these initiatives, and plans to further expand the reach of our programs. We envision a culture in Australia that inherently supports and respects human rights and the environment, and we are inspired to work towards this vision. Through working collaboratively with our partners and clients in government, business, and the not-­‐for-­‐profit sector, En Masse will continue to make progress on its goals to support the United Nations Global Compact. 9
