United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Compass Group PLC Communication on Progress January 2015 Compass Group PLC Guildford Street Chertsey Surrey, England KT16 9BQ Contact: Nicki Crayfourd Director of Health, Safety & Environment 1 2 1. Statement of Continued Support As a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact since June 2004, Compass Group PLC and its group companies (“Compass”) is committed to taking action to support and uphold each of the ten principles relating to human rights, labour, environment and anticorruption. In 2014, we brought together our existing people related commitments to form one group Human Rights policy (www.compass-group.com/CR14). To support the implementation of this policy we have agreed reporting procedures to monitor country compliance and drive continuous improvement in the 50 diverse markets in which we operate. We continue to improve our performance and believe that we have made good progress with regard to meeting our commitments, with particular focus on our environmental activities and performance reporting – please view our online Corporate Responsibility Report for further details: www.compass-group.com/CR14 This document contains some examples of the practical actions that we have taken and implementation details including performance indicators and metrics. Together with our Group policies, these may be viewed on our global CR website: www.compass-group.com/CR14 In response to the Global Compact commitments, we will continue to develop our activities and provide timely communication of progress updates to our stakeholders. For further information, please contact us at Global.HSE@compass-group.co.uk Mark J. White General Counsel and Company Secretary Compass Group PLC 3 2. Company Overview 2.1 Compass Group PLC Compass is one of the world’s leading providers of food and support services. We operate in over 50,000 client locations and specialise in providing food, facilities management and related services on client premises. We generated annual revenues of over £17 billion in the year to 30 September 2014. The Company employs more than 500,000 great people delivering great service every day in around 50 countries, operating across our five core sectors: Business & Industry, Defence, Offshore & Remote Site, Education, Healthcare & Seniors and Sports & Leisure, with an established brand portfolio. For more information, visit www.compass-group.com. 2.2 Our Vision – sets out what we want to be To be a world-class provider of contract foodservice and support services, renowned for our great people, our great service and our great results 2.3 Our Mission – sets out how we are going to achieve this Everyone in Compass is committed to consistently delivering superior service in the most efficient way, for the shared benefit of our customers, shareholders and employees 2.4 Our Guiding Principles – these set out what guides our decision making • Health, Safety and Environment First – never to compromise on the health and safety of our customers and our people, and to manage responsibly the impact that our business has on the environment. • Delivering for Clients and Consumers – to earn the continued loyalty of our customers by consistently demonstrating why we are the first choice for quality, service, value and innovation. • Developing our People and Valuing Diversity – to recognise the diversity and contribution of our people. We create a work environment that is challenging and provides the opportunities and support for everyone to develop, learn and succeed. • Profitable Growth – to deliver shareholder value through disciplined, sustainable growth, underpinned by strong governance that contributes to and leverages the benefits of our global scale. • Constant Focus on Performance and Efficiency – to deliver the highest quality and performance, whilst relentlessly striving to be the lowest cost, most efficient provider. 4 3. Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses; Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Overview The Compass Codes of Business Conduct and Ethics underpin our social, ethical and environmental responsibilities as a global organisation and sends a powerful message to all our stakeholders of the Group’s commitment to responsible business practice. The 10 principles of the United Nations (UN) Global Compact, to which we are a signatory, are integral to our own Code of Ethics. This UN initiative encourages companies to commit to make human rights, labour standards, environmental responsibility and anti-corruption part of the business agenda, whilst maintaining a competitive advantage. Our organisation is supported by the highest levels of corporate governance. This empowers our local management teams to manage their businesses to be competitive in their marketplace while operating within a strict corporate framework with clearly defined parameters. Our Code of Ethics sets out our social, ethical and environmental commitment towards each of our stakeholders and the communities in which we operate. Every individual employee shares a responsibility to uphold these standards and to conduct our business in a professional, safe, ethical and responsible manner. Our Code of Ethics, developed in consultation with our European Works Council and the Institute of Business Ethics, sets out the clear standards of behaviour that we expect all of our people to demonstrate in dealing with colleagues and those outside the company such as customers, suppliers, shareholders and external stakeholders. Our Policy www.compass-group.com/CR14 Relevant extracts from our published Code of Ethics: http://www.compass-group.com/1124.htm http://www.compass-group.com/cr-code-of-ethics.htm 5 Success in business is dependent on compliance with legal constraints, together with sensitivity to local customs and conventions governing business relationships. The communities in which we operate (and from which we draw our employees) are important to us. • We are committed to making a positive contribution to the sustainable development of the communities in which we operate. • We take into account the concerns of the wider community – including national and local interests – in all our operations. We use our expertise to contribute to the wellbeing of the community in a manner appropriate to our business objectives. • We endeavour to ensure that we are not exploited for the purpose of money laundering, drug trafficking or tax evasion. • We support the rights of human beings as set out in the UN Declaration of Human Rights. We consider carefully before doing business in countries that do not adhere to the UN Declaration. • We do not make donations to political party funds or candidates. • We respect the law, traditions and cultures of the countries in which we operate. However, in some countries where there is limited or no human rights protected by legislation, the higher standards set out in the Group’s Codes of Business Conduct and Ethics will prevail. • We are committed to doing our business in a way that limits our impact on the environment. The Group's Environmental Policy and Guidelines include standards on waste reduction and recycling, and the conservation of water and energy. As a service company, our people are key to the success of our business. We respect and value the individuality and diversity that every employee brings to the business and seek to create a positive, open, working environment wherever we operate. • We are committed to basing relations with our employees on respect for the dignity of the individual and fair treatment for all. • We aim to recruit and promote employees on the basis of their suitability for the job, without discrimination. • We aim to foster effective communication to enable all our employees to perform their work effectively and help and encourage employees to develop relevant skills to progress their careers within our organisation. • We place the highest priority on the health and safety of our employees and the safety of the environment in which they work. • We do not tolerate any form of discrimination or sexual, physical, mental or other harassment of any kind toward our employees, whether from our own staff or others. • We operate fair and just remuneration policies that comply with employment regulations in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate. • We require any employee with a potential conflict of interest to disclose it to their line manager. • We operate in an environment of trust and as such we do not tolerate any fraudulent or dishonest behaviour by our employees either within the Group or in dealing with other stakeholders. Implementation We have a Group-wide whistleblowing programme called ‘Speak Up’ which is managed by an independent company. This enables our employees globally to raise, in confidence, any concerns that they may have about how we conduct our business. Work continues throughout our business to maintain employee awareness of ‘Speak Up’ and regular progress reports are provided to the Audit Committee of the Board. 6 In 2014, we had 2,941 (2013: 3,102) calls referred to the ‘Speak Up’ helpline by employees globally. Details of all of the concerns reported to the confidential helpline were passed to the Group’s Internal Audit department. There is a clear escalation process in place to consider each concern raised. Where appropriate, a full investigation and remedial actions were taken. Associated Policies Compass Human Rights Policy Compass Codes of Business Conduct & Ethics Compass Diversity & Equal Opportunities Policy Compass Purchasing and Supply Chain Policy 2014 Actions • In line with our 2014 commitment, we published a refreshed Human Rights policy, together with supporting key performance indicators to inform our stakeholders of our progress. See page 4 for policy details. • We continue to embed our Code of Business Conduct (the ‘Code’), which brings together in one place all relevant Group policies on ethical business practice. The Company remains committed to the highest standards of business conduct and expects all of its employees to act accordingly. The Code, which has been translated into in 40 languages to meet the needs of our businesses, is underpinned by our Code of Ethics and is communicated to our employees through a range of channels including, for example, global and country specific intranets, at induction of new employees and face to face presentations. • The Group’s on-line Competition Law and Ethics Toolkits continue to be rolled out across the Group’s businesses and as at 30 November 2014, 94% and 96% of the current populations eligible to complete the online Toolkits have successfully completed the courses. New employees are required to acknowledge that they will comply with the principles of the Code and senior management will continue to self-certify their compliance with the Code and the Group’s Code of Ethics at the end of each financial year. We have also continued with our annual self-certification initiative whereby 2,561 employees were required to self-certify that they have complied with the ‘Code’ and Code of Ethics during the year ended 30 September 2014. To date, 93.6% (2013: 99.7% / 2012: 99.2%) of employees responded. The Code which incorporates all of the Group’s internal control policies including the Code of Ethics is available on the Group website at http://www.compass-group.com/cr-code-of-ethics.htm and has been translated into multiple languages. • We made good progress in rolling out our updated Compass Supply Chain Standards which include the assessment of potential supply chain partners on their own human rights practices and those of their partners down the supply chain. This updated template is progressively being rolled-out across our countries, with initial emphasis on compliance across our Top Twenty countries which equate to around 93% of total Group revenue. 7 • We proactively monitor the Code, to ensure that countries are taking the positive action required to embed it. Monitoring initiatives include: o Internal audit visits to countries to review practices and procedures o Business Review Updates with country Leadership Teams to ensure effective compliance is in place 8 4. Labour Practices Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective; Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour; Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Overview Why it’s important... Ensuring our employees are well trained, motivated and productive is an essential component of our business model. Our people are ambassadors of our service and reputation and we recognise their positive contribution to our performance. We employ over 500,000 people in over 50 countries. In a business such as ours, people are at the heart of delivering excellent service to clients and consumers. We operate a specific People MAP implemented across our business globally to ensure consistency in operating practices. It provides a simple framework of objectives, measures and actions. OUR FIVE KEY FOCUS AREAS ARE: > Attract – recruit the right people, in the right way and reflect the diversity of the communities in which we work > Retain – having the right rewards and benefits and work environment for people to want to stay with us > Develop – ensuring that people have the right skills to do their job and develop careers with us > Engage – connecting all our people to our goals, motivating them to achieve them and recognising their achievements > Perform – having the processes in place to measure and continually improve individual performance DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION We value the diversity of our people and strongly believe that the more our people reflect the diversity of our clients and consumers, the better equipped we are to service their needs. We base our relationship with employees on respect for the dignity of the individual and seek to create a positive, open working environment wherever we operate. 9 OUR GLOBAL COMMITMENTS • As a service company, our people are key to the success of our business. We respect and value the individuality and diversity that every employee brings to the business and seek to create a positive, open, working environment wherever we operate. • We are committed to basing relations with our employees on respect for the dignity of the individual and fair treatment for all. • We aim to recruit and promote employees on the basis of their suitability for the job, without discrimination. • We aim to foster effective communication to enable all our employees to perform their work effectively. This will include encouraging and helping employees to develop relevant skills to progress their careers. • We place the highest priority on the health and safety of our employees and the safety of the environment in which they work. • We do not tolerate any form of discrimination or sexual, physical, mental or other harassment of any kind toward our employees, whether from our own staff or others. • We operate fair and just remuneration policies that comply with employment regulations in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate. • We require any employee with a potential conflict of interest to disclose it to their line manager. • We operate in an environment of trust and as such we do not tolerate any fraudulent or dishonest behaviour by our employees either within the Group or in dealing with other stakeholders. Policies Compass Human Rights Policy Compass Codes of Business Conduct & Ethics Compass Diversity & Equal Opportunities Policy Compass Purchasing and Supply Chain Policy 10 2014 Actions • We are progressively rolling out the Compass Supply Chain Standards, refreshed in 2014 to include compliance with the ETI Base Code principles: > employment is freely chosen > freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining is respected > working conditions are safe and hygienic > child labour shall not be used > living wages are paid > working hours are not excessive > no discrimination is practised > regular employment is provided > no harsh or inhumane treatment is allowed • In 2014 we implemented a requirement that all new suppliers to Compass Group globally must sign their acceptance of the Code of Business Conduct. To measure compliance we introduced an additional reporting KPI to our suite of CR metrics. Please see our Commitments and Progress on page 18. • The global HR Forum which consists of HR professionals from across the Compass business globally works throughout the year to ensure that our HR policies are reviewed on an annual basis and are updated as required to meet regulatory or best practice requirements. Country operational compliance with such policies is required as part of the People MAP Framework. • We continue to make good progress with our employee diversity metric and have increased the proportion of global leadership team positions held by women to 23%. • Great examples of our continuing efforts in terms of supporting increasing employee diversity can be viewed online in our 2014 CR Report – www.compass-group.com/CR14 See example overleaf: 11 Building a Diverse and Inclusive Workplace The U.S. workforce is in the midst of a sweeping demographic transformation, in terms of age, gender and ethnicity. To ensure all of our people are supported within a diverse and inclusive workplace, over the past fifteen years our team in the US has established, and are active supporters of, a number of diversity and inclusion partnerships, including: • Working with the Women’s Foodservice Forum (WFF): A leadership development community to help women reach their full potential and accelerate their careers through beneficial keynote addresses and workshops and mentoring. • The National Society for Minorities in Hospitality (NSMH): A professional organization to help recruit, retain, support and advance minority students in the hospitality industry, working by establishing working relationship between prospective employees and job opportunities. 12 5. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Overview Why it’s important... As a leading foodservice company, we have a clear responsibility to protect our environment. We are reducing our impact on the environment, including energy use and food waste. Our programmes focus on the improved use of resources, which helps us to manage our costs, and those of our clients, effectively. Since 2008 we have used a web-based reporting tool to consistently track and report globally on our greenhouse gas emissions. We are pleased that our ability to report our environmental performance accurately, including the quality of data, continues to improve and, as a result, we have increased the scope of our reporting countries from our ‘Top Ten’ to our ‘Top Twenty’ countries which account for around 93% of total Group revenue. In the majority of our locations where we are not directly responsible for the procurement of utilities, equipment, fuel etc., we are working closely with our clients to consider how best to improve the environmental performance of our operations. Policies Compass Environmental Policy Compass Purchasing & Supply Chain Policy 13 2014 Actions • Compass Group is committed to ensuring that products associated with possible deforestation, such as wood and paper based products, soy, palm oil and beef, are produced and sourced in a sustainable and responsible manner. As a signatory to the RSPO since 2011 we recognise the importance of sourcing palm oil sustainably. In 2014, we published a sustainable palm oil supplier evaluation, which enables us to monitor the extent to which our products contain palm oil, including sustainable palm oil. This evaluation template is being used to assess suppliers of cooking oil, margarine, French fries and processed soups, sauces & bouillons. • To help us build a greater awareness of their activities, we have refreshed our supplier assurance programme to include additional focus on environmental practices within our global supply chain. • We believe that everyone at Compass has a moral obligation to safeguard each other, our customers and the environment by operating a safe, injury free and healthy workplace, serving food that is always safe to eat, nutritional and which minimises our impact on the environment. In 2007, to ensure best practice, we developed a set of policies, minimum operating standards and behaviours and these have been steadily rolled-out across our businesses. We are pleased to report that in the year to 30 September 2014, the first phase of the programme had been successfully implemented in 100% (2013: 99%) of our countries. Our standards are based on the strictest regulatory requirements and industry best practice. World-class performance continues to be our aim, seeking over the shortto medium-term to set the benchmark for our industry. • Great examples of our ongoing efforts to support responsible environmental practices can be viewed online in our 2014 CR Report – www.compass-group.com/CR14 See example overleaf: 14 Responsible Water Consumption in Brazil São Paulo is facing the worst drought in its history. The Cantareira reservoir, which supplies the city’s 20 million people, has fallen to 10.7% of its capacity. Our global target is to achieve a 20% reduction in water use by 2017 (against 2008 baseline) by investing in water efficiency equipment and practices. So, our team in Brazil has introduced the Water Consumption in Focus campaign. The goal of our activities is to strengthen measures which conserve and improve water efficiency. Activities include: 1. Delivering guidelines to our people across 2,000 units on the need and tips for reducing water consumption 2. Creating a new newsletter, W ̀ ater Consumption in focus‘, to be circulated to all 2,000 units (with particular focus on units in São Paulo and Minas Gerias) and country headquarters 3. Engaging our clients to explore how we can partner with them in water efficiency initiatives. 15 6. Bribery and Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Policy (extract from Compass Group Code of Ethics) http://www.compass-group.com/cr-code-of-ethics.htm We seek to establish mutually beneficial relationships with all our suppliers, and encourage them to match our high standards in respect of quality, food safety, working conditions, trading practices, health and safety and environmental protection. • We treat our suppliers and subcontractors honestly and fairly. • No employee may offer or receive – or influence others to offer or receive – any money or material gift that could be construed as a bribe or influence and we have implemented a Group Gifts and Hospitality policy to provide clear guidance to all of our employees and clients on this matter. • We endeavour to ensure we are not exploited directly or indirectly by requests to make facilitation payments. • All information concerning the Company and its suppliers is to be treated as confidential. • We do not work with companies that infringe the law or endanger Compass Group’s reputation. Policies Compass Codes of Business Conduct and Ethics Internal documents: Compass Fraud Policy Group Gifts and Hospitality Policy Group Approvals Manual Compass Accounting Policies and Procedures Manual 2014 Actions • Our Code of Business Conduct (the ‘Code’), brings together in one place all relevant Group policies on ethical business practice. The Company remains committed to the highest standards of business conduct and expects all of its employees to act accordingly. The Code is underpinned by our Code of Ethics with regard to minimising the risk of bribery and corruption in our business and contains specific information about Compass’s zero-tolerance approach to corrupt or unethical behaviour or business practices. 16 • We conducted our annual review of the Group’s internal control documents such as the Group Approvals Manual, Group Internal Controls Manual, Group Accounting Policies and Procedures Manual and Group Treasury Policies, to further minimise the risk of fraud. The purposes of these documents are to:set out clear levels of delegated authority for specific matters and to highlight those matters which require Group review and approval or notification and to ensure consistently high standards of review and evaluation are adopted and followed across the Group; cover the core internal controls relevant to Group companies as clearly as possible, including the identification of those core internal controls relevant to each level of the business i.e. unit, country, operating company and Group including, for example, dual control and segregation of duties; and provide a framework for banking, borrowing and investment requirements of the Group, so as to maintain the flow of essential finance to operations and for capital investment, in a manner that manages the risk inherent in these activities. We operate a Group Gifts and Hospitality policy, on a global basis. • We have further developed a risk assessment to determine the potential level of risk of different parts of our business regarding bribery and corruption to ensure that the appropriate management processes are in place to mitigate any risks identified. • Upon induction, all new Compass Group employees are required to read and confirm their adherence to the Codes of Business Conduct and Ethics. Senior employees are also required to certify their adherence to the Code annually thereafter. • All Compass Group employees have access to the ‘Speak Up’ helpline, a 24-hour a day, confidential telephone advice line where they can share any concerns that they have. In 2014 we received 2,941 reports (2013: 3,102). Procedures are in place for any bribery/anti-corruption whistleblowing allegations to be escalated directly to senior management. 17 7. Performance Measurement & Progress Our Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) relate to the business strategy and drive the sustainable development of the business. Since we started our CR journey in 2007, we have seen continued improvement in our sustainability performance against baseline data. We measure and report internally on our performance against each Key Performance Indicator and performance is reviewed by the CR Committee. You can view our current progress against all of our CR performance targets overleaf, or for more details visit our CR website at www.compass-group.com/CR14 18 19 20
